UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 3943/ June 24, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17157

In the Matter of
STEVEN ZOERNACK AND
EQUITYSTAR CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, LLC

PROTECTIVE ORDER

On March 8, 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued an order instituting
proceedings (OIP) against Respondents. During a June 23, 2016, prehearing conference, the
parties provided me with a stipulated protective order. The stipulated order covers sensitive
personal information contained in investigative record materials collected by the Division of
Enforcement in connection with its investigation.
I GRANT the motion and adopt the parties’ stipulated order below. I find that the harm
resulting from the public disclosure of sensitive personal information (as defined in paragraph 1
below) would outweigh any benefit of disclosure. See 17 C.F.R. § 201.322(b).
Stipulated Protective Order

1.

As used in this protective order, the term “sensitive personal information” shall
mean any documents or other information containing any one or more of the
following categories of personal and private documents or information: (a) a
social security or tax identification number; (b) individuals’ financial account
statements, including statements for any bank account, credit card account,
brokerage account, mortgage, student loan, or other loan; (c) any financial
account number, including for a bank account, credit card account, brokerage
account, mortgage, student loan, or other loan; (d) tax returns; (e) the home
address and phone number of any individual person; (f) the birth date of any
individual person; (g) the name of any individual person who, at the time the OIP
was filed in this matter, was known to be less than 18 years old; or (h) medical
information. Sensitive personal information does not include the last four digits
of a financial account number or phone number, the city and state of an
individual’s home address, the year of an individual’s birth, or copies of
unredacted filings by regulated entities or registrants that are available on the
Commission’s public website.

2. Sensitive personal information disclosed to any Respondent in this action or to his
or its counsel during the course of this action:
a.
Shall be used only for the purposes of this action;
b.
Shall not be used for any business or commercial purposes;
c.
Shall not be published to the public in any form except as permitted by
paragraphs 5 and 7, below;
d.
May be disclosed only to the following persons, on an as needed basis in
the course of the litigation, with reasonable precautions taken to ensure the
confidentiality of the information:
i. A Respondent;
ii. Employees or contractors of any law firm that represents a
Respondent, including attorneys and secretarial, clerical,
paralegal, legal, or student personnel, and any person or entity
with whom a Respondent’s counsel contracts to reproduce or
manage documents;
iii. Non-party witnesses;
iv. A document’s author(s) or recipient(s);
v. Independent (non-employee) consultants, expert witnesses, or
advisors retained by any of the parties to this action in
connection with this action;
vi. Court reporters or stenographers—and their employees—who
are engaged to record hearing testimony or depositions upon
oral examination;
vii. The Commission and its employees, agents, or contractors; and
viii. Such other persons as hereafter may be authorized by either (1)
written consent of all the parties or (2) the hearing officer upon
motion of either party.
3. A copy of this protective order shall be delivered to each of the named parties or
persons within paragraph 2.d above to whom a disclosure of sensitive personal
information is made, at or before the time of disclosure, by the party making the
disclosure. The provisions of this protective order shall be binding upon each
person to whom disclosure is made.
4. The provisions of this protective order shall not be construed as preventing:
a. Any disclosure of sensitive personal information to any party to this
action;
b. Any disclosure of sensitive personal information to any hearing officer,
law clerk, or member or employee of the Commission for any purposes of
this action;
c. Any disclosure of sensitive personal information for the purpose of
enforcing the criminal law or as otherwise required by law.
5. Except as otherwise ordered, prior to making a public filing of any document in
these proceedings, the Division and Respondents agree to redact all sensitive
2

personal information from the document. The Division and Respondents also
agree to take reasonable and appropriate measures to prevent unauthorized
disclosure of sensitive personal information contained in documents produced or
filed in these proceedings, including by persons to whom the Division or
Respondents show or give access to such documents. In the event that redacting a
filing is impracticable or would result in a filing being almost entirely redacted,
the parties shall file the document under seal together with a copy of this order. If
a document is filed under seal, it may be disclosed to the parties or persons under
paragraph 2.d. In addition, if a party intends to make a filing (such as a brief or
motion) that incorporates sensitive personal information in the written text, the
party must: 1) file a version clearly labeled “under seal,” with the sensitive
personal information subject to this order noted by brackets, bold typeface, or
some other clear indication; and 2) file a public redacted version that removes the
sensitive personal information.
6. This protective order shall not:
a. Operate as an admission by any party that any particular document in the
investigative record materials in fact contains sensitive personal
information;
b. Prejudice in any way the right of a party to seek a determination of
whether such material is or should be subject to the terms of this
protective order;
c. Prevent a Respondent’s or non-party’s disclosure of its own sensitive
personal information; or
d. Prejudice in any way the right of any party to apply to the hearing officer
for a further protective order relating to any other confidential information
or sensitive personal information.
7. Nothing in this protective order shall preclude the parties from offering sensitive
personal information into evidence at the hearing of this action or in any other
proceeding in this action, subject to the restrictions set forth in this protective
order.
8. This protective order shall survive the termination of the litigation. Unless
otherwise agreed or ordered, this protective order shall remain in force after
dismissal or entry of final judgment not subject to further appeal.
9. Within sixty (60) days after dismissal or entry of final judgment not subject to
further appeal, all investigative record materials, including copies of such
documents, shall be returned to the Division unless: (1) the document has been
offered in evidence; or (2) the Division agrees to destruction in lieu of return.
Notwithstanding the above requirement to return or destroy investigative record
materials, counsel may retain attorney work product, including an index which
refers or relates to documents containing sensitive personal information, so long
as that work product does not duplicate verbatim substantial portions of the text or
images of such documents. This portion of the work product containing sensitive
3

personal information shall continue to be protected under the terms of this
protective order. An attorney may use his or her work product in a subsequent
litigation provided that its use does not disclose or use documents containing
sensitive personal information.
10. This protective order shall be subject to modification by the hearing officer on the
hearing officer’s own motion or on motion of a party or any other person with
standing concerning the subject matter.

_______________________________
Jason S. Patil
Administrative Law Judge

4

