UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 3944/June 24, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17157

In the Matter of
STEVEN ZOERNACK AND
EQUITYSTAR CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, LLC

SCHEDULING ORDER

On March 8, 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued an order instituting
proceedings against Respondents.
A prehearing conference was held on June 23, 2016, attended by counsel for the Division
of Enforcement and Respondents. I set the following prehearing deadlines:
July 15, 2016:

Respondents’ amended answer is due.

July 29, 2016:

Motion for more definite statement, if any, is due.

September 1, 2016:

Motions for summary disposition, if any, are due.

September 9, 2016:

Parties disclose expert witnesses and exchange expert reports.

September 16, 2016: Parties file and exchange witness and exhibit lists.
Parties exchange, but do not file, pre-marked copies of exhibits.
September 19, 2016: Subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses and production of
documentary evidence are due. Parties are responsible for
requesting and serving their own subpoenas. The subpoena forms
to be used by all parties are online at http://www.sec.gov/alj.
September 23, 2016: Parties file prehearing briefs, motions in limine, and objections to
witnesses or exhibits.
Motions made under Commission Rule of Practice 231, 17 C.F.R.
§ 201.231, if any, are due.

September 30, 2016: Final telephonic prehearing conference held at 10:00 a.m. EDT.
October 3, 2016:

The hearing will begin in Hearing Room 2 at Commission
Headquarters, and will conclude by October 21, 2016.

Additionally, I set the following post-hearing deadlines:
1 week post-hearing: Parties file a list of admitted exhibits and exhibits offered but not
admitted.
Parties file paper copies of their exhibits, both admitted and
offered but not admitted.
4 weeks post-hearing: Parties file opening post-hearing briefs and proposed findings of
fact and conclusions of law.1
Stipulations or motions regarding transcript corrections, if any, are
due.
6 weeks post-hearing: Parties file responsive post-hearing briefs and responses to
proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law.2
Witness lists shall include witnesses’ names, occupations, addresses, and a brief summary
of their expected testimony. 17 C.F.R. § 201.222(a)(4). Exhibit lists submitted before the
1

Proposed findings of fact shall be numbered and must be supported by citations to specific
portions of the record. Each citation shall be accompanied by quotation(s) of the key language
that best supports the proposed finding. If the language is drawn from witness testimony, the
witness should be identified. If the language is drawn from an exhibit, an abbreviated exhibit
description should be included. Each party is requested, but not required, to attach a timeline to
its proposed findings of fact that identifies significant events. Proposed conclusions of law shall
be numbered and must be supported by citations to legal authority. Each citation shall be
accompanied by quotation(s) of the key language of the legal authority that best supports the
proposed conclusion. The parties should strive to concisely and clearly set forth the most
relevant facts and legal principles supporting each proposition. Moreover, the purpose of the
parties’ proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law is to adduce, but not argue, the facts
and law that the undersigned should rely on to decide this proceeding. Any proposed finding of
fact or conclusion of law that contains such argument will be stricken. By contrast, the posthearing briefs should contain all arguments regarding the application of law to fact, and
arguments regarding all disputed issues.
2

Any response to proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law shall be numbered and
limited to a counterstatement of the factual finding or legal conclusion, specifically identifying
the language that is disputed, and then supporting that counterstatement by citations and
quotations.
2

hearing shall be emailed to my office at alj@sec.gov in Microsoft Excel or Word format and
include exhibit numbers, a description of each exhibit, and Bates-stamp numbers, if any.
Exhibits lists submitted after the hearing shall contain the same information, as well as the
page(s) in the hearing transcript in which the exhibit was offered and admitted or not admitted.
In addition to the required filing with the Office of the Secretary, electronic courtesy copies of all
filings, including exhibits, should be emailed to alj@sec.gov in PDF text-searchable format and,
when possible, Microsoft Word format.

_______________________________
Jason S. Patil
Administrative Law Judge

3

