UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 4058/August 12, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17228

In the Matter of
DAVID S. HALL, P.C.
d/b/a THE HALL GROUP CPAs,
DAVID S. HALL, CPA,
MICHELLE L. HELTERBRAN COCHRAN, CPA,
and SUSAN A. CISNEROS

ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR
SUMMARY DISPOSITION OF
MICHELLE L. HELTERBRAN
COCHRAN, CPA

The Securities and Exchange Commission issued an order instituting proceedings (OIP)
in this matter on April 26, 2016. In relevant part, the OIP alleges that: between 2010 and 2013,
Respondents collectively failed to conduct 16 annual audits and 35 quarterly reviews in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB); as
a result, David S. Hall, P.C. d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs (Hall Group) violated, and Michelle L.
Helterbran Cochran, CPA, and others aided and abetted and caused the Hall Group’s violations
of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X.1 See OIP at 3, 5, 9, Appendix. The OIP further alleges
that Helterbran and others aided and abetted and caused issuers to violate Section 13(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and rules thereunder, and engaged in improper
professional conduct subject to Exchange Act Section 4C(a) and Commission Rule of Practice
102(e)(1). See OIP at 9-10.
Helterbran filed her answer on May 24, 2016, in which she denied most key allegations.
On July 1, 2016, after the Division of Enforcement made the investigative file available to her
for inspection and copying, Helterbran submitted by email a motion for summary disposition
(Motion) that included one exhibit (Helterbran Ex. 1). See Div. Motion at 2 (noting that
investigative file has been made available). The Division timely filed an opposition (Opp.) that
included one exhibit (Div. Ex. 1), and Helterbran submitted by email a reply (Helterbran Reply)
that included four exhibits (Helterbran Exs. A-D).
As hard copy filings of Helterbran’s Motion and Reply were not received by the Office of
the Secretary, my office forwarded copies of these submissions to that office for inclusion in the
1

I refer to David S. Hall, CPA, as Hall, and to Hall together with the Hall Group as the Hall
Respondents.

record. The parties are reminded to review the filings requirements of Rules 151 and 152 and
filing instructions.
See Rules of Practice, http://www.sec.gov/about/rulesprac2006.pdf;
Instructions for Respondents, http://www.sec.gov/alj/alj-instructions-for-respondents.pdf.
Summary disposition may be granted if there is no genuine issue with regard to any
material fact and the party making the motion is entitled to summary disposition as a matter of
law. 17 C.F.R. § 201.250(b). The facts on summary disposition must be viewed in the light
most favorable to the non-moving party. See Jay T. Comeaux, Securities Act of 1933 Release
No. 9633, 2014 SEC LEXIS 3001, at *8 (Aug. 21, 2014). In considering the Motion, the OIP
has been taken as true, except as modified by stipulations or admissions made by the Division,
by uncontested affidavits, and by facts officially noticed pursuant to Rule of Practice 323. See
17 C.F.R. §§ 201.250(a), .323.
The Motion fails to meet this standard. Helterbran has submitted no evidence
inconsistent with the OIP that qualifies as a stipulation, admission, uncontested affidavit, or
officially noticeable fact. The evidence attached to her moving papers consists of financial
statements of the audit clients at issue (Helterbran Ex. 1), one page from the OIP (Helterbran Ex.
A), compensation documentation for Respondent Susan A. Cisneros (Helterbran Ex. B), a
PCAOB release (Helterbran Ex. C), and what appears to be a copy of PCAOB Quality Control
Standard QC Section 40 (Helterbran Ex. D).2 Other evidence cited in the Motion, but not
attached to it, includes various PCAOB releases, periodic filings available on EDGAR, and
excerpts of investigative testimony. See generally Motion. Only the OIP page, PCAOB
releases, QC Section 40, and periodic filings available on EDGAR may be considered under
Rule 250(a). Because they are not inconsistent with the OIP, they do not show the lack of a
genuine issue of material fact, and so even collectively they do not establish that Helterbran is
entitled to summary disposition.
Even if all of Helterbran’s evidence could be considered under Rule 250, the Division has
shown that there exists at least one genuine issue of material fact. The PCAOB found, and the
Hall Respondents did not dispute, that Cisneros improperly served as engagement quality
reviewer for three audits in 2012 and 2013. See PCAOB Inspection Comment Form at 00020-23
(filed as Ex. 24 to the Division’s motion for partial summary disposition against the Hall
Respondents). The Division also cites Cisneros’ investigative testimony, in which she conceded
that she did not “consider [her]self to have the knowledge and competence in accounting,
auditing, and financial reporting that’s required to serve as the engagement partner for an
engagement conducted under PCAOB auditing standards.” Div. Ex. 1 at 141. And Helterbran
admits that she “began using [Cisneros] as an Engagement Quality Reviewer” in 2010.
Helterbran Reply at 2. Such evidence raises a genuine issue of material fact regarding, at
minimum, whether the Hall Respondents fully complied with PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 7
(requiring an auditor to obtain an engagement quality reviewer with sufficient qualifications and
concurring approval to issue the engagement report for each audit and interim review
2

Although not apparent from the face of Helterbran Ex. D, QC Section 40 is available on the
PCAOB’s website, https://pcaobus.org/Standards/QC/pages/qc40.aspx. I encourage the parties
when formulating their exhibit lists to be clear about the nature and origin of documentary
evidence.
2

engagement); whether Helterbran aided and abetted and caused The Hall Group’s violation of
Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X (requiring an auditor’s report to accurately state whether an
audit was made in accordance with PCAOB standards); and whether Helterbran engaged in
improper professional conduct within the meaning of Exchange Act Section 4C(a) and Rule
102(e)(1). See OIP at 5-7, 9-10.
It is therefore ORDERED that Helterbran’s motion for summary disposition is DENIED.

_______________________________
Cameron Elliot
Administrative Law Judge

3

