UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 4216/September 30, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17365

In the Matter of
SCHEDULING ORDER
ALISON, LLC and STEPHEN D. ALISON

I held a prehearing conference today, attended by the Division of Enforcement and
Respondent Stephen D. Alison appearing on behalf of himself and Alison, LLC. During the
prehearing conference Respondents’ answer and this office’s settlement process were discussed,
and I adopted the parties’ proposed prehearing schedule.
Alison reported that his answer was sent to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
headquarters, and the Division confirmed that it had received Respondents’ answer; following
the prehearing conference my office also received the answer. Despite the fact that
Respondents’ answer was due by September 12, 2016, I deemed it timely.
I explained this office’s settlement process, including that a settlement administrative law
judge would be assigned to mediate settlement negotiations and all communications between the
parties and the settlement ALJ will remain confidential, meaning that I will not be privy to these
discussions or their content and I will not discuss the proceeding with the settlement ALJ. Both
parties expressed an interest in pursuing settlement negotiations through this process, and I set a
deadline of October 7, 2016, for the parties to file a joint motion requesting the appointment of a
settlement ALJ. The joint motion must reflect that:







The parties are willing to participate in good faith in a confidential settlement process.
The parties agree that their representations and submissions, including any statement
made by any party, attorney, or other participant, are confidential. The parties’
submissions will not be construed as an admission against interest and nothing said at
such sessions may be used in court in connection with the case or any other litigation.
The parties understand that the settlement process will be facilitated by another ALJ, who
will not discuss any representations or submissions of the parties with the presiding ALJ.
The parties understand that communications with the settlement ALJ, including any
submissions to him will not be part of this case’s record.
The parties waive: (1) the right to claim bias or prejudgment by the settlement ALJ based
on any views expressed during the settlement process; (2) the right to a public



proceeding; (3) the right to a proceeding on the record; and (4) any objection to the
settlement ALJ conferring with either party ex parte in the course of settlement. See 17
C.F.R. § 201.240(c)(2).
Fact discovery will be stayed until November 4, 2016.

I ORDER the following prehearing schedule:
October 7, 2016:

Joint filing describing each party’s position regarding the location of the
hearing.

January 20, 2017:

Deadline for fact witness depositions and expert reports and disclosures.

January 27, 2017:

Rebuttal expert reports.

February 10, 2017:

Deadline for expert depositions.

February 17, 2017:

Parties exchange witness and exhibit lists and copies of exhibits.

February 24, 2017:

Stipulations, admissions of fact, and stipulations concerning the contents,
authenticity, or admissibility of evidence of documents and matters of
which official notice will be taken.

March 3, 2017:

Deadline for motions in limine and objections to exhibits and witnesses.

March 10, 2017:

Prehearing briefs.

March 17, 2017:

Final telephonic prehearing conference.

March 20, 2017:

Hearing commences at a location to be determined.

I would appreciate receiving electronic courtesy copies of all filings, emailed to
alj@sec.gov, in both text-searchable PDF format and, when possible, MS Word format.

_______________________________
Jason S. Patil
Administrative Law Judge

2

