UNITED STATES OF AM ERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 4276/October 19, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17313
In the Matter of
WILLIAM TIRRELL

ORDER SETTING
HEARING GUIDELINES

I entered an order on October 17, 2016, setting the prehearing schedule in this matter.
William Tirrell, Admin. Proc. Rulings Release No. 4265, 2016 SEC LEXIS 3897. This order
establishes the general guidelines I will follow. The parties should review what follows and
promptly raise any objections they may have to the application of these guidelines in this matter.
The parties are reminded that all filings must be filed in hard copy with the Office of the
Secretary. See 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.151, .152. They are asked to always e-mail courtesy copies of
filings to alj@sec.gov in Word and in PDF text-searchable format. Electronic copies of exhibits
should not be combined into a single PDF file, but sent as separate attachments, and should be
provided in text-searchable format whenever practicable.
Hearing Guidelines
1.
Subpoenas. A party’s motion to quash a subpoena will be due within five business days
of the submission of the subpoena for signing. Any opposition to the motion to quash will be
due within five business days thereafter.
2.
Exhibits. The parties shall confer and attempt to stipulate to the admissibility of exhibits.
In order to avoid duplication of exhibits, the parties should identify joint exhibits. Exhibits are
not filed with the Office of the Secretary until the close of the hearing at my instruction.
3.
Exhibit lists. A comprehensive exhibit list prevents other parties from being surprised in
the middle of the hearing. Given this fact, exhibit lists shall be exchanged among the parties and
should include all documents that a party expects to use in the hearing for any purpose. This
includes documents that are relevant only for impeachment purposes or which are presumptively
inadmissible. The parties should serve their opponents with any amendments to their individual
exhibit list. Because I rely on the parties’ exhibit lists, the parties should provide me with a
paper copy of their final exhibit lists at the beginning of the hearing. There is no need in the
interim to submit exhibit lists or amendments to my office. Following the hearing, I will issue a
separate order directing the parties to file a list of all exhibits, admitted and offered but not
admitted, together with citations to the record indicating when each exhibit was admitted.
1

4.
Expert reports and testimony. As discussed during the prehearing conference, I generally
regard an expert’s report as the expert’s direct testimony. During the hearing, the expert will not
be subject to direct examination, and will simply be sworn in and proffered for
cross-examination. On request, however, a party may conduct a brief direct examination of the
party’s expert.
5.
Hearing schedule. The first day of the proceeding will begin at 9:30 a.m. Unless
circumstances require a different schedule, we will begin each subsequent day at 9:00 a.m. Each
day of the proceeding should last until at least 5:15 p.m. I generally take one break in the
morning, lasting about fifteen minutes, and at least one break in the afternoon. I generally break
for lunch between noon and 12:30 p.m., for about one hour.
6.

Hearing issues.
i)
In general, the Division presents its case first, because it has the burden of
proof. Respondent then presents his case. If necessary, the parties may agree to proceed
in some other order and may take witnesses out of order.
ii)
If the Division calls a non-party witness that Respondent also wishes to
call as a witness, Respondent should cross-examine the witness as if he were calling the
witness in his own case. This means that cross-examination may exceed the scope of
direct examination. This will avoid the need to recall a witness just so the witness can
testify for Respondent’s case.
iii)
I am flexible regarding the manner of presenting Respondent’s testimony,
so long as the parties agree on it. By way of example, if the Division calls Respondent as
its last witness, the parties may agree that Respondent’s counsel will conduct the direct
examination, followed by the Division’s cross-examination, which may exceed the scope
of direct. In the absence of any agreement, Respondent’s testimony will proceed in the
usual manner, i.e., Respondent will be called as a witness and examined potentially
multiple times. If the Division calls Respondent as a witness and he later testifies as part
of his own case, the Division’s cross-examination during Respondent’s case will be
limited to the scope of the direct examination.
iv)
In general, cross-examination may be conducted by leading questions,
even as to Division witnesses that Respondent wishes to call in his case. Counsel may
not lead his or her client, however. As a result, if Respondent is called as a witness in the
Division’s case, his counsel may not ask leading questions on cross-examination.
Similarly, if a Commission employee is called as a witness for Respondent, the Division
may not ask leading questions on cross-examination.
v)
Avoid leading questions on direct examination. Leading questions during
direct examination of a non-hostile witness are objectionable. Repeatedly having to
rephrase leading questions slows down the hearing.

7.
Pleadings. Prehearing and post-hearing briefs are limited to 14,000 words. Cf. 17 C.F.R.
§ 201.450(c) (imposing a word-limit for briefs filed before the Commission). Parties may seek
2

leave to exceed this limit through a motion filed seven days in advance of the relevant briefing
deadline. To enhance the readability of pleadings, I urge counsel to limit the use of acronyms to
those that are widely known. See Antonin Scalia & Bryan A. Garner, Making Your Case: The
Art of Persuading Judges 120-22 (2008); see also Del. Riverkeeper Network v. FERC, 753 F.3d
1304, 1320-21 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (Silberman, J., concurring).
_______________________________
James E. Grimes
Administrative Law Judge

3

