UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 4270/October 18, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17253

In the Matter of
POST-HEARING ORDER
JAMES A. WINKELMANN, SR. and
BLUE OCEAN PORTFOLIOS, LLC

The hearing in this proceeding was held October 4-7 and 13-14, 2016. I ORDER the
following post-hearing schedule:
1. By November 4, 2016, the parties shall file proposed transcript corrections, if any,
whether by motion or stipulation. See 17 C.F.R. § 201.302(c).
2. Also by November 4, 2016, the parties shall file paper copies of their exhibits, both
admitted and those offered but not admitted, with the Commission’s Office of the
Secretary. See 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.350, .351. To the extent, if any, that they have not
already done so, the parties should also provide my office with electronic copies of the
exhibits.
3. Also by November 4, 2016, the parties shall file their lists of admitted exhibits and exhibits
offered but not admitted. These exhibit lists should specify the exhibit number; description
of the exhibit; Bates-stamp numbers, if any; and page(s) in the hearing transcript on which
the exhibit was offered and admitted, if applicable. Courtesy copies of the exhibit lists
should be submitted to alj@sec.gov in MS Excel or Word format.
4. By November 9, 2016, the parties shall exchange proposed stipulations of fact with each
other.
5. By November 14, 2016, the parties shall file joint stipulations of fact.
6. By November 22, 2016, the parties shall file their opening post-hearing briefs and proposed
findings of fact. By agreement of the parties, opening post-hearing briefs may not exceed
20,000 words.

7. By December 22, 2016, the parties shall file their responsive post-hearing briefs and
proposed findings of fact. By agreement of the parties, responsive post-hearing briefs may
not exceed 16,000 words.
8. The parties proposed findings of facts and responses thereto should follow these guidelines:
a. Proposed findings of fact shall be numbered and must be supported by citations to
specific portions of the record. Each citation shall be accompanied by quotation(s)
of the key language that best supports the proposed finding. If the language is drawn
from witness testimony or an expert report, the witness or expert should be
identified. If the language is drawn from an exhibit, an abbreviated exhibit
description should be included. Each party is requested, but not required, to attach
to its proposed findings of fact a timeline that identifies significant events.
b. The response to a party’s proposed findings of fact shall be numbered, and must
reflect those paragraphs as to which there is no dispute. A party’s response to
findings of fact is not subject to a page limit, but shall be limited to a
counterstatement of the factual finding, specifically identifying the language that is
disputed, and then supporting that counterstatement by citations and quotation(s) as
described above.
c. Proposed findings of fact are not subject to a page limit. However, as a best
practice, the parties should strive to concisely and clearly set forth the most relevant
facts supporting each proposition. Moreover, the purpose of the parties’ proposed
findings of fact is to adduce, but not argue, the facts that the undersigned should rely
on to decide this proceeding. Any proposed finding of fact that contains argument
will be stricken. By contrast, the post-hearing briefs should contain all arguments
regarding the application of law to fact and arguments regarding all disputed issues.
9. Courtesy copies of post-hearing briefs, proposed findings of fact, and responses should be
submitted to alj@sec.gov in both PDF text-searchable format and MS Word format.

_____________________
Jason S. Patil
Administrative Law Judge

2

