UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 4153/September 14, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16462
In the Matter of
LYNN TILTON;
PATRIARCH PARTNERS, LLC;
PATRIARCH PARTNERS VIII, LLC;
PATRIARCH PARTNERS XIV, LLC; and
PATRIARCH PARTNERS XV, LLC

:
:
:
:
:
:

ORDER

The Securities and Exchange Commission instituted this proceeding with an Order
Instituting Proceedings (OIP) on March 30, 2015. The OIP alleges that Respondents violated the
antifraud provisions of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 in their operation of three collateral
loan obligation funds (known as the Zohar Funds) by reporting misleading values for the assets
held by the funds and failing to disclose a conflict of interest arising from Lynn Tilton’s
undisclosed approach to categorization of assets. The proceeding was stayed by order of the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit between September 17, 2015, and June 2016. See
Tilton v. SEC, No. 15-2103, 2016 U.S. App. LEXIS 9970, at *37 (2d Cir. June 1, 2016); Tilton v.
SEC, No. 15-2103, ECF Nos. 76, 125. The hearing is currently scheduled to commence on
October 24, 2016.
Under consideration are the August 4, 2016, motion of Värde Partners, Inc., to quash the
subpoena served on it by Respondents; Respondents’ August 11, 2016, opposition; and Värde’s
August 19, 2016, reply. The subpoena in question, issued before the 2015 stay, called for the
production of a variety of documents related to valuation, ownership, and monitoring of Zohar
Notes by Värde. The documents sought include communications of custodians Jeremy Hedberg
and Matt Mach relating to the Zohar Funds, Zohar Notes, or Respondents.
Värde argues that compliance with the subpoena would be unreasonable, oppressive, and
unduly burdensome in that: it asks for confidential and proprietary information from a business
competitor that Respondents could use in their own business and in their legal disputes with
Värde; the information sought is irrelevant to this proceeding, which concerns Respondents’
actions, not Värde’s; the subpoena is overbroad, causing Värde to incur considerable expense;
and, notwithstanding the foregoing, Värde has already produced 16,000 pages of documents
concerning, inter alia, (a) the timing, size, and counterparty for its purchases of Zohar III notes,
(b) communications with the Commission concerning Zohar III notes, (c) information received

from the Zohar III trustee, (d) pre-acquisition due diligence memoranda that do not reveal
confidential pricing, valuation, recovery value, or proprietary model information, and (e) marks
received from third-party pricing services. In opposition, Respondents state that Värde
employees appear on the Division’s witness list, yet the investigative record produced by the
Division is devoid of documents from Värde or statements made by Värde-affiliated witnesses,
leaving them without the tools to conduct a meaningful cross-examination of Värde witnesses;
and that a protective order will prevent misuse of Värde’s confidential and proprietary
information. In reply, Värde states that the opposition does not address the 16,000 pages of
documents that Värde provided almost a year ago, giving rise to the inference that counsel has
not reviewed the material.
The subpoena will not be quashed but remains subject to modification, pursuant to 17
C.F.R. § 201.232(e). The Division’s “May Call” witness list includes Jeremy Hedberg and Matt
Mach, stating: “Mr. Hedberg and/or Mr. Mach may be called to testify regarding Varde
Partners’ investment in the Zohar Fund(s), communications regarding the investment,
relationship with Patriarch, their understanding of the investment, any interaction with Tilton or
other Patriarch employees, and the monitoring or assessment of Varde Partners’ investment.”
Aug. 22, 2016, Amended Witness List at 4; Aug. 7, 2015, Witness List at 3. Therefore, at least
some of the information sought is directly relevant to the Division’s proposed evidence and
necessary for cross-examination. That being said, Respondents have not addressed whether the
16,000 pages already produced meet these needs.
Värde and Respondents are encouraged to confer to narrow the scope of the documents
sought so as to reduce burden, to avoid impinging on privileges, and to eliminate duplication of
information sought. Värde should provide a log of general categories of documents that it
proposes to withhold to facilitate further action on its motion in the event that it and Respondents
cannot reach agreement. Värde and Respondents may propose the text of a protective order.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
/S/ Carol Fox Foelak
Carol Fox Foelak
Administrative Law Judge

2

