UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 4017/July 22, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17180

In the Matter of
ELLIOT R. BERMAN, CPA and
BERMAN & COMPANY, P.A.

ORDER DENYING MOTION
FOR SUMMARY DISPOSITION

On March 25, 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued an order instituting
proceedings (OIP) against Respondents. The OIP alleges four areas of misconduct in
Respondents’ audits of a public company client: (1) lack of auditor independence; (2) failure to
make disclosures concerning related party transactions as required by Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP); (3) failure to properly recognize improper accounting for sales
incentives; and (4) failure to recognize that the client did not disclose its sponsorship
commitments and international sales as required by GAAP. OIP ¶ 4. The second and third areas
also involve allegedly inappropriate reliance on management representations.
On May 27, Respondents moved for summary disposition in the first of those four
areas—“the claims relating to Respondents’ alleged lack of independence”—arising from three
provisions in Respondents’ engagement letters “that would indemnify or reimburse Respondents
in certain limited circumstances.” See Motion at 4 & n.1. Respondents’ engagement letters
indemnified them from “liability and costs resulting from known misrepresentations by
management” and “fraud caused by or participated in by the management of the Company.”
Motion Ex. A at 7, Ex. B at 7. The engagement letters also included an “Other Services”
provision that provided “costs and time spent in legal matters or proceedings arising from our
engagement, such as subpoenas, testimony or consultation involving private litigation, arbitration
or government regulatory inquiries at your request or by subpoena will be billed to you
separately and you agree to pay the same.” Id. Ex. A at 7, Ex. B at 6. Respondents request
summary disposition based on the contention that the foregoing provisions do not impair auditor
independence.
On June 10, the Division filed its opposition. Respondents replied on June 29.
“The hearing officer may grant the motion for summary disposition if there is no genuine
issue with regard to any material fact and the party making the motion is entitled to a summary
disposition as a matter of law.” 17 C.F.R. § 201.250(b). Generally, “[t]he facts of the pleadings

of the party against whom the motion is made shall be taken as true . . . .” Id. § 201.250(a). The
OIP alleges that various facts and circumstances demonstrate Respondents’ lack of
independence, including but not limited to the aforementioned indemnity and other services
provisions. See OIP ¶¶ 72-74, 78-82. Thus, even if such provisions do not per se impair
independence, the Division could still argue those provisions operated to impair Respondents’
independence here, in light of additional facts, such as Respondents’ alleged failures to conduct
necessary audit work regarding management representations. See id. ¶¶ 32, 37, 47, 63-64, 66-67,
71. Taken as true, those facts would tend to demonstrate that the provisions did in fact impair
independence.
Because the parties have presented a genuine, good faith dispute as to whether these
provisions, considering all other relevant facts and circumstances, impaired independence, the
issue is inappropriate for summary disposition. See 17 C.F.R. § 201.250(a), (b). This is not, as
Respondents suggest, amenable to a decision solely as a matter of law. On the one hand,
Respondents correctly contend that: (1) PCAOB standards and Commission “rules and
regulations . . . do not contain a blanket prohibition on indemnification provisions”; (2) “PCAOB
Standards explicitly permit indemnification clauses for . . . knowing misrepresentations and
fraud by management”; and (3) the Commission’s Codification of Financial Reporting Policies
“does not . . . prohibit indemnification clauses based on management fraud or knowing
misrepresentations.” Motion at 5, 11-16 (citing standards and codification). On the other hand,
Respondents concede the Division’s point that “the SEC’s independence rules may be more
restrictive than the adopted PCAOB Standards; and that in such circumstances an auditor must
comply with the SEC’s rules.” Id. at 12. The parties also agree that, while not a Commission
rule or regulation, the longstanding position of the Commission’s Office of the Chief Accountant
(OCA), published among answers to frequently asked questions (FAQs1) in 2004, is that
indemnification clauses like those used by Respondents impair auditor independence. Motion at
14-15 (citing FAQs); OIP ¶ 12 (quoting FAQs, noting the “‘Commission’s long standing view’
that ‘when an accountant enters into an indemnity agreement with a registrant, his or her
independence would come into question’” and “‘ . . . a clause that the registrant would release,
indemnify or hold harmless from any liability and costs resulting from knowing
misrepresentations by management would also impair the firm’s independence.’”).
Rule 2-01 of the Commission’s Regulation S-X, codified at 17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01,
governs whether an auditor is independent. The “Preliminary Note” to Rule 2-01 provides in
pertinent part that:
The rule does not purport to, and the Commission could not,
consider all circumstances that raise independence concerns, and
these are subject to the general standard in § 210.2-01(b). . . . [I]n
determining whether an accountant is independent, the
1

Office of the Chief Accountant: Application of the Commission’s Rules on Auditor
Independence Frequently Asked Questions, Question 4 under “Other Matters,” (December 13,
2004), available at www.sec.gov/info/accountants/ocafaqaudind121304.htm (last modified Mar.
12, 2014) and https://www.sec.gov/info/accountants/ocafaqaudind080607.htm (last modified
Oct. 16, 2014).
2

Commission will consider all relevant facts and circumstances. . . .
[A]ccountants are encouraged to consult with the Commission’s
Office of the Chief Accountant before entering into relationships
. . . that are not explicitly described in the rule.
17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01(emphasis added). Respondents do not appear to have consulted with OCA
on the indemnity or other services provisions of their engagement letters. See Opp. at 5 (citing
Elliot R. Berman’s investigative testimony). However, the failure to undertake the “encouraged”
consultation is not a violation of the rule. Rule 2-01(b) provides how the Commission makes a
determination of auditor independence:
The Commission will not recognize an accountant as independent,
with respect to an audit client, if the accountant is not, or a
reasonable investor with knowledge of all relevant facts and
circumstances would conclude that the accountant is not, capable
of exercising objective and impartial judgment on all issues
encompassed within the accountant’s engagement. In determining
whether an accountant is independent, the Commission will
consider all relevant circumstances, including all relationships
between the accountant and the audit client, and not just those
relating to reports filed with the Commission.
17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01(b) (emphasis added).
Rule 2-01 does not expressly address indemnity provisions or other services provisions in
an auditor’s engagement letter, but as the preliminary note indicates, the rule is not meant to
address all circumstances that raise independence concerns. While the challenged indemnity
provisions do not by themselves appear to violate PCAOB standards, all agree that the
Commission’s determination can be more restrictive than PCAOB’s, and that the PCAOB rules
contemplate that fact.2 Thus, Respondents may be liable under Rule 2-01 even if their
engagement letters did not conflict with less restrictive PCAOB independence standards.
Though OCA’s position is that certain indemnity provisions, by themselves, impair
independence, that guidance does not represent a binding rule. The clear import of Rule 2-01 is
that “all” relevant facts and circumstances be considered in making a determination of
independence. Based on the parties’ presentation of all such facts, it would then be possible to
determine what particular facts, either by themselves or in tandem, established whether
Respondents’ independence was impaired, or whether a reasonable investor would so conclude.
See 17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01(b). While the other services provision may not be, in the strict sense,
an indemnification clause, the parties’ wrangling on that point mostly misses the mark because
the provision itself and how it was used are nonetheless potentially relevant circumstances to the
overall issue of independence.
2

See PCAOB Rule 3500T, available at https://pcaobus.org/Rules/pages/section_3.aspx; PCAOB
Interim Ethics and Independence Standard ET § 191.188-89, available at https://pcaobus.org/
Standards/EI/Pages/ET191.aspx.
3

Respondents may ultimately prevail under Rule 2-01(b). However, at this preliminary
stage, they have not presented a persuasive case for deciding the allegations of auditor
independence without first affording the Division the opportunity to present at the hearing all
relevant facts and circumstances that should inform that determination.
The motion for summary disposition is DENIED.

_______________________________
Jason S. Patil
Administrative Law Judge

4

