UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 4149 / September 13, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17387

In the Matter of
DONALD F. (“JAY”) LATHEN, JR.,
ORDER FOLLOWING
EDEN ARC CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, LLC, and PREHEARING CONFERENCE
EDEN ARC CAPITAL ADVISORS, LLC

The Securities and Exchange Commission instituted this proceeding in August 2016. In
their joint prehearing conference statement, the parties advised that Respondents—who were
served with the OIP on August 17, 2016—have elected to exercise their right to a hearing within
sixty days of service of the order instituting proceedings (OIP). See 15 U.S.C. §§ 77h-1(b),
78u-3(b), 80b-3(k)(2). The parties also proposed a procedural schedule, culminating in a hearing
to begin on October 17, 2016, in New York City. Lastly, the parties advised that they have
elected to proceed under the Commission’s pre-amendment Rules of Practice.1
I held a telephonic prehearing conference on September 12, 2016. During the
conference, I adopted the parties’ procedural schedule as set forth in their prehearing statement.
The hearing will begin on October 17, 2016, in New York City, at a location to be determined. I
also adopted Respondents’ proposal to set September 23, 2016, as the deadline for Respondents’
disclosure of their advice-of-counsel defense. Lastly, in the event that Respondents are granted
leave to file a summary disposition motion, I set the following schedule: Respondents’ motion
would be due September 23, the Division’s opposition would be due October 3, and
Respondents’ reply would be due October 11, 2016.

1

On July 13, 2016, the Commission adopted amendments to its Rules of Practice that take
effect September 27, 2016. See Amendments to the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 81 Fed.
Reg. 50212, 50212 (July 29, 2016) (to be codified at 17 C.F.R. pt. 201),
https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2016-07-29/pdf/2016-16987.pdf. For proceedings initiated
between those dates, the Commission provided that parties may elect to apply the new rules. See
id. at 50228-29 & n.184.

The parties are reminded that all filings must be filed in hard copy with the Office of the
Secretary. See 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.151, .152. They are asked to always email courtesy copies of
filings to alj@sec.gov in Word and in PDF text-searchable format. Electronic copies of exhibits
should not be combined into a single PDF file, but sent as separate attachments, and should be
provided in text-searchable format whenever practicable.
Hearing Guidelines
I will follow the general guidelines described below during these proceedings. The
parties should review what follows and promptly raise any objections they may have to the
application of these guidelines in this matter.
1.
Subpoenas. A party’s motion to quash a subpoena will be due within five business days
of the submission of the subpoena for signing. Any opposition to the motion to quash will be
due within five business days thereafter.
2.
Exhibits. The parties shall confer and attempt to stipulate to the admissibility of exhibits.
In order to avoid duplication of exhibits, the parties should identify joint exhibits. Exhibits are
not filed with the Office of the Secretary until the close of the hearing at my instruction.
3.
Exhibit lists. A comprehensive exhibit list prevents other parties from being surprised in
the middle of the hearing. Given this fact, exhibit lists shall be exchanged among the parties and
should include all documents that a party expects to use in the hearing for any purpose. This
includes documents that are relevant only for impeachment purposes or which are presumptively
inadmissible. The parties should serve their opponents with any amendments to their individual
exhibit list. Because I rely on the parties’ exhibit lists, the parties should provide me with a
paper copy of their final exhibit lists at the beginning of the hearing. There is no need in the
interim to submit exhibit lists or amendments to my office. Following the hearing, I will issue a
separate order directing the parties to file a list of all exhibits, admitted and offered but not
admitted, together with citations to the record indicating when each exhibit was admitted.
4.
Expert reports and testimony. Expert witness disclosures must, at minimum, comply
with Rule 222(b), including the provision of a “brief summary” of an expert’s expected
testimony. 17 C.F.R. § 201.222(a)(4), (b). Expert reports should be as specific and detailed as
those presented under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(a)(2). Failure to comply with these
requirements may result in the striking of an expert’s report. Cf. Fed. R. Civ. P. 37(c). The
filing of the expert’s report according to the prehearing schedule essentially constitutes the filing
of the expert’s direct testimony. During the hearing, the expert will not be subject to direct
examination, and will simply be sworn in and proffered for cross-examination. On request,
however, a party may conduct a brief direct examination of the party’s expert.
5.
Hearing schedule. The first day of the proceeding will begin at 9:30 a.m. Unless
circumstances require a different schedule, we will begin each subsequent day at 9:00 a.m. Each
day of the proceeding should last until at least 5:15 p.m. I generally take one break in the
morning, lasting about 15 minutes, and at least one break in the afternoon. I generally break for
lunch between noon and 12:30 p.m., for about one hour.

2

6.

Hearing issues.
i)
In general, the Division presents its case first, because it has the burden of
proof. Respondents then present their case. If necessary, the parties may agree to
proceed in some other order and may take witnesses out of order.
ii)
If the Division calls a non-party witness that Respondents also wish to call
as a witness, Respondents should cross-examine the witness as if they were calling the
witness in his own case. This means that cross-examination may exceed the scope of
direct examination. This will avoid the need to recall a witness just so the witness can
testify for Respondents’ case.
iii)
I am flexible regarding the manner of presenting the testimony of
Respondent Lathen, so long as the parties agree on it. By way of example, if the Division
calls Respondent Lathen as its last witness, the parties may agree that Respondent’s
counsel will conduct the direct examination, followed by the Division’s crossexamination, which may exceed the scope of direct. In the absence of any agreement,
Respondent’s testimony will proceed in the usual manner, i.e., Respondent will be called
as a witness and examined potentially multiple times. If the Division calls Respondent
Lathen as a witness and he later testifies as part of his own case, the Division’s
cross-examination during Respondents’ case will be limited to the scope of the direct
examination.
iv)
In general, cross-examination may be conducted by leading questions,
even as to Division witnesses that Respondents wish to call in their case. Counsel may
not lead his or her client, however. As a result, if Respondent Lathen is called as a
witness in the Division’s case, his counsel may not ask leading questions on
cross-examination. Similarly, if a Commission employee is called as a witness for
Respondents, the Division may not ask leading questions on cross-examination.
v)
Avoid leading questions on direct examination. Leading questions during
direct examination of a non-hostile witness are objectionable. Repeatedly having to
rephrase leading questions slows down the hearing.

7.
Pleadings. Prehearing and post-hearing briefs are limited to 14,000 words. Cf. 17 C.F.R.
§ 201.450(c) (imposing a word-limit for briefs filed before the Commission). Parties may seek
leave to exceed this limit through a motion filed seven days in advance of the relevant briefing
deadline. To enhance the readability of pleadings, I urge counsel to limit the use of acronyms to
those that are widely known. See Antonin Scalia & Bryan A. Garner, Making Your Case: The
Art of Persuading Judges 120-22 (2008); see also Del. Riverkeeper Network v. FERC, 753 F.3d
1304, 1320-21 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (Silberman, J., concurring). For the same reason, I ask that
counsel use the same font size in footnotes as that used in the body of a pleading.

_______________________________
James E. Grimes
Administrative Law Judge
3

