UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 4189/September 23, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17253

In the Matter of
JAMES A. WINKELMANN, SR. and
BLUE OCEAN PORTFOLIOS, LLC

ORDER FOLLOWING FINAL
PREHEARING CONFERENCE

The final telephonic prehearing conference was held yesterday, attended by the Division
of Enforcement and counsel for Respondents. During the conference, I addressed several
pending motions of both the Division and Respondents as follows, for the reasons enumerated
during the conference:


I GRANTED the Division’s September 19, 2016, motion to exclude Respondents’
proposed exhibits 93 through 100, which are letters and emails from Respondents’
investors. I GRANTED Respondents the opportunity to amend their witness list by
September 29, 2016, to add any of these investors as potential witnesses.



I DENIED Respondents’ objection to Division proposed exhibit 84 and will admit the
exhibit. I also DENIED Respondents’ objection to Division proposed exhibits 367-390,
which are multiple copies of the same email sent to different investors, but will admit
only the copies used during witness testimony.



I deferred ruling on the remainder of the Division’s objections to Respondents’ proposed
exhibits and the remainder of Respondents’ objections to the Division’s proposed
exhibits.



I considered Respondents’ motion in limine to exclude expert testimony, investor
testimony, and to strike trial exhibits pertaining to settlement discussions and DENIED
it in part.
o I will allow the Division’s expert witness to testify as to the customs and practice
of the industry but will not consider his opinions as to ultimate conclusions of
law. I deferred ruling on Respondents’ concerns regarding the accuracy of the
information considered by the expert and its materiality.

o I deferred ruling on Respondents’ request to strike the Division’s exhibits
relating to settlement discussions between the Division and Respondents.
o I DENIED Respondents’ motion to exclude investor testimony regarding
materiality.


I heard from the parties regarding Respondents’ September 21, 2016, request for
certification of production of all material exculpatory evidence, and the Division
provided a sufficient certification regarding its production of exculpatory materials
under Brady v. Maryland, 373 U.S. 83, 87 (1963). The Division represented that it only
anticipated providing Jencks Act disclosures for one witness, which it will provide to
Respondents by September 29, 2016. Also on that date, the Division will confirm with
Respondents that it does not have any additional Jencks material to provide and that its
production is complete. If the Division discovers any Jencks material as to any other
witness, it will notify Respondents.

Also during the prehearing conference, the Division raised an objection regarding
Respondents’ recently filed rebuttal expert report, arguing that the report does not appear to rebut
the Division’s initial expert report but presents new testimony. I declined to exclude the report at
this point, on condition that by September 23, 2016, Respondents will provide the Division with a
list of the specific documents and materials relied on by the expert in pages 4-5 of the report. If the
Division needs anything else, it will notify Respondents by September 26, 2016.
In order to streamline the hearing process, by September 30, 2016, the parties will notify
each other of the exhibits to which they do not intend to object. The hearing will start on October 4,
2016, at 9:00 a.m. Central.

_____________________
Jason S. Patil
Administrative Law Judge

2

