UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION,
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549-401.0,
Applicant,
~
RICHARD GROSSMAN,
259 Oakford Street
West Hempstead, NY 11552,

Case: 1:16—mc-01189
Assigned To :Harvey, G. Michael
Assign. Date :6/612016
Description: Mise.
~

Respondent.

APPLICATION OF SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FOR AN ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE AND AN ORDER
REQUIRING COMPLIANCE WITH COMMISSION SUBPOENA
1.

Respondent Richard Grossman("Grossman") has refused to comply with

a Subpoena issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission("SEC") in connection
with its formal investigation into potential violations of the federal securities laws
{"Subpoena") related to suspicious trading in shares of Ohr ~Fharnlaceutical, Inc.("Ohr").
Grossinan's counsel has indicated that Grossman will not comply with the Subpoena, and
will refuse to produce any documents and will not appear for testimony, absent a court
order directing him to do so.
2.

The Subpoena requires Grossman to produce documents which show,

among other things, his acquisition and disposition or sale of Ohr common stock and his
communications during the two weeks prior to Ohr publicly releasing the results of an
exploratory study of its lead product. The Subpoena also required Grossman to appear at
the SEC's 'headquarters in Washington, D.C., to provide testimony relatii~~ to his

suspicious trading activity. The requested documents and testimony are unquestionably
relevant to the ongoing investigation into possible violations of the federal securities
laws.
3.

The SEC respectfully requests that the Court issue an Order, in the form

submitted, requiring Grossman to show cause why he should not be ordered by this Court
to produce documents and appear for testimony pursuant to the SEC's Subpoena.
4.

Jurisdiction is conferred upon this Court, and venue properly lies within

the District of Columbia, pursuant to Section 22(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
("Securities Act"), 15 U.S.C. § 77v(b), and Section 21{c) of the Securities Exchange Act.
of 1934(`'Exchange Act"), 15 U.S.C. ~ 78u(c). Venue is proper before this Court because
the investigation is being conducted by SEC counsel in the SEC's headquarters in
Washington, D.C. and an SEC subpoena enforcement action may be brought in any district
court "within the jurisdiction of which such investigation or proceeding is carried on." 15
U.S.C. § 78u(c).
5.

In support of this Application, the SEC submits the accompanying

Declaration of staff attorney Ivan Snyder {"Snyder Decl.") along with attached exhibits,
and a Memorandum Of Law In Support Of Application For An Order To Show Cause
And An Order Requiring Compliance With Commission Subpoena.
6.

On January 11, 2016, pursuant to Sections 19(c) & 20(a) of the Securities

Act, 15 U.S.C. §§77s(a) & 77t(a), and Sections 21(a) and 21(b) of the Exchange Act, 15
U.S.C. §§ 78u(a) & 78u(b), the SEC issued an Order Directing Private Investigation and

~
The instant Application technically is not a motion subject to Local Rule 7.1(m). Members of the
Division of Enforcement staff nevertheless attempted in good faith to resolve the issues raised in this
Application. with counsel for Grossman before filing it.

2

Designating Officers to Take Testimony ir1 an investigation captioned, TRaDING IN THE
SECURITIES OF OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.(the "Formal

7.

Order''). Snyder DecL Exh. 1.

On April 18, 2016, SEC counsel served the Subpoena on Grossman

requiring him to produce documents on or before May 2, 2012, and to give testimony
before the SEC in Washin~~ton, D.C. on June 1, 2016. Snyder Decl. Exh. 2. Grossinan's
counsel has indicated that Grossman will not comply with the Subpoena, and will refuse
to produce any documents and appear for testimony, absent a court order directing him to
do so. Snyder Decl. ¶'~ Q-R. Grossman has not produced any documents to date and
failed to appear for testimony on June 1, 2016. Id. ~(~ O, U.
8.

Grossman's documents and testimony are relevant to matters under

investigation and may provide evidence as to whether there were violations of the federal
securities laws. The requested documents and testimony are, therefore, relevant to the
SEC's investigation and within the scope of the Formal Order.
WHEREFORE,the SEC respectfully requests:
I.
That the Court enter an Order to Show Cause, in the form submitted, directing
Respondent Grossman to show cause why this Court should not enter the proposed Order
requiring production of documents and appearance for testimony;
II.
That the Court enter an Order, in the form submitted, requiring Respondent
Grossman to comply fully with the Subpoena.; and

3

That the Court Order such other and further relief as may be necessary and
appropriate to achieve compliance with the Subpoena.

Dated: June 6, 2016

Respectfully submitted,

~
'
Christian D. H. Schultz(DC B~85557)
Assistant Chief Litigation unsel
Scott Friestad
Associate Director
David Frohlich(DC Bar # 425928)
Assistant Director
Ivan Snyder(DC Bar # 498461)
Staff Attorney
Securities and Exchange Commission
i00 F Street, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20549-4010
(202)551-4740(Direct)
schultzc@sec.gov
Attorneys for Applicant

0

