Your HR
A brief overview of Barclays HR

Your HR

Introduction
Every organisation's success depends on the decisions you make around people: who you
recruit, how you reward performance, development of your talent, and retention are all
crucial to organisational performance.
When you've finished this overview you'll know:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Who we are
What we do
How we're structured
Our size and scale
Our leadership team
Where to go for more information

1. Who we are
Barclays employs around 135,000 colleagues in over 50 countries. From recruitment to
retention, skills development to talent management, your HR function supports them all.
As an HR function:
•
•
•
•
•

We aim to create the best possible experience for our colleagues, whether they're
just starting out in their career or are experienced professionals
We make sure that all of our colleagues have the opportunity to grow and develop
and get more out of their jobs and careers
We know that through great HR we'll grow individuals and future leaders, so that
they can help the organisation flourish
With our senior leaders, we'll build an environment that is engaging, collaborative
and empowering. One that motivates our colleagues to do the best they can
We ensure that our people strategies are aligned with the needs of the organisation,
keeping our colleagues at the heart of all we do

"Attracting, developing and retaining the best people is what keeps us ahead of the
competition."

1

Your HR

2. What we do
HR is key to Barclays' success now and in the future. We play a critical role in helping to
transform Barclays into the 'Go-To' bank.
Our work takes place at two levels.
1. We collaborate with business leaders to deliver HR solutions and services for
business areas, functions and regions. Visit Being Barclays to find out more about
the business areas and functions that make up Barclays.
2. We also lead the design and deployment of the overall HR policy and governance
framework for the whole organisation.
We work on critical employee areas to find solutions that:
•
•
•
•

Incorporate the overall Barclays business agenda
Position the business well within the markets in which we operate
Meet the needs of our stakeholders
Meet the requirements of financial sector regulators in an ever-changing legal
landscape

3. How we're structured
"We offer the organisation professional, specialist and critical support. Our structure has
clear roles and accountabilities. We have HR teams aligned to businesses and functions as
well as Centres of Excellence."
Here's a snapshot of what we do. You'll find out even more in the business overviews in
the Being HR program.

Business Aligned HR
Business Aligned HR partners with business and functional leads to maximise employees'
performance and potential. They're an active contributor in supporting the business to
achieve its objectives by developing effective HR people initiatives. This includes
developing people, structuring teams in the right way and implementing change
throughout the bank.

Diversity and Inclusion
Barclays has a global strategy that promotes a culture of inclusion and embeds diversity
across the business. The HR Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) team supports the organisation
to deliver this strategy.
They support colleagues and managers across Barclays to promote diversity and inclusion
in their teams and recognise the value of everyone's individual contribution.
2

Your HR

Employee Relations
A specialism within HR, Employee Relations strive to keep the relationship between
Barclays and its employees working well. They help prevent and resolve issues involving
colleagues which arise out of or impact their work.

HR Operations
HR Operations delivers HR Services and HR Transformation into HR and the broader
business.
•
•

HR Services provides consistent, quality advice and support to all colleagues on
general HR queries.
HR Transformation ensures that our processes, systems, data and analytics
underpin the HR operating model and deliver a great service to you and your
colleagues.

Leadership, Learning and Talent
Leadership, Learning and Talent (LLT) supports the development of our Barclays culture
and our organisational and individual capabilities with present and future needs in mind.
They have a global centre of expertise as well as business-facing teams who are
responsible for gathering requirements and managing the demand and delivery of LLT
products and services.

Resourcing
Resourcing are responsible for attracting and recruiting over 20,000 hires a year across all
of Barclays, from graduates through to senior executives.
They proactively attract talent both from within Barclays and externally. Their aim is to
drive internal mobility and provide great career opportunities for you and your colleagues.

Reward and Performance
Reward and Performance helps colleagues achieve their maximum potential and reward
them for the contribution they make to Barclays' success. To do this they carefully review
performance ratings and compensation to ensure that colleagues are assessed and
rewarded fairly and equitably.
They provide services and advice to the business covering all aspects of reward and
performance, including performance management processes, managing benefits,
performance systems and keeping track of the outside world through benchmarking our
pay and benefits against the market.

3

Your HR

4. Our size and scale
Barclays HR employs over 3,000 people around the world. Have a look at where we're
based and the number of colleagues we support.
These figures are approximate to illustrate size and scale.
Location

Number of employees

Number of HR colleagues

United Kingdom

66,500

1,700

Africa

35,000

950

Asia Pacific

18,000

450

United States

11,500

300

Europe

4,000

250

5. Our leadership team
Our HR Leadership team set the Barclays HR Strategy and oversee its implementation
across Barclays globally.
As part of HR, there are lots of great opportunities to work with colleagues and leaders
from all over the world. HR also gets involved with projects that contribute to our common
purpose – to help people achieve their ambitions – in the right way. Wherever you work in
Barclays, you'll promote and strengthen the values that guide us.
You can find out more about your leadership team by clicking on this link to the HR
Intranet.
"Within our changing environment, our HR team are the stewards of our culture. We're
getting right under the skin of the business and ensuring that we have the people strategy
we need to deliver our goals."

4

Your HR

6. Where to go for more information
That brings you to the end of this overview.
Hopefully you now have a good sense of Barclays HR – who we are, what we do, how
we're structured, our size and scale and our leadership team.
For more information, explore the links below.
HR tools and support are in place to help you in your day-to-day life at Barclays. All
colleagues have access to these useful links; please spend some time exploring them now.
You'll become familiar with them both personally as a Barclays colleague and as part of
your role as an HR professional or line manager.
Here's more information about the tools and support available.
Tool or support

Description

HR Integrated Plan

HR has an integrated plan, which shows the key HR
calendar activities happening across our function
throughout the year. Colleagues can easily see key HR
milestones across the bank, such as when to set
objectives or enrol in benefits.

Leadership and Learning

We want you to have the development and support you
need to grow and perform at your best. That's in both
your current job and the next one.
Leadership and Learning is where you can access our
Global Curriculums, Academies and the My Learning
system for your mandatory training.

MyHR

Through the MyHR portal, you can access a range of
resources and tools to help you both as a colleague and
as an HR professional. You can search for HR policies
and processes, view payslips, record absence, update
personal details or request a financial reference as well
as accessing some of the other important sites
mentioned in this document.

My Performance

My Performance is used by employees and their
managers for setting annual objectives and when
reviewing performance. It clearly links our values and
behaviours with individual and company performance
objectives.
5

Your HR

Tool or support

Description

My Rewards

My Rewards is the flexible benefits scheme Barclays
provides to UK colleagues. It lets you tailor your core
benefits to suit your needs and enrol in your choice of
voluntary benefits.
Your core benefits currently include a pension, life
assurance, income protection, private medical cover,
holiday entitlement and health assessment (if eligible).
You can see the level and value (called a Benefits
Allowance) of all your core benefits on the My Rewards
site, as well as enrol and manage many flexible benefits,
e.g. the Bike to Work scheme or childcare vouchers.

My Wellness

Your wellness matters to us. We're striving to create a
culture of wellness within Barclays, raising people's
awareness of the key issues involved and enabling
them to get the right kind of help and support. The
My Wellness site, which is being constantly updated,
gives you the latest on our wellness programmes and
initiatives. It contains lots of useful information on
wellness in general and highlights some simple steps
you can take to improve your own sense of wellness.

Your HR

Every quarter we issue interactive HR updates for
colleagues and their managers. The updates are
designed to make it easier for colleagues to understand
and anticipate HR initiatives so you can make the most
of each opportunity.
You can find more information on HR including the
integrated plan, latest communications and the HR
leadership team, on the Barclays HR Intranet.

"The sheer diversity of our workforce, the complexity of the work we do and our fastpaced, high performance environment make a career in HR really exciting."

6

