Conformed to Federal Register Version

DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
12 CFR Part 44
Docket No. OCC-2011-0014
RIN: 1557-AD44
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
12 CFR Part 248
Docket No. R-1432
RIN: 7100 AD82
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
12 CFR Part 351
RIN: 3064-AD85
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Part 255
Release No. BHCA-1; File No. S7-41-11
RIN: 3235-AL07
Prohibitions and Restrictions on Proprietary Trading and Certain Interests In, and
Relationships With, Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds
AGENCIES: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Treasury (“OCC”); Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Board”); Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”); and Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
ACTION: Final Rule.
SUMMARY: The OCC, Board, FDIC, and SEC (individually, an “Agency,” and collectively,
“the Agencies”) are adopting a rule that would implement section 13 of the BHC Act, which was
added by section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
(“Dodd-Frank Act”). Section 13 contains certain prohibitions and restrictions on the ability of a

i

banking entity and nonbank financial company supervised by the Board to engage in proprietary
trading and have certain interests in, or relationships with, a hedge fund or private equity fund.
DATES: The final rule is effective April 1, 2014.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
OCC: Ursula Pfeil, Counsel, or Deborah Katz, Assistant Director, Legislative and Regulatory
Activities Division, (202) 649-5490; Ted Dowd, Assistant Director, or Roman Goldstein, Senior
Attorney, Securities and Corporate Practices Division, (202) 649-5510; Kurt Wilhelm, Director
for Financial Markets Group, (202) 649-6360; Stephanie Boccio, Technical Expert for Credit and
Market Risk Group, (202) 649-6360, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street
SW., Washington, DC 20219.
Board: Christopher M. Paridon, Counsel, (202) 452-3274, or Anna M. Harrington, Senior
Attorney, Legal Division, (202) 452-6406; Mark E. Van Der Weide, Deputy Director, Division
of Bank Supervision and Regulation, (202) 452-2263; or Sean D. Campbell, Deputy Associate
Director, Division of Research and Statistics, (202) 452-3760, Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, 20th and C Streets, NW., Washington, DC 20551.
FDIC: Bobby R. Bean, Associate Director, bbean@fdic.gov, or Karl R. Reitz, Chief, Capital
Markets Strategies Section, kreitz@fdic.gov, Capital Markets Branch, Division of Risk
Management Supervision, (202) 898-6888; Michael B. Phillips, Counsel, mphillips@fdic.gov, or
Gregory S. Feder, Counsel, gfeder@fdic.gov, Legal Division, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, 550 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20429.
SEC: Josephine J. Tao, Assistant Director, Angela R. Moudy, Branch Chief, John Guidroz,
Branch Chief, Jennifer Palmer or Lisa Skrzycki, Attorney Advisors, Office of Trading Practices,
ii

Catherine McGuire, Counsel, Division of Trading and Markets, (202) 551-5777; W. Danforth
Townley, Attorney Fellow, Jane H. Kim, Brian McLaughlin Johnson or Marian Fowler, Senior
Counsels, Division of Investment Management, (202) 551-6787; David Beaning, Special
Counsel, Office of Structured Finance, Division of Corporation Finance, (202) 551-3850; John
Cross, Office of Municipal Securities, (202) 551-5680; or Adam Yonce, Assistant Director, or
Matthew Kozora, Financial Economist, Division of Economic and Risk Analysis, (202) 5516600, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street NE., Washington, DC 20549.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Table of Contents
I. Background
II. Notice of Proposed Rulemaking:
III. Overview of Final Rule
A. General Approach and Summary of Final Rule
B. Proprietary Trading Restrictions
C. Restrictions on Covered Fund Activities and Investments
D. Metrics Reporting Requirement
E. Compliance Program Requirement
IV. Final Rule
A. Subpart B – Proprietary Trading Restrictions
1. Section __.3: Prohibition on Proprietary Trading and Related Definitions
a. Definition of “Trading Account”
b. Rebuttable Presumption for the Short-Term Trading Account
c. Definition of “Financial Instrument”
d. Proprietary Trading Exclusions
1.

Repurchase and reverse repurchase arrangements and securities lending

2.

Liquidity management activities

3.

Transactions of derivatives clearing organizations and clearing agencies
iii

4.

Excluded clearing-related activities of clearinghouse members

5.

Satisfying an existing delivery obligation

6.

Satisfying an obligation in connection with a judicial, administrative, selfregulatory organization, or arbitration proceeding

7.

Acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian

8.

Purchases or sales through a deferred compensation or similar plan

9.

Collecting a debt previously contracted

10. Other requested exclusions
2. Section __.4(a): Underwriting Exemption
a. Introduction
b. Overview
1.

Proposed underwriting exemption

2.

Comments on proposed underwriting exemption

3.

Final underwriting exemption

c. Detailed Explanation of the Underwriting Exemption
1.

Acting as an underwriter for a distribution of securities
a. Proposed requirements that the purchase or sale be effected solely in
connection with a distribution of securities for which the banking entity acts
as an underwriter and that the covered financial position be a security95
i. Proposed definition of “distribution”
ii. Proposed definition of “underwriter”
iii. Proposed requirement that the covered financial position be a
security
b. Comments on the proposed requirements that the trade be effected solely in
connection with a distribution for which the banking entity is acting as an
underwriter and that the covered financial position be a security
i. Definition of “distribution”
ii. Definition of “underwriter”
iii. “Solely in connection with” standard
c. Final requirement that the banking entity act as an underwriter for a
distribution of securities and the trading desk’s underwriting position be
related to such distribution
i. Definition of “underwriting position”

iv

ii. Definition of “trading desk”
iii. Definition of “distribution”
iv. Definition of “underwriter”
v. Activities conducted “in connection with” a distribution
2.

Near term customer demand requirement
a. Proposed near term customer demand requirement
b. Comments regarding the proposed near term customer demand requirement
c. Final near term customer demand requirement

3.

Compliance program requirement
a. Proposed compliance program requirement
b. Comments on the proposed compliance program requirement
c. Final compliance program requirement

4.

Compensation requirement
a. Proposed compensation requirement
b. Comments on the proposed compensation requirement
c. Final compensation requirement

5.

Registration requirement
a. Proposed registration requirement
b. Comments on proposed registration requirement
c. Final registration requirement

6.

Source of revenue requirement
a. Proposed source of revenue requirement
b. Comments on the proposed source of revenue requirement
c. Final rule’s approach to assessing source of revenue

3. Section __.4(b): Market-Making Exemption
a. Introduction
b. Overview
1.

Proposed market-making exemption

2.

Comments on the proposed market-making exemption
a. Comments on the overall scope of the proposed exemption
b. Comments regarding the potential market impact of the proposed exemption
v

3.

Final market-making exemption

c. Detailed Explanation of the Market-Making Exemption
1.

Requirement to routinely stand ready to purchase and sell
a. Proposed requirement to hold self out
b. Comments on the proposed requirement to hold self out
i. The proposed indicia
ii. Treatment of block positioning activity
iii. Treatment of anticipatory market making
iv. High-frequency trading
c. Final requirement to routinely stand ready to purchase and sell
i. Definition of “trading desk”
ii. Definitions of “financial exposure” and “market-maker
inventory”
iii. Routinely standing ready to buy and sell

2.

Near term customer demand requirement
a. Proposed near term customer demand requirement
b. Comments Regarding the Proposed Near Term Customer Demand
Requirement
i. The proposed guidance for determining compliance with the
near term customer demand requirement
ii. Potential inventory restrictions and differences across asset
classes
iii. Predicting near term customer demand
iv. Potential definitions of “client,” “customer,” or “counterparty”
v. Interdealer trading and trading for price discovery or to test
market depth
vi. Inventory management
vii. Acting as an authorized participant or market maker in
exchange-traded funds
viii. Arbitrage or other activities that promote price transparency
and liquidity
ix. Primary dealer activities
x. New or bespoke products or customized hedging contracts

vi

c. Final near term customer demand requirement
i. Definition of “client,” “customer,” and “counterparty”
ii. Impact of the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market on
the analysis
iii. Demonstrable analysis of certain factors
iv. Relationship to required limits
3.

Compliance program requirement
a. Proposed compliance program requirement
b. Comments on the proposed compliance program requirement
c. Final compliance program requirement

4.

Market making-related hedging
a. Proposed treatment of market making-related hedging
b. Comments on the proposed treatment of market making-related hedging
c. Treatment of market making-related hedging in the final rule

5.

Compensation requirement
a. Proposed compensation requirement
b. Comments regarding the proposed compensation requirement
c. Final compensation requirement

6.

Registration requirement
a. Proposed registration requirement
b. Comments on the proposed registration requirement
c. Final registration requirement

7.

Source of revenue analysis
a. Proposed source of revenue requirement
b. Comments regarding the proposed source of revenue requirement
i. Potential restrictions on inventory, increased costs for
customers, and other changes to market-making services
ii. Certain price appreciation-related profits are an inevitable or
important component of market making
iii. Concerns regarding the workability of the proposed standard in
certain markets or asset classes
iv. Suggested modifications to the proposed requirement

vii

v. General support for the proposed requirement or for placing
greater restrictions on a market maker’s sources of revenue
c. Final rule’s approach to assessing revenues
8.

Appendix B of the proposed rule
a. Proposed Appendix B requirement
b. Comments on proposed Appendix B
c. Determination to not adopt proposed Appendix B

9.

Use of quantitative measurements

4. Section __.5: Permitted Risk-Mitigating Hedging Activities
a. Summary of Proposal’s Approach to Implementing the Hedging Exemption
b. Manner of Evaluating Compliance with the Hedging Exemption
c. Comments on the Proposed Rule and Approach to Implementing the Hedging
Exemption.
d. Final Rule
1.

Compliance program requirement

2.

Hedging of specific risks and demonstrable reduction of risk

3.

Compensation

4.

Documentation requirement

5. Section __.6(a)-(b): Permitted Trading in Certain Government and Municipal
Obligations
a. Permitted Trading in U.S. Government Obligations
b. Permitted Trading in Foreign Government Obligations
c. Permitted Trading in Municipal Securities
d. Determination to Not Exempt Proprietary Trading in Multilateral Development
Bank Obligations
6. Section __.6(c): Permitted Trading on Behalf of Customers
a. Proposed Exemption for Trading on Behalf of Customers
b. Comments on the Proposed Rule
c. Final Exemption for Trading on Behalf of Customers
7. Section __.6(d): Permitted Trading by a Regulated Insurance Company
8. Section __.6(e): Permitted Trading Activities of a Foreign Banking Entity
a. Foreign Banking Entities Eligible for the Exemption

viii

b. Permitted Trading Activities of a Foreign Banking Entity
9. Section __.7: Limitations on Permitted Trading Activities
a. Scope of “Material Conflict of Interest”
1.

Proposed rule

2.

Comments on the proposed limitation on material conflicts of interest
a. Disclosure
b. Information barriers

3.

Final rule

b. Definition of “High-Risk Asset” and “High-Risk Trading Strategy”
1.

Proposed rule

2.

Comments on proposed limitations on high-risk assets and trading
strategies

3.

Final rule

c. Limitations on Permitted Activities that Pose a Threat to Safety and Soundness
of the Banking Entity or the Financial Stability of the United States
B.

Subpart C – Covered Fund Activities and Investments
1. Section __.10: Prohibition on Acquisition or Retention of Ownership Interests in,
and Certain Relationships with, a Covered Fund
a. Prohibition Regarding Covered Fund Activities and Investments
b. “Covered Fund” Definition
1.

Foreign covered funds

2.

Commodity pools

3.

Entities regulated under the Investment Company Act

c. Entities Excluded from Definition of Covered Fund
1.

Foreign public funds

2.

Wholly-owned subsidiaries

3.

Joint ventures

4.

Acquisition vehicles

5.

Foreign pension or retirement funds

6.

Insurance company separate accounts

7.

Bank owned life insurance separate accounts

8.

Exclusion for loan securitizations and definition of loan
ix

a. Definition of loan
b. Loan securitizations
i. Loans
ii. Contractual rights or assets
iii. Derivatives
iv. SUBIs and collateral certificates
v. Impermissible assets
9.

Asset-backed commercial paper conduits

10. Covered bonds
11. Certain permissible public welfare and similar funds
12. Registered investment companies and excluded entities
13. Other excluded entities
d. Entities Not Specifically Excluded from the Definition of Covered Fund
1.

Financial market utilities

2.

Cash collateral pools

3.

Pass-through REITS

4.

Municipal securities tender option bond transactions

5.

Venture capital funds

6.

Credit funds

7.

Employee securities companies

e. Definition of “Ownership Interest”
f. Definition of “Resident of the United States”
g. Definition of “Sponsor”
2. Section __.11: Activities Permitted in Connection with Organizing and Offering a
Covered Fund
a. Scope of Exemption
1.

Fiduciary services

2.

Compliance with investment limitations

3.

Compliance with section 13(f) of the BHC Act

4.

No guarantees or insurance of fund performance

5.

Limitation on name sharing with a covered fund

x

6.

Limitation on ownership by directors and employees

7.

Disclosure requirements

b. Organizing and Offering an Issuing Entity of Asset-Backed Securities
c. Underwriting and Market Making for a Covered Fund
3. Section __.12: Permitted Investment in a Covered Fund
a. Proposed Rule
b. Duration of Seeding Period for New Covered Funds
c. Limitations on Investments in a Single Covered Fund (“Per-Fund Limitation”)
d. Limitation on Aggregate Permitted Investments in all Covered funds
(“Aggregate Funds Limitation”)
e. Capital Treatment of an Investment in a Covered Fund
f. Attribution of Ownership Interests to a Banking Entity
g. Calculation of Tier 1 Capital
h. Extension of Time to Divest Ownership Interest in a Single Fund
4. Section __.13: Other permitted covered fund activities
a. Permitted Risk-Mitigating Hedging Activities
b. Permitted Covered Fund Activities and Investments Outside of the United
States
1.

Foreign banking entities eligible for the exemption

2.

Activities or investments solely outside of the United States

3.

Offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States

4.

Definition of “resident of the United States”

c. Permitted Covered Fund Interests and Activities by a Regulated Insurance
Company
5. Section __.14: Limitations on Relationships With a Covered Fund
a. Scope of Application
b. Transactions that Would Be a “Covered Transaction”
c. Certain Transactions and Relationships Permitted
1.

Permitted investments and ownerships interests

2.

Prime brokerage transactions

d. Restrictions on Transactions With Any Permitted Covered Fund
6. Section __.15: Other limitations on permitted covered fund activities
xi

C. Subpart D and Appendices A and B – Compliance Program,
Reporting, and Violations
1. Section __.20: Compliance Program Mandate
a. Program Requirement
b. Compliance Program Elements
c. Simplified Programs for Less Active Banking Entities
d. Threshold for Application of Enhanced Minimum Standards
2. Appendix B: Enhanced Minimum Standards for Compliance Programs
a. Proprietary Trading Activities
b. Covered Fund Activities or Investments
c. Enterprise-Wide Programs
d. Responsibility and Accountability
e. Independent Testing
f. Training
g. Recordkeeping
3. Section __.20(d) and Appendix A: Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
Applicable to Trading Activities
a. Approach to Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements under the Proposal
b. General Comments on the Proposed Metrics
c. Approach of the Final Rule
d. Proposed Quantitative Measurements and Comments on Specific Metrics
4. Section __.21: Termination of Activities or Investments; Authorities for
Violations
V.

Administrative Law Matters
A. Use of Plain Language
B. Paperwork Reduction Act Analysis
C. Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis
D. OCC Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 Determination

xii

I.

Background
The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010. 1 Section 619 of the Dodd-

Frank Act added a new section 13 to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (“BHC
Act”) (codified at 12 U.S.C. 1851) that generally prohibits any banking entity from
engaging in proprietary trading or from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in,
sponsoring, or having certain relationships with a hedge fund or private equity fund
(“covered fund”), subject to certain exemptions. 2 New section 13 of the BHC Act also
provides that a nonbank financial company designated by the Financial Stability
Oversight Council (“FSOC”) for supervision by the Board (while not a banking entity
under section 13 of the BHC Act) would be subject to additional capital requirements,
quantitative limits, or other restrictions if the company engages in certain proprietary
trading or covered fund activities. 3
Section 13 of the BHC Act generally prohibits banking entities from engaging as
principal in proprietary trading for the purpose of selling financial instruments in the near
term or otherwise with the intent to resell in order to profit from short-term price
movements. 4 Section 13(d)(1) expressly exempts from this prohibition, subject to
conditions, certain activities, including:

1

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

2

See 12 U.S.C. 1851.

3

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(a)(2) and (f)(4). The Agencies note that two of the three companies currently designated
by FSOC for supervision by the Board are affiliated with insured depository institutions, and are therefore
currently banking entities for purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act. The Agencies are continuing to review
whether the remaining company engages in any activity subject to section 13 of the BHC Act and what, if any,
requirements apply under section 13.

4

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(a)(1)(A) and (B).

1

•

Trading in U.S. government, agency and municipal obligations;

•

Underwriting and market making-related activities;

•

Risk-mitigating hedging activities;

•

Trading on behalf of customers;

•

Trading for the general account of insurance companies; and

•

Foreign trading by non-U.S. banking entities. 5

Section 13 of the BHC Act also generally prohibits banking entities from
acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, or sponsoring, a hedge fund or private
equity fund. Section 13 contains several exemptions that permit banking entities to make
limited investments in hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to a number of
restrictions designed to ensure that banking entities do not rescue investors in these funds
from loss and are not themselves exposed to significant losses from investments or other
relationships with these funds.
Section 13 of the BHC Act does not prohibit a nonbank financial company
supervised by the Board from engaging in proprietary trading, or from having the types
of ownership interests in or relationships with a covered fund that a banking entity is
prohibited or restricted from having under section 13 of the BHC Act. However, section
13 of the BHC Act provides that these activities be subject to additional capital charges,
quantitative limits, or other restrictions. 6

5

See id. at 1851(d)(1).

6

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(a)(2) and (d)(4).

2

II.

Notice of Proposed Rulemaking: Summary of General Comments
Authority for developing and adopting regulations to implement the prohibitions

and restrictions of section 13 of the BHC Act is divided among the Board, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
(“OCC”), the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”). 7 As required by section 13(b)(2) of the BHC
Act, the Board, OCC, FDIC, and SEC in October 2011 invited the public to comment on
proposed rules implementing that section’s requirements. 8 The period for filing public
comments on this proposal was extended for an additional 30 days, until February 13,
2012. 9 In January 2012, the CFTC requested comment on a proposal for the same
common rule to implement section 13 with respect to those entities for which it is the
primary financial regulatory agency and invited public comment on its proposed
implementing rule through April 16, 2012. 10 The statute requires the Agencies, in
developing and issuing implementing rules, to consult and coordinate with each other, as
appropriate, for the purposes of assuring, to the extent possible, that such rules are

7

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(b)(2). Under section 13(b)(2)(B) of the BHC Act, rules implementing section 13’s
prohibitions and restrictions must be issued by: (i) the appropriate Federal banking agencies (i.e., the
Board, the OCC, and the FDIC), jointly, with respect to insured depository institutions; (ii) the Board, with
respect to any company that controls an insured depository institution, or that is treated as a bank holding
company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act, any nonbank financial company
supervised by the Board, and any subsidiary of any of the foregoing (other than a subsidiary for which an
appropriate Federal banking agency, the SEC, or the CFTC is the primary financial regulatory agency); (iii)
the CFTC with respect to any entity for which it is the primary financial regulatory agency, as defined in
section 2 of the Dodd-Frank Act; and (iv) the SEC with respect to any entity for which it is the primary
financial regulatory agency, as defined in section 2 of the Dodd-Frank Act. See id.

8

See 76 FR 68846 (Nov. 7, 2011) (“Joint Proposal”).

9

See 77 FR 23 (Jan. 23, 2012) (extending the comment period to February 13, 2012).

10

See 77 FR 8332 (Feb. 14, 2012) (“CFTC Proposal”).

3

comparable and provide for consistent application and implementation of the applicable
provisions of section 13 of the BHC Act. 11
The proposed rules invited comment on a multi-faceted regulatory framework to
implement section 13 consistent with the statutory language. In addition, the Agencies
invited comments on the potential economic impacts of the proposed rule and posed a
number of questions seeking information on the costs and benefits associated with each
aspect of the proposal, as well as on any significant alternatives that would minimize the
burdens or amplify the benefits of the proposal in a manner consistent with the statute.
The Agencies also encouraged commenters to provide quantitative information and data
about the impact of the proposal on entities subject to section 13, as well as on their
clients, customers, and counterparties, specific markets or asset classes, and any other
entities potentially affected by the proposed rule, including non-financial small and midsize businesses.
The Agencies received over 18,000 comments addressing a wide variety of
aspects of the proposal, including definitions used by the proposal and the exemptions for
market making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging activities, covered fund
activities and investments, the use of quantitative metrics, and the reporting proposals.
The vast majority of these comments were from individuals using a version of a short
form letter to express support for the proposed rule. More than 600 comment letters were
unique comment letters, including from members of Congress, domestic and foreign
banking entities and other financial services firms, trade groups representing banking,

11

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(b)(2)(B)(ii). The Secretary of the Treasury, as Chairperson of the FSOC, is
responsible for coordinating the Agencies’ rulemakings under section 13 of the BHC Act. See id.

4

insurance, and the broader financial services industry, U.S. state and foreign
governments, consumer and public interest groups, and individuals. To improve
understanding of the issues raised by commenters, the Agencies met with a number of
these commenters to discuss issues relating to the proposed rule, and summaries of these
meetings are available on each of the Agency’s public websites. 12 The CFTC staff also
hosted a public roundtable on the proposed rule. 13 Many of the commenters generally
expressed support for the broader goals of the proposed rule. At the same time, many
commenters expressed concerns about various aspects of the proposed rule. Many of
these commenters requested that one or more aspects of the proposed rule be modified in
some manner in order to reflect their viewpoints and to better accommodate the scope of
activities that they argued were encompassed within section 13 of the BHC Act. The
comments addressed all major sections of the proposed rule.
Section 13 of the BHC Act also required the FSOC to conduct a study (“FSOC
study”) and make recommendations to the Agencies by January 21, 2011 on the
implementation of section 13 of the BHC Act. The FSOC study was issued on January
18, 2011. The FSOC study included a detailed discussion of key issues related to
implementation of section 13 and recommended that the Agencies consider taking a

12

See http://www.regulations.gov/#!docketDetail;D=OCC-2011-0014 (OCC);
http://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/reform_systemic.htm (Board);
http://www.fdic.gov/regulations/laws/federal/2011/11comAD85.html (FDIC);
http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-41-11/s74111.shtml (SEC); and
http://www.cftc.gov/LawRegulation/DoddFrankAct/Rulemakings/DF_28_VolckerRule/index.htm (CFTC).
13

See Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC STAFF TO HOST A PUBLIC ROUNDTABLE TO
DISCUSS THE PROPOSED VOLCKER RULE (May 24, 2012), available at
http://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/pr6263-12; transcript available at
http://www.cftc.gov/ucm/groups/public/@newsroom/documents/file/transcript053112.pdf.

5

number of specified actions in issuing rules under section 13 of the BHC Act. 14 The
FSOC study also recommended that the Agencies adopt a four-part implementation and
supervisory framework for identifying and preventing prohibited proprietary trading,
which included a programmatic compliance regime requirement for banking entities,
analysis and reporting of quantitative metrics by banking entities, supervisory review and
oversight by the Agencies, and enforcement procedures for violations. 15 The Agencies
carefully considered the FSOC study and its recommendations.
In formulating this final rule, the Agencies carefully reviewed all comments
submitted in connection with the rulemaking and considered the suggestions and issues
they raise in light of the statutory restrictions and provisions as well as the FSOC study.
The Agencies have sought to reasonably respond to all of the significant issues
commenters raised. The Agencies believe they have succeeded in doing so
notwithstanding the complexities involved. The Agencies also carefully considered
different options suggested by commenters in light of potential costs and benefits in order
to effectively implement section 13 of the BHC Act. The Agencies made numerous
changes to the final rule in response to the issues and information provided by
commenters. These modifications to the rule and explanations that address comments are
described in more detail in the section-by-section description of the final rule. To

14

See Financial Stability Oversight Counsel, Study and Recommendations on Prohibitions on Proprietary
Trading and Certain Relationships with Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds (Jan. 18, 2011), available at
http://www.treasury.gov/initiatives/Documents/Volcker%20sec%20619%20study%20final%201%2018%2011
%20rg.pdf. (“FSOC study”). See 12 U.S.C. 1851(b)(1). Prior to publishing its study, FSOC requested public
comment on a number of issues to assist in conducting its study. See 75 FR 61,758 (Oct. 6, 2010).
Approximately 8,000 comments were received from the public, including from members of Congress, trade
associations, individual banking entities, consumer groups, and individuals.
15

See FSOC study at 5-6.

6

enhance uniformity in both rules that implement section 13 and administration of the
requirements of that section, the Agencies have been regularly consulting with each other
in the development of this final rule.
Some commenters requested that the Agencies repropose the rule and/or delay
adoption pending the collection of additional information. 16 As described in part above,
the Agencies have provided many and various types of opportunities for commenters to
provide input on implementation of section 13 of the BHC Act and have collected
substantial information in the process. In addition to the official comment process
described above, members of the public submitted comment letters in advance of the
official comment period for the proposed rules and met with staff of the Agencies to
explain issues of concern; the public also provided substantial comment in response to a
request for comment from the FSOC regarding its findings and recommendations for
implementing section 13. 17 The Agencies provided a detailed proposal and posed
numerous questions in the preamble to the proposal to solicit and explore alternative
approaches in many areas. In addition, the Agencies have continued to receive comment
letters after the extended comment period deadline, which the Agencies have considered.
Thus, the Agencies believe interested parties have had ample opportunity to review the
proposed rules, as well as the comments made by others, and to provide views on the
proposal, other comment letters, and data to inform our consideration of the final rules.

16

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); ABA (Keating); Chamber (Nov. 2011); Chamber
(Nov. 2013); Members of Congress (Dec. 2011); IIAC; Real Estate Roundtable; Ass’n. of German Banks;
Allen & Overy (Clearing); JPMC; Goldman (Prop. Trading); BNY Mellon et al.; State Street (Feb. 2012);
ICI Global; Chamber (Feb. 2012); Société Générale; HSBC; Western Asset Mgmt.; Abbott Labs et al.
(Feb. 2012); PUC Texas; Columbia Mgmt.; ICI (Feb. 2012); IIB/EBF; British Bankers’ Ass’n.; ISDA (Feb.
2012); Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; Ralph Saul (Apr. 2012); BPC.
17

See 75 FR 61,758 (Oct. 6, 2010).

7

In addition, the Agencies have been mindful of the importance of providing
certainty to banking entities and financial markets and of providing sufficient time for
banking entities to understand the requirements of the final rule and to design, test, and
implement compliance and reporting systems. The further substantial delay that would
necessarily be entailed by reproposing the rule would extend the uncertainty that banking
entities would face, which could prove disruptive to banking entities and the financial
markets.
The Agencies note, as discussed more fully below, that the final rule incorporates
a number of modifications designed to address the issues raised by commenters in a
manner consistent with the statute. The preamble below also discusses many of the
issues raised by commenters and explains the Agencies’ response to those comments.
To achieve the purpose of the statute, without imposing unnecessary costs, the
final rule builds on the multi-faceted approach in the proposal, which includes
development and implementation of a compliance program at each banking entity
engaged in trading activities or that makes investments subject to section 13 of the BHC
Act; the collection and evaluation of data regarding these activities as an indicator of
areas meriting additional attention by the banking entity and the relevant agency;
appropriate limits on trading, hedging, investment and other activities; and supervision by
the Agencies. To allow banking entities sufficient time to develop appropriate systems,
the Agencies have provided for a phased-in schedule for the collection of data, limited
data reporting requirements only to banking entities that engage in significant trading
activity, and agreed to review the merits of the data collected and revise the data
collection as appropriate over the next 21 months. Importantly, as explained in detail

8

below, the Agencies have also reduced the compliance burden for banking entities with
total assets of less than $10 billion. The final rule also eliminates compliance burden for
firms that do not engage in covered activities or investments beyond investing in U.S.
government obligations, agency guaranteed obligations, or municipal obligations.
Moreover, the Agencies believe the data that will be collected in connection with
the final rule, as well as the compliance efforts made by banking entities and the
supervisory experience that will be gained by the Agencies in reviewing trading and
investment activity under the final rule, will provide valuable insights into the
effectiveness of the final rule in achieving the purpose of section 13 of the BHC Act. The
Agencies remain committed to implementing the final rule, and revisiting and revising
the rule as appropriate, in a manner designed to ensure that the final rule faithfully
implements the requirements and purposes of the statute. 18
Finally, the Board has determined, in accordance with section 13 of the BHC Act,
to provide banking entities with additional time to conform their activities and
investments to the statute and the final rule. The restrictions and prohibitions of section
13 of the BHC Act became effective on July 21, 2012. 19 The statute provided banking
entities a period of two years to conform their activities and investments to the
requirement of the statute, until July 21, 2014. Section 13 also permits the Board to
extend this conformance period, one year at a time, for a total of no more than three

18

If any provision of this rule, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or application of such provisions to other persons or
circumstances that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.
19

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(c)(1).

9

additional years. 20 Pursuant to this authority and in connection with this rulemaking, the
Board has in a separate action extended the conformance period for an additional year
until July 21, 2015. 21 The Board will continue to monitor developments to determine
whether additional extensions of the conformance period are in the public interest,
consistent with the statute. Accordingly, the Agencies do not believe that a reproposal or
further delay is necessary or appropriate.
Commenters have differing views on the overall economic impacts of section 13
of the BHC Act.
Some commenters remarked that proprietary trading restrictions will have
detrimental impacts on the economy such as: reduction in efficiency of markets,
economic growth, and in employment due to a loss in liquidity. 22 In particular, a
commenter expressed concern that there may be high transition costs as non-banking
entities replace some of the trading activities currently performed by banking entities. 23
Another commenter focused on commodity markets remarked about the potential
reduction in commercial output and curtailed resource exploration due to a lack of
hedging counterparties. 24 Several commenters stated that section 13 of the BHC Act will
reduce access to debt markets – especially for smaller companies – raising the costs of

20

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(c)(2); See also, A Conformance Period for Entities Engaged in Prohibited Proprietary
Trading or Private Equity Fund or Hedge Fund Activities, 76 FR 8265 (Feb. 14, 2011) (citing 156 Cong. Rec.
S5898 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley)).

21

See, Board Order Approving Extension of Conformance Period, available at
http://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/press/bcreg/bcreg20131210b1.pdf .

22

See, e.g., Oliver Wyman (Dec. 2011); Chamber (Dec. 2011); Thakor Study; Prof. Duffie; IHS.

23

See Prof. Duffie.

24

See IHS.

10

capital for firms and lowering the returns on certain investments. 25 Further, some
commenters mentioned that U.S. banks may be competitively disadvantaged relative to
foreign banks due to proprietary trading restrictions and compliance costs. 26
On the other hand, other commenters stated that restricting proprietary trading
activity by banking entities may reduce systemic risk emanating from the financial
system and help to lower the probability of the occurrence of another financial crisis. 27
One commenter contended that large banking entities may have a moral hazard incentive
to engage in risky activities without allocating sufficient capital to them, especially if
market participants believe these institutions will not be allowed to fail. 28 Commenters
argued that large banking entities may engage in activities that increase the upside return
at the expense of downside loss exposure which may ultimately be borne by Federal
taxpayers 29 and that subsidies associated with bank funding may create distorted
economic outcomes. 30 Furthermore, some commenters remarked that non-banking
entities may fill much of the void in liquidity provision left by banking entities if banking
entities reduce their current trading activities. 31 Finally, some commenters mentioned that

25

See, e.g., Chamber (Dec. 2011); Thakor Study; Oliver Wyman (Dec. 2011); IHS.

26

See, e.g., RBC; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Covered Funds).

27

See, e.g., Profs. Admati & Pfleiderer; AFR (Nov. 2012); Better Markets (Dec. 2011);
Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; Paul Volcker.

28

See Occupy.

29

See Profs. Admati & Pfleiderer; Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz;
Paul Volcker.

30

See Profs. Admati & Pfleiderer; Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz.

31

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Better Markets (Apr. 16, 2012); David McClean; Public Citizen; Occupy.

11

hyper-liquidity that arises from, for instance, speculative bubbles, may harm the
efficiency and price discovery function of markets. 32
The Agencies have taken these concerns into account in the final rule. As
described below with respect to particular aspects of the final rule, the Agencies have
addressed these issues by reducing burdens where appropriate, while at the same time
ensuring that the final rule serves its purpose of promoting healthy economic activity. In
that regard, the Agencies have sought to achieve the balance intended by Congress under
section 13 of the BHC Act. Several comments suggested that a costs and benefits
analysis be performed by the Agencies. 33 On the other hand, some commenters 34
correctly stated that a costs and benefits analysis is not legally required. 35 However, the
Agencies find certain of the information submitted by commenters concerning costs and
benefits and economic effects to be relevant to consideration of the rule, and so have
considered this information as appropriate, and, on the basis of these and other
considerations, sought to achieve the balance intended by Congress in section 619 of the
Dodd-Frank Act. The relevant comments are addressed therein.

32

See Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz (citing Thomas Phillipon (2011)); AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy.

33

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); BoA; ABA (Keating); Chamber (Feb. 2012); Société
Générale; FTN; SVB; ISDA (Feb. 2012); Comm. on Capital Market Regulation; Real Estate
Roundtable.

34

See, e.g., Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Randel Pilo.

35

For example, with respect to the CFTC, Section 15(a) of the CEA requires such consideration only when
“promulgating a regulation under this [Commodity Exchange] Act.” This final rule is not promulgated
under the CEA, but under the BHC Act. CEA section 15(a), therefore, does not apply.

12

III.

Overview of Final Rule
The Agencies are adopting this final rule to implement section 13 of the BHC Act

with a number of changes to the proposal, as described further below. The final rule
adopts a risk-based approach to implementation that relies on a set of clearly articulated
characteristics of both prohibited and permitted activities and investments and is designed
to effectively accomplish the statutory purpose of reducing risks posed to banking entities
by proprietary trading activities and investments in or relationships with covered funds.
As explained more fully below in the section-by-section analysis, the final rule has been
designed to ensure that banking entities do not engage in prohibited activities or
investments and to ensure that banking entities engage in permitted trading and
investment activities in a manner designed to identify, monitor and limit the risks posed
by these activities and investments. For instance, the final rule requires that any banking
entity that is engaged in activity subject to section 13 develop and administer a
compliance program that is appropriate to the size, scope and risk of its activities and
investments. The rule requires the largest firms engaged in these activities to develop
and implement enhanced compliance programs and regularly report data on trading
activities to the Agencies. The Agencies believe this will permit banking entities to
effectively engage in permitted activities, and the Agencies to enforce compliance with
section 13 of the BHC Act. In addition, the enhanced compliance programs will help
both the banking entities and the Agencies identify, monitor, and limit risks of activities
permitted under section 13, particularly involving banking entities posing the greatest risk
to financial stability.

13

A.

General Approach and Summary of Final Rule
The Agencies have designed the final rule to achieve the purposes of section 13 of

the BHC Act, which include prohibiting banking entities from engaging in proprietary
trading or acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, or having certain relationships
with, a covered fund, while permitting banking entities to continue to provide, and to
manage and limit the risks associated with providing, client-oriented financial services
that are critical to capital generation for businesses of all sizes, households and
individuals, and that facilitate liquid markets. These client-oriented financial services,
which include underwriting, market making, and asset management services, are
important to the U.S. financial markets and the participants in those markets. At the same
time, providing appropriate latitude to banking entities to provide such client-oriented
services need not and should not conflict with clear, robust, and effective implementation
of the statute’s prohibitions and restrictions.
As noted above, the final rule takes a multi-faceted approach to implementing
section 13 of the BHC Act. In particular, the final rule includes a framework that clearly
describes the key characteristics of both prohibited and permitted activities. The final
rule also requires banking entities to establish a comprehensive compliance program
designed to ensure compliance with the requirements of the statute and rule in a way that
takes into account and reflects the banking entity’s activities, size, scope and complexity.
With respect to proprietary trading, the final rule also requires the large firms that are
active participants in trading activities to calculate and report meaningful quantitative
data that will assist both banking entities and the Agencies in identifying particular
14

activity that warrants additional scrutiny to distinguish prohibited proprietary trading
from otherwise permissible activities.
As a matter of structure, the final rule is generally divided into four subparts and
contains two appendices, as follows:
•
Subpart A of the final rule describes the authority, scope, purpose, and
relationship to other authorities of the rule and defines terms used commonly throughout
the rule;
•
Subpart B of the final rule prohibits proprietary trading, defines terms
relevant to covered trading activity, establishes exemptions from the prohibition on
proprietary trading and limitations on those exemptions, and requires certain banking
entities to report quantitative measurements with respect to their trading activities;
•
Subpart C of the final rule prohibits or restricts acquiring or retaining an
ownership interest in, and certain relationships with, a covered fund, defines terms
relevant to covered fund activities and investments, as well as establishes exemptions
from the restrictions on covered fund activities and investments and limitations on those
exemptions;
•
Subpart D of the final rule generally requires banking entities to establish
a compliance program regarding compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and the
final rule, including written policies and procedures, internal controls, a management
framework, independent testing of the compliance program, training, and recordkeeping;
•
Appendix A of the final rule details the quantitative measurements that
certain banking entities may be required to compute and report with respect to certain
trading activities;
•
Appendix B of the final rule details the enhanced minimum standards for
programmatic compliance that certain banking entities must meet with respect to their
compliance program, as required under subpart D.
B.

Proprietary Trading Restrictions
Subpart B of the final rule implements the statutory prohibition on proprietary

trading and the various exemptions to this prohibition included in the statute. Section
__.3 of the final rule contains the core prohibition on proprietary trading and defines a

15

number of related terms, including “proprietary trading” and “trading account.” The final
rule’s definition of proprietary trading generally parallels the statutory definition and
covers engaging as principal for the trading account of a banking entity in any transaction
to purchase or sell specified types of financial instruments. 36
The final rule’s definition of trading account also is consistent with the statutory
definition. 37 In particular, the definition of trading account in the final rule includes three
classes of positions. First, the definition includes the purchase or sale of one or more
financial instruments taken principally for the purpose of short-term resale, benefitting
from short-term price movements, realizing short-term arbitrage profits, or hedging
another trading account position. 38 For purposes of this part of the definition, the final
rule also contains a rebuttable presumption that the purchase or sale of a financial
instrument by a banking entity is for the trading account of the banking entity if the
banking entity holds the financial instrument for fewer than 60 days or substantially
transfers the risk of the financial instrument within 60 days of purchase (or sale). 39
Second, with respect to a banking entity subject to the Federal banking agencies’ Market
Risk Capital Rules, the definition includes the purchase or sale of one or more financial
instruments subject to the prohibition on proprietary trading that are treated as “covered
positions and trading positions” (or hedges of other market risk capital rule covered
positions) under those capital rules, other than certain foreign exchange and commodities

36

See final rule § __.3(a).

37

See final rule § __.3(b).

38

See final rule § __.3(b)(1)(i).

39

See final rule § __.3(b)(2).

16

positions.40 Third, the definition includes the purchase or sale of one or more financial
instruments by a banking entity that is licensed or registered or required to be licensed or
registered to engage in the business of a dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap
dealer to the extent the instrument is purchased or sold in connection with the activities
that require the banking entity to be licensed or registered as such or is engaged in those
businesses outside of the United States, to the extent the instrument is purchased or sold
in connection with the activities of such business. 41
The definition of proprietary trading also contains clarifying exclusions for certain
purchases and sales of financial instruments that generally do not involve the requisite
short-term trading intent, such as the purchase and sale of financial instruments arising
under certain repurchase and reverse repurchase arrangements or securities lending
transactions and securities acquired or taken for bona fide liquidity management
purposes. 42
In Section __.3, the final rule also defines a number of other relevant terms,
including the term “financial instrument.” This term is used to define the scope of
financial instruments subject to the prohibition on proprietary trading. Consistent with
the statutory language, such financial instruments include securities, derivatives,

40

See final rule § __.3(b)(1)(ii).

41

See final rule § __.3(b)(1)(iii).

42

See final rule § __.3(d).

17

commodity futures, and options on such instruments, but do not include loans, spot
foreign exchange or spot physical commodities. 43
In Section __.4, the final rule implements the statutory exemptions for
underwriting and market making-related activities. For each of these permitted activities,
the final rule defines the exempt activity and provides a number of requirements that
must be met in order for a banking entity to rely on the applicable exemption. As more
fully discussed below, these include establishment and enforcement of a compliance
program targeted to the activity; limits on positions, inventory and risk exposure
addressing the requirement that activities be designed not to exceed the reasonably
expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties; limits on the
duration of holdings and positions; defined escalation procedures to change or exceed
limits; analysis justifying established limits; internal controls and independent testing of
compliance with limits; senior management accountability and limits on incentive
compensation. In addition, the final rule requires firms with significant market-making
or underwriting activities to report data involving several metrics that may be used by the
banking entity and the Agencies to identify trading activity that may warrant more
detailed compliance review.
These requirements are generally designed to ensure that the banking entity’s
trading activity is limited to underwriting and market making-related activities and does
not include prohibited proprietary trading. 44 These requirements are also intended to

43

See final rule § __.3(c).

44

See final rule § __.4(a), (b).

18

work together to ensure that banking entities identify, monitor and limit the risks
associated with these activities.
In Section __.5, the final rule implements the statutory exemption for riskmitigating hedging. As with the underwriting and market-making exemptions, § __.5 of
the final rule contains a number of requirements that must be met in order for a banking
entity to rely on the exemption. These requirements are generally designed to ensure that
the banking entity’s hedging activity is limited to risk-mitigating hedging in purpose and
effect. 45 Section __.5 also requires banking entities to document, at the time the
transaction is executed, the hedging rationale for certain transactions that present
heightened compliance risks. 46 As with the exemptions for underwriting and market
making-related activity, these requirements form part of a broader implementation
approach that also includes the compliance program requirement and the reporting of
quantitative measurements.
In Section __.6, the final rule implements statutory exemptions for trading in
certain government obligations, trading on behalf of customers, trading by a regulated
insurance company, and trading by certain foreign banking entities outside of the United
States. Section __.6(a) of the final rule describes the government obligations in which a
banking entity may trade, which include U.S. government and agency obligations,
obligations and other instruments of specified government sponsored entities, and State

45

See final rule § __.5.

46

See final rule § __.5(c).

19

and municipal obligations. 47 Section __.6(b) of the final rule permits trading in certain
foreign government obligations by affiliates of foreign banking entities in the United
State and foreign affiliates of a U.S. banking entity abroad. 48 Section __.6(c) of the final
rule describes permitted trading on behalf of customers and identifies the types of
transactions that would qualify for the exemption. 49 Section __.6(d) of the final rule
describes permitted trading by a regulated insurance company or an affiliate thereof for
the general account of the insurance company, and also permits those entities to trade for
a separate account of the insurance company. 50 Finally, § __.6(e) of the final rule
describes trading permitted outside of the United States by a foreign banking entity. 51
The exemption in the final rule clarifies when a foreign banking entity will qualify to
engage in such trading pursuant to sections 4(c)(9) or 4(c)(13) of the BHC Act, as
required by the statute, including with respect to a foreign banking entity not currently
subject to the BHC Act. As explained in detail below, the exemption also provides that
the risk as principal, the decision-making, and the accounting for this activity must occur
solely outside of the United States, consistent with the statute.
In Section __.7, the final rule prohibits a banking entity from relying on any
exemption to the prohibition on proprietary trading if the permitted activity would
involve or result in a material conflict of interest, result in a material exposure to highrisk assets or high-risk trading strategies, or pose a threat to the safety and soundness of
47

See final rule § __.6(a).

48

See final rule § __.6(b).

49

See final rule § __.6(c).

50

See final rule § __.6(d).

51

See final rule § __.6(e).

20

the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States. 52 This section also
describes the terms material conflict of interest, high-risk asset, and high-risk trading
strategy for these purposes.
C.

Restrictions on Covered Fund Activities and Investments
Subpart C of the final rule implements the statutory prohibition on, directly or

indirectly, acquiring and retaining an ownership interest in, or having certain
relationships with, a covered fund, as well as the various exemptions to this prohibition
included in the statute. Section __.10 of the final rule contains the core prohibition on
covered fund activities and investments and defines a number of related terms, including
“covered fund” and “ownership interest.” 53 The definition of covered fund contains a
number of exclusions for entities that may rely on exclusions from the Investment
Company Act of 1940 contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act but that are not
engaged in investment activities of the type contemplated by section 13 of the BHC Act.
These include, for example, exclusions for wholly owned subsidiaries, joint ventures,
foreign pension or retirement funds, insurance company separate accounts, and public
welfare investment funds. The final rule also implements the statutory rule of
construction in section 13(g)(2) and provides that a securitization of loans, which would

52

See final rule § __.7.

53

See final rule § __.10(b).

21

include loan securitization, qualifying asset backed commercial paper conduit, and
qualifying covered bonds, is not covered by section 13 or the final rule. 54
The definition of “ownership interest” in the final rule provides further guidance
regarding the types of interests that would be considered to be an ownership interest in a
covered fund. 55 As described in this Supplementary Information, these interests may take
various forms. The definition of ownership interest also explicitly excludes from the
definition “restricted profit interest” that is solely performance compensation for services
provided to the covered fund by the banking entity (or an employee or former employee
thereof), under certain circumstances. 56 Section __.10 of the final rule also defines a
number of other relevant terms, including the terms “prime brokerage transaction,”
“sponsor,” and “trustee.”
Section __.11 of the final rule implements the exemption for organizing and
offering a covered fund provided for under section 13(d)(1)(G) of the BHC Act. Section
__.11(a) of the final rule outlines the conditions that must be met in order for a banking
entity to organize and offer a covered fund under this authority. These requirements are
contained in the statute and are intended to allow a banking entity to engage in certain
traditional asset management and advisory businesses, subject to certain limits contained

54

The Agencies believe that most securitization transactions are currently structured so that the issuing
entity with respect to the securitization is not an affiliate of a banking entity under the BHC Act. However,
with respect to any securitization that is an affiliate of a banking entity and that does not meet the
requirements of the loan securitization exclusion, the related banking entity will need to determine how to
bring the securitization into compliance with this rule.
55

See final rule § __.10(d)(6).

56

See final rule § __.10(b)(6)(ii).

22

in section 13 of the BHC Act. 57 The requirements are discussed in detail in Part IV.B.2.
of this Supplementary Information. Section __.11 also explains how these requirements
apply to covered funds that are issuing entities of asset-backed securities, as well as
implements the statutory exemption for underwriting and market-making ownership
interests of a covered fund, including explaining the limitations imposed on such
activities under the final rule.
In Section __.12, the final rule permits a banking entity to acquire and retain, as
an investment in a covered fund, an ownership interest in a covered fund that the banking
entity organizes and offers or holds pursuant to other authority under § __.11. 58 This
section implements section 13(d)(4) of the BHC Act and related provisions. Section
13(d)(4)(A) of the BHC Act permits a banking entity to make an investment in a covered
fund that the banking entity organizes and offers, or for which it acts as sponsor, for the
purposes of (i) establishing the covered fund and providing the fund with sufficient initial
equity for investment to permit the fund to attract unaffiliated investors, or (ii) making a
de minimis investment in the covered fund in compliance with applicable requirements.
Section __.12 of the final rule implements this authority and related limitations, including
limitations regarding the amount and value of any individual per-fund investment and the
aggregate value of all such permitted investments. In addition, § __.12 requires that the
aggregate value of all investments in covered funds, plus any earnings on these
investments, be deducted from the capital of the banking entity for purposes of the
regulatory capital requirements, and explains how that deduction must occur. Section
57

See 156 Cong. Rec. S5889 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Hagan).

58

See final rule § __.12.

23

__.12 of the final rule also clarifies how a banking entity must calculate its compliance
with these investment limitations (including by deducting such investments from
applicable capital, as relevant), and sets forth how a banking entity may request an
extension of the period of time within which it must conform an investment in a single
covered fund. This section also explains how a banking entity must apply the covered
fund investment limits to a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset backed
securities or a covered fund that is part of a master-feeder or fund-of-funds structure.
In Section __.13, the final rule implements the statutory exemptions described in
sections 13(d)(1)(C), (D), (F), and (I) of the BHC Act that permit a banking entity: (i) to
acquire and retain an ownership interest in a covered fund as a risk-mitigating hedging
activity related to employee compensation; (ii) in the case of a non-U.S. banking entity,
to acquire and retain an ownership interest in, or act as sponsor to, a covered fund solely
outside the United States; and (iii) to acquire and retain an ownership interest in, or act as
sponsor to, a covered fund by an insurance company for its general or separate
accounts. 59
In Section __.14, the final rule implements section 13(f) of the BHC Act and
generally prohibits a banking entity from entering into certain transactions with a covered
fund that would be a covered transaction as defined in section 23A of the Federal Reserve
Act. 60 Section __.14(a)(2) of the final rule describes the transactions between a banking
entity and a covered fund that remain permissible under the statute and the final rule.

59

See final rule § __.13(a) – (c).

60

See 12 U.S.C. 371c; see also final rule § __.14.

24

Section __.14(b) of the final rule implements the statute’s requirement that any
transaction permitted under section 13(f) of the BHC Act (including a prime brokerage
transaction) between the banking entity and a covered fund is subject to section 23B of
the Federal Reserve Act, 61 which, in general, requires that the transaction be on market
terms or on terms at least as favorable to the banking entity as a comparable transaction
by the banking entity with an unaffiliated third party.
In Section __.15, the final rule prohibits a banking entity from relying on any
exemption to the prohibition on acquiring and retaining an ownership interest in, acting
as sponsor to, or having certain relationships with, a covered fund, if the permitted
activity or investment would involve or result in a material conflict of interest, result in a
material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies, or pose a threat to the
safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United
States. 62 This section also describes material conflict of interest, high-risk asset, and
high-risk trading strategy for these purposes.
D.

Metrics Reporting Requirement
Under the final rule, a banking entity that meets relevant thresholds specified in

the rule must furnish the following quantitative measurements for each of its trading
desks engaged in covered trading activity calculated in accordance with Appendix A:
•

Risk and Position Limits and Usage;

61

12 U.S.C. 371c-1.

62

See final rule § __.15.

25

•

Risk Factor Sensitivities;

•

Value-at-Risk and Stress VaR;

•

Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution;

•

Inventory Turnover;

•

Inventory Aging; and

•

Customer Facing Trade Ratio.

The final rule raises the threshold for metrics reporting from the proposal to
capture only firms that engage in significant trading activity, identified at specified
aggregate trading asset and liability thresholds, and delays the dates for reporting metrics
through a phased-in approach based on the size of trading assets and liabilities.
Specifically, the Agencies have delayed the reporting of metrics until June 30, 2014 for
the largest banking entities that, together with their affiliates and subsidiaries, have
trading assets and liabilities the average gross sum of which equal or exceed $50 billion
on a worldwide consolidated basis over the previous four calendar quarters (excluding
trading assets and liabilities involving obligations of or guaranteed by the United States
or any agency of the United States). Banking entities with $25 billion or more in trading
assets and liabilities and banking entities with $10 billion or more in trading assets and
liabilities would also be required to report these metrics beginning on April 30, 2016, and
December 31, 2016, respectively.
Under the final rule, a banking entity required to report metrics must calculate any
applicable quantitative measurement for each trading day. Each banking entity required
to report must report each applicable quantitative measurement to its primary supervisory
Agency on the reporting schedule established in the final rule unless otherwise requested

26

by the primary supervisory Agency for the entity. The largest banking entities with $50
billion in consolidated trading assets and liabilities must report the metrics on a monthly
basis. Other banking entities required to report metrics must do so on a quarterly basis.
All quantitative measurements for any calendar month must be reported no later than 10
days after the end of the calendar month required by the final rule unless another time is
requested by the primary supervisory Agency for the entity except for a transitional six
month period during which reporting will be required no later than 30 days after the end
of the calendar month. Banking entities subject to quarterly reporting will be required to
report quantitative measurements within 30 days of the end of the quarter, unless another
time is requested by the primary supervisory Agency for the entity in writing. 63
E.

Compliance Program Requirement
Subpart D of the final rule requires a banking entity engaged in covered trading

activities or covered fund activities to develop and implement a program reasonably
designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the prohibitions and restrictions on
covered trading activities and covered fund activities and investments set forth in section
13 of the BHC Act and the final rule. 64 To reduce the overall burden of the rule, the final
rule provides that a banking entity that does not engage in covered trading activities
(other than trading in U.S. government or agency obligations, obligations of specified
government sponsored entities, and state and municipal obligations) or covered fund

63

See final rule § __.20(d)(3). The final rule includes a shorter period of time for reporting quantitative
measurements than was proposed for the largest banking entities. Like the monthly reporting requirement
for these firms, this is intended to allow for more effective supervision of their large-scale trading
operations.

64

See final rule § __.20.

27

activities and investments need only establish a compliance program prior to becoming
engaged in such activities or making such investments. 65 In addition, to reduce the
burden on smaller banking entities, a banking entity with total consolidated assets of $10
billion or less that engages in covered trading activities and/or covered fund activities or
investments may satisfy the requirements of the final rule by including in its existing
compliance policies and procedures appropriate references to the requirements of section
13 and the final rule and adjustments as appropriate given the activities, size, scope and
complexity of the banking entity. 66
For banking entities with total assets greater than $10 billion and less than $50
billion, the final rule specifies six elements that each compliance program established
under subpart D must, at a minimum, include. These requirements focus on written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure compliance with the final rules,
including limits on underwriting and market–making; a system of internal controls; clear
accountability for compliance and review of limits, hedging, incentive compensation, and
other matters; independent testing and audits; additional documentation for covered
funds; training; and recordkeeping requirements.
A banking entity with $50 billion or more total consolidated assets (or a foreign
banking entity that has total U.S. assets of $50 billion or more) or that is required to
report metrics under Appendix A is required to adopt an enhanced compliance program
with more detailed policies, limits, governance processes, independent testing and

65

See final rule § __.20(f)(1).

66

See final rule § __.20(f)(2).

28

reporting. In addition, the Chief Executive Officer of these larger banking entities must
attest that the banking entity has in place a program reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule.
The application of detailed minimum standards for these types of banking entities
is intended to reflect the heightened compliance risks of large covered trading activities
and covered fund activities and investments and to provide clear, specific guidance to
such banking entities regarding the compliance measures that would be required for
purposes of the final rule.
IV.

Final Rule

A.

Subpart B – Proprietary Trading Restrictions

1.

Section __.3: Prohibition on Proprietary Trading and Related Definitions
Section 13(a)(1)(A) of the BHC Act prohibits a banking entity from engaging in

proprietary trading unless otherwise permitted in section 13. 67 Section 13(h)(4) of the
BHC Act defines proprietary trading, in relevant part, as engaging as principal for the
trading account of the banking entity in any transaction to purchase or sell, or otherwise
acquire or dispose of, a security, derivative, contract of sale of a commodity for future
delivery, or other financial instrument that the Agencies include by rule. 68
Section __.3(a) of the proposed rule implemented section 13(a)(1)(A) of the BHC
Act by prohibiting a banking entity from engaging in proprietary trading unless otherwise
67

12 U.S.C. 1851(a)(1)(A).

68

12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(4).

29

permitted under §§ __.4 through __.6 of the proposed rule. Section __.3(b)(1) of the
proposed rule defined proprietary trading in accordance with section 13(h)(4) of the BHC
Act and clarified that proprietary trading does not include acting solely as agent, broker,
or custodian for an unaffiliated third party. The preamble to the proposed rule explained
that acting in these types of capacities does not involve trading as principal. 69
Several commenters expressed concern about the breadth of the ban on
proprietary trading. 70 Some of these commenters stated that proprietary trading must be
carefully and narrowly defined to avoid prohibiting activities that Congress did not intend
to limit and to preclude significant, unintended consequences for capital markets, capital
formation, and the broader economy. 71 Some commenters asserted that the proposed
definition could result in banking entities being unwilling to take principal risk to provide
liquidity for institutional investors; could unnecessarily constrain liquidity in secondary
markets, forcing asset managers to service client needs through alternative non-U.S.
markets; could impose substantial costs for all institutions, especially smaller and midsize institutions; and could drive risk-taking to the shadow banking system. 72 Others
urged the Agencies to determine that trading as agent, broker, or custodian for an affiliate
was not proprietary trading. 73

69

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,857.

70

See, e.g., Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); Capital Group; Comm. on Capital Markets
Regulation; IAA; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); SVB; Chamber (Feb. 2012); Wellington.

71

See Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); GE (Feb. 2012); Invesco; Sen. Corker; Chamber (Feb.
2012).

72

See Chamber (Feb. 2012).

73

See Japanese Bankers Ass'n.

30

Commenters also suggested alternative approaches for defining proprietary
trading. In general, these approaches sought to provide a bright-line definition to provide
increased certainty to banking entities 74 or make the prohibition easier to apply in
practice. 75 One commenter stated the Agencies should focus on the economics of
banking entities’ transactions and ban trading if the banking entity is exposed to market
risk for a significant period of time or is profiting from changes in the value of the
asset. 76 Several commenters, including individual members of the public, urged the
Agencies to prohibit banking entities from engaging in any kind of proprietary trading
and require separation of trading from traditional banking activities. 77 After carefully
considering comments, the Agencies are defining proprietary trading as engaging as
principal for the trading account of the banking entity in any purchase or sale of one or
more financial instruments. 78 The Agencies believe this effectively restates the statutory
definition. The Agencies are not adopting commenters’ suggested modifications to the
proposed definition of proprietary trading or the general prohibition on proprietary
trading because they generally appear to be inconsistent with Congressional intent. For
74

See, e.g., ABA (Keating); Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); BOK; George Bollenbacher;
Credit Suisse (Seidel); NAIB et al.; SSgA (Feb. 2012); JPMC.

75

See Public Citizen.

76

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

77

See generally Occupy; Public Citizen; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012). The Agencies received over fifteen
thousand form letters in support of a rule with few exemptions, many of which expressed a desire to return
to the regulatory scheme as governed by the Glass-Steagall affiliation provisions of the U.S. Banking Act
of 1933, as repealed through the Graham-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999. See generally Sarah McGee;
Christopher Wilson; Michael Itlis; Barry Rein; Edward Bright. Congress rejected such an approach,
however, opting instead for the more narrowly tailored regulatory approach embodied in section 13 of the
BHC Act.

78

See final rule §__.3(a). The final rule also replaces all references to the proposed term “covered
financial position” with the term “financial instrument.” This change has no substantive impact because
the definition of “financial instrument” is substantially identical to the proposed definition of “covered
financial position.” Consistent with this change, the final rule replaces the undefined verbs “acquire” or
“take” with the defined terms “purchase” or “sale” and “sell.” See final rule §§ __.3(c), __.2(u), (x).

31

instance, some commenters appeared to suggest an approach to defining proprietary
trading that would capture only bright-line, speculative proprietary trading and treat the
activities covered by the statutory exemptions as completely outside the rule. 79 However,
such an approach would appear to be inconsistent with Congressional intent because, for
instance, it would not give effect to the limitations on permitted activities in section 13(d)
of the BHC Act. 80 For similar reasons, the Agencies are not adopting a bright-line
definition of proprietary trading. 81
A number of commenters expressed concern that, as a whole, the proposed rule
may result in certain negative economic impacts, including: (i) reduced market
liquidity; 82 (ii) wider spreads or otherwise increased trading costs; 83 (iii) higher
borrowing costs for businesses or increased cost of capital; 84 and/or (iv) greater market

79

See, e.g., Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); GE (Feb. 2012); Invesco; Sen. Corker; Chamber
(Feb. 2012); JPMC.

80

See 156 Cong. Rec. S5895-96 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley) (stating the statute
“permits underwriting and market-making-related transactions that are technically trading for the account
of the firm but, in fact, facilitate the provision of near-term client-oriented financial services.”).

81

See ABA (Keating); Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); BOK; George Bollenbacher; Credit
Suisse (Seidel); NAIB et al.; SSgA (Feb. 2012); JPMC.

82

See, e.g., AllianceBernstein; Obaid Syed; Rep. Bachus et al.; EMTA; NASP; Sen. Hagan; Investure;
Lord Abbett; Sumitomo Trust; EFAMA; Morgan Stanley; Barclays; BoA; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); STANY;
ABA (Keating); ICE; ICSA; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); Putnam; ACLI (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo
(Prop. Trading); Capital Group; RBC; Columbia Mgmt.; SSgA (Feb. 2012); Fidelity; ICI (Feb. 2012);
ISDA (Feb. 2012); Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; Clearing House Ass'n.; Thakor Study. See also
CalPERS (acknowledging that the systemic protections afforded by the Volcker Rule come at a price,
including reduced liquidity to all markets).

83

See, e.g., AllianceBernstein; Obaid Syed; NASP; Investure; Lord Abbett; CalPERS; Credit Suisse
(Seidel); Citigroup (Feb. 2012); ABA (Keating); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); Putnam; Wells Fargo
(Prop. Trading); Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation.
84

See, e.g., Rep. Bachus et al.; Members of Congress (Dec. 2011); Lord Abbett; Morgan Stanley;
Barclays; BoA; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); ABA (Abernathy); ICSA; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012);
Chamber (Feb. 2012); Putnam; ACLI (Feb. 2012); UBS; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); Capital Group; Sen.
Carper et al.; Fidelity; Invesco; Clearing House Ass'n.; Thakor Study.

32

volatility. 85 The Agencies have carefully considered commenters’ concerns about the
proposed rule’s potential impact on overall market liquidity and quality. As discussed in
more detail in Parts IV.A.2. and IV.A.3., the final rule will permit banking entities to
continue to provide beneficial market-making and underwriting services to customers,
and therefore provide liquidity to customers and facilitate capital-raising. However, the
statute upon which the final rule is based prohibits proprietary trading activity that is not
exempted. As such, the termination of non-exempt proprietary trading activities of
banking entities may lead to some general reductions in liquidity of certain asset classes.
Although the Agencies cannot say with any certainty, there is good reason to believe that
to a significant extent the liquidity reductions of this type may be temporary since the
statute does not restrict proprietary trading activities of other market participants. 86 Thus,
over time, non-banking entities may provide much of the liquidity that is lost by
restrictions on banking entities’ trading activities. If so, eventually, the detrimental
effects of increased trading costs, higher costs of capital, and greater market volatility
should be mitigated.

85

See, e.g., CalPERS (expressing the belief that a decline in banking entity proprietary trading will
increase the volatility of the corporate bond market, especially during times of economic weakness or
periods where risk taking declines, but noting that portfolio managers have experienced many different
periods of market illiquidity and stating that the market will adapt post-implementation (e.g., portfolio
managers will increase their use of CDS to reduce economic risk to specific bond positions as the
liquidation process of cash bonds takes more time, alternative market matching networks will be
developed)); Morgan Stanley; Capital Group; Fidelity; British Bankers' Ass'n.; Invesco.

86

See David McClean; Public Citizen; Occupy. In response to commenters who expressed concern about
risks associated with proprietary trading activities moving to non-banking entities, the Agencies note that
section 13’s prohibition on proprietary trading and related exemptions apply only to banking entities. See,
e.g., Chamber (Feb. 2012).

33

To respond to concerns raised by commenters while remaining consistent with
Congressional intent, the final rule has been modified to provide that certain purchases
and sales are not proprietary trading as described in more detail below. 87
a.

Definition of “Trading Account”
As explained above, section 13 defines proprietary trading as engaging as
principal “for the trading account of the banking entity” in certain types of transactions.
Section 13(h)(6) of the BHC Act defines trading account as any account used for
acquiring or taking positions in financial instruments principally for the purpose of
selling in the near-term (or otherwise with the intent to resell in order to profit from shortterm price movements), and any such other accounts as the Agencies may, by rule,
determine. 88
The proposed rule defined trading account to include three separate accounts.
First, the proposed definition of trading account included, consistent with the statute, any
account that is used by a banking entity to acquire or take one or more covered financial
positions for short-term trading purposes (the “short-term trading account”). 89 The
proposed rule identified four purposes that would indicate short-term trading intent: (i)
short-term resale; (ii) benefitting from actual or expected short-term price movements;
(iii) realizing short-term arbitrage profits; or (iv) hedging one or more positions described
in (i), (ii) or (iii). The proposed rule presumed that an account is a trading account if it is

87

See final rule § __.3(d).

88

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(6).

89

See proposed rule § __.3(b)(2)(i)(A).

34

used to acquire or take a covered financial position (other than a position in the market
risk rule trading account or the dealer trading account) that the banking entity holds for
60 days or less. 90
Second, the proposed definition of trading account included, for certain entities,
any account that contains positions that qualify for trading book capital treatment under
the banking agencies’ market risk capital rules other than positions that are foreign
exchange derivatives, commodity derivatives or contracts of sale of a commodity for
delivery (the “market risk rule trading account”). 91 “Covered positions” under the
banking agencies’ market-risk capital rules are positions that are generally held with the
intent of sale in the short-term.
Third, the proposed definition of trading account included any account used by a
banking entity that is a securities dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer to
acquire or take positions in connection with its dealing activities (the “dealer trading
account”). 92 The proposed rule also included as a trading account any account used to
acquire or take any covered financial position by a banking entity in connection with the
activities of a dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer outside of the United
States. 93 Covered financial positions held by banking entities that register or file notice
as securities or derivatives dealers as part of their dealing activity were included because

90

See proposed rule § __.3(b)(2)(ii).

91

See proposed rule §§ __.3(b)(2)(i)(B); __.3(b)(3).

92

See proposed rule § __.3(b)(2)(i)(C).

93

See proposed rule § __.3(b)(2)(i)(C)(5).

35

such positions are generally held for sale to customers upon request or otherwise support
the firm’s trading activities (e.g., by hedging its dealing positions). 94
The proposed rule also set forth four clarifying exclusions from the definition of
trading account. The proposed rule provided that no account is a trading account to the
extent that it is used to acquire or take certain positions under repurchase or reverse
repurchase arrangements, positions under securities lending transactions, positions for
bona fide liquidity management purposes, or positions held by derivatives clearing
organizations or clearing agencies. 95
Overall, commenters did not raise significant concerns with or objections to the
short-term trading account. Several commenters argued that the definition of trading
account should be limited to only this portion of the proposed definition of trading
account. 96 However, a few commenters raised concerns regarding the treatment of
arbitrage trading under the proposed rule. 97 Several commenters asserted that the
proposed definition of trading account was too broad and covered trading not intended to
be covered by the statute. 98 Some of these commenters maintained that the Agencies
exceeded their statutory authority under section 13 of the BHC Act in defining trading
account to include the market risk rule trading account and dealer trading account, and

94

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR 68,860.

95

See proposed rule § __.3(b)(2)(iii).

96

See ABA (Keating); JPMC.

97

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Paul Volcker; Credit Suisse (Seidel); ISDA (Feb. 2012); Japanese Bankers Ass'n.

98

See ABA (Keating); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Large Int'l Banks with U.S. Operations); Am. Express;
BoA; Goldman (Prop. Trading); ISDA (Feb. 2012); Japanese Bankers Ass'n.; JPMC; SIFMA et al.
(Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012).

36

argued that the definition should be limited to the short-term trading account definition. 99
Commenters argued, for example, that an overly broad definition of trading account may
cause traditional bank activities important to safety and soundness of a banking entity to
fall within the prohibition on proprietary trading to the detriment of banking
organizations, customers, and financial markets. 100 A number of commenters suggested
modifying and narrowing the trading account definition to remove the implicit negative
presumption that any position creates a trading account, or that all principal trading
constitutes prohibited proprietary trading unless it qualifies for a narrowly tailored
exemption, and to clearly exempt activities important to safety and soundness. 101 For
example, one commenter recommended that a covered financial position be considered a
trading account position only if it qualifies as a GAAP trading position. 102 A few
commenters requested the Agencies define the phrase “short term” in the rule. 103
Several commenters argued that the market risk rule should not be referenced as
part of the definition of trading account. 104 A few of these commenters argued instead
that the capital treatment of a position be used only as an indicative factor rather than a
dispositive test. 105 One commenter thought that the market risk rule trading account was

99
100

See ABA (Keating); JPMC; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012).
See ABA (Keating); Credit Suisse (Seidel).

101

See ABA (Keating); Ass'n .of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); BoA; Capital Group; IAA; Credit
Suisse (Seidel); ICI (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012); NAIB et al.; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012);
SVB; Wellington.
102

See ABA (Keating).

103

See NAIB et al.; Occupy; but See Alfred Brock.

104

See ABA; BoA; Goldman (Prop. Trading); ISDA (Feb. 2012); JPMC; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

105

See BoA; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

37

redundant because it includes only positions that have short-term trading intent. 106
Commenters also contended that it was difficult to consider and comment on this aspect
of the proposal because the market risk capital rules had not been finalized. 107
A number of commenters objected to the dealer trading account prong of the
definition. 108 Commenters asserted that this prong was an unnecessary and unhelpful
addition that went beyond the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act, and that it
made the trading account determination more complex and difficult. 109 In particular,
commenters argued that the dealer trading account was too broad and introduced
uncertainty because it presumed that dealers always enter into positions with short-term
intent. 110 Commenters also expressed concern about the difficulty of applying this test
outside the United States and requested that, if this account is retained, the final rule be
explicit about how it applies to a swap dealer outside the United States and treat U.S.
swap dealers consistently. 111

106

See ISDA (Feb. 2012).

107

See ABA (Keating); BoA; Goldman (Prop. Trading); ISDA (Feb. 2012); JPMC. The banking agencies
adopted a final rule that amends their respective market risk capital rules on August 30, 2012. See 77 FR
53,060 (Aug. 30, 2012). The Agencies continued to receive and consider comments on the proposed rule to
implement section 13 of the BHC Act after that time.

108

See ABA (Keating); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Large Int'l Banks with U.S. Operations); Am.
Express; Goldman (Prop. Trading); ISDA (Feb. 2012); Japanese Bankers Ass'n.; JPMC; SIFMA et al.
(Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

109

See ABA (Keating); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Large Int'l Banks with U.S. Operations); JPMC; State
Street (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

110

See ABA (Keating); Am. Express; Goldman (Prop. Trading); ISDA (Feb. 2012); JPMC.

111

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Large Int'l Banks with U.S. Operations); Am. Express; JPMC.

38

In contrast, other commenters contended that the proposed rule’s definition of
trading account was too narrow, particularly in its focus on short-term positions, 112 or
should be simplified. 113 One commenter argued that the breadth of the trading account
definition was critical because positions excluded from the trading account definition
would not be subject to the proposed rule. 114 One commenter supported the proposed
definition of trading account. 115 Other commenters believed that reference to the marketrisk rule was an important addition to the definition of trading account. Some expressed
the view that it should include all market risk capital rule covered positions and not just
those requiring short-term trading intent. 116
Certain commenters proposed alternate definitions. Several commenters argued
against using the term “account” and instead advocated applying the prohibition on
proprietary trading to trading positions. 117 Foreign banks recommended applying the
definition of trading account applicable to such banks in their home country, if the home
country provided a clear definition of this term. 118 These commenters argued that new
definitions in the proposed rule, like trading account, would require foreign banking
entities to develop new and complex procedures and expensive systems. 119

112

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Occupy.

113

See, e.g., Public Citizen.

114

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

115

See Alfred Brock.

116

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

117

See ABA (Keating); Goldman (Prop. Trading); NAIB et al.

118

See Japanese Bankers Ass'n.; Norinchukin.

119

See Japanese Bankers Ass'n.

39

Commenters also argued that various types of trading activities should be
excluded from the trading account definition. For example, one commenter asserted that
arbitrage trading should not be considered trading account activity, 120 while other
commenters argued that arbitrage positions and strategies are proprietary trading and
should be included in the definition of trading account and prohibited by the final rule. 121
Another commenter argued that the trading account should include only positions
primarily intended, when the position is entered into, to profit from short-term changes in
the value of the assets, and that liquidity investments that do not have price changes and
that can be sold whenever the banking entity needs cash should be excluded from the
trading account definition. 122
After carefully reviewing the comments, the Agencies have determined to retain
in the final rule the proposed approach for defining trading account that includes the
short-term, market risk rule, and dealer trading accounts with modifications to address
issues raised by commenters. The Agencies believe that this multi-prong approach is
consistent with both the language and intent of section 13 of the BHC Act, including the
express statutory authority to include “any such other account” as determined by the
Agencies. 123 The final definition effectuates Congress’s purpose to generally focus on
short-term trading while addressing commenters’ desire for greater certainty regarding

120

See Alfred Brock.

121

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Paul Volcker.

122

See NAIB et al. See infra Part IV.A.1.d.2. (discussing the liquidity management exclusion).

123

12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(6).

40

the definition of the trading account. 124 In addition, the Agencies believe commenters’
concerns about the scope of the proposed definition of trading account are substantially
addressed by the refined exemptions in the final rule for customer-oriented activities,
such as market making-related activities, and the exclusions from proprietary trading. 125
Moreover, the Agencies believe that it is appropriate to focus on the economics of a
banking entity’s trading activity to help determine whether it is engaged in proprietary
trading, as discussed further below. 126
As explained above, the short-term trading prong of the definition largely
incorporates the statutory provisions. This prong covers trading involving short-term
resale, price movements, and arbitrage profits, and hedging positions that result from
these activities. Specifically, the reference to short-term resale is taken from the statute’s
definition of trading account. The Agencies continue to believe it is also appropriate to
include in the short-term trading prong an account that is used by a banking entity to
purchase or sell one or more financial instruments principally for the purpose of
benefitting from actual or expected short-term price movements, realizing short-term
arbitrage profits, or hedging one or more positions captured by the short-term trading

124

In response to commenters’ concerns about the meaning of account, the Agencies note the term “trading
account” is a statutory concept and does not necessarily refer to an actual account. Trading account is
simply nomenclature for the set of transactions that are subject to the final rule’s restrictions on proprietary
trading. See ABA (Keating); Goldman (Prop. Trading); NAIB et al.
125

For example, several commenters’ concerns about the potential impact of the proposed definition of
trading account were tied to the perceived narrowness of the proposed exemptions. See ABA (Keating);
Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); BoA; Capital Group; IAA; Credit Suisse (Seidel); ICI (Feb.
2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012); NAIB et al.; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); SVB; Wellington.
126

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012). However, as discussed in this Supplementary Information,
the Agencies are not prohibiting any trading that involves profiting from changes in the value of the asset,
as suggested by this commenter, because permitted activities, such as market making, can involve price
appreciation-related revenues. See infra Part IV.A.3. (discussing the final market-making exemption).

41

prong. The provisions regarding price movements and arbitrage focus on the intent to
engage in transactions to benefit from short-term price movements (e.g., entering into a
subsequent transaction in the near term to offset or close out, rather than sell, the risks of
a position held by the banking entity to benefit from a price movement occurring between
the acquisition of the underlying position and the subsequent offsetting transaction) or to
benefit from differences in multiple market prices, including scenarios where movement
in those prices is not necessary to realize the intended profit. 127 These types of
transactions are economically equivalent to transactions that are principally for the
purpose of selling in the near term or with the intent to resell to profit from short-term
price movements, which are expressly covered by the statute’s definition of trading
account. Thus, the Agencies believe it is necessary to include these provisions in the
final rule’s short-term trading prong to provide clarity about the scope of the definition
and to prevent evasion of the statute and final rule. 128 In addition, like the proposed rule,
the final rule’s short-term trading prong includes hedging one or more of the positions
captured by this prong because the Agencies assume that a banking entity generally
intends to hold the hedging position for only so long as the underlying position is held.
The remaining two prongs to the trading account definition apply to types of
entities that engage actively in trading activities. Each prong focuses on analogous or
parallel short-term trading activities. A few commenters stated these prongs were
duplicative of the short-term trading prong, and argued the Agencies should not include
these prongs in the definition of trading account, or should only consider them as non127

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,857-68,858.

128

As a result, the Agencies are not excluding arbitrage trading from the trading account definition, as
suggested by at least one commenter. See, e.g., Alfred Brock.

42

determinative factors. 129 To the extent that an overlap exists between the prongs of this
definition, the Agencies believe they are mutually reinforcing, strengthen the rule’s
effectiveness, and may help simplify the analysis of whether a purchase or sale is
conducted for the trading account. 130
The market risk capital prong covers trading positions that are covered positions
for purposes of the banking agency market-risk capital rules, as well as hedges of those
positions. Trading positions under those rules are positions held by the covered entity
“for the purpose of short-term resale or with the intent of benefitting from actual or
expected short-term price movements, or to lock-in arbitrage profits.” 131 This definition
largely parallels the provisions of section 13(h)(4) of the BHC Act and mirrors the shortterm trading account prong of both the proposed and final rules. Covered positions are
trading positions under the rule that subject the covered entity to risks and exposures that
must be actively managed and limited – a requirement consistent with the purposes of the
section 13 of the BHC Act.
Incorporating this prong into the trading account definition reinforces the
consistency between governance of the types of positions that banking entities identify as
“trading” for purposes of the market risk capital rules and those that are trading for
purposes of the final rule under section 13 of the BHC Act. Moreover, this aspect of the
final rule reduces the compliance burden on banking entities with substantial trading

129

See ISDA (Feb. 2012); JPMC; ABA (Keating); BoA; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

130

See Occupy.

131

12 CFR 225, Appendix E.

43

activities by establishing a clear, bright-line rule for determining that a trade is within the
trading account. 132
After reviewing comments, the Agencies also continue to believe that financial
instruments purchased or sold by registered dealers in connection with their dealing
activity are generally held with short-term intent and should be captured within the
trading account. The Agencies believe the scope of the dealer prong is appropriate
because, as noted in the proposal, positions held by a registered dealer in connection
with its dealing activity are generally held for sale to customers upon request or otherwise
support the firm’s trading activities (e.g., by hedging its dealing positions), which is
indicative of short-term intent. 133 Moreover, the final rule includes a number of
exemptions for the activities in which securities dealers, swap dealers, and security-based
swap dealers typically engage, such as market making, hedging, and underwriting. Thus,
the Agencies believe the broad scope of the dealer trading account is balanced by the
exemptions that are designed to permit dealer entities to continue to engage in customeroriented trading activities, consistent with the statute. This approach is designed to
ensure that registered dealer entities are engaged in permitted trading activities, rather
than prohibited proprietary trading.
The final rule adopts the dealer trading account substantially as proposed, 134 with
streamlining that eliminates the specific references to different types of securities and
derivatives dealers. The final rule adopts the proposed approach to covering trading
132

Accordingly, the Agencies are not using a position’s capital treatment as merely an indicative factor, as
suggested by a few commenters.
133

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,860.

134

See final rule § __.3(b)(1)(iii).

44

accounts of banking entities that regularly engage in the business of a dealer, swap dealer,
or security-based swap dealer outside of the United States. In the case of both domestic
and foreign entities, this provision applies only to financial instruments purchased or sold
in connection with the activities that require the banking entity to be licensed or
registered to engage in the business of dealing, which is not necessarily all of the
activities of that banking entity. 135 Activities of a banking entity that are not covered by
the dealer prong may, however, be covered by the short-term or market risk rule trading
accounts if the purchase or sale satisfies the requirements of §§ __.3(b)(1)(i) or (ii). 136
A few commenters stated that they do not currently analyze whether a particular
activity would require dealer registration, so the dealer prong of the trading account
definition would require banking entities to engage in a new type of analysis. 137 The
Agencies recognize that banking entities that are registered dealers may not currently
engage in such an analysis with respect to their current trading activities and, thus, this
may represent a new regulatory requirement for these entities. If the regulatory analysis
otherwise engaged in by banking entities is substantially similar to the dealer prong

135

An insured depository institution may be registered as a swap dealer, but only the swap dealing
activities that require it to be so registered are covered by the dealer trading account. If an insured
depository institution purchases or sells a financial instrument in connection with activities of the insured
depository institution that do not trigger registration as a swap dealer, such as lending, deposit-taking, the
hedging of business risks, or other end-user activity, the financial instrument is included in the trading
account only if the instrument falls within the statutory trading account under § __.3(b)(1)(i) or the market
risk rule trading account under § __.3(b)(1)(ii) of the final rule.
136

See final rule §§ __.3(b)(1)(i) and (ii).

137

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading).

45

analysis required under the trading account definition, then any increased compliance
burden could be small or insubstantial. 138
In response to commenters’ concerns regarding the application of this prong to
banking entities acting as dealers in jurisdictions outside the United States, 139 the
Agencies continue to believe including the activities of a banking entity engaged in the
business of a dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer outside of the United
States, to the extent the instrument is purchased or sold in connection with the activities
of such business, is appropriate. As noted above, dealer activity generally involves shortterm trading. Further, the Agencies are concerned that differing requirements for U.S.
and foreign dealers may lead to regulatory arbitrage. For foreign banking entities acting
as dealers outside of the United States that are eligible for the exemption for trading
conducted by foreign banking entities, the Agencies believe the risk-based approach to
this exemption in the final rule should help address the concerns about the scope of this
prong of the definition. 140
In response to one commenter’s suggestion that the Agencies define the term
trading account to allow a foreign banking entity to use of the relevant foreign regulator’s
definition of this term, where available, the Agencies are concerned such an approach
could lead to regulatory arbitrage and otherwise inconsistent applications of the rule. 141

138

See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading) (“For instance, a banking entity’s market making-related activities
with respect to credit trading may involve making a market in bonds (traded in a broker-dealer), singlename CDSs (in a security-based swap dealer) and CDS indexes (in a swap dealer). For regulatory or other
reasons, these transactions could take place in different legal entities…”).

139

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Large Int'l Banks
with U.S. Operations).
140

See final rule § __.6(e).

141

See Japanese Bankers Ass'n.

46

The Agencies believe this commenter’s general concern about the impact of the statute
and rule on foreign banking entities’ activities outside the United States should be
substantially addressed by the exemption for trading conducted by foreign banking
entities under § __.6(e) of the final rule.
Finally, the Agencies have declined to adopt one commenter’s recommendation
that a position in a financial instrument be considered a trading account position only if it
qualifies as a GAAP trading position. 142 The Agencies continue to believe that formally
incorporating accounting standards governing trading securities is not appropriate
because: (i) the statutory proprietary trading provisions under section 13 of the BHC Act
applies to financial instruments, such as derivatives, to which the trading security
accounting standards may not apply; (ii) these accounting standards permit companies to
classify, at their discretion, assets as trading securities, even where the assets would not
otherwise meet the definition of trading securities; and (iii) these accounting standards
could change in the future without consideration of the potential impact on section 13 of
the BHC Act and these rules. 143
b.

Rebuttable Presumption for the Short-Term Trading Account
The proposed rule included a rebuttable presumption clarifying when a covered
financial position, by reason of its holding period, is traded with short-term intent for
purposes of the short-term trading account. The Agencies proposed this presumption
primarily to provide guidance to banking entities that are not subject to the market risk
capital rules or are not covered dealers or swap entities and accordingly may not have
142

See ABA (Keating).

143

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,859.

47

experience evaluating short-term trading intent. In particular, § __.3(b)(2)(ii) of the
proposed rule provided that an account would be presumed to be a short-term trading
account if it was used to acquire or take a covered financial position that the banking
entity held for a period of 60 days or less.
Several commenters supported the rebuttable presumption, but suggested either
shortening the holding period to 30 days or less, 144 or extending the period to 90 days, 145
to several months, 146 or to one year. 147 Some of these commenters argued that specifying
an overly short holding period would be contrary to the statute, invite gamesmanship, 148
and miss speculative positions held for longer than the specified period. 149 Commenters
also suggested turning the presumption into a safe harbor 150 or into guidance. 151
Other commenters opposed the inclusion of the rebuttable presumption for a
number of reasons and requested that it be removed. 152 For example, these commenters
argued that the presumption had no statutory basis; 153 was arbitrary; 154 was not supported

144

See Japanese Bankers Ass'n.

145

See Capital Group.

146

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

147

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen (arguing that one-year demarks tax law
covering short term capital gains).
148

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

149

See Occupy.

150

See Capital Group.

151

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

152

See ABA (Keating); Am. Express; Business Roundtable; Capital Group; ICI (Feb. 2012); Investure;
JPMC; Liberty Global; STANY; Chamber (Feb. 2012).

153

See ABA (Keating); JPMC; Chamber (Feb. 2012).

154

See Am. Express; ICI (Feb. 2012).

48

by data, facts, or analysis; 155 would dampen market-making and underwriting activity; 156
or did not take into account the nature of trading in different types of securities. 157 Some
commenters also questioned whether the Agencies would interpret rebuttals of the
presumption consistently, 158 and stressed the difficulty and costliness of rebutting the
presumption, 159 such as enhanced documentation or other administrative burdens. 160 One
foreign banking association also argued that requiring foreign banking entities to rebut a
U.S. regulatory requirement would be costly and inappropriate given that the trading
activities of the banking entity are already reviewed by home country supervisors. 161
This commenter also contended that the presumption could be problematic for financial
instruments purchased for long-term investment purposes that are closed within 60 days
due to market fluctuations or other changed circumstances. 162
After carefully considering the comments received, the Agencies continue to
believe the rebuttable presumption is appropriate to generally define the meaning of
155

See ABA (Keating); Chamber (Feb. 2012).

156

See AllianceBernstein; Business Roundtable; ICI (Feb. 2012); Investure; Liberty Global; STANY.
Because the rebuttable presumption does not impact the availability of the exemptions for underwriting,
market making, and other permitted activities, the Agencies do not believe this provision creates any
additional burdens on permissible activities.
157

See Am. Express (noting that most foreign exchange forward transactions settle in less than one week
and are used as commercial payment instruments, and not speculative trades); Capital Group.
158

See ABA (Keating). As discussed below in Part IV.C., the Agencies expect to continue to coordinate
their supervisory efforts related to section 13 of the BHC Act and to share information as appropriate in
order to effectively implement the requirements of that section and the final rule.

159

See ABA (Keating); AllianceBernstein; Capital Group; Japanese Bankers Ass'n.; Liberty Global;
JPMC.

160

See NAIB et al.; Capital Group.

161

See Japanese Bankers Ass'n. As noted above, the Agencies believe concerns about the impacts of the
definition of trading account on foreign banking entity trading activity outside of the United States are
substantially addressed by the final rule’s exemption for proprietary trading conducted by foreign banking
entities in final rule § __.6(e).
162

Id.

49

“short-term” for purposes of the short-term trading account, especially for small and
regional banking entities that are not subject to the market risk capital rules and are not
registered dealers or swap entities. The range of comments the Agencies received on
what “short-term” should mean – from 30 days to one year – suggests that a clear
presumption would ensure consistency in interpretation and create a level playing field
for all banking entities with covered trading activities subject to the short-term trading
account. Based on their supervisory experience, the Agencies find that 60 days is an
appropriate cut off for a regulatory presumption. 163 Further, because the purpose of the
rebuttable presumption is to simplify the process of evaluating whether individual
positions are included in the trading account, the Agencies believe that implementing
different holding periods based on the type of financial instrument would insert
unnecessary complexity into the presumption. 164 The Agencies are not providing a safe
harbor or a reverse presumption (i.e., a presumption for positions that are outside of the
trading account), as suggested by some commenters, in recognition that some proprietary
trading could occur outside of the 60 day period. 165
Adopting a presumption allows the Agencies and affected banking entities to
evaluate all the facts and circumstances surrounding trading activity in determining
whether the activity implicates the purpose of the statute. For example, trading in a
financial instrument for long-term investment that is disposed of within 60 days because

163

See final rule §__.3(b)(2). Commenters did not provide persuasive evidence of the benefits associated
with a rebuttable presumption for positions held for greater or fewer than 60 days.

164

See, e.g., Am. Express; Capital Group; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

165

See Capital Group; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen;
Occupy.

50

of unexpected developments (e.g., an unexpected increase in the financial instrument’s
volatility or a need to liquidate the instrument to meet unexpected liquidity demands)
may not be trading activity covered by the statute. To reduce the costs and burdens of
rebutting the presumption, the Agencies will allow a banking entity to rebut the
presumption for a group of related positions. 166
The final rule provides three clarifying changes to the proposed rebuttable
presumption. First, in response to comments, the final rule replaces the reference to an
“account” that is presumed to be a trading account with the purchase or sale of a
“financial instrument.” 167 This change clarifies that the presumption only applies to the
purchase or sale of a financial instrument that is held for fewer than 60 days, and not the
entire account that is used to make the purchase or sale. Second, the final rule clarifies
that basis trades, in which a banking entity buys one instrument and sells a substantially
similar instrument (or otherwise transfers the first instrument’s risk), are subject to the
rebuttable presumption. 168 Third, in order to maintain consistency with definitions used
throughout the final rule, the references to “acquire” or “take” a financial position have
been replaced with references to “purchase” or “sell” a financial instrument. 169

166

The Agencies believe this should help address commenters’ concerns about the burdens associated with
rebutting the presumption. See ABA (Keating); AllianceBernstein; Capital Group; Japanese Bankers
Ass'n.; Liberty Global; JPMC; NAIB et al.; Capital Group.
167

See, e.g., ABA (Keating); Clearing House Ass'n.; JPMC.

168

The rebuttable presumption covered these trades in the proposal, but the final rule’s use of “financial
instrument” rather than “covered financial position” necessitated clarifying this point in the rule text. See
final rule § __.3(b)(2). See also Public Citizen.
169

The Agencies do not believe these revisions have a substantive effect on the operation or scope of the
final rule in comparison to the statute or proposed rule.

51

c.

Definition of “Financial Instrument”
Section 13 of the BHC Act generally prohibits proprietary trading, which is
defined in section 13(h)(4) to mean engaging as principal for the trading account in any
purchase or sale of any security, any derivative, any contract of sale of a commodity for
future delivery, any option on any such security, derivative, or contract, or any other
security or financial instruments that the Agencies may, by rule, determine. 170 The
proposed rule defined the term “covered financial position” to reference the instruments
listed in section 13(h)(4), including: (i) a security, including an option on a security; (ii) a
derivative, including an option on a derivative; or (iii) a contract of sale of a commodity
for future delivery, or an option on such a contract. 171 To provide additional clarity, the
proposed rule also provided that, consistent with the statute, any position that is itself a
loan, a commodity, or foreign exchange or currency was not a covered financial
position. 172
The proposal also defined a number of other terms used in the definition of covered
financial position, including commodity, derivative, loan, and security. 173 These terms
were generally defined by reference to the federal securities laws or the Commodity
Exchange Act because these existing definitions are generally well-understood by market
participants and have been subject to extensive interpretation in the context of securities,
commodities, and derivatives trading.

170

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(4).

171

See proposed rule § __.3(c)(3)(i).

172

See proposed rule § __.3(c)(3)(ii).

173

See proposed rule § __.2(l), (q), (w); § __.3(c)(1) and (2).

52

As noted above, the proposed rule included derivatives within the definition of
covered financial position. Derivative was defined to include any swap (as that term is
defined in the Commodity Exchange Act) and security-based swap (as that term is
defined in the Exchange Act), in each case as further defined by the CFTC and SEC by
joint regulation, interpretation, guidance, or other action, in consultation with the Board
pursuant to section 712(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act. 174 The proposed rule also included
within the definition of derivative certain other transactions that, although not included
within the definition of swap or security-based swap, also appear to be, or operate in
economic substance as, derivatives, and which if not included could permit banking
entities to engage in proprietary trading that is inconsistent with the purpose of section 13
of the BHC Act. Specifically, the proposed definition also included: (i) any purchase or
sale of a nonfinancial commodity for deferred shipment or delivery that is intended to be
physically settled; (ii) any foreign exchange forward or foreign exchange swap (as those
terms are defined in the Commodity Exchange Act); 175 (iii) any agreement, contract, or
transaction in foreign currency described in section 2(c)(2)(C)(i) of the Commodity
Exchange Act; 176 (iv) any agreement, contract, or transactions in a commodity other than
foreign currency described in section 2(c)(2)(D)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act; 177
and (v) any transactions authorized under section 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act. 178
In addition, the proposed rule excluded from the definition of derivative (i) any

174

See 7 U.S.C. 1a(47) (defining “swap”); 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68) (defining “security-based swap”).

175

7 U.S.C. 1a(24), (25).

176

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(C)(i).

177

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(D)(i).

178

7 U.S.C. 23.

53

consumer, commercial, or other agreement, contract, or transaction that the CFTC and
SEC have further defined by joint regulation, interpretation, guidance, or other action as
not within the definition of swap or security-based swap, and (ii) any identified banking
product, as defined in section 402(b) of the Legal Certainty for Bank Products Act of
2000 (7 U.S.C. 27(b)), that is subject to section 403(a) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 27a(a)).
Commenters expressed a variety of views regarding the definition of covered
financial position, as well as other defined terms used in that definition. For instance,
some commenters argued that the definition should be expanded to include transactions
in spot commodities or foreign currency, even though those instruments are not included
by the statute. 179 Other commenters strongly supported the exclusion of spot commodity
and foreign currency transactions as consistent with the statute, arguing that these
instruments are part of the traditional business of banking and do not represent the types
of instruments that Congress designed section 13 to address. These commenters argued
that including spot commodities and foreign exchange within the definition of covered
financial position in the final rule would put U.S. banking entities at a competitive
disadvantage and prevent them from conducting routine banking operations. 180 One
commenter argued that the proposed definition of covered financial position was
effective and recommended that the definition should not be expanded. 181 Another
commenter argued that an instrument be considered to be a spot foreign exchange
transaction, and thus not a covered financial position, if it settles within 5 days of
179

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Occupy.

180

See Northern Trust; Morgan Stanley; JPMC; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Am. Express; See also AFR et al.
(Feb. 2012) (arguing that the final rule should explicitly exclude “spot” commodities and foreign
exchange).
181

See Alfred Brock.

54

purchase. 182 Another commenter argued that covered financial positions used in
interaffiliate transactions should expressly be excluded because they are used for internal
risk management purposes and not for proprietary trading. 183
Some commenters requested that the final rule exclude additional instruments from
the definition of covered financial position. For instance, some commenters requested
that the Agencies exclude commodity and foreign exchange futures, forwards, and swaps,
arguing that these instruments typically have a commercial and not financial purpose and
that making them subject to the prohibitions of section 13 would negatively affect the
spot market for these instruments. 184 A few commenters also argued that foreign
exchange swaps and forwards are used in many jurisdictions to provide U.S. dollarfunding for foreign banking entities and that these instruments should be excluded since
they contribute to the stability and liquidity of the market for spot foreign exchange. 185
Other commenters contended that foreign exchange swaps and forwards should be
excluded because they are an integral part of banking entities’ ability to provide trust and
custody services to customers and are necessary to enable banking entities to deal in the
exchange of currencies for customers. 186
One commenter argued that the inclusion of certain instruments within the definition
of derivative, such as purchases or sales of nonfinancial commodities for deferred

182

See Credit Suisse (Seidel).

183

See GE (Feb. 2012).

184

See JPMC; BoA; Citigroup (Feb. 2012).

185

See Govt. of Japan/Bank of Japan; Japanese Bankers Ass'n.; See also Norinchukin.

186

See Northern Trust; Citigroup (Feb. 2012).

55

shipment or delivery that are intended to be physically settled, was inappropriate. 187 This
commenter alleged that these instruments are not derivatives but should instead be
viewed as contracts for purchase of specific commodities to be delivered at a future date.
This commenter also argued that the Agencies do not have authority under section 13 to
include these instruments as “other securities or financial instruments” subject to the
prohibition on proprietary trading. 188
Some commenters also argued that, because the CFTC and SEC had not yet finalized
their definitions of swap and security-based swap, it was inappropriate to use those
definitions as part of the proposed definition of derivative. 189 One commenter argued
that the definition of derivative was effective, although this commenter argued that the
final rule should not cross-reference the definition of swap and security-based swap under
the federal commodities and securities laws. 190
After carefully considering the comments received on the proposal, the final rule
continues to apply the prohibition on proprietary trading to the same types of instruments
as listed in the statute and the proposal, which the final rule defines as “financial
instrument.” Under the final rule, a financial instrument is defined as: (i) a security,
including an option on a security; 191 (ii) a derivative, including an option on a derivative;
or (iii) a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or option on a contract of

187

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

188

See id.

189

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012).

190

See Alfred Brock.

191

The definition of security under the final rule is the same as under the proposal. See final rule § __.2(y).

56

sale of a commodity for future delivery. 192 The final rule excludes from the definition of
financial instrument: (i) a loan; 193 (ii) a commodity that is not an excluded commodity
(other than foreign exchange or currency), a derivative, a contract of sale of a commodity
for future delivery, or an option on a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery;
or (iii) foreign exchange or currency. 194 An excluded commodity is defined to have the
same meaning as in section 1a(19) of the Commodity Exchange Act.
The Agencies continue to believe that these instruments and transactions, which
are consistent with those referenced in section 13(h)(4) of the BHC Act as part of the
statutory definition of proprietary trading, represent the type of financial instruments
which the proprietary trading prohibition of section 13 was designed to cover. While
some commenters requested that this definition be expanded to include spot
transactions 195 or loans 196, the Agencies do not believe that it is appropriate at this time to
expand the scope of instruments subject to the ban on proprietary trading. 197 Similarly,
while some commenters requested that certain other instruments, such as foreign

192

See final rule § __.3(c)(1).

193

The definition of loan, as well as comments received regarding that definition, is discussed in detail
below in Part IV.B.1.c.8.a.
194

See final rule § __.3(c)(2).

195

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Occupy.

196

See Occupy.

197

Several commenters supported the exclusion of spot commodity and foreign currency transactions as
consistent with the statute. See Northern Trust; Morgan Stanley; State Street (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Credit
Suisse (Seidel); Am. Express; See also AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) (arguing that the final rule should explicitly
exclude “spot” commodities and foreign exchange). One commenter stated that the proposed definition
should not be expanded. See Alfred Brock. With respect to the exclusion for loans, the Agencies note this
is generally consistent with the rule of statutory construction regarding the sale and securitization of loans.
See 12 U.S.C. 1851(g)(2).

57

exchange swaps and forwards, be excluded from the definition of financial instrument, 198
the Agencies believe that these instruments appear to be, or operate in economic
substance as, derivatives (which are by statute included within the scope of instruments
subject to the prohibitions of section 13). If these instruments were not included within
the definition of financial instrument, banking entities could use them to engage in
proprietary trading that is inconsistent with the purpose and design of section 13 of the
BHC Act.
As under the proposal, loans, commodities, and foreign exchange or currency are
not included within the scope of instruments subject to section 13. The exclusion of these
types of instruments is intended to eliminate potential confusion by making clear that the
purchase and sale of loans, commodities, and foreign exchange or currency – none of
which are referred to in section 13(h)(4) of the BHC Act – are outside the scope of
transactions to which the proprietary trading restrictions apply. For example, the spot
purchase of a commodity would meet the terms of the exclusion, but the acquisition of a
futures position in the same commodity would not qualify for the exclusion.
The final rule also adopts the definitions of security and derivative as proposed.
199

These definitions, which reference existing definitions under the federal securities

and commodities laws, are generally well-understood by market participants and have
been subject to extensive interpretation in the context of securities and commodities
trading activities. While some commenters argued that it would be inappropriate to use
the definition of swap and security-based swap because those terms had not yet been
198

See JPMC; BAC; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Govt. of Japan/Bank of Japan; Japanese Bankers Ass'n.;
Northern Trust; See also Norinchukin.

199

See final rule §§ __.2(h), (y).

58

finalized pursuant to public notice and comment, 200 the CFTC and SEC have
subsequently finalized those definitions after receiving extensive public comment on the
rulemakings. 201 The Agencies believe that this notice and comment process provided
adequate opportunity for market participants to comment on and understand those terms,
and as such they are incorporated in the definition of derivative under this final rule.
While some commenters requested that foreign exchange swaps and forwards be
excluded from the definition of derivative or financial instrument, the Agencies have not
done so for the reasons discussed above. However, as explained below in Part IV.A.1.d.,
the Agencies note that to the extent a banking entity purchases or sells a foreign exchange
forward or swap, or any other financial instrument, in a manner that meets an exclusion
from proprietary trading, that transaction would not be considered to be proprietary
trading and thus would not be subject to the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act
and the final rule. This includes, for instance, the purchase or sale of a financial
instrument by a banking entity acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian, or the
purchase or sale of a security as part of a bona fide liquidity management plan.
d.

Proprietary Trading Exclusions
The proposed rule contained four exclusions from the definition of trading
account for categories of transactions that do not fall within the scope of section 13 of the
BHC Act because they do not involve short-term trading activities subject to the statutory
prohibition on proprietary trading. These exclusions covered the purchase or sale of a
200

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012).

201

See CFTC and SEC, Further Definition of “Swap,” “Security-Based Swap,” and “Security-Based Swap
Agreement”; Mixed swaps; Security Based Swap Agreement Recordkeeping, 78 FR 48,208 (Aug. 13,
2012).

59

financial instrument under certain repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and
securities lending arrangements, for bona fide liquidity management purposes, and by a
clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization in connection with clearing
activities.
As discussed below, the final rule provides exclusions for the purchase or sale of a
financial instrument under certain repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and
securities lending agreements; for bona fide liquidity management purposes; by certain
clearing agencies, derivatives clearing organizations in connection with clearing
activities; by a member of a clearing agency, derivatives clearing organization, or
designated financial market utility engaged in excluded clearing activities; to satisfy
existing delivery obligations; to satisfy an obligation of the banking entity in connection
with a judicial, administrative, self-regulatory organization, or arbitration proceeding;
solely as broker, agent, or custodian; through a deferred compensation or similar plan;
and to satisfy a debt previously contracted. After considering comments on these issues,
which are discussed in more detail below, the Agencies believe that providing clarifying
exclusions for these non-proprietary activities will likely promote more cost-effective
financial intermediation and robust capital formation. Overly narrow exclusions for these
activities would potentially increase the cost of core banking services, while overly broad
exclusions would increase the risk of allowing the types of trades the statute was
designed to prohibit. The Agencies considered these issues in determining the
appropriate scope of these exclusions. Because the Agencies do not believe these
excluded activities involve proprietary trading, as defined by the statute and the final rule,
the Agencies do not believe it is necessary to use our exemptive authority in section

60

13(d)(1)(J) of the BHC Act to deem these activities a form of permitted proprietary
trading.
1.

Repurchase and reverse repurchase arrangements and securities lending
The proposed rule’s definition of trading account excluded an account used to

acquire or take one or more covered financial positions that arise under (i) a repurchase
or reverse repurchase agreement pursuant to which the banking entity had simultaneously
agreed, in writing at the start of the transaction, to both purchase and sell a stated asset, at
stated prices, and on stated dates or on demand with the same counterparty, 202 or (ii) a
transaction in which the banking entity lends or borrows a security temporarily to or from
another party pursuant to a written securities lending agreement under which the lender
retains the economic interests of an owner of such security and has the right to terminate
the transaction and to recall the loaned security on terms agreed to by the parties. 203
Positions held under these agreements operate in economic substance as a secured loan
and are not based on expected or anticipated movements in asset prices. Accordingly,
these types of transactions do not appear to be of the type the statutory definition of
trading account was designed to cover. 204

202

See proposed rule § __.3(b)(2)(iii)(A).

203

See proposed rule § __.3(b)(2)(iii)(B). The language that described securities lending transactions in
the proposed rule generally mirrored that contained in Rule 3a5-3 under the Exchange Act. See 17 CFR
240.3a5-3.
204

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,862.

61

Several commenters expressed support for these exclusions and requested that the
Agencies expand them. 205 For example, one commenter requested clarification that all
types of repurchase transactions qualify for the exclusion. 206 Some commenters
requested expanding this exclusion to cover all positions financed by, or transactions
related to, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. 207 Other commenters
requested that the exclusion apply to all transactions that are analogous to extensions of
credit and are not based on expected or anticipated movements in asset prices, arguing
that the exclusion would be too limited in scope to achieve its objective if it is based on
the legal form of the underlying contract. 208 Additionally, some commenters suggested
expanding the exclusion to cover transactions that are for funding purposes, including
prime brokerage transactions, or for the purpose of asset-liability management. 209
Commenters also recommended expanding the exclusion to include re-hypothecation of
customer securities, which can produce financing structures that, like a repurchase
agreement, are functionally loans. 210
In contrast, other commenters argued that there was no statutory or policy
justification for excluding repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements from the trading
205

See generally ABA (Keating); Alfred Brock; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); GE (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop.
Trading); ICBA; Japanese Bankers Ass'n.; JPMC; Norinchukin; RBC; RMA; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading)
(Feb. 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012); T. Rowe Price; UBS; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading). See infra Part
IV.A.d.10. for the discussion of commenters’ requests for additional exclusions from the trading account.
206

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

207

See FIA; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

208

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); JPMC; UBS.

209

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); UBS. For example, one commenter suggested that fully collateralized
swap transactions should be exempted from the definition of trading account because they serve as funding
transactions and are economically similar to repurchase agreements. See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading)
(Feb. 2012).
210

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

62

account, and requested that this exclusion be removed from the final rule. 211 Some of
these commenters argued that repurchase agreements could be used for prohibited
proprietary trading 212 and suggested that, if repurchase agreements are excluded from the
trading account, documentation detailing the use of liquidity derived from repurchase
agreements should be required. 213 These commenters suggested that unless the liquidity
is used to secure a position for a willing customer, repurchase agreements should be
regarded as a strong indicator of proprietary trading. 214 As an alternative, commenters
suggested that the Agencies instead use their exemptive authority pursuant to section
13(d)(1)(J) of the BHC Act to permit repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions so
that such transactions must comply with the statutory limits on material conflicts of
interests and high-risks assets and trading strategies, and compliance requirements under
the final rule. 215 These commenters urged the Agencies to specify permissible collateral
types, haircuts, and contract terms for securities lending agreements and require that the
investment of proceeds from securities lending transactions be limited to high-quality
liquid assets in order to limit potential risks of these activities. 216
After considering the comments received, the Agencies have determined to
exclude repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements
from the definition of proprietary trading under the final rule. The final rule defines these

211

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

212

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

213

See Public Citizen.

214

See Public Citizen.

215

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy.

216

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy.

63

terms subject to the same conditions as were in the proposal. This determination
recognizes that repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and securities lending
agreements excluded from the definition operate in economic substance as secured loans
and do not in normal practice represent proprietary trading. 217 The Agencies will,
however, monitor these transactions to ensure this exclusion is not used to engage in
prohibited proprietary trading activities.
To avoid evasion of the rule, the Agencies note that, in contrast to certain
commenters’ requests, 218 only the transactions pursuant to the repurchase agreement,
reverse repurchase agreement, or securities lending agreement are excluded. For
example, the collateral or position that is being financed by the repurchase or reverse
repurchase agreement is not excluded and may involve proprietary trading. The
Agencies further note that if a banking entity uses a repurchase or reverse repurchase
agreement to finance a purchase of a financial instrument, other transactions involving
that financial instrument may not qualify for this exclusion.219 Similarly, short positions
resulting from securities lending agreements cannot rely upon this exclusion and may
involve proprietary trading.
Additionally, the Agencies have determined not to exclude all transactions, in
whatever legal form that may be construed to be an extension of credit, as suggested by

217

Congress recognized that repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements are loans or
extensions of credit by including them in the legal lending limit. See Dodd–Frank Act section 610
(amending 12 U.S.C. 84b). The Agencies believe the conditions of the final rule’s exclusions for
repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements identify those activities that do not in normal
practice represent proprietary trading and, thus, the Agencies decline to provide additional requirements for
these activities, as suggested by some commenters. See Public Citizen; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy.
218

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); JPMC; UBS.

219

See CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8348.

64

commenters, because such a broad exclusion would be too difficult to assess for
compliance and would provide significant opportunity for evasion of the prohibitions in
section 13 of the BHC Act.
2.

Liquidity management activities
The proposed definition of trading account excluded an account used to acquire or

take a position for the purpose of bona fide liquidity management, subject to certain
requirements. 220 The preamble to the proposed rule explained that bona fide liquidity
management seeks to ensure that the banking entity has sufficient, readily-marketable
assets available to meet its expected near-term liquidity needs, not to realize short-term
profit or benefit from short-term price movements. 221
To curb abuse, the proposed rule required that a banking entity acquire or take a
position for liquidity management in accordance with a documented liquidity
management plan that meets five criteria. 222 Moreover, the Agencies stated in the
preamble that liquidity management positions that give rise to appreciable profits or
losses as a result of short-term price movements would be subject to significant Agency
scrutiny and, absent compelling explanatory facts and circumstances, would be
considered proprietary trading. 223

220

See proposed rule § __.3(b)(2)(iii)(C).

221

Id.

222

See proposed rule § __.3(b)(2)(iii)(C)(1)-(5).

223

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,862.

65

The Agencies received a number of comments regarding the exclusion. Many
commenters supported the exclusion of liquidity management activities from the
definition of trading account as appropriate and necessary. At the same time, some
commenters expressed the view that the exclusion was too narrow and should be replaced
with a broader exclusion permitting trading activity for asset-liability management
(“ALM”). Commenters argued that two aspects of the proposed rule’s definition of
“trading account” would cause ALM transactions to fall within the prohibition on
proprietary trading – the 60-day rebuttable presumption and the reference to the market
risk rule trading account. 224 For example, commenters expressed concern that hedging
transactions associated with a banking entity’s residential mortgage pipeline and
mortgage servicing rights, and managing credit risk, earnings at risk, capital, assetliability mismatches, and foreign exchange risks would be among positions that may be
held for 60 days or less. 225 These commenters contended that the exclusion for liquidity
management and the activity exemptions for risk-mitigating hedging and trading in U.S.
government obligations would not be sufficient to permit a wide variety of ALM
activities. 226 These commenters contended that prohibiting trading for ALM purposes
would be contrary to the goals of enhancing sound risk management, the safety and

224

See ABA (Keating); BoA; CH/ABASA; JPMC. See supra Part IV.A.1.b. (discussing the rebuttable
presumption under §_3.(b)(2) of the final rule); See also supra Part IV.A.1.a. (discussing the market risk
rule trading account under §_3.(b)(1)(ii) of the final rule).
225

See CH/ABASA; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

226

See CH/ABASA; JPMC; State Street (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading). See also
BaFin/Deutsche Bundesbank.

66

soundness of banking entities, and U.S. financial stability, 227 and would limit banking
entities’ ability to manage liquidity. 228
Some commenters argued that the requirements of the exclusion would not
provide a banking entity with sufficient flexibility to respond to liquidity needs arising
from changing economic conditions. 229 Some commenters argued the requirement that
any position taken for liquidity management purposes be limited to the banking entity’s
near-term funding needs failed to account for longer-term liquidity management
requirements. 230 These commenters further argued that the requirements of the liquidity
management exclusion might not be synchronized with the Basel III framework,
particularly with respect to the liquidity coverage ratio if “near-term” is considered less
than 30 days. 231
Commenters also requested clarification on a number of other issues regarding the
exclusion. For example, one commenter requested clarification that purchases and sales
of U.S. registered mutual funds sponsored by a banking entity would be permissible. 232
Another commenter requested clarification that the deposits resulting from providing
custodial services that are invested largely in high-quality securities in conformance with
the banking entity’s ALM policy would not be presumed to be “short-term trading” under

227

See BoA; JPMC; RBC.

228

See ABA (Keating); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); JPMC; NAIB et al.; State Street
(Feb. 2012); T. Rowe Price.
229

See ABA (Keating); CH/ABASA; JPMC.

230

See ABA (Keating); BoA; CH/ABASA; JPMC.

231

See ABA (Keating); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); BoA; CH/ABASA

232

See T. Rowe Price.

67

the final rule. 233 Commenters also urged that the final rule not prohibit interaffiliate
transactions essential to the ALM function. 234
In contrast, other commenters supported the liquidity management exclusion
criteria 235 and suggested tightening these requirements. For example, one commenter
recommended that the rule require that investments made under the liquidity management
exclusion consist only of high-quality liquid assets. 236 Other commenters argued that the
exclusion for liquidity management should be eliminated. 237 One commenter argued that
there was no need to provide a special exemption for liquidity management or ALM
activities given the exemptions for trading in government obligations and risk-mitigating
hedging activities. 238
After carefully reviewing the comments received, the Agencies have adopted the
proposed exclusion for liquidity management with several important modifications. As
limited below, liquidity management activity serves the important prudential purpose,
recognized in other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and in rules and guidance of the

233

See State Street (Feb. 2012).

234

See State Street (Feb. 2012); JPMC. See also Part IV.A.1.d.10. (discussing commenter requests to
exclude inter-affiliate transactions).
235

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy.

236

See Occupy.

237

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

238

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

68

Agencies, of ensuring banking entities have sufficient liquidity to manage their shortterm liquidity needs. 239
To ensure that this exclusion is not misused for the purpose of proprietary trading,
the final rule imposes a number of requirements. First, the liquidity management plan of
the banking entity must be limited to securities (in keeping with the liquidity
management requirements proposed by the Federal banking agencies) and specifically
contemplate and authorize the particular securities to be used for liquidity management
purposes; describe the amount, types, and risks of securities that are consistent with the
entity’s liquidity management; and the liquidity circumstances in which the particular
securities may or must be used. 240 Second, any purchase or sale of securities
contemplated and authorized by the plan must be principally for the purpose of managing
the liquidity of the banking entity, and not for the purpose of short-term resale,
benefitting from actual or expected short-term price movements, realizing short-term
arbitrage profits, or hedging a position taken for such short-term purposes. Third, the
plan must require that any securities purchased or sold for liquidity management purposes
be highly liquid and limited to instruments the market, credit and other risks of which the
banking entity does not reasonably expect to give rise to appreciable profits or losses as a

239

See section 165(b)(1)(A)(ii) of the Dodd-Frank Act; Enhanced Prudential Standards, 77 FR 644 at 645
(Jan. 5, 2012), available at http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2012-01-05/pdf/2011-33364.pdf; See also
Enhanced Prudential Standards, 77 FR 76,678 at 76,682 (Dec. 28, 2012), available at
http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2012-12-28/pdf/2012-30734.pdf.
240

To ensure sufficient flexibility to respond to liquidity needs arising from changing economic times, a
banking entity should envision and address a range of liquidity circumstances in its liquidity management
plan, and provide a mechanism for periodically reviewing and revising the liquidity management plan.

69

result of short-term price movements. 241 Fourth, the plan must limit any securities
purchased or sold for liquidity management purposes to an amount that is consistent with
the banking entity’s near-term funding needs, including deviations from normal
operations of the banking entity or any affiliate thereof, as estimated and documented
pursuant to methods specified in the plan. 242 Fifth, the banking entity must incorporate
into its compliance program internal controls, analysis and independent testing designed
to ensure that activities undertaken for liquidity management purposes are conducted in
accordance with the requirements of the final rule and the entity’s liquidity management
plan. Finally, the plan must be consistent with the supervisory requirements, guidance
and expectations regarding liquidity management of the Agency responsible for
regulating the banking entity.
The final rule retains the provision that the financial instruments purchased and
sold as part of a liquidity management plan be highly liquid and not reasonably expected
to give rise to appreciable profits or losses as a result of short-term price movements.
This requirement is consistent with the Agencies’ expectation for liquidity management
plans in the supervisory context. It is not intended to prevent firms from recognizing

241

The requirement to use highly liquid instruments is consistent with the focus of the clarifying exclusion
on a banking entity’s near-term liquidity needs. Thus, the final rules do not include commenters’ suggested
revisions to this requirement. See Clearing House Ass'n.; See also Occupy; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb.
2012). The Agencies decline to identify particular types of securities that will be considered highly liquid
for purposes of the exclusion, as requested by some commenters, in recognition that such a determination
will depend on the facts and circumstances. See T. Rowe Price; State Street (Feb. 2012).
242

The Agencies plan to construe “near-term funding needs” in a manner that is consistent with the laws,
regulations, and issuances related to liquidity risk management. See, e.g., Liquidity Coverage Ratio:
Liquidity Risk Measurement, Standards, and Monitoring, 78 FR 71,818 (Nov. 29, 2013); Basel Committee
on Bank Supervision, Basel III: The Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Liquidity Risk Management Tools
(January 2013) available at http://www.bis.org/publ/bcbs238.htm. The Agencies believe this should help
address commenters’ concerns about the proposed requirement. See, e.g., ABA (Keating); Allen & Overy
(on behalf of Canadian Banks); CH/ABASA; BoA; JPMC.

70

profits (or losses) on instruments purchased and sold for liquidity management purposes.
Instead, this requirement is intended to underscore that the purpose of these transactions
must be liquidity management. Thus, the timing of purchases and sales, the types and
duration of positions taken and the incentives provided to managers of these purchases
and sales must all indicate that managing liquidity, and not taking short-term profits (or
limiting short-term losses), is the purpose of these activities.
The exclusion as adopted does not apply to activities undertaken with the stated
purpose or effect of hedging aggregate risks incurred by the banking entity or its affiliates
related to asset-liability mismatches or other general market risks to which the entity or
affiliates may be exposed. Further, the exclusion does not apply to any trading activities
that expose banking entities to substantial risk from fluctuations in market values,
unrelated to the management of near-term funding needs, regardless of the stated purpose
of the activities. 243
Overall, the Agencies do not believe that the final rule will stand as an obstacle to
or otherwise impair the ability of banking entities to manage the risks of their businesses
and operate in a safe and sound manner. Banking entities engaging in bona fide liquidity
management activities generally do not purchase or sell financial instruments for the
purpose of short-term resale or to benefit from actual or expected short-term price
movements. The Agencies have determined, in contrast to certain commenters’ requests,

243

See, e.g., STAFF OF S. COMM. ON HOMELAND SEC. & GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS PERMANENT
SUBCOMM. ON INVESTIGATIONS, 113TH CONG., REPORT: JPMORGAN CHASE WHALE TRADES: A CASE
HISTORY OF DERIVATIVES RISKS AND ABUSES (Apr. 11, 2013), available at
http://www.hsgac.senate.gov/download/report-jpmorgan-chase-whale-trades-a-case-history-of-derivativesrisks-and-abuses-march-15-2013.

71

not to expand this liquidity management provision to broadly allow asset-liability
management, earnings management, or scenario hedging. 244 To the extent these activities
are for the purpose of profiting from short-term price movements or to hedge risks not
related to short-term funding needs, they represent proprietary trading subject to section
13 of the BHC Act and the final rule; the activity would then be permissible only if it
meets all of the requirements for an exemption, such as the risk-mitigating hedging
exemption, the exemption for trading in U.S. government securities, or another
exemption.
3.

Transactions of derivatives clearing organizations and clearing agencies
A banking entity that is a central counterparty for clearing and settlement

activities engages in the purchase and sale of financial instruments as an integral part of
clearing and settling those instruments. The proposed definition of trading account
excluded an account used to acquire or take one or more covered financial positions by a
derivatives clearing organization registered under the Commodity Exchange Act or a
clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in connection with
clearing derivatives or securities transactions. 245 The preamble to the proposed rule
noted that the purpose of these transactions is to provide a clearing service to third
parties, not to profit from short-term resale or short-term price movements. 246

244

See, e.g., ABA (Keating); BoA; CH/ABASA; JPMC.

245

See proposed rule § __.3(b)(2)(iii)(D).

246

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,863.

72

Several commenters supported the proposed exclusion for derivatives clearing
organizations and urged the Agencies to expand the exclusion to cover a banking entity’s
clearing-related activities, such as clearing a trade for a customer, trading with a
clearinghouse, or accepting positions of a defaulting member, on grounds that these
activities are not proprietary trades and reduce systemic risk. 247 One commenter
recommended expanding the exclusion to non-U.S. central counterparties 248 In contrast,
one commenter argued that the exclusion for derivatives clearing organizations and
clearing agencies had no statutory basis and should instead be a permitted activity under
section 13(d)(1)(J). 249
After considering the comments received, the final rule retains the exclusion for
purchases and sales of financial instruments by a banking entity that is a clearing agency
or derivatives clearing organization in connection with its clearing activities. 250 In
response to comments, 251 the Agencies have also incorporated two changes to the rule.
First, the final rule applies the exclusion to the purchase and sale of financial instruments
by a banking entity that is a clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization in

247

See Allen & Overy (Clearing); Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012);
State Street (Feb. 2012).

248

See IIB/EBF.

249

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

250

“Clearing agency” is defined in the final rule with reference to the definition of this term in the
Exchange Act. See final rule § __.3(e)(2). “Derivatives clearing organization” is defined in the final rule
as (i) a derivatives clearing organization registered under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act;
(ii) a derivatives clearing organization that, pursuant to CFTC regulation, is exempt from the registration
requirements under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act; or (iii) a foreign derivatives clearing
organization that, pursuant to CFTC regulation, is permitted to clear for a foreign board of trade that is
registered with the CFTC.
251

See IIB/EBF; BNY Mellon et al.; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Allen & Overy (Clearing);
Goldman (Prop. Trading).

73

connection with clearing financial instrument transactions. Second, in response to
comments, 252 the exclusion in the final rule is not limited to clearing agencies or
derivatives clearing organizations that are subject to SEC or CFTC registration
requirements and, instead, certain foreign clearing agencies and foreign derivatives
clearing organizations will be permitted to rely on the exclusion if they are banking
entities.
The Agencies believe that clearing and settlement activity is not designed to
create short-term trading profits. Moreover, excluding clearing and settlement activities
prevents the final rule from inadvertently hindering the Dodd–Frank Act’s goal of
promoting central clearing of financial transactions. The Agencies have narrowly
tailored this exclusion by allowing only central counterparties to use it and only with
respect to their clearing and settlement activity.
4.

Excluded clearing-related activities of clearinghouse members
In addition to the exclusion for trading activities of a derivatives clearing

organization or clearing agency, some commenters requested an additional exclusion
from the definition of “trading account” for clearing-related activities of members of
these entities. 253 These commenters noted that the proposed definition of “trading
account” provides an exclusion for positions taken by registered derivatives clearing

252

See IIB/EBF; Allen & Overy (Clearing).

253

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Allen & Overy (Clearing); Goldman (Prop. Trading);
State Street (Feb. 2012).

74

organizations and registered clearing agencies 254 and requested a corresponding
exclusion for certain clearing-related activities of banking entities that are members of a
clearing agency or members of a derivatives clearing organization (collectively, “clearing
members”). 255
Several commenters argued that certain aspects of the clearing process may
require a clearing member to engage in principal transactions. For example, some
commenters argued that a clearinghouse’s default management process may require
clearing members to take positions in financial instruments upon default of another
clearing member. 256 According to commenters, default management processes can
involve: (i) collection of initial and variation margin from customers under an “agency
model” of clearing; (ii) porting, where a defaulting clearing member’s customer positions
and margin are transferred to another non-defaulting clearing member; 257 (iii) hedging,
where the clearing house looks to clearing members and third parties to enter into riskreducing transactions and to flatten the market risk associated with the defaulting clearing
member’s house positions and non-ported customer positions; (iv) unwinding, where the
defaulting member’s open positions may be allocated to other clearing members,
affiliates, or third parties pursuant to a mandatory auction process or forced allocation; 258

254

See proposed rule §__.3(b)(2)(iii)(D).

255

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Allen & Overy (Clearing); Goldman (Prop. Trading);
State Street (Feb. 2012).
256

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Allen & Overy (Clearing); State Street (Feb. 2012).
See also ISDA (Feb. 2012).
257

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Allen & Overy (Clearing).

258

See Allen & Overy (Clearing).

75

and (v) imposing certain obligations on clearing members upon exhaustion of a guaranty
fund. 259
Commenters argued that, absent an exclusion from the definition of “trading
account,” some of these clearing-related activities could be considered prohibited
proprietary trading under the proposal. Two commenters specifically contended that the
dealer prong of the definition of “trading account” may cause certain of these activities to
be considered proprietary trading. 260 Some commenters suggested alternative avenues
for permitting such clearing-related activity under the rules. 261 Commenters argued that
such clearing-related activities of banking entities should not be subject to the rule
because they are risk-reducing, beneficial for the financial system, required by law under
certain circumstances (e.g., central clearing requirements for swaps and security-based
swaps under Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act), and not used by banking entities to engage
in proprietary trading. 262
Commenters further argued that certain activities undertaken as part of a clearing
house’s daily risk management process may be impacted by the rule, including
unwinding self-referencing transactions through a mandatory auction (e.g., where a firm
acquired credit default swap (“CDS”) protection on itself as a result of a merger with

259

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

260

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012) (arguing that the SEC has suggested that entities that
collect margins from customers for cleared swaps may be required to be registered as broker-dealers); State
Street (Feb. 2012).
261

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012).

262

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); State Street (Feb. 2012); Allen
& Overy (Clearing).

76

another firm) 263 and trade crossing, a mechanism employed by certain clearing houses to
ensure the accuracy of the price discovery process in the course of, among other things,
calculating settlement prices and margin requirements. 264
The Agencies do not believe that certain core clearing-related activities conducted
by a clearing member, often as required by regulation or the rules and procedures of a
clearing agency, derivatives clearing organization, or designated financial market utility,
represent proprietary trading as contemplated by the statute. For example, the clearing
and settlement activities discussed above are not conducted for the purpose of profiting
from short-term price movements. The Agencies believe that these clearing-related
activities provide important benefits to the financial system. 265 In particular, central
clearing reduces counterparty credit risk, 266 which can lead to a host of other benefits,

263

See Allen & Overy (Clearing).

264

See Allen & Overy (Clearing); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012). These commenters stated
that, in order to ensure that a clearing member is providing accurate end-of-day prices for its open
positions, a clearing house may require the member to provide firm bids for such positions, which may be
tested through a “forced trade” with another member. See id.; See also ISDA (Feb. 2012).
265

For example, Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act mandates the central clearing of swaps and securitybased swaps, and requires that banking entities that are swap dealers, security-based swap dealers, major
swap participants or major security-based swap participants collect variation margin from many
counterparties on a daily basis for their swap or security-based swap activity. See 7 U.S.C. 2(h); 15 U.S.C.
78c-3; 7 U.S.C. 6s(e); 15 U.S.C. 78o-10(e); Margin Requirements for Uncleared Swaps for Swap Dealers
and Major Swap Participants, 76 FR 23,732 (Apr. 28, 2011). Additionally, the SEC’s Rule 17Ad22(d)(11) requires that each registered clearing agency establish, implement, maintain and enforce policies
and procedures that set forth the clearing agency’s default management procedures. See 17 CFR
240.17Ad-22(d)(11). See also Exchange Act Release No. 68,080 (Oct. 12, 2012), 77 FR 66,220, 66,283
(Nov. 2, 2012).
266

Centralized clearing affects counterparty risk in three basic ways. First, it redistributes counterparty
risk among members through mutualization of losses, reducing the likelihood of sequential counterparty
failure and contagion. Second, margin requirements and monitoring reduce moral hazard, reducing
counterparty risk. Finally, clearing may reallocate counterparty risk outside of the clearing agency because
netting may implicitly subordinate outside creditors’ claims relative to other clearing member claims.

77

including lower hedging costs, increased market participation, greater liquidity, more
efficient risk sharing that promotes capital formation, and reduced operational risk. 267
Accordingly, in response to comments, the final rule provides that proprietary
trading does not include specified excluded clearing activities by a banking entity that is a
member of a clearing agency, a member of a derivatives clearing organization, or a
member of a designated financial market utility. 268 “Excluded clearing activities” is
defined in the rule to identify particular core clearing-related activities, many of which
were raised by commenters. 269 Specifically, the final rule will exclude the following
activities by clearing members: (i) any purchase or sale necessary to correct error trades
made by or on behalf of customers with respect to customer transactions that are cleared,
provided the purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with certain regulations, rules,
or procedures; (ii) any purchase or sale related to the management of a default or
threatened imminent default of a customer, subject to certain conditions, another clearing
member, or the clearing agency, derivatives clearing organization, or designated financial
market utility itself; 270 and (iii) any purchase or sale required by the rules or procedures
of a clearing agency, derivatives clearing organization, or designated financial market
utility that mitigates risk to such agency, organization, or utility that would result from

267

See Proposed Rule, Cross-Border Security-Based Swap Activities, Exchange Act Release No. 69490
(May 1, 2013), 78 FR 30,968, 31,162-31,163 (May 23, 2013).

268

See final rule § __.3(d)(5).

269

See final rule § __.3(e)(7).

270

A number of commenters discussed the default management process and requested an exclusion for
such activities. See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Allen & Overy (Clearing); State Street (Feb.
2012). See also ISDA (Feb. 2012).

78

the clearing by a clearing member of security-based swaps that references the member or
an affiliate of the member. 271
The Agencies are identifying specific activities in the rule to limit the potential for
evasion that may arise from a more generalized approach. However, the relevant
supervisory Agencies will be prepared to provide further guidance or relief, if
appropriate, to ensure that the terms of the exclusion do not limit the ability of clearing
agencies, derivatives clearing organizations, or designated financial market utilities to
effectively manage their risks in accordance with their rules and procedures.

In

response to commenters requesting that the exclusion be available when a clearing
member is required by rules of a clearing agency, derivatives clearing organization, or
designated financial market utility to purchase or sell a financial instrument as part of
establishing accurate prices to be used by the clearing agency, derivatives clearing
organization, or designated financial market utility in its end of day settlement process, 272
the Agencies note that whether this is an excluded clearing activity depends on the facts
and circumstances. Similarly, the availability of other exemptions to the rule, such as the
market-making exemption, depend on the facts and circumstances. This exclusion applies
only to excluded clearing activities of clearing members. It does not permit a banking
entity to engage in proprietary trading and claim protection for that activity because
trades are cleared or settled through a central counterparty.

271

See Allen & Overy (Clearing) (discussing rules that require unwinding self-referencing transactions
through a mandatory auction (e.g., where a firm acquired CDS protection on itself as a result of a merger
with another firm)).
272

See Allen & Overy (Clearing); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); See also ISDA (Feb. 2012).

79

5.

Satisfying an existing delivery obligation
A few commenters requested additional or expanded exclusions from the

definition of “trading account” for covering short sales or failures to deliver. 273 These
commenters alleged that a banking entity engages in this activity for purposes other than
to benefit from short term price movements and that it is not proprietary trading as
defined in the statute. In response to these comments, the final rule provides that a
purchase or sale by a banking entity that satisfies an existing delivery obligation of the
banking entity or its customers, including to prevent or close out a failure to deliver, in
connection with delivery, clearing, or settlement activity is not proprietary trading.
Among other things, this exclusion will allow a banking entity that is an SECregistered broker-dealer to take action to address failures to deliver arising from its own
trading activity or the trading activity of its customers. 274 In certain circumstances, SECregistered broker-dealers are required to take such action under SEC rules. 275 In addition,
buy-in procedures of a clearing agency, securities exchange, or national securities
association may require a banking entity to deliver securities if a party with a fail to
receive position takes certain action. 276 When a banking entity purchases securities to

273

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading).

274

In order to qualify for this exclusion, a banking entity’s principal trading activity that results in its own
failure to deliver must have been conducted in compliance with these rules.
275

See, e.g., 17 CFR 242.204 (requiring, among other things, that a participant of a registered clearing
agency or, upon reasonable allocation, a broker-dealer for which the participant clears trades or from which
the participant receives trades for settlement, take action to close out a fail to deliver position in any equity
security by borrowing or purchasing securities of like kind and quantity); 17 CFR 240.15c3-3(m)
(providing that, if a broker-dealer executes a sell order of a customer and does not obtain possession of the
securities from the customer within 10 business days after settlement, the broker-dealer must immediately
close the transaction with the customer by purchasing securities of like kind and quantity).

276

See, e.g., NSCC Rule 11, NASDAQ Rule 11810, FINRA Rule 11810.

80

meet an existing delivery obligation, it is engaging in activity that facilitates timely
settlement of securities transactions and helps provide a purchaser of the securities with
the benefits of ownership (e.g., voting and lending rights). In addition, a banking entity
has limited discretion to determine when and how to take action to meet an existing
delivery obligation. 277 Providing a limited exclusion for this activity will avoid the
potential for SEC-registered broker-dealers being subject to conflicting or inconsistent
regulatory requirements with respect to activity required to meet the broker-dealer’s
existing delivery obligations.
6.

Satisfying an obligation in connection with a judicial, administrative, selfregulatory organization, or arbitration proceeding
The Agencies recognize that, under certain circumstances, a banking entity may

be required to purchase or sell a financial instrument at the direction of a judicial or
regulatory body. For example, an administrative agency or self-regulatory organization
(“SRO”) may require a banking entity to purchase or sell a financial instrument in the
course of disciplinary proceedings against that banking entity. 278 A banking entity may
also be obligated to purchase or sell a financial instrument in connection with a judicial

277

See, e.g., 17 CFR 242.204 (requiring action to close out a fail to deliver position in an equity security
within certain specified timeframes); 17 CFR 240.15c3-3(m) (requiring a broker-dealer to “immediately”
close a transaction under certain circumstances).

278

For example, an administrative agency or SRO may require a broker-dealer to offer to buy securities
back from customers where the agency or SRO finds the broker-dealer fraudulently sold securities to those
customers. See, e.g., In re Raymond James & Assocs., Exchange Act Release No. 64767, 101 S.E.C.
Docket 1749 (June 29, 2011); FINRA Dep’t of Enforcement v. Pinnacle Partners Fin. Corp., Disciplinary
Proceeding No. 2010021324501 (Apr. 25, 2012); FINRA Dep’t of Enforcement v. Fifth Third Sec., Inc.,
No. 2005002244101 (Press Rel. Apr. 14, 2009).

81

or arbitration proceeding. 279 Such transactions do not represent trading for short-term
profit or gain and do not constitute proprietary trading under the statute.
Accordingly, the Agencies have determined to adopt a provision clarifying that a
purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments that satisfies an obligation of the
banking entity in connection with a judicial, administrative, self-regulatory organization,
or arbitration proceeding is not proprietary trading for purposes of these rules. This
clarification will avoid the potential for conflicting or inconsistent legal requirements for
banking entities.
7.

Acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian
The proposal clarified that proprietary trading did not include acting solely as

agent, broker, or custodian for an unaffiliated third party. 280 Commenters generally
supported this aspect of the proposal. One commenter suggested that acting as agent,
broker, or custodian for affiliates should be explicitly excluded from the definition of
proprietary trading in the same manner as acting as agent, broker, or custodian for
unaffiliated third parties. 281
Like the proposal, the final rule expressly provides that the purchase or sale of
one or more financial instruments by a banking entity acting solely as agent, broker, or
custodian is not proprietary trading because acting in these types of capacities does not
279

For instance, section 29 of the Exchange Act may require a broker-dealer to rescind a contract with a
customer that was made in violation of the Exchange Act. Such rescission relief may involve the brokerdealer’s repurchase of a financial instrument from a customer. See 15 U.S.C. 78cc; Reg’l Props., Inc. v.
Fin. & Real Estate Consulting Co., 678 F.2d 552 (5th Cir. 1982); Freeman v. Marine Midland Bank N.Y.,
419 F.Supp. 440 (E.D.N.Y. 1976).
280

See proposed rule § __.3(b)(1).

281

See Japanese Bankers Ass'n.

82

involve trading as principal, which is one of the requisite aspects of the statutory
definition of proprietary trading. 282 The final rule has been modified to include acting
solely as agent, broker, or custodian on behalf of an affiliate. However, the affiliate must
comply with section 13 of the BHC Act and the final implementing rule; and may not
itself engage in prohibited proprietary trading. To the extent a banking entity acts in both
a principal and agency capacity for a purchase or sale, it may only use this exclusion for
the portion of the purchase or sale for which it is acting as agent. The banking entity
must use a separate exemption or exclusion, if applicable, to the extent it is acting in a
principal capacity.
8.

Purchases or sales through a deferred compensation or similar plan
While the proposed rule provided that the prohibition on covered fund activities

and investments did not apply to certain instances where the banking entity acted through
or on behalf of a pension or similar deferred compensation plan, no such similar
treatment was given for proprietary trading. One commenter argued that the proposal
restricted a banking entity’s ability to engage in principal-based trading as an asset
manager that serves the needs of the institutional investors, such as through ERISA
pension and 401(k) plans. 283

282

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(4). A common or collective investment fund that is an investment company
under section 3(c)(3) or 3(c)(11) will not be deemed to be acting as principal within the meaning of
§__.3(a) because the fund is performing a traditional trust activity and purchases and sells financial
instruments solely on behalf of customers as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity, as evidenced by its
regulation under 12 CFR part 9 (Fiduciary Activities of National Banks) or similar state laws.

283

See Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Nov. 2012).

83

To address these concerns, the final rule provides that proprietary trading does not
include the purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments through a deferred
compensation, stock-bonus, profit-sharing, or pension plan of the banking entity that is
established and administered in accordance with the laws of the United States or a foreign
sovereign, if the purchase or sale is made directly or indirectly by the banking entity as
trustee for the benefit of the employees of the banking entity or members of their
immediate family. Banking entities often establish and act as trustee to pension or
similar deferred compensation plans for their employees and, as part of managing these
plans, may engage in trading activity. The Agencies believe that purchases or sales by a
banking entity when acting through pension and similar deferred compensation plans
generally occur on behalf of beneficiaries of the plan and consequently do not constitute
the type of principal trading that is covered by the statute.
The Agencies note that if a banking entity engages in trading activity for an
unaffiliated pension or similar deferred compensation plan, the trading activity of the
banking entity would not be proprietary trading under the final rule to the extent the
banking entity was acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian.
9.

Collecting a debt previously contracted
Several commenters argued that the final rule should exclude collecting and

disposing of collateral in satisfaction of debts previously contracted from the definition of
proprietary trading. 284 Commenters argued that acquiring and disposing of collateral in
satisfaction of debt previously contracted does not involve trading with the intent of
284

See LSTA (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

84

profiting from short-term price movements and, thus, should not be proprietary trading
for purposes of this rule. Rather, this activity is a prudent and desirable part of lending
and debt collection activities.
The Agencies believe that the purchase and sale of a financial instrument in
satisfaction of a debt previously contracted does not constitute proprietary trading. The
Agencies believe an exclusion for purchases and sales in satisfaction of debts previously
contracted is necessary for banking entities to continue to lend to customers, because it
allows banking entities to continue lending activity with the knowledge that they will not
be penalized for recouping losses should a customer default. Accordingly, the final rule
provides that proprietary trading does not include the purchase or sale of one or more
financial instruments in the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in
good faith, provided that the banking entity divests the financial instrument as soon as
practicable within the time period permitted or required by the appropriate financial
supervisory agency. 285
As a result of this exclusion, banking entities, including SEC-registered brokerdealers, will be able to continue providing margin loans to their customers and may take
possession of margined collateral following a customer’s default or failure to meet a
margin call under applicable regulatory requirements. 286 Similarly, a banking entity that
is a CFTC-registered swap dealer or SEC-registered security-based swap dealer may take,

285

See final rule § __.3(d)(9).

286

For example, if any margin call is not met in full within the time required by Regulation T, then
Regulation T requires a broker-dealer to liquidate securities sufficient to meet the margin call or to
eliminate any margin deficiency existing on the day such liquidation is required, whichever is less.
See 12 CFR 220.4(d).

85

hold, and exchange any margin collateral as counterparty to a cleared or uncleared swap
or security-based swap transaction, in accordance with the rules of the Agencies. 287 This
exclusion will allow banking entities to comply with existing regulatory requirements
regarding the divestiture of collateral taken in satisfaction of a debt.
10.

Other requested exclusions
Commenters requested a number of additional exclusions from the trading

account and, in turn, the prohibition on proprietary trading. In order to avoid potential
evasion of the final rule, the Agencies decline to adopt any exclusions from the trading
account other than the exclusions described above. 288 The Agencies believe that various
modifications to the final rule, including in particular to the exemption for marketmaking related activities, address many of commenters’ concerns regarding unintended
consequences of the prohibition on proprietary trading.
2.

Section __.4(a): Underwriting Exemption
a. Introduction

287

See SEC Proposed Rule, Capital, Margin, Segregation, Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements for
Security-Based Swap Dealers, Exchange Act Release No. 68071, 77 FR 70,214 (Nov. 23, 2012); CFTC
Proposed Rule, Margin Requirements for Uncleared Swaps for Swap Dealers and Major Swap
Participants, 76 FR 23,732 (Apr. 28, 2011); Banking Agencies’ Proposed Rule, Margin and Capital
Requirements for Covered Swap Entities, 76 FR 27,564 (May 11, 2011).
288

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012) (transactions that are not based on expected or
anticipated movements in asset prices, such as fully collateralized swap transactions that serve funding
purposes); Norinchukin and Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading) (derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting);
GE (Feb. 2012) (transactions related to commercial contracts); Citigroup (Feb. 2012) (FX swaps and FX
forwards); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012) (interaffiliate transactions); T. Rowe Price (purchase
and sale of shares in sponsored mutual funds); RMA (cash collateral pools); Alfred Brock (arbitrage
trading); ICBA (securities traded pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1831a(f)). The Agencies are concerned that these
exclusions could be used to conduct impermissible proprietary trading, and the Agencies believe some of
these exclusions are more appropriately addressed by other provisions of the rule. For example, derivatives
qualifying for hedge accounting may be permitted under the hedging exemption.

86

After carefully considering comments on the proposed underwriting exemption,
the Agencies are adopting the proposed underwriting exemption substantially as
proposed, but with certain refinements and clarifications to the proposed approach to
better reflect the range of securities offerings that an underwriter may help facilitate on
behalf of an issuer or selling security holder and the types of activities an underwriter
may undertake in connection with a distribution of securities to facilitate the distribution
process and provide important benefits to issuers, selling security holders, or purchasers
in the distribution. The Agencies are adopting such an approach because the statute
specifically permits banking entities to continue providing these beneficial services to
clients, customers, and counterparties. At the same time, to reduce the potential for
evasion of the general prohibition on proprietary trading, the Agencies are requiring,
among other things, that the trading desk make reasonable efforts to sell or otherwise
reduce its underwriting position (accounting for the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the
market for the relevant type of security) and be subject to a robust risk limit structure that
is designed to prevent a trading desk from having an underwriting position that exceeds
the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties.
b.

Overview
1.

Proposed underwriting exemption
Section 13(d)(1)(B) of the BHC Act provides an exemption from the prohibition

on proprietary trading for the purchase, sale, acquisition, or disposition of securities and
certain other instruments in connection with underwriting activities, to the extent that

87

such activities are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of
clients, customers, or counterparties. 289
Section __.4(a) of the proposed rule would have implemented this exemption by
requiring that a banking entity’s underwriting activities comply with seven requirements.
As discussed in more detail below, the proposed underwriting exemption required that:
(i) a banking entity establish a compliance program under § __.20; (ii) the covered
financial position be a security; (iii) the purchase or sale be effected solely in connection
with a distribution of securities for which the banking entity is acting as underwriter; (iv)
the banking entity meet certain dealer registration requirements, where applicable; (v) the
underwriting activities be designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term
demands of clients, customers, or counterparties; (vi) the underwriting activities be
designed to generate revenues primarily from fees, commissions, underwriting spreads,
or other income not attributable to appreciation in the value of covered financial positions
or to hedging of covered financial positions; and (vii) the compensation arrangements of
persons performing underwriting activities be designed not to reward proprietary risktaking. 290 The proposal explained that these seven criteria were proposed so that any
banking entity relying on the underwriting exemption would be engaged in bona fide
underwriting activities and would conduct those activities in a way that would not be
susceptible to abuse through the taking of speculative, proprietary positions as part of, or
mischaracterized as, underwriting activity. 291

289

12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(B).

290

See proposed rule § __.4(a).

291

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,866; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8352.

88

2.

Comments on proposed underwriting exemption
As a general matter, a few commenters expressed overall support for the proposed

underwriting exemption. 292 Some commenters indicated that the proposed exemption is
too narrow and may negatively impact capital markets. 293 As discussed in more detail
below, many commenters expressed views on the effectiveness of specific requirements
of the proposed exemption. Further, some commenters requested clarification or
expansion of the proposed exemption for certain activities that may be conducted in the
course of underwriting.
Several commenters suggested alternative approaches to implementing the
statutory exemption for underwriting activities. 294 More specifically, commenters
recommended that the Agencies: (i) provide a safe harbor for low risk, standard
underwritings; 295 (ii) better incorporate the statutory limitations on high-risk activity or
conflicts of interest; 296 (iii) prohibit banking entities from underwriting illiquid

292

See Barclays (stating that the proposed exemption generally effectuates the aims of the statute while
largely avoiding undue interference, although the commenter also requested certain technical changes to
the rule text); Alfred Brock.
293

See, e.g., Lord Abbett; BoA; Fidelity; Chamber (Feb. 2012).

294

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); BoA; Fidelity; Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

295

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012) (suggesting a safe harbor for underwriting efforts that meet
certain low-risk criteria, including that: the underwriting be in plain vanilla stock or bond offerings,
including commercial paper, for established business and governments; and the distribution be completed
within relevant time periods, as determined by asset classes, with relevant factors being the size of the
issuer and the market served); Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz (expressing support for a narrow safe harbor for
underwriting of basic stocks and bonds that raise capital for real economy firms).

296

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012) (suggesting that, for example, the exemption plainly prevent
high-risk, conflict ridden underwritings of securitizations and structured products and cross-reference
Section 621 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which prohibits certain material conflicts of interest in connection with
asset-backed securities).

89

securities; 297 (iv) prohibit banking entities from participating in private placements; 298 (v)
place greater emphasis on adequate internal compliance and risk management
procedures; 299 or (vi) make the exemption as broad as possible. 300
3.

Final underwriting exemption
After considering the comments received, the Agencies are adopting the

underwriting exemption substantially as proposed, but with important modifications to
clarify provisions or to address commenters’ concerns. As discussed above, some
commenters were generally supportive of the proposed approach to implementing the
underwriting exemption, but noted certain areas of concern or uncertainty. The
underwriting exemption the Agencies are adopting addresses these issues by further
clarifying the scope of activities that qualify for the exemption. In particular, the
Agencies are refining the proposed exemption to better capture the broad range of
capital-raising activities facilitated by banking entities acting as underwriters on behalf of
issuers and selling security holders.
The final underwriting exemption includes the following components:
• A framework that recognizes the differences in underwriting activities across
markets and asset classes by establishing criteria that will be applied flexibly

297

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) (recommending that the Agencies prohibit banking entities from acting as
underwriter for assets classified as Level 3 under FAS 157, which would prohibit underwriting of illiquid
and opaque securities without a genuine external market, and representing that such a restriction would be
consistent with the statutory limitation on exposures to high-risk assets).

298

See Occupy.

299

See BoA (recommending that the Agencies establish a strong presumption that all of a banking entity’s
activities related to underwriting are permitted under the rules as long as the banking entity has adequate
compliance and risk management procedures).
300

See Fidelity (suggested that the rules be revised to “provide the broadest exemptions possible under the
statute” for underwriting and certain other permitted activities).

90

based on the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the particular type
of security.
• A general focus on the “underwriting position” held by a banking entity or its
affiliate, and managed by a particular trading desk, in connection with the
distribution of securities for which such banking entity or affiliate is acting as an
underwriter. 301
• A definition of the term “trading desk” that focuses on the functionality of the
desk rather than its legal status, and requirements that apply at the trading desk
level of organization within a banking entity or across two or more affiliates. 302
• Five standards for determining whether a banking entity is engaged in permitted
underwriting activities. Many of these criteria have similarities to those included
in the proposed rule, but with important modifications in response to comments.
These standards require that:
o The banking entity act as an “underwriter” for a “distribution” of
securities and the trading desk’s underwriting position be related to such
distribution. The final rule includes refined definitions of “distribution”
and “underwriter” to better capture the broad scope of securities offerings
used by issuers and selling security holders and the range of roles that a
banking entity may play as intermediary in such offerings. 303
o The amount and types of securities in the trading desk’s underwriting
position be designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term
demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, and reasonable efforts
be made to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting position within a
reasonable period, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth
of the market for the relevant type of security. 304
o The banking entity establish, implement, maintain, and enforce an internal
compliance program that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking
entity’s compliance with the requirements of the underwriting
exemption, including reasonably designed written policies and
procedures, internal controls, analysis, and independent testing
identifying and addressing:

301

See infra Part IV.A.2.c.1.c.

302

See infra Part IV.A.2.c.1.c. The term “trading desk” is defined in final rule § __.3(e)(13) as “the
smallest discrete unit of organization of a banking entity that purchases or sells financial instruments for the
trading account of the banking entity or an affiliate thereof.”

303

See final rule §§ __.4(a)(2)(i), __.4(a)(3), __.4(a)(4); See also infra Part IV.A.2.c.1.c.

304

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(ii); See also infra Part IV.A.2.c.2.c.

91

 The products, instruments, or exposures each trading desk may
purchase, sell, or manage as part of its underwriting activities;
 Limits for each trading desk, based on the nature and amount of
the trading desk’s underwriting activities, including the
reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or
counterparties, on the amount, types, and risk of the trading
desk’s underwriting position, level of exposures to relevant risk
factors arising from the trading desk’s underwriting position, and
period of time a security may be held;
 Internal controls and ongoing monitoring and analysis of each
trading desk’s compliance with its limits; and
 Authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that
require review and approval of any trade that would exceed a
trading desk’s limit(s), demonstrable analysis of the basis for any
temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk’s limit(s), and
independent review of such demonstrable analysis and
approval. 305
o The compensation arrangements of persons performing the banking
entity’s underwriting activities are designed not to reward or incentivize
prohibited proprietary trading. 306
o The banking entity is licensed or registered to engage in the activity
described in the underwriting exemption in accordance with applicable
law. 307
After considering commenters’ suggested alternative approaches to implementing
the statute’s underwriting exemption, the Agencies have determined to retain the general
structure of the proposed underwriting exemption. For instance, two commenters
suggested providing a safe harbor for “plain vanilla” or “basic” underwritings of stocks
and bonds. 308 The Agencies do not believe that a safe harbor is necessary to provide

305

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(iii); See also infra Part IV.A.2.c.3.c.

306

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(iv); See also infra Part IV.A.2.c.4.c.

307

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(v); See also infra Part IV.A.2.c.5.c.

308

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz. One of these commenters also
suggested that the Agencies better incorporate the statutory limitations on material conflicts of interest and
high-risk activities in the underwriting exemption by including additional provisions in the exemption to
refer to these limitations. See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012). The Agencies note that these

92

certainty that a banking entity may act as an underwriter in these particular types of
offerings. This is because “plain vanilla” or “basic” underwriting activity should be able
to meet the requirements of the final rule. For example, the final definition of
“distribution” includes any offering of securities made pursuant to an effective
registration statement under the Securities Act. 309
Further, in response to one commenter’s request that the final rule prohibit a
banking entity from acting as an underwriter in illiquid assets that are determined to not
have observable price inputs under accounting standards, 310 the Agencies continue to
believe that it would be inappropriate to incorporate accounting standards in the rule
because accounting standards could change in the future without consideration of the
potential impact on the final rule. 311 Moreover, the Agencies do not believe it is
necessary to differentiate between liquid and less liquid securities for purposes of
determining whether a banking entity may underwrite a distribution of securities because,
in either case, a banking entity must have a reasonable expectation of purchaser demand
for the securities and must make reasonable efforts to sell or otherwise reduce its
underwriting position within a reasonable period under the final rule. 312
Another commenter suggested that the Agencies establish a strong presumption
that all of a banking entity’s activities related to underwriting are permitted under the rule

limitations are adopted in § __.7 of the final rules, and this provision will apply to underwriting activities,
as well as all other exempted activities.
309

See final rule § __.4(a)(3).

310

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

311

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,859 n.101 (explaining why the Agencies declined to incorporate certain
accounting standards in the proposed rule); CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8344 n.107.
312

See infra Part IV.A.2.c.2.c.

93

as long as the banking entity has adequate compliance and risk management
procedures. 313 While strong compliance and risk management procedures are important
for banking entities’ permitted activities, the Agencies believe that an approach focused
solely on the establishment of a compliance program would likely increase the potential
for evasion of the general prohibition on proprietary trading. Similarly, the Agencies are
not adopting an exemption that is unlimited, as requested by one commenter, because the
Agencies believe controls are necessary to prevent potential evasion of the statute
through, among other things, retaining an unsold allotment when there is sufficient
customer interest for the securities and to limit the risks associated with these
activities. 314
Underwriters play an important role in facilitating issuers’ access to funding, and
thus underwriters are important to the capital formation process and economic growth. 315
Obtaining new financing can be expensive for an issuer because of the natural
information advantage that less well-known issuers have over investors about the quality
of their future investment opportunities. An underwriter can help reduce these costs by
mitigating the information asymmetry between an issuer and its potential investors. The
underwriter does this based in part on its familiarity with the issuer and other similar
issuers as well as by collecting information about the issuer. This allows investors to
look to the reputation and experience of the underwriter as well as its ability to provide
information about the issuer and the underwriting. For these and other reasons, most U.S.
313

See BoA.

314

See Fidelity.

315

See, e.g., BoA (“The underwriting activities of U.S. banking entities are essential to capital formation
and, therefore, economic growth and job creation.”); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Sens. Merkley & Levin
(Feb. 2012).

94

issuers rely on the services of an underwriter when raising funds through public offerings.
As recognized in the statute, the exemption is intended to permit banking entities to
continue to perform the underwriting function, which contributes to capital formation and
its positive economic effects.
c.

Detailed Explanation of the Underwriting Exemption
1.

Acting as an underwriter for a distribution of securities
a. Proposed requirements that the purchase or sale be effected solely in
connection with a distribution of securities for which the banking entity acts
as an underwriter and that the covered financial position be a security
Section __.4(a)(2)(iii) of the proposed rule required that the purchase or sale be

effected solely in connection with a distribution of securities for which a banking entity is
acting as underwriter. 316 As discussed below, the Agencies proposed to define the terms
“distribution” and “underwriter” in the proposed rule. The proposed rule also required
that the covered financial position being purchased or sold by the banking entity be a
security. 317
i.

Proposed definition of “distribution”
The proposed definition of “distribution” mirrored the definition of this term used

in the SEC’s Regulation M under the Exchange Act. 318 More specifically, the proposed
rule defined “distribution” as “an offering of securities, whether or not subject to
registration under the Securities Act, that is distinguished from ordinary trading
transactions by the magnitude of the offering and the presence of special selling efforts
316

See proposed rule § __.4(a)(2)(iii).

317

See proposed rule § __.4(a)(2)(ii).

318

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,866-68,867; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8352; 17 CFR 242.101; proposed
rule § __.4(a)(3).

95

and selling methods.” 319 The Agencies did not propose to define the terms “magnitude”
and “special selling efforts and selling methods,” but stated that the Agencies would
expect to rely on the same factors considered in Regulation M for assessing these
elements. 320 The Agencies noted that “magnitude” does not imply that a distribution
must be large and, therefore, this factor would not preclude small offerings or private
placements from qualifying for the proposed underwriting exemption. 321
ii.

Proposed definition of “underwriter”
Like the proposed definition of “distribution,” the Agencies proposed to define

“underwriter” in a manner similar to the definition of this term in the SEC’s Regulation
M. 322 The definition of “underwriter” in the proposed rule was: (i) any person who has
agreed with an issuer or selling security holder to: (a) purchase securities for distribution;
(b) engage in a distribution of securities for or on behalf of such issuer or selling security
holder; or (c) manage a distribution of securities for or on behalf of such issuer or selling
security holder; and (ii) a person who has an agreement with another person described in

319

See proposed rule § __.4(a)(3).

320

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867 (“For example, the number of shares to be sold, the percentage of
the outstanding shares, public float, and trading volume that those shares represent are all relevant to an
assessment of magnitude. In addition, delivering a sales document, such as a prospectus, and conducting
road shows are generally indicative of special selling efforts and selling methods. Another indicator of
special selling efforts and selling methods is compensation that is greater than that for secondary trades but
consistent with underwriting compensation for an offering.”); CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8352; Review of
Antimanipulation Regulation of Securities Offering, Exchange Act Release No. 33924 (Apr. 19, 1994), 59
FR 21,681, 21,684-21,685 (Apr. 26, 1994).
321

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8352.

322

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,866-68,867; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8352; 17 CFR 242.101; proposed
rule § __.4(a)(4).

96

the preceding provisions to engage in a distribution of such securities for or on behalf of
the issuer or selling security holder. 323
In connection with this proposed requirement, the Agencies noted that the precise
activities performed by an underwriter may vary depending on the liquidity of the
securities being underwritten and the type of distribution being conducted. To determine
whether a banking entity is acting as an underwriter as part of a distribution of securities,
the Agencies proposed to take into consideration the extent to which a banking entity is
engaged in the following activities:
•

Assisting an issuer in capital-raising;

•

Performing due diligence;

•

Advising the issuer on market conditions and assisting in the preparation
of a registration statement or other offering document;

•

Purchasing securities from an issuer, a selling security holder, or an
underwriter for resale to the public;

•

Participating in or organizing a syndicate of investment banks;

•

Marketing securities; and

•

Transacting to provide a post-issuance secondary market and to facilitate
price discovery. 324

The proposal recognized that there may be circumstances in which an underwriter would
hold securities that it could not sell in the distribution for investment purposes. The
Agencies stated that if the unsold securities were acquired in connection with

323

See proposed rule § __.4(a)(4). As noted in the proposal, the proposed rule’s definition differed from
the definition in Regulation M because the proposed rule’s definition would also include a person who has
an agreement with another underwriter to engage in a distribution of securities for or on behalf of an issuer
or selling security holder. See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8352.
324

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8352.

97

underwriting under the proposed exemption, then the underwriter would be able to
dispose of such securities at a later time. 325
iii.

Proposed requirement that the covered financial position be a security
Pursuant to § __.4(a)(2)(ii) of the proposed exemption, a banking entity would be

permitted to purchase or sell a covered financial position that is a security only in
connection with its underwriting activities. 326 The proposal stated that this requirement
was meant to reflect the common usage and understanding of the term “underwriting.” 327
It was noted, however, that a derivative or commodity future transaction may be
otherwise permitted under another exemption (e.g., the exemptions for market makingrelated or risk-mitigating hedging activities). 328
b.

Comments on the proposed requirements that the trade be effected solely in
connection with a distribution for which the banking entity is acting as an
underwriter and that the covered financial position be a security
In response to the proposed requirement that a purchase or sale be “effected solely

in connection with a distribution of securities” for which the “banking entity is acting as
underwriter,” commenters generally focused on the proposed definitions of “distribution”
and “underwriter” and the types of activities that should be permitted under the “in
connection with” standard. Commenters did not directly address the requirement in §
__.4(a)(2)(ii) of the proposed rule, which provided that the covered financial position
purchased or sold under the exemption must be a security. A number of commenters

325

See id.

326

See proposed rule § __.4(a)(2)(ii).

327

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,866; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8352.

328

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,866 n.132; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8352 n.138.

98

expressed general concern that the proposed underwriting exemption’s references to a
“purchase or sale of a covered financial position” could be interpreted to require
compliance with the proposed rule on a transaction-by-transaction basis. These
commenters indicated that such an approach would be overly burdensome. 329
i.

Definition of “distribution”
Several commenters stated that the proposed definition of “distribution” is too

narrow, 330 while one commenter stated that the proposed definition is too broad. 331
Commenters who viewed the proposed definition as too narrow stated that it may exclude
important capital-raising and financing transactions that do not appear to involve “special
selling efforts and selling methods” or “magnitude.” 332 In particular, these commenters
stated that the proposed definition of “distribution” may preclude a banking entity from
participating in commercial paper issuances, 333 bridge loans, 334 “at-the-market” offerings
or “dribble out” programs conducted off issuer shelf registrations, 335 offerings in
response to reverse inquiries, 336 offerings through an automated execution system, 337

329

See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

330

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading);
RBC.

331

See Occupy.

332

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); RBC.

333

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).
In addition, one commenter expressed general concern that the proposed rule would cause a reduction in
underwriting services with respect to commercial paper, which would reduce liquidity in commercial paper
markets and raise the costs of capital in already tight credit markets. See Chamber (Feb. 2012).

334

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); RBC; LSTA (Feb. 2012).

335

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

336

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

337

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

99

small private offerings, 338 or selling security holders’ sales of securities of issuers with
large market capitalizations that are executed as underwriting transactions in the normal
course. 339
Several commenters suggested that the proposed definition be modified to include
some or all of these types of offerings. 340 For example, two commenters requested that
the definition explicitly include all offerings of securities by an issuer. 341 One of these
commenters further requested a broader definition that would include any offering by a
selling security holder that is registered under the Securities Act or that involves an
offering document prepared by the issuer. 342 Another commenter suggested that the rule
explicitly authorize certain forms of offerings, such as offerings under Rule 144A,
Regulation S, Rule 101(b)(10) of Regulation M, or the so-called “section 4(1½)” of the
Securities Act, as well as transactions on behalf of selling security holders. 343 Two
commenters proposed approaches that would include the resale of notes or other debt
securities received by a banking entity from a borrower to replace or refinance a bridge

338

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

339

See RBC.

340

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC.

341

See Goldman (Prop. Trading) (stating that this would capture, among other things, commercial paper
issuances, issuer “dribble out” programs, and small private offerings, which involve the purchase of
securities directly from an issuer with a view toward resale, but may not always be clearly distinguished by
“special selling efforts and selling methods” or by “magnitude”); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

342

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). This commenter indicated that expanding the definition
of “distribution” to include both offerings of securities by an issuer and offerings by a selling security
holder that are registered under the Securities Act or that involve an offering document prepared by the
issuer would “include, for example, an offering of securities by an issuer or a selling security holder where
securities are sold through an automated order execution system, offerings in response to reverse inquiries
and commercial paper issuances.” Id.
343

See RBC.

100

loan. 344 One of these commenters stated that permitting a banking entity to receive and
resell notes or other debt securities from a borrower to replace or refinance a bridge loan
would preserve the ability of a banking entity to extend credit and offer customers a
range of financing options. This commenter further represented that such an approach
would be consistent with the exclusion of loans from the proposed definition of “covered
financial position” and the commenter’s recommended exclusion from the definition of
“trading account” for collecting debts previously contracted. 345
One commenter, however, stated that the proposed definition of “distribution” is
too broad. This commenter suggested that the underwriting exemption should only be
available for registered offerings, and the rule should preclude a banking entity from
participating in a private placement. According to the commenter, permitting a banking
entity to participate in a private placement may facilitate evasion of the prohibition on
proprietary trading. 346
ii.

Definition of “underwriter”
Several commenters stated that the proposed definition of “underwriter” is too

narrow. 347 Other commenters, however, stated that the proposed definition is too broad,
particularly due to the proposed inclusion of selling group members. 348

344

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); RBC. In addition, one commenter requested the Agencies clarify that
permitted underwriting activities include the acquisition and resale of securities issued in lieu of or to
refinance bridge loan facilities, irrespective of whether such activities qualify as “distributions” under the
proposal. See LSTA (Feb. 2012).

345

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

346

See Occupy.

347

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

101

Commenters requesting a broader definition generally stated that the Agencies
should instead use the Regulation M definition of “distribution participant” or otherwise
revise the definition of “underwriter” to incorporate the concept of a “distribution
participant,” as defined under Regulation M. 349 According to these commenters, using
the term “distribution participant” would better reflect current market practice and would
include dealers that participate in an offering but that do not deal directly with the issuer
or selling security holder and do not have a written agreement with the underwriter. 350
One commenter further represented that the proposed provision for selling group
members may be less inclusive than the Agencies intended because individual selling
dealers or dealer groups may or may not have written agreements with an underwriter in
privity of contract with the issuer. 351 Another commenter requested that, if the
“distribution participant” concept is not incorporated into the rule, the proposed definition
of “underwriter” be modified to include a person who has an agreement with an affiliate
of an issuer or selling security holder (e.g., an agreement with a parent company to
distribute the issuer’s securities). 352

348

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Occupy (suggesting that the Agencies exceeded their
statutory authority by incorporating the Regulation M definition of “underwriter,” rather than the Securities
Act definition of “underwriter”).

349

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).
The term “distribution participant” is defined in Rule 100 of Regulation M as “an underwriter, prospective
underwriter, broker, dealer, or other person who has agreed to participate or is participating in a
distribution.” 17 CFR 242.100.

350

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

351

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

352

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). This commenter also requested a technical amendment
to proposed rule § __.4(a)(4)(ii) to clarify that the person is “participating” in a distribution, not “engaging”
in a distribution. See id.

102

Other commenters opposed the inclusion of selling group members in the
proposed definition of “underwriter.” These commenters stated that because selling
group members do not provide a price guarantee to an issuer, they do not provide services
to a customer and their activities should not qualify for the underwriting exemption. 353
A number of commenters stated that it is unclear whether the proposed
underwriting exemption would permit a banking entity to act as an authorized participant
(“AP”) to an ETF issuer, particularly with respect to the creation and redemption of ETF
shares or “seeding” an ETF for a short period of time when it is initially launched. 354 For
example, a few commenters noted that APs typically do not perform some or all of the
activities that the Agencies proposed to consider to help determine whether a banking
entity is acting as an underwriter in connection with a distribution of securities, including
due diligence, advising an issuer on market conditions and assisting in preparation of a
registration statement or offering documents, and participating in or organizing a
syndicate of investment banks. 355
However, one commenter appeared to oppose applying the underwriting
exemption to certain AP activities. According to this commenter, APs are generally
reluctant to concede that they are statutory underwriters because they do not perform all
the activities associated with the underwriting of an operating company’s securities.
Further, this commenter expressed concern that, if an AP had to rely on the proposed

353

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.

354

See BoA; ICI Global; Vanguard; ICI (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012). As one commenter explained, an
AP may “seed” an ETF for a short period of time at its inception by entering into several initial creation
transactions with the ETF issuer and refraining from selling those shares to investors or redeeming them for
a period of time to facilitate the ETF achieving its liquidity launch goals. See BoA.
355

See ICI Global; ICI (Feb. 2012); Vanguard.

103

underwriting exemption, the AP could be subject to heightened risk of incurring
underwriting liability on the issuance of ETF shares traded by the AP. As a result of
these considerations, the commenter believed that a banking entity may be less willing to
act as an AP for an ETF issuer if it were required to rely on the underwriting
exemption.356
iii.

“Solely in connection with” standard
To qualify for the underwriting exemption, the proposed rule required a purchase

or sale of a covered financial position to be effected “solely in connection with” a
distribution of securities for which the banking entity is acting as underwriter. Several
commenters expressed concern that the word “solely” in this provision may result in an
overly narrow interpretation of permissible activities. In particular, these commenters
indicated that the “solely in connection with” standard creates uncertainty about certain
activities that are currently conducted in the course of an underwriting, such as customary
underwriting syndicate activities. 357 One commenter represented that such activities are
traditionally undertaken to: support the success of a distribution; mitigate risk to issuers,
investors, and underwriters; and facilitate an orderly aftermarket. 358 A few commenters
further stated that requiring a trade to be “solely” in connection with a distribution by an

356

See SSgA (Feb. 2012).

357

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA; Wells Fargo (Prop.
Trading); Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation.
358

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

104

underwriter would be inconsistent with the statute, 359 may reduce future innovation in the
capital-raising process, 360 and could create market disruptions. 361
A number of commenters stated that it is unclear whether certain activities would
qualify for the proposed underwriting exemption and requested that the Agencies adopt
an exemption that is broad enough to permit such activities. 362 Commenters stated that
there are a number of activities that should be permitted under the underwriting
exemption, including: (i) creating a naked or covered syndicate short position in
connection with an offering; 363 (ii) creating a stabilizing bid; 364 (iii) acquiring positions
via overallotments 365 or trading in the market to close out short positions in connection
with an overallotment option or in connection with other stabilization activities; 366 (iv)
using call spread options in a convertible debt offering to mitigate dilution of existing
shareholders; 367 (v) repurchasing existing debt securities of an issuer in the course of
underwriting a new series of debt securities in order to stimulate demand for the new
359

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

360

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

361

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

362

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading);
RBC.

363

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (“The reason for creating the short positions (covered and
naked) is to facilitate an orderly aftermarket and to reduce price volatility of newly offered securities. This
provides significant value to issuers and selling security holders, as well as to investors, by giving the
syndicate buying power that helps protect against immediate volatility in the aftermarket.”); RBC;
Goldman (Prop. Trading).
364

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (“Underwriters may also engage in stabilization activities
under Regulation M by creating a stabilizing bid to prevent or slow a decline in the market price of a
security. These activities should be encouraged rather than restricted by the Volcker Rule because they
reduce price volatility and facilitate the orderly pricing and aftermarket trading of underwritten securities,
thereby contributing to capital formation.”).
365

See RBC.

366

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

367

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading) (stating that the call spread
arrangement “may make a wider range of financing options feasible for the issuer of the convertible debt”
and “can help it to raise more capital at more attractive prices”).

105

issuance; 368 (vi) purchasing debt securities of comparable issuers as a price discovery
mechanism in connection with underwriting a new debt security; 369 (vii) hedging the
underwriter’s exposure to a derivative strategy engaged in with an issuer; 370 (viii)
organizing and assembling a resecuritized product, including, for example, sourcing bond
collateral over a period of time in anticipation of issuing new securities; 371 and (ix)
selling a security to an intermediate entity as part of the creation of certain structured
products. 372
c.

Final requirement that the banking entity act as an underwriter for a distribution
of securities and the trading desk’s underwriting position be related to such
distribution
The final rule requires that the banking entity act as an underwriter for a

distribution of securities and the trading desk’s underwriting position be related to such
distribution.373 This requirement is substantially similar to the proposed rule, 374 but with

368

See Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading). The commenter further stated that the need to purchase the issuer’s
other debt securities from investors may arise if an investor has limited risk tolerance to the issuer’s credit
or has portfolio restrictions. According to the commenter, the underwriter would typically sell the debt
securities it purchased from existing investors to new investors. See id.
369

See Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

370

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

371

See ASF (Feb. 2012) (stating that, for example, a banking entity may respond to customer or general
market demand for highly-rated mortgage paper by accumulating residential mortgage-backed securities
over time and holding such securities in inventory until the transaction can be organized and assembled).
372

See ICI (Feb. 2012) (stating that the sale of assets to an intermediate asset-backed commercial paper or
tender option bond program should be permitted under the underwriting exemption if the sale is part of the
creation of a structured security). See also AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) (stating that the treatment of a sale to an
intermediate entity should depend on whether the banking entity or an external client is the driver of the
demand and, if the banking entity is the driver of the demand, then the near term demand requirement
should not be met). Two commenters stated that the underwriting exemption should not permit a banking
entity to sell a security to an intermediate entity in the course of creating a structured product. See Occupy;
Alfred Brock. These commenters were generally responding to a question on this issue in the proposal.
See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,868 – 68,869 (question 78); CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8354 (question 78).
373

Final rule § __.4(a)(2)(i). The terms “distribution” and “underwriter” are defined in final rule §
__.4(a)(3) and § __.4(a)(4), respectively.

106

five key refinements. First, to address commenters’ confusion about whether the
underwriting exemption applies on a transaction-by-transaction basis, the phrase
“purchase or sale” has been modified to instead refer to the trading desk’s “underwriting
position.” Second, to balance this more aggregated position-based approach, the final
rule specifies that the trading desk is the organizational level of a banking entity (or
across one or more affiliated banking entities) at which the requirements of the
underwriting exemption will be assessed. Third, the Agencies have made important
modifications to the definition of “distribution” to better capture the various types of
private and registered offerings a banking entity may be asked to underwrite by an issuer
or selling security holder. Fourth, the definition of “underwriter” has been refined to
clarify that both members of the underwriting syndicate and selling group members may
qualify as underwriters for purposes of this exemption. Finally, the word “solely” has
been removed to clarify that a broader scope of activities conducted in connection with
underwriting (e.g., stabilization activities) are permitted under this exemption. These
issues are discussed in turn below.
i.

Definition of “underwriting position”
In response to commenters’ concerns about transaction-by-transaction analyses, 375

the Agencies are modifying the exemption to clarify the level at which compliance with
certain provisions will be assessed. The proposal was not intended to impose a
transaction-by-transaction approach, and the final rule’s requirements generally focus on

374

Proposed rule § __.4(a)(2)(iii) required that “[t]he purchase or sale is effected solely in connection with
a distribution of securities for which the covered banking entity is acting as underwriter.”
375

See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

107

the long or short positions in one or more securities held by a banking entity or its
affiliate, and managed by a particular trading desk, in connection with a particular
distribution of securities for which such banking entity or its affiliate is acting as an
underwriter. Like § __.4(a)(2)(ii) of the proposed rule, the definition of “underwriting
position” is limited to positions in securities because the common usage and
understanding of the term “underwriting” is limited to activities in securities.
A trading desk’s underwriting position constitutes the securities positions that are
acquired in connection with a single distribution for which the relevant banking entity is
acting as an underwriter. A trading desk may not aggregate securities positions acquired
in connection with two or more distributions to determine its “underwriting position.” A
trading desk may, however, have more than one “underwriting position” at a particular
point in time if the banking entity is acting as an underwriter for more than one
distribution. As a result, the underwriting exemption’s requirements pertaining to a
trading desk’s underwriting position will apply on a distribution-by-distribution basis.
A trading desk’s underwriting position can include positions in securities held at
different affiliated legal entities, provided the banking entity is able to provide
supervisors or examiners of any Agency that has regulatory authority over the banking
entity pursuant to section 13(b)(2)(B) of the BHC Act with records, promptly upon
request, that identify any related positions held at an affiliated entity that are being
included in the trading desk’s underwriting position for purposes of the underwriting
exemption. Banking entities should be prepared to provide all records that identify all of
the positions included in a trading desk’s underwriting position and where such positions
are held.

108

The Agencies believe that a distribution-by-distribution approach is appropriate
due to the relatively distinct nature of underwriting activities for a single distribution on
behalf of an issuer or selling security holder. The Agencies do not believe that a
narrower transaction-by-transaction analysis is necessary to determine whether a banking
entity is engaged in permitted underwriting activities. The Agencies also decline to take
a broader approach, which would allow a banking entity to aggregate positions from
multiple distributions for which it is acting as an underwriter, because it would be more
difficult for the banking entity’s internal compliance personnel and Agency supervisors
and examiners to review the trading desk’s positions to assess the desk’s compliance with
the underwriting exemption. A more aggregated approach would increase the number of
positions in different types of securities that could be included in the underwriting
position, which would make it more difficult to determine that an individual position is
related to a particular distribution of securities for which the banking entity is acting as an
underwriter and, in turn, increase the potential for evasion of the general prohibition on
proprietary trading.
ii.

Definition of “trading desk”
The proposed underwriting exemption would have applied certain requirements

across an entire banking entity. To promote consistency with the market-making
exemption and address potential evasion concerns, the final rule applies the requirements
of the underwriting exemption at the trading desk level of organization. 376 This approach
will result in the requirements of the underwriting exemption applying to the aggregate

376

See infra Part IV.A.3.c. (discussing the final market-making exemption).

109

trading activities of a relatively limited group of employees on a single desk. Applying
requirements at the trading desk level should facilitate banking entity and Agency
monitoring and review of compliance with the exemption by limiting the location where
underwriting activity may occur and allowing better identification of the aggregate
trading volume that must be reviewed to determine whether the desk’s activities are being
conducted in a manner that is consistent with the underwriting exemption, while also
allowing adequate consideration of the particular facts and circumstances of the desk’s
trading activities.
The trading desk should be managed and operated as an individual unit and
should reflect the level at which the profit and loss of employees engaged in underwriting
activities is attributed. The term “trading desk” in the underwriting context is intended to
encompass what is commonly thought of as an underwriting desk. A trading desk
engaged in underwriting activities would not necessarily be an active market participant
that engages in frequent trading activities.
A trading desk may manage an underwriting position that includes positions held
by different affiliated legal entities. 377 Similarly, a trading desk may include employees
working on behalf of multiple affiliated legal entities or booking trades in multiple
affiliated entities. The geographic location of individual traders is not dispositive for
purposes of determining whether the employees are engaged in activities for a single
trading desk.
iii.

Definition of “distribution”

377

See supra note 302 and accompanying text.

110

The term “distribution” is defined in the final rule as: (i) an offering of securities,
whether or not subject to registration under the Securities Act, that is distinguished from
ordinary trading transactions by the presence of special selling efforts and selling
methods; or (ii) an offering of securities made pursuant to an effective registration
statement under the Securities Act. 378 In response to comments, the proposed definition
has been revised to eliminate the need to consider the “magnitude” of an offering and
instead supplements the definition with an alternative prong for registered offerings under
the Securities Act. 379
The proposed definition’s reference to magnitude caused some commenter
concern with respect to whether it could be interpreted to preclude a banking entity from
intermediating a small private placement. After considering comments, the Agencies
have determined that the requirement to have special selling efforts and selling methods
is sufficient to distinguish between permissible securities offerings and prohibited
proprietary trading, and the additional magnitude factor is not needed to further this
objective. 380 As proposed, the Agencies will rely on the same factors considered under
Regulation M to analyze the presence of special selling efforts and selling methods. 381
Indicators of special selling efforts and selling methods include delivering a sales
378

Final rule § __.4(a)(3).

379

Proposed rule § __.4(a)(3) defined “distribution” as “an offering of securities, whether or not subject to
registration under the Securities Act, that is distinguished from ordinary trading transactions by the
magnitude of the offering and the presence of special selling efforts and selling methods.”
380

The policy goals of this rule differ from those of the SEC’s Regulation M, which is an antimanipulation rule. The focus on magnitude is appropriate for that regulation because it helps identify
offerings that can give rise to an incentive to condition the market for the offered security. To the contrary,
this rule is intended to allow banking entities to continue to provide client-oriented financial services,
including underwriting services. The SEC emphasizes that this rule does not have any impact on
Regulation M.
381

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8352.

111

document (e.g., a prospectus), conducting road shows, and receiving compensation that is
greater than that for secondary trades but consistent with underwriting compensation. 382
For purposes of the final rule, each of these factors need not be present under all
circumstances. Offerings that qualify as distributions under this prong of the definition
include, among others, private placements in which resales may be made in reliance on
the SEC’s Rule 144A or other available exemptions 383 and, to the extent the commercial
paper being offered is a security, commercial paper offerings that involve the underwriter
receiving special compensation. 384
The Agencies are also adopting a second prong to this definition, which will
independently capture all offerings of securities that are made pursuant to an effective
registration statement under the Securities Act. 385 The registration prong of the definition
is intended to provide another avenue by which an offering of securities may be
conducted under the exemption, absent other special selling efforts and selling methods
or a determination of whether such efforts and methods are being conducted. The
Agencies believe this prong reduces potential administrative burdens by providing a
bright-line test for what constitutes a distribution for purposes of the final rule. In

382

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8352; Review of Antimanipulation
Regulation of Securities Offering, Exchange Act Release No. 33924 (Apr. 19, 1994), 59 FR 21,681,
21,684-21,685 (Apr. 26, 1994).
383

The final rule does not provide safe harbors for particular distribution techniques. A safe harbor-based
approach would provide certainty for specific types of offerings, but may not account for evolving market
practices and distribution techniques that could technically satisfy a safe harbor but that might implicate the
concerns that led Congress to enact section 13 of the BHC Act. See RBC.
384

This clarification is intended to address commenters’ concern regarding potential limitations on banking
entities’ ability to facilitate commercial paper offerings under the proposed underwriting exemption. See
supra Part IV.A.2.c.1.b.i.
385

See, e.g., Form S-1 (17 CFR 239.11); Form S-3 (17 CFR 239.13); Form S-8 (17 CFR 239.16b); Form
F-1 (17 CFR 239.31); Form F-3 (17 CFR 239.33).

112

addition, this prong is consistent with the purpose and goals of the statute because it
reflects a common type of securities offering and does not raise evasion concerns as it is
unlikely that an entity would go through the registration process solely to facilitate or
engage in speculative proprietary trading. 386 This prong would include, among other
things, the following types of registered securities offerings: offerings made pursuant to
a shelf registration statement (whether on a continuous or delayed basis), 387 bought
deals, 388 at the market offerings, 389 debt offerings, asset-backed security offerings, initial
public offerings, and other registered offerings. An offering can be a distribution for
purposes of either § __.4(a)(3)(i) or § __.4(a)(3)(ii) of the final rule regardless of whether
the offering is issuer driven, selling security holder driven, or arises as a result of a

386

Although the Agencies are providing an additional prong to the definition of “distribution” for
registered offerings, the final rule does not limit the availability of the underwriting exemption to registered
offerings, as suggested by one commenter. The statute does not include such an express limitation, and the
Agencies decline to construe the statute to require such an approach. In response to the commenter stating
that permitting a banking entity to participate in a private placement may facilitate evasion of the
prohibition on proprietary trading, the Agencies believe this concern is addressed by the provision in the
final rule requiring that a trading desk have a reasonable expectation of demand from other market
participants for the amount and type of securities to be acquired from an issuer or selling security holder for
distribution and make reasonable efforts to sell its underwriting position within a reasonable period. As
discussed below, the Agencies believe this requirement in the final rule appropriately addresses evasion
concerns that a banking entity may retain an unsold allotment for purely speculative purposes. Further, the
Agencies believe that preventing a banking entity from facilitating a private offering could unnecessarily
hinder capital-raising without providing commensurate benefits because issuers use private offerings to
raise capital in a variety of situations and the underwriting exemption’s requirements limit the potential for
evasion for both registered and private offerings, as noted above.
387

See Securities Offering Reform, Securities Act Release No. 8591 (July 19, 2005), 70 FR 44,722 (Aug.
3, 2005); 17 CFR 230.405 (defining “automatic shelf registration statement” as a registration statement
filed on Form S-3 (17 CFR 239.13) or Form F-3 (17 CFR 239.33) by a well-known seasoned issuer
pursuant to General Instruction I.D. or I.C. of such forms, respectively); 17 CFR 230.415.
388

A bought deal is a distribution technique whereby an underwriter makes a bid for securities without
engaging in a preselling effort, such as book building or distribution of a preliminary prospectus. See, e.g.,
Delayed or Continuous Offering and Sale of Securities, Securities Act Release No. 6470 (June 9, 1983), n.5.
389

See, e.g., 17 CFR 230.415(a)(4) (defining “at the market offering” as “an offering of equity securities
into an existing trading market for outstanding shares of the same class at other than a fixed price”). At the
market offerings may also be referred to as “dribble out” programs.

113

reverse inquiry. 390 Provided the definition of distribution is met, an offering can be a
distribution for purposes of this rule regardless of how it is conducted, whether by direct
communication, exchange transactions, or automated execution system. 391
As discussed above, some commenters expressed concern that the proposed
definition of “distribution” would prevent a banking entity from acquiring and reselling
securities issued in lieu of or to refinance bridge loan facilities in reliance on the
underwriting exemption. Bridge financing arrangements can be structured in many
different ways, depending on the context and the specific objectives of the parties
involved. As a result, the treatment of securities acquired in lieu of or to refinance a
bridge loan and the subsequent sale of such securities under the final rule depends on the
facts and circumstances. A banking entity may meet the terms of the underwriting
exemption for its bridge loan activity, or it may be able to rely on the market-making
exemption. If the banking entity’s bridge loan activity does not qualify for an exemption
under the rule, then it would not be permitted to engage in such activity.
iv.

Definition of “underwriter”
In response to comments, the Agencies are adopting certain modifications to the

proposed definition of “underwriter” to better capture selling group members and to more
closely resemble the definition of “distribution participant” in Regulation M. In
particular, the Agencies are defining “underwriter” as: (i) a person who has agreed with

390

Under the “reverse inquiry” process, an investor may be allowed to purchase securities from the issuer
through an underwriter that is not designated in the prospectus as the issuer's agent by having such
underwriter approach the issuer with an interest from the investor. See Joseph McLaughlin and Charles J.
Johnson, Jr., “Corporate Finance and the Securities Laws” (4th ed. 2006, supplemented 2012).
391

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

114

an issuer or selling security holder to: (A) purchase securities from the issuer or selling
security holder for distribution; (B) engage in a distribution of securities for or on behalf
of the issuer or selling security holder; or (C) manage a distribution of securities for or on
behalf of the issuer or selling security holder; or (ii) a person who has agreed to
participate or is participating in a distribution of such securities for or on behalf of the
issuer or selling security holder. 392
A number of commenters requested that the Agencies broaden the underwriting
exemption to permit activities in connection with a distribution of securities by any
distribution participant. A few of these commenters interpreted the proposed definition
of “underwriter” as requiring a selling group member to have a written agreement with
the underwriter to participate in the distribution. 393 These commenters noted that such a
written agreement may not exist under all circumstances. The Agencies did not intend to
require that members of the underwriting syndicate or the lead underwriter have a written
agreement with all selling group members for each offering or that they be in privity of
contract with the issuer or selling security holder. To provide clarity on this issue, the
Agencies have modified the language of subparagraph (ii) of the definition to include
firms that, while not members of the underwriting syndicate, have agreed to participate or

392

See final rule §__.4(a)(4).

393

The basic documents in firm commitment underwritten securities offerings generally are: (i) the
agreement among underwriters, which establishes the relationship among the managing underwriter, any
co-managers, and the other members of the underwriting syndicate; (ii) the underwriting (or “purchase”)
agreement, in which the underwriters commit to purchase the securities from the issuer or selling security
holder; and (iii) the selected dealers agreement, in which selling group members agree to certain provisions
relating to the distribution. See Joseph McLaughlin and Charles J. Johnson, Jr., “Corporate Finance and the
Securities Laws” (4th ed. 2006, supplemented 2012), Ch. 2. The Agencies understand that two firms may
enter into a master agreement that governs all offerings in which both firms participate as members of the
underwriting syndicate or as a member of the syndicate and a selling group member. See, e.g., SIFMA
Master Selected Dealers Agreement (June 10, 2011), available at www.sifma.org.

115

are participating in a distribution of securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling
security holder.
The final rule does not adopt a narrower definition of “underwriter,” as suggested
by two commenters. 394 Although selling group members do not have a direct relationship
with the issuer or selling security holder, they do help facilitate the successful distribution
of securities to a wider variety of purchasers, such as regional or retail purchasers that
members of the underwriting syndicate may not be able to access as easily. Thus, the
Agencies believe it is consistent with the purpose of the statutory underwriting exemption
and beneficial to recognize and allow the current market practice of an underwriting
syndicate and selling group members collectively facilitating a distribution of securities.
The Agencies note that because banking entities that are selling group members will be
underwriters under the final rule, they will be subject to all the requirements of the
underwriting exemption.
As provided in the preamble to the proposed rule, engaging in the following
activities may indicate that a banking entity is acting as an underwriter under § __.4(a)(4)
as part of a distribution of securities:
•

Assisting an issuer in capital-raising;

•

Performing due diligence;

•

Advising the issuer on market conditions and assisting in the preparation
of a registration statement or other offering document;

•

Purchasing securities from an issuer, a selling security holder, or an
underwriter for resale to the public;

394

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.

116

•

Participating in or organizing a syndicate of investment banks;

•

Marketing securities; and

•

Transacting to provide a post-issuance secondary market and to facilitate
price discovery. 395

The Agencies continue to take the view that the precise activities performed by an
underwriter will vary depending on the liquidity of the securities being underwritten and
the type of distribution being conducted. A banking entity is not required to engage in
each of the above-noted activities to be considered an underwriter for purposes of this
rule. In addition, the Agencies note that, to the extent a banking entity does not meet the
definition of “underwriter” in the final rule, it may be able to rely on the market-making
exemption in the final rule for its trading activity. In response to comments noting that
APs for ETFs do not engage in certain of these activities and inquiring whether an AP
would be able to qualify for the underwriting exemption for certain of its activities, the
Agencies believe that many AP activities, such as conducting general creations and
redemptions of ETF shares, are better suited for analysis under the market-making
exemption because they are driven by the demands of other market participants rather
than the issuer, the ETF. 396 Whether an AP may rely on the underwriting exemption for
its activities in an ETF will depend on the facts and circumstances, including, among
other things, whether the AP meets the definition of “underwriter” and the offering of
ETF shares qualifies as a “distribution.”

395

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8352. Post-issuance secondary market
activity is expected to be conducted in accordance with the market-making exemption.
396

See infra Part IV.A.3.

117

To provide further clarity about the scope of the definition of “underwriter,” the
Agencies are defining the terms “selling security holder” and “issuer” in the final rule.
The Agencies are using the definition of “issuer” from the Securities Act because this
definition is commonly used in the context of securities offerings and is well understood
by market participants. 397 A “selling security holder” is defined as “any person, other
than an issuer, on whose behalf a distribution is made.” 398 This definition is consistent
with the definition of “selling security holder” found in the SEC’s Regulation M. 399
v.

Activities conducted “in connection with” a distribution
As discussed above, several commenters expressed concern that the proposed

underwriting exemption would not allow a banking entity to engage in certain auxiliary
activities that may be conducted in connection with acting as an underwriter for a
distribution of securities in the normal course. These commenters’ concerns generally
arose from the use of the word “solely” in § __.4(a)(2)(iii) of the proposed rule, which

397

See final rule § __.3(e)(9) (defining the term “issuer” for purposes of the proprietary trading provisions
in subpart B of the final rule). Under section 2(a)(4) of the Securities Act, “issuer” is defined as “every
person who issues or proposes to issue any security; except that with respect to certificates of deposit,
voting-trust certificates, or collateral-trust certificates, or with respect to certificates of interest or shares in
an unincorporated investment trust not having a board of directors (or persons performing similar
functions) or of the fixed, restricted management, or unit type, the term ‘issuer’ means the person or
persons performing the acts and assuming the duties of depositor or manager pursuant to the provisions of
the trust or other agreement or instrument under which such securities are issued; except that in the case of
an unincorporated association which provides by its articles for limited liability of any or all of its
members, or in the case of a trust, committee, or other legal entity, the trustees or members thereof shall not
be individually liable as issuers of any security issued by the association, trust, committee, or other legal
entity; except that with respect to equipment- trust certificates or like securities, the term ‘issuer’ means the
person by whom the equipment or property is or is to be used; and except that with respect to fractional
undivided interests in oil, gas, or other mineral rights, the term ‘issuer’ means the owner of any such right
or of any interest in such right (whether whole or fractional) who creates fractional interests therein for the
purpose of public offering.” 15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(4).
398

Final rule § __.4(a)(5).

399

See 17 CFR 242.100(b).

118

commenters noted was not included in the statute’s underwriting exemption. 400 In
addition, a number of commenters discussed particular activities they believed should be
permitted under the underwriting exemption and indicated the term “solely” created
uncertainty about whether such activities would be permitted. 401
To reduce uncertainty in response to comments, the final rule requires a trading
desk’s underwriting position to be “held … and managed … in connection with” a single
distribution for which the relevant banking entity is acting as an underwriter, rather than
requiring that a purchase or sale be “effected solely in connection with” such a
distribution. Importantly, for purposes of establishing an underwriting position in
reliance on the underwriting exemption, a trading desk may only engage in activities that
are related to a particular distribution of securities for which the banking entity is acting
as an underwriter. Activities that may be permitted under the underwriting exemption
include stabilization activities, 402 syndicate shorting and aftermarket short covering, 403
holding an unsold allotment when market conditions may make it impracticable to sell

400

See supra Part IV.A.2.c.1.b.iii.

401

See supra notes 357, 358, 363-372 and accompanying text.

402

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). See Anti-Manipulation Rules Concerning Securities
Offerings, Exchange Act Release No. 38067 (Dec. 20, 1996), 62 FR 520, 535 (Jan. 3, 1997) (“Although
stabilization is price-influencing activity intended to induce others to purchase the offered security, when
appropriately regulated it is an effective mechanism for fostering an orderly distribution of securities and
promotes the interests of shareholders, underwriters, and issuers.”).
403

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC; Goldman (Prop. Trading). See Proposed
Amendments to Regulation M: Anti-Manipulation Rules Concerning Securities Offerings, Exchange Act
Release No. 50831 (Dec. 9, 2004), 69 FR 75,774, 75,780 (Dec. 17, 2004) (“In the typical offering, the
syndicate agreement allows the managing underwriter to ‘oversell’ the offering, i.e., establish a short
position beyond the number of shares to which the underwriting commitment relates. The underwriting
agreement with the issuer often provides for an ‘overallotment option’ whereby the syndicate can purchase
additional shares from the issuer or selling shareholders in order to cover its short position. To the extent
that the syndicate short position is in excess of the overallotment option, the syndicate is said to have taken
an ‘uncovered’ short position. The syndicate short position, up to the amount of the overallotment option,
may be covered by exercising the option or by purchasing shares in the market once secondary trading
begins.”).

119

the entire allotment at a reasonable price at the time of the distribution and selling such
position when it is reasonable to do so, 404 and helping the issuer mitigate its risk exposure
arising from the distribution of its securities (e.g., entering into a call-spread option with
an issuer as part of a convertible debt offering to mitigate dilution to existing
shareholders). 405 Such activities should be intended to effectuate the distribution process
and provide benefits to issuers, selling security holders, or purchasers in the distribution.
Existing laws, regulations, and self-regulatory organization rules limit or place certain
requirements around many of these activities. For example, an underwriter’s subsequent
sale of an unsold allotment must comply with applicable provisions of the federal
securities laws and the rules thereunder. Moreover, any position resulting from these
activities must be included in the trading desk’s underwriting position, which is subject to
a number of restrictions in the final rule. Specifically, as discussed in more detail below,
the trading desk must make reasonable efforts to sell or otherwise reduce its underwriting
position within a reasonable period, 406 and each trading desk must have robust limits on,
among other things, the amount, types, and risks of its underwriting position and the
period of time a security may be held. 407 Thus, in general, the underwriting exemption
would not permit a trading desk, for example, to acquire a position as part of its
stabilization activities and hold that position for an extended period.

404

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC; BoA; BDA (Feb. 2012).

405

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC; Goldman (Prop. Trading).

406

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(ii); infra Part IV.A.2.c.2.c. (discussing the requirement to make reasonable
efforts to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting position).

407

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(iii)(B); infra Part IV.A.2.c.3.c. (discussing the required limits for trading
desks engaged in underwriting activity).

120

This approach does not mean that any activity that is arguably connected to a
distribution of securities is permitted under the underwriting exemption. Certain
activities noted by commenters are not core to the underwriting function and, thus, are
not permitted under the final underwriting exemption. However, a banking entity may be
able to rely on another exemption for such activities (e.g., the market-making or hedging
exemptions), if applicable. For example, a trading desk would not be able to use the
underwriting exemption to purchase a financial instrument from a customer to facilitate
the customer’s ability to buy securities in the distribution. 408 Further, purchasing another
financial instrument to help determine how to price the securities that are subject to a
distribution would not be permitted under the underwriting exemption. 409 These two
activities may be permitted under the market-making exemption, depending on the facts
and circumstances. In response to one commenter’s suggestion that hedging the
underwriter’s risk exposure be permissible under this exemption, the Agencies emphasize
that hedging the underwriter’s risk exposure is not permitted under the underwriting
exemption.410 A banking entity must comply with the hedging exemption for such
activity.

408

See Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading). The Agencies do not believe this activity is consistent with
underwriting activity because it could result in an underwriting desk holding a variety of positions over
time that are not directly related to a distribution of securities the desk is conducting on behalf of an issuer
or selling security holder. Further, the Agencies believe this activity may be more appropriately analyzed
under the market-making exemption because market makers generally purchase or sell a financial
instrument at the request of customers and otherwise routinely stand ready to purchase and sell a variety of
related financial instruments.
409

See id. The Agencies view this activity as inconsistent with underwriting because underwriters
typically engage in other activities, such as book-building and other marketing efforts, to determine the
appropriate price for a security and these activities do not involve taking positions that are unrelated to the
securities subject to distribution. See infra IV.A.2.c.2.

410

Although one commenter suggested that an underwriter’s hedging activity be permitted under the
underwriting exemption, we do not believe the requirements in the proposed hedging exemption would be

121

In response to comments about the sale of a security to an intermediate entity in
connection with a structured finance product, 411 the Agencies have not modified the
underwriting exemption. Underwriting is distinct from product development. Thus,
parties must adjust activities associated with developing structured finance products or
meet the terms of other available exemptions. Similarly, the accumulation of securities
or other assets in anticipation of a securitization or resecuritization is not an activity
conducted “in connection with” underwriting for purposes of the exemption. 412 This
activity is typically engaged in by an issuer or sponsor of a securitized product in that
capacity, rather than in the capacity of an underwriter. The underwriting exemption only
permits a banking entity’s activities when it is acting as an underwriter.

2.

Near term customer demand requirement

a.

Proposed near term customer demand requirement
Like the statute, § __.4(a)(2)(v) of the proposed rule required that the

underwriting activities of the banking entity with respect to the covered financial position

unworkable or overly burdensome in the context of an underwriter’s hedging activity. See Goldman (Prop.
Trading). As noted above, underwriting activity is of a relatively distinct nature, which is substantially
different from market-making activity, which is more dynamic and involves more frequent trading activity
giving rise to a variety of positions that may naturally hedge the risks of certain other positions. The
Agencies believe it is appropriate to require that a trading desk comply with the requirements of the
hedging exemption when it is hedging the risks of its underwriting position, while allowing a trading desk’s
market making-related hedging under the market-making exemption.
411

See ICI (Feb. 2012); AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Alfred Brock.

412

A banking entity may accumulate loans in anticipation of securitization because loans are not financial
instruments under the final rule. See supra Part IV.A.1.c.

122

be designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients,
customers, or counterparties. 413
b.

Comments regarding the proposed near term customer demand requirement
Both the statute and the proposed rule require a banking entity’s underwriting

activity to be “designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of
clients, customers, or counterparties.” 414 Several commenters requested that this standard
be interpreted in a flexible manner to allow a banking entity to participate in an offering
that may require it to retain an unsold allotment for a period of time. 415 In addition, one
commenter stated that the final rule should provide flexibility in this standard by
recognizing that the concept of “near term” differs between asset classes and depends on
the liquidity of the market. 416 Two commenters expressed views on how the near term
customer demand requirement should work in the context of a securitization or creating
what the commenters characterized as “structured products” or “structured
instruments.” 417
Many commenters expressed concern that the proposed requirement, if narrowly
interpreted, could prevent an underwriter from holding a residual position for which there

413

See proposed rule § __.4(a)(2)(v); Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8353.

414

See supra Part IV.A.2.c.2.a.

415

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); BoA; BDA (Feb. 2012); RBC. Another commenter
requested that this requirement be eliminated or changed to “underwriting activities of the banking entity
with respect to the covered financial position must be designed to meet the near-term demands of clients,
customers, or counterparties.” See Japanese Bankers Ass’n. .
416

See RBC (stating that the Board has found acceptable the retention of assets acquired in connection
with underwriting activities for a period of 90 to 180 days and has further permitted holding periods of up
to a year in certain circumstances, such as for less liquid securities).
417

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

123

is no immediate demand from clients, customers, or counterparties. 418 Commenters
noted that there are a variety of offerings that present some risk of an underwriter having
to hold a residual position that cannot be sold in the initial distribution, including “bought
deals,” 419 rights offerings, 420 and fixed-income offerings. 421 A few commenters noted
that similar scenarios can arise in the case of an AP creating more shares of an ETF than
it can sell 422 and bridge loans. 423 Two commenters indicated that if the rule does not
provide greater clarity and flexibility with respect to the near term customer demand
requirement, a banking entity may be less inclined to participate in a distribution where
there is the potential risk of an unsold allotment, may price such risk into the fees charged
to underwriting clients, or may be forced into a “fire sale” of the unsold allotment. 424

418

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); BoA; BDA (Feb. 2012); RBC.

419

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); BoA; RBC. These commenters generally stated that an
underwriter for a “bought deal” may end up with an unsold allotment because, pursuant to this type of
offering, an underwriter makes a commitment to purchase securities from an issuer or selling security
holder, without pre-commitment marketing to gauge customer interest, in order to provide greater speed
and certainty of execution. See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC.
420

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (representing that because an underwriter generally
backstops a rights offering by committing to exercise any rights not exercised by shareholders, the
underwriter may end up holding a residual portion of the offering if investors do not exercise all of the
rights).
421

See BDA (Feb. 2012). This commenter stated that underwriters frequently underwrite bonds in the
fixed-income market knowing that they may need to retain unsold allotments in their inventory. The
commenter indicated that this scenario arises because the fixed-income market is not as deep as other
markets, so underwriters frequently cannot sell bonds when they go to market; instead, the underwriters
will retain the bonds until a sufficient amount of liquidity is available in the market. See id.
422

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); BoA.

423

See BoA; RBC; LSTA (Feb. 2012). One of these commenters stated that, in the case of securities
issued in lieu of or to refinance bridge loan facilities, market conditions or investor demand may change
during the period of time between extension of the bridge commitment and when the bridge loan is required
to be funded or such securities are required to be issued. As a result, this commenter requested that the
near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties be measured at the time of the initial extension
of the bridge commitment. See LSTA (Feb. 2012).

424

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC.

124

Several other commenters provided views on whether a banking entity should be
able to hold a residual position from an offering pursuant to the underwriting exemption,
although they did not generally link their comments to the proposed near term demand
requirement. 425 Many of these commenters expressed concern about permitting a
banking entity to retain a portion of an underwriting and noted potential risks that may
arise from such activity. 426 For example, some of these commenters stated that retention
or warehousing of underwritten securities can be an indication of impermissible
proprietary trading intent (particularly if systematic), or may otherwise result in high-risk
exposures or conflicts of interests. 427 One of these commenters recommended the
Agencies use a metric to monitor the size of residual positions retained by an
underwriter, 428 while another commenter suggested adding a requirement to the proposed
exemption to provide that a “substantial” unsold or retained allotment would be an
indication of prohibited proprietary trading. 429 Similarly, one commenter recommended
that the Agencies consider whether there are sufficient provisions in the proposed rule to
reduce the risks posed by banking entities retaining or warehousing underwritten
instruments, such as subprime mortgages, collateralized debt obligation tranches, and

425

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); CalPERS; Occupy; Public Citizen; Goldman (Prop. Trading); Fidelity;
Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Alfred Brock.

426

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); CalPERS; Occupy; Public Citizen; Alfred Brock.

427

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) (recognizing, however, that a small portion of an underwriting may
occasionally be “hung”); CalPERS; Occupy (stating that a banking entity’s retention of unsold allotments
may result in potential conflicts of interest).

428

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

429

See Occupy (stating that the meaning of the term “substantial” would depend on the circumstances of
the particular offering).

125

high yield debt of leveraged buyout issuers, which poses heightened financial risk at the
top of economic cycles. 430
Other commenters indicated that undue restrictions on an underwriter’s ability to
retain a portion of an offering may result in certain harms to the capital-raising process.
These commenters represented that unclear or negative treatment of residual positions
will make banking entities averse to the risk of an unsold allotment, which may result in
banking entities underwriting smaller offerings, less capital generation for issuers, or
higher underwriting discounts, which would increase the cost of raising capital for
businesses. 431 One of these commenters suggested that a banking entity be permitted to
hold a residual position under the underwriting exemption as long as it continues to take
reasonable steps to attempt to dispose of the residual position in light of existing market
conditions. 432
In addition, in response to a question in the proposal, one commenter expressed
the view that the rule should not require documentation with respect to residual positions
held by an underwriter. 433 In the case of securitizations, one commenter stated that if the
underwriter wishes to retain some of the securities or bonds in its longer-term investment
book, such decisions should be made by a separate officer, subject to different standards
and compensation. 434

430

See CalPERS.

431

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Fidelity (expressing concern that this may result in a more concentrated
supply of securities and, thus, decrease the opportunity for diversification in the portfolios of shareholders’
funds).

432

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

433

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.

434

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

126

Two commenters discussed how the near term customer demand requirement
should apply in the context of a banking entity acting as an underwriter for a
securitization or structured product. 435 One of these commenters indicated that the near
term demand requirement should be interpreted to require that a distribution of securities
facilitate pre-existing client demand. This commenter stated that a banking entity should
not be considered to meet the terms of the proposed requirement if, on the firm’s own
initiative, it designs and structures a complex, novel instrument and then seeks customers
for the instrument, while retaining part of the issuance on its own book. The commenter
further emphasized that underwriting should involve two-way demand – clients who want
assistance in marketing their securities and customers who may wish to purchase the
securities – with the banking entity serving as an intermediary. 436 Another commenter
indicated that an underwriting should likely be seen as a distribution of all, or nearly all,
of the securities related to a securitization (excluding any amount required for credit risk
retention purposes) along a time line designed not to exceed reasonably expected near
term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties. According to the commenter, this
approach would serve to minimize the arbitrage and risk concentration possibilities that
can arise through the securitization and sale of some tranches and the retention of other
tranches. 437
One commenter expressed concern that the proposed near term customer demand
requirement may impact a banking entity’s ability to act as primary dealer because some

435

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

436

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012)

437

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

127

primary dealers are obligated to bid on each issuance of a government’s sovereign debt,
without regard to expected customer demand. 438 Two other commenters expressed
general concern that the proposed underwriting exemption may be too narrow to permit
banking entities that act as primary dealers in or for foreign jurisdictions to continue to
meet the relevant jurisdiction’s primary dealer requirements. 439
c.

Final near term customer demand requirement
The final rule requires that the amount and types of the securities in the trading

desk’s underwriting position be designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term
demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, and reasonable efforts be made to sell or
otherwise reduce the underwriting position within a reasonable period, taking into
account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant type of
security. 440 As noted above, the near term demand standard originates from section
13(d)(1)(B) of the BHC Act, and a similar requirement was included in the proposed
rule. 441 The Agencies are making certain modifications to the proposed approach in
response to comments.

438

See Banco de México.

439

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); IIB/EBF. One of these commenters represented that
many banking entities serve as primary dealers in jurisdictions in which they operate, and primary dealers
often: (i) are subject to minimum purchase and other obligations in the jurisdiction’s foreign sovereign
debt; (ii) play important roles in underwriting and market making in State, provincial, and municipal debt
issuances; and (iii) act as intermediaries through which a government’s financial and monetary policies
operate. This commenter stated that, due to these considerations, restrictions on the ability of banking
entities to act as primary dealer are likely to harm the governments they serve. See IIB/EBF.
440

Final rule § __.4(a)(2)(ii).

441

The proposed rule required the underwriting activities of the banking entity with respect to the covered
financial position to be designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients,
customers, or counterparties. See proposed rule § __.4(a)(2)(v).

128

In particular, the Agencies are clarifying the operation of this requirement,
particularly with respect to unsold allotments.442 Under this requirement, a trading desk
must have a reasonable expectation of demand from other market participants for the
amount and type of securities to be acquired from an issuer or selling security holder for
distribution.443 Such reasonable expectation may be based on factors such as current
market conditions and prior experience with similar offerings of securities. A banking
entity is not required to engage in book-building or similar marketing efforts to determine
investor demand for the securities pursuant to this requirement, although such efforts may
form the basis for the trading desk’s reasonable expectation of demand. While an issuer
or selling security holder can be considered to be a client, customer, or counterparty of a
banking entity acting as an underwriter for its distribution of securities, this requirement
cannot be met by accounting solely for the issuer’s or selling security holder’s desire to
sell the securities. 444 However, the expectation of demand does not require a belief that

442

See supra Part IV.A.2.c.2.b. (discussing commenters’ concerns that the proposed near term customer
demand requirement may limit a banking entity’s ability to retain an unsold allotment).
443

A banking entity may not structure a complex instrument on its own initiative using the underwriting
exemption. It may use the underwriting exemption only with respect to distributions of securities that
comply with the final rule. The Agencies believe this requirement addresses one commenter’s concern that
a banking entity could rely on the underwriting exemption without regard to anticipated customer demand.
See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) In addition, a trading desk hedging the risks of an underwriting position in a
complex, novel instrument must comply with the hedging exemption in the final rule.
444

An issuer or selling security holder for purposes of this rule may include, among others, corporate
issuers, sovereign issuers for which the banking entity acts as primary dealer (or functional equivalent), or
any other person that is an issuer, as defined in final rule § __.3(e)(9), or a selling security holder, as
defined in final rule § __.4(a)(5). The Agencies believe that the underwriting exemption in the final rule
should generally allow a primary dealer (or functional equivalent) to act as an underwriter for a sovereign
government’s issuance of its debt because, similar to other underwriting activities, this involves a banking
entity agreeing to distribute securities for an issuer (in this case, the foreign sovereign) and engaging in a
distribution of such securities. See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); IIB/EBF; Banco de México.
A banking entity acting as primary dealer (or functional equivalent) may also be able to rely on the marketmaking exemption or other exemptions for some of its activities. See infra Part IV.A.3.c.2.c. The final rule
defines “client, customer, or counterparty” for purposes of the underwriting exemption as “market
participants that may transact with the banking entity in connection with a particular distribution for which
the banking entity is acting as underwriter.” Final rule § __.4(a)(7).

129

the securities will be placed immediately. The time it takes to carry out a distribution
may differ based on the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the type of
security. 445
This requirement is not intended to prevent a trading desk from distributing an
offering over a reasonable time consistent with market conditions or from retaining an
unsold allotment of the securities acquired from an issuer or selling security holder where
holding such securities is necessary due to circumstances such as less-than-expected
purchaser demand at a given price. 446 An unsold allotment is, however, subject to the

445

One commenter stated that, in the case of a securitization, an underwriting should be Seen as a
distribution of all, or nearly all, of the securities related to a securitization (excluding the amount required
for credit risk retention purposes) along a time line designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near
term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties. See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012). The final
rule’s near term customer demand requirement considers the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for
the type of security and recognizes that the amount of time a trading desk may need to hold an underwriting
position may vary based on these factors. The final rule does not, however, adopt a standard that applies
differently based solely on the particular type of security being distributed (e.g., an asset-backed security
versus an equity security) or that precludes certain types of securities from being distributed by a banking
entity acting as an underwriter in accordance with the requirements of this exemption because the Agencies
believe the statute is best read to permit a banking entity to engage in underwriting activity to facilitate
distributions of securities by issuers and selling security holders, regardless of type, to provide clientoriented financial services. That reading is consistent with the statute’s language and finds support in the
legislative history. See 156 Cong. Rec. S5895-S5896 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley)
(stating that the underwriting exemption permits “transactions that are technically trading for the account of
the firm but, in fact, facilitate the provision of near-term client-oriented financial services”). In addition,
with respect to this commenter’s statement regarding credit risk retention requirements, the Agencies note
that compliance with the credit risk retention requirements of Section 15G of the Exchange Act would not
impact the availability of the underwriting exemption in the final rule.
446

This approach should help address commenters’ concerns that an inflexible interpretation of the near
term demand requirement could result in fire sales, higher fees for underwriting services, or reluctance to
act as an underwriter for certain types of distributions that present a greater risk of unsold allotments. See
SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC. Further, the Agencies believe this should reduce
commenters’ concerns that, to the extent a delayed distribution of securities, which are acquired as a result
of an outstanding bridge loan, is able to qualify for the underwriting exemption, a stringent interpretation of
the near term demand requirement could prevent a banking entity from retaining such securities if market
conditions are suboptimal or marketing efforts are not entirely successful. See RBC; BoA; LSTA (Feb.
2012). In response to one commenter’s request that the Agencies allow a banking entity to assess near term
demand at the time of the initial extension of the bridge commitment, the Agencies believe it could be
appropriate to determine whether the banking entity has a reasonable expectation of demand from other
market participants for the amount and type of securities to be acquired at that time, but note that the
trading desk would continue to be subject to the requirement to make reasonable efforts to sell the resulting

130

requirement to make reasonable efforts to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting
position. 447 The definition of “underwriting position” includes, among other things, any
residual position from the distribution that is managed by the trading desk. The final rule
includes the requirement to make reasonable efforts to sell or otherwise reduce the
trading desk’s underwriting position in order to respond to comments on the issue of
when a banking entity may retain an unsold allotment when it is acting as an underwriter,
as discussed in more detail below, and ensure that the exemption is available only for
activities that involve underwriting activities, and not prohibited proprietary trading. 448
As a general matter, commenters expressed differing views on whether an
underwriter should be permitted to hold an unsold allotment for a certain period of time
underwriting position at the time of the initial distribution and for the remaining time the securities are in
its inventory. See LSTA (Feb. 2012).
447

The Agencies believe that requiring a trading desk to make reasonable efforts to sell or otherwise
reduce its underwriting position addresses commenters’ concerns about the risks associated with unsold
allotments or the retention of underwritten instruments because this requirement is designed to prevent a
trading desk from retaining an unsold allotment for speculative purposes when there is customer buying
interest for the relevant security at commercially reasonable prices. Thus, the Agencies believe this
obviates the need for certain additional requirements suggested by commenters. See, e.g., Occupy; AFR et
al. (Feb. 2012); CalPERS. The final rule strikes an appropriate balance between the concerns raised by
these commenters and those noted by other commenters regarding the potential market impacts of strict
requirements against holding an unsold allotment, such as higher fees to underwriting clients, fire sales of
unsold allotments, or general reluctance to participate in any distribution that presents a risk of an unsold
allotment. The requirement to make reasonable efforts to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting position
should not cause the market impacts predicted by these commenters because it does not prevent an
underwriter from retaining an unsold allotment for a reasonable period or impose strict holding period
limits on unsold allotments. See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); Fidelity.
448

This approach is generally consistent with one commenter’s suggested approach to addressing the issue
of unsold allotments. See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading) (suggesting that a banking entity be permitted to
hold a residual position under the underwriting exemption as long as it continues to take reasonable steps to
attempt to dispose of the residual position in light of existing market conditions). In addition, allowing an
underwriter to retain an unsold allotment under certain circumstances is consistent with the proposal. See
Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867 (“There may be circumstances in which an underwriter would hold
securities that it could not sell in the distribution for investment purposes. If the acquisition of such unsold
securities were in connection with the underwriting pursuant to the permitted underwriting activities
exemption, the underwriter would also be able to dispose of such securities at a later time.”); CFTC
Proposal, 77 FR at 8352. A number of commenters raised questions about whether the rule would permit
retaining an unsold allotment. See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Fidelity; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012); BoA; RBC; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); CalPERS; Occupy; Public Citizen; Alfred Brock.

131

after the initial distribution. For example, a few commenters suggested that limitations
on retaining an unsold allotment would increase the cost of raising capital 449 or would
negatively impact certain types of securities offerings (e.g., bought deals, rights offerings,
and fixed-income offerings). 450 Other commenters, however, expressed concern that the
proposed exemption would allow a banking entity to retain a portion of a distribution for
speculative purposes. 451
The Agencies believe the requirement to make reasonable efforts to sell or
otherwise reduce the underwriting position appropriately addresses both sets of
comments. More specifically, this standard clarifies that an underwriter generally may
retain an unsold allotment that it was unable to sell to purchasers as part of the initial
distribution of securities, provided it had a reasonable expectation of buying interest and
engaged in reasonable selling efforts. 452 This should reduce the potential for the negative
impacts of a more stringent approach predicted by commenters, such as increased fees for
underwriting, greater costs to businesses for raising capital, and potential fire sales of
unsold allotments. 453 However, to address concerns that a banking entity may retain an
unsold allotment for purely speculative purposes, the Agencies are requiring that
reasonable efforts be made to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting position, which
includes any unsold allotment, within a reasonable period. The Agencies agree with
449

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Fidelity.

450

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); BoA; RBC.

451

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); CalPERS; Occupy; Public Citizen; Alfred Brock.

452

To the extent that an AP for an ETF is able to meet the terms of the underwriting exemption for its
activity, it may be able to retain ETF shares that it created if it had a reasonable expectation of buying
interest in the ETF shares and engages in reasonable efforts to sell the ETF shares. See SIFMA et al. (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012); BoA.
453

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Fidelity; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC.

132

these commenters that systematic retention of an underwriting position, without engaging
in efforts to sell the position and without regard to whether the trading desk is able to sell
the securities at a commercially reasonable price, would be indicative of impermissible
proprietary trading intent. 454 The Agencies recognize that the meaning of “reasonable
period” may differ based on the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the
relevant type of securities. For example, an underwriter may be more likely to retain an
unsold allotment in a bond offering because liquidity in the fixed-income market is
generally not as deep as that in the equity market. If a trading desk retains an
underwriting position for a period of time after the distribution, the trading desk must
manage the risk of its underwriting position in accordance with its inventory and risk
limits and authorization procedures. As discussed above, hedging transactions
undertaken in connection with such risk management activities must be conducted in
compliance with the hedging exemption in § __.5 of the final rule.
The Agencies emphasize that the requirement to make reasonable efforts to sell or
otherwise reduce the underwriting position applies to the entirety of the trading desk’s
underwriting position. As a result, this requirement applies to a number of different
scenarios in which an underwriter may hold a long or short position in the securities that
are the subject of a distribution for a period of time. For example, if an underwriter is
facilitating a distribution of securities for which there is sufficient investor demand to
purchase the securities at the offering price, this requirement would prevent the
underwriter from retaining a portion of the allotment for its own account instead of
selling the securities to interested investors. If instead there was insufficient investor
454

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); CalPERS; Occupy.

133

demand at the time of the initial offering, this requirement would recognize that it may be
appropriate for the underwriter to hold an unsold allotment for a reasonable period of
time. Under these circumstances, the underwriter would need to make reasonable efforts
to sell the unsold allotment when there is sufficient market demand for the securities. 455
This requirement would also apply in situations where the underwriters sell securities in
excess of the number of securities to which the underwriting commitment relates,
resulting in a syndicate short position in the same class of securities that were the subject
of the distribution. 456 This provision of the final exemption would require reasonable
efforts to reduce any portion of the syndicate short position attributable to the banking
entity that is acting as an underwriter. Such reduction could be accomplished if, for
example, the managing underwriter exercises an overallotment option or shares are
purchased in the secondary market to cover the short position.
The near term demand requirement, including the requirement to make reasonable
efforts to reduce the underwriting position, represents a new regulatory requirement for
banking entities engaged in underwriting. At the margins, this requirement could alter
the participation decision for some banking entities with respect to certain types of
distributions, such as distributions that are more likely to result in the banking entity
retaining an underwriting position for a period of time. 457 However, the Agencies

455

The trading desk’s retention and sale of the unsold allotment must comply with the federal securities
laws and regulations, but is otherwise permitted under the underwriting exemption.
456

See supra note 403.

457

For example, some commenters suggested that the proposed underwriting exemption could have a
chilling effect on banking entities’ willingness to engage in underwriting activities. See, e.g., Lord Abbett;
Fidelity. Further, some commenters expressed concern that the proposed near term customer demand
requirement might negatively impact certain forms of capital-raising if the requirement is interpreted
narrowly or inflexibly. See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); BoA; BDA (Feb. 2012); RBC.

134

recognize that liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market vary across types of securities,
and the Agencies expect that the express recognition of these differences in the rule
should help mitigate any incentive to exit the underwriting business for certain types of
securities or types of distributions.
3.

Compliance program requirement

a.

Proposed compliance program requirement
Section __.4(a)(2)(i) of the proposed exemption required a banking entity to

establish an internal compliance program, as required by § __.20 of the proposed rule,
that is designed to ensure the banking entity’s compliance with the requirements of the
underwriting exemption, including reasonably designed written policies and procedures,
internal controls, and independent testing. 458 This requirement was proposed so that any
banking entity relying on the underwriting exemption would have reasonably designed
written policies and procedures, internal controls, and independent testing in place to
support its compliance with the terms of the exemption. 459
b.

Comments on the proposed compliance program requirement
Commenters did not directly address the proposed compliance program

requirement in the underwriting exemption. Comments on the proposed compliance
program requirement of § __.20 of the proposed rule are discussed in Part IV.C., below.

458

See proposed rule § __.4(a)(2)(i).

459

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,866; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8352.

135

c.

Final compliance program requirement
The final rule includes a compliance program requirement that is similar to the

proposed requirement, but the Agencies are making certain enhancements to emphasize
the importance of a strong internal compliance program. More specifically, the final rule
requires that a banking entity’s compliance program specifically include reasonably
designed written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis and independent
testing 460 identifying and addressing: (i) the products, instruments or exposures each
trading desk may purchase, sell, or manage as part of its underwriting activities; 461 (ii)
limits for each trading desk, based on the nature and amount of the trading desk’s
underwriting activities, including the reasonably expected near term demands of clients,
customers, or counterparties; 462 (iii) internal controls and ongoing monitoring and
analysis of each trading desk’s compliance with its limits; 463 and (iv) authorization
procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade
that would exceed one or more of a trading desk’s limits, demonstrable analysis of the
basis for any temporary or permanent increase to one or more of a trading desk’s limits,
and independent review (i.e., by risk managers and compliance officers at the appropriate
level independent of the trading desk) of such demonstrable analysis and approval. 464

460

The independent testing standard is discussed in more detail in Part IV.C., which discusses the
compliance program requirement in § __.20 of the final rule.
461

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(iii)(A).

462

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(iii)(B). A trading desk must have limits on the amount, types, and risk of the
securities in its underwriting position, level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its
underwriting position, and period of time a security may be held. See id.
463

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(iii)(C).

464

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(iii)(D).

136

As noted above, the proposed compliance program requirement did not include
the four specific elements listed above in the proposed underwriting exemption, although
each of these provisions was included in some form in the detailed compliance program
requirement under Appendix C of the proposed rule. 465 The Agencies are moving these
particular requirements, with certain enhancements, into the underwriting exemption
because the Agencies believe these are core elements of a program to ensure compliance
with the underwriting exemption. These compliance procedures must be established,
implemented, maintained, and enforced for each trading desk engaged in underwriting
activity under § __.4(a) of the final rule. Each of the requirements in paragraphs
(a)(2)(iii)(A) through (D) must be appropriately tailored to the individual trading
activities and strategies of each trading desk.
The compliance program requirement in the underwriting exemption is
substantially similar to the compliance program requirement in the market-making
exemption, except that the Agencies are requiring more detailed risk management
procedures in the market-making exemption due to the nature of that activity. 466 The
Agencies believe including similar compliance program requirements in the underwriting
and market-making exemptions may reduce burdens associated with building and
maintaining compliance programs for each trading desk.

465

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,963-68,967 (requiring certain banking entities to establish, maintain,
and enforce compliance programs with, among other things: (i) written policies and procedures that
describe a trading unit’s authorized instruments and products; (ii) internal controls for each trading unit,
including risk limits for each trading unit and surveillance procedures; and (iii) a management framework,
including management procedures for overseeing compliance with the proposed rule).
466

See final rule §§ __.4(a)(2)(iii), __.4(b)(2)(iii).

137

Identifying in the compliance program the relevant products, instruments, and
exposures in which a trading desk is permitted to trade will facilitate monitoring and
oversight of compliance with the underwriting exemption. For example, this requirement
should prevent an individual trader on an underwriting desk from establishing positions
in instruments that are unrelated to the desk’s underwriting function. Further, the
identification of permissible products, instruments, and exposures will help form the
basis for the specific types of position and risk limits that the banking entity must
establish and is relevant to considerations throughout the exemption regarding the
liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant type of security.
A trading desk must have limits on the amount, types, and risk of the securities in
its underwriting position, level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its
underwriting position, and period of time a security may be held. Limits established
under this provision, and any modifications to these limits made through the required
escalation procedures, must account for the nature and amount of the trading desk’s
underwriting activities, including the reasonably expected near term demands of clients,
customers, or counterparties. Among other things, these limits should be designed to
prevent a trading desk from systematically retaining unsold allotments even when there is
customer demand for the positions that remain in the trading desk’s inventory. The
Agencies recognize that trading desks’ limits may differ across types of securities and
acknowledge that trading desks engaged in underwriting activities in less liquid
securities, such as corporate bonds, may require different inventory, risk exposure, and
holding period limits than trading desks engaged in underwriting activities in more liquid
securities, such as certain equity securities. A trading desk hedging the risks of an

138

underwriting position must comply with the hedging exemption, which provides for
compliance procedures regarding risk management. 467
Furthermore, a banking entity must establish internal controls and ongoing
monitoring and analysis of each trading desk’s compliance with its limits, including the
frequency, nature, and extent of a trading desk exceeding its limits.468 This may include
the use of management and exception reports. Moreover, the compliance program must
set forth a process for determining the circumstances under which a trading desk’s limits
may be modified on a temporary or permanent basis (e.g., due to market changes).
As noted above, a banking entity’s compliance program for trading desks engaged
in underwriting activity must also include escalation procedures that require review and
approval of any trade that would exceed one or more of a trading desk’s limits,
demonstrable analysis that the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to one or
more of a trading desk’s limits is consistent with the near term customer demand
requirement, and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval. 469
Thus, to increase a limit of a trading desk, there must be an analysis of why such increase
would be appropriate based on the reasonably expected near term demands of clients,
customers, or counterparties, which must be independently reviewed. A banking entity
also must maintain documentation and records with respect to these elements, consistent
with the requirement of § __.20(b)(6).

467

See final rule § __.5.

468

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(iii)(C).

469

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(iii)(D).

139

As discussed in more detail in Part IV.C., the Agencies recognize that the
compliance program requirements in the final rule will impose certain costs on banking
entities but, on balance, the Agencies believe such requirements are necessary to facilitate
compliance with the statute and the final rule and to reduce the risk of evasion. 470
4.

Compensation requirement

a.

Proposed compensation requirement
Another provision of the proposed underwriting exemption required that the

compensation arrangements of persons performing underwriting activities at the banking
entity must be designed not to encourage proprietary risk-taking. 471 In connection with
this requirement, the proposal clarified that although a banking entity relying on the
underwriting exemption may appropriately take into account revenues resulting from
movements in the price of securities that the banking entity underwrites to the extent that
such revenues reflect the effectiveness with which personnel have managed underwriting
risk, the banking entity should provide compensation incentives that primarily reward
client revenues and effective client service, not proprietary risk-taking. 472
b.

Comments on the proposed compensation requirement
A few commenters expressed general support for the proposed requirement, but

suggested certain modifications that they believed would enhance the requirement and

470

See Part IV.C. (discussing the compliance program requirement in § __.20 of the final rule).

471

See proposed rule § __.4(a)(2)(vii); Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,868; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8353.

472

See id.

140

make it more effective. 473 Specifically, one commenter suggested tailoring the
requirement to underwriting activity by, for example, ensuring that personnel involved in
underwriting are given compensation incentives for the successful distribution of
securities off the firm’s balance sheet and are not rewarded for profits associated with
securities that are not successfully distributed (although losses from such positions should
be taken into consideration in determining the employee’s compensation). This
commenter further recommended that bonus compensation for a deal be withheld until all
or a high percentage of the relevant securities are distributed. 474 Finally, one commenter
suggested that the term “designed” should be removed from this provision. 475
c.

Final compensation requirement
Similar to the proposed rule, the underwriting exemption in the final rule requires

that the compensation arrangements of persons performing the banking entity’s
underwriting activities, as described in the exemption, be designed not to reward or
incentivize prohibited proprietary trading. 476 The Agencies do not intend to preclude an
employee of an underwriting desk from being compensated for successful underwriting,
which involves some risk-taking.
Consistent with the proposal, activities for which a banking entity has established
a compensation incentive structure that rewards speculation in, and appreciation of, the
market value of securities underwritten by the banking entity are inconsistent with the
473

See Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Better Markets (Feb. 2012).

474

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

475

See Occupy.

476

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(iv); proposed rule § __.4(a)(2)(vii). This is consistent with the final
compensation requirements in the market-making and hedging exemptions. See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(v);
final rule § __.5(b)(3).

141

underwriting exemption. A banking entity may, however, take into account revenues
resulting from movements in the price of securities that the banking entity underwrites to
the extent that such revenues reflect the effectiveness with which personnel have
managed underwriting risk. The banking entity should provide compensation incentives
that primarily reward client revenues and effective client services, not prohibited
proprietary trading. For example, a compensation plan based purely on net profit and
loss with no consideration for inventory control or risk undertaken to achieve those
profits would not be consistent with the underwriting exemption.
The Agencies are not adopting an approach that prevents an employee from
receiving any compensation related to profits arising from an unsold allotment, as
suggested by one commenter, because the Agencies believe the final rule already
includes sufficient controls to prevent a trading desk from intentionally retaining an
unsold allotment to make a speculative profit when such allotment could be sold to
customers. 477 The Agencies also are not requiring compensation to be vested for a period
of time, as recommended by one commenter to reduce traders’ incentives for undue risktaking. The Agencies believe the final rule includes sufficient controls around risk-taking
activity without a compensation vesting requirement because a banking entity must
establish limits for a trading desk’s underwriting position and the trading desk must make
reasonable efforts to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting position within a
reasonable period. 478 The Agencies continue to believe it is appropriate to focus on the
design of a banking entity’s compensation structure, so the Agencies are not removing
477

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); supra Part IV.A.2.c.2.c. (discussing the requirement to make reasonable
efforts to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting position).
478

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

142

the term “designed” from this provision. 479 This retains an objective focus on actions
that the banking entity can control – the design of its incentive compensation program –
and avoids a subjective focus on whether an employee feels incentivized by
compensation, which may be more difficult to assess. In addition, the framework of the
final compensation requirement will allow banking entities to better plan and control the
design of their compensation arrangements, which should reduce costs and uncertainty
and enhance monitoring, than an approach focused solely on individual outcomes.
5.

Registration requirement

a.

Proposed registration requirement
Section __.4(a)(2)(iv) of the proposed rule would have required that a banking

entity have the appropriate dealer registration or be exempt from registration or excluded
from regulation as a dealer to the extent that, in order to underwrite the security at issue, a
person must generally be a registered securities dealer, municipal securities dealer, or
government securities dealer. 480 Further, if the banking entity was engaged in the
business of a dealer outside the United States in a manner for which no U.S. registration
is required, the proposed rule would have required the banking entity to be subject to
substantive regulation of its dealing business in the jurisdiction in which the business is
located.

479

See Occupy.

480

See proposed rule § __.4(a)(2)(iv); Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8353.
The proposal clarified that, in the case of a financial institution that is a government securities dealer, such
institution must have filed notice of that status as required by section 15C(a)(1)(B) of the Exchange Act.
See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8353.

143

b.

Comments on proposed registration requirement
Commenters generally did not address the proposed dealer requirement in the

underwriting exemption. However, as discussed below in Part IV.A.3.c.2.b., a number of
commenters addressed a similar requirement in the proposed market-making exemption.
c.

Final registration requirement
The requirement in § __.4(a)(2)(vi) of the underwriting exemption, which

provides that the banking entity must be licensed or registered to engage in underwriting
activity in accordance with applicable law, is substantively similar to the proposed dealer
registration requirement in § __.4(a)(2)(iv) of the proposed rule. The primary difference
between the proposed requirement and the final requirement is that the Agencies have
simplified the language of the rule. The Agencies have also made conforming changes to
the corresponding requirement in the market-making exemption to promote consistency
across the exemptions, where appropriate. 481
As was proposed, this provision will require a U.S. banking entity to be an SECregistered dealer in order to rely on the underwriting exemption in connection with a
distribution of securities – other than exempted securities, security-based swaps,
commercial paper, bankers acceptances or commercial bills – unless the banking entity is
exempt from registration or excluded from regulation as a dealer. 482 To the extent that a
banking entity relies on the underwriting exemption in connection with a distribution of

481

See Part IV.A.3.c.6. (discussing the registration requirement in the market-making exemption).

482

For example, if a banking entity is a bank engaged in underwriting asset-backed securities for which it
would be required to register as a securities dealer but for the exclusion contained in section 3(a)(5)(C)(iii)
of the Exchange Act, the final rule would not require the banking entity to be a registered securities dealer
to underwrite the asset-backed securities. See 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)(C)(iii).

144

municipal securities or government securities, rather than the exemption in § __.6(a) of
the final rule, this provision may require the banking entity to be registered or licensed as
a municipal securities dealer or government securities dealer, if required by applicable
law. However, this provision does not require a banking entity to register in order to
qualify for the underwriting exemption if the banking entity is not otherwise required to
register by applicable law.
The Agencies have determined that, for purposes of the underwriting exemption,
rather than require a banking entity engaged in the business of a securities dealer outside
the United States to be subject to substantive regulation of its dealing business in the
jurisdiction in which the business is located, a banking entity’s dealing activity outside
the U.S. should only be subject to licensing or registration provisions if required under
applicable foreign law (provided no U.S. registration or licensing requirements apply to
the banking entity’s activities). In response to comments, the final rule recognizes that
certain foreign jurisdictions may not provide for substantive regulation of dealing
businesses. 483 The Agencies do not believe it is necessary to preclude banking entities
from engaging in underwriting activities in such foreign jurisdictions to achieve the goals
of section 13 of the BHC Act because these banking entities would continue to be subject
to the other requirements of the underwriting exemption.

483

See infra Part IV.A.3.c.6.c. (discussing comments on this issue with respect to the proposed dealer
registration requirement in the market-making exemption).

145

6.

Source of revenue requirement

a.

Proposed source of revenue requirement
Under § __.4(a)(2)(vi) of the proposed rule, the underwriting activities of a

banking entity would have been required to be designed to generate revenues primarily
from fees, commissions, underwriting spreads, or other income not attributable to
appreciation in the value of covered financial positions or hedging of covered financial
positions.484 The proposal clarified that underwriting spreads would include any “gross
spread” (i.e., the difference between the price an underwriter sells securities to the public
and the price it purchases them from the issuer) designed to compensate the underwriter
for its services. 485 This requirement provided that activities conducted in reliance on the
underwriting exemption should demonstrate patterns of revenue generation and
profitability consistent with, and related to, the services an underwriter provides to its
customers in bringing securities to market, rather than changes in the market value of the
underwritten securities. 486
b.

Comments on the proposed source of revenue requirement
A few commenters requested certain modifications to the proposed source of

revenue requirement. These commenters’ suggested revisions were generally intended
either to refine the standard to better account for certain activities or to make it more

484

See proposed rule § __.4(a)(2)(vi); Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867-68,868; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at
8353.
485

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867-68,868 n.142; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8353 n.148.

486

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,867-68,868; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8353.

146

stringent. 487 Three commenters expressed concern that the proposed source of revenue
requirement would negatively impact a banking entity’s ability to act as a primary dealer
or in a similar capacity. 488
With respect to suggested modifications, one commenter recommended that
“customer revenue” include revenues attributable to syndicate activities, hedging
activities, and profits and losses from sales of residual positions, as long as the
underwriter makes a reasonable effort to dispose of any residual position in light of
existing market conditions. 489 Another commenter indicated that the rule would better
address securitization if it required compensation to be linked in part to risk minimization
for the securitizer and in part to serving customers. This commenter suggested that such
a framework would be preferable because, in the context of securitizations, fee-based
compensation structures did not previously prevent banking entities from accumulating
large and risky positions with significant market exposure. 490
To strengthen the proposed requirement, one commenter requested that the terms
“designed” and “primarily” be removed and replaced by the word “solely.” 491 Two other
commenters requested that this requirement be interpreted to prevent a banking entity

487

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Occupy; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

488

See Banco de México (stating that primary dealers need to profit from resulting proprietary positions in
foreign sovereign debt, including by holding significant positions in anticipation of future price
movements, in order to make the primary dealer business financially attractive); IIB/EBF (noting that
primary dealers may actively seek to profit from price and interest rate movements of their holdings, which
the relevant sovereign entity supports because such activity provides much-needed liquidity for securities
that are otherwise largely purchased pursuant to buy-and-hold strategies by institutional investors and other
entities seeking safe returns and liquidity buffers); Japanese Bankers Ass’n.
489

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

490

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

491

See Occupy (requesting that the rule require automatic disgorgement of any profits arising from
appreciation in the value of positions in connection with underwriting activities).

147

from acting as an underwriter for a distribution of securities if such securities lack a
discernible and sufficiently liquid pre-existing market and a foreseeable market price. 492
c.

Final rule’s approach to assessing source of revenue
The Agencies believe the final rule includes sufficient controls around an

underwriter’s source of revenue and have determined not to adopt the additional
requirement included in proposed rule § __.4(a)(2)(vi). The Agencies believe that
removing this requirement addresses commenters’ concerns that the proposed
requirement did not appropriately reflect certain revenue sources from underwriting
activity493 or may impact primary dealer activities. 494 At the same time, the final rule
continues to include provisions that focus on whether an underwriter is generating
underwriting-related revenue and that should limit an underwriter’s ability to generate
revenues purely from price appreciation. In particular, the requirement to make
reasonable efforts to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting position within a
reasonable period, which was not included in the proposed rule, should limit an
underwriter’s ability to gain revenues purely from price appreciation related to its
underwriter position. Similarly, the determination of whether an underwriter receives
special compensation for purposes of the definition of “distribution” takes into account
whether a banking entity is generating underwriting-related revenue.
The final rule does not adopt a requirement that prevents an underwriter from
generating any revenue from price appreciation out of concern that such a requirement

492

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.

493

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

494

See Banco de México; IIB/EBF; Japanese Bankers Ass’n.

148

could prevent an underwriter from retaining an unsold allotment under any
circumstances, which would be inconsistent with other provisions of the exemption. 495
Similarly, the Agencies are not adopting a source of revenue requirement that would
prevent a banking entity from acting as underwriter for a distribution of securities if such
securities lack a discernible and sufficiently liquid pre-existing market and a foreseeable
market price, as suggested by two commenters. 496 The Agencies believe these
commenters’ concern is mitigated by the near term demand requirement, which requires a
trading desk to have a reasonable expectation of demand from other market participants
for the amount and type of securities to be acquired from an issuer or selling security
holder for distribution. 497 Further, one commenter recommended a revenue requirement
directed at securitization activities to prevent banking entities from accumulating large
and risky positions with significant market exposure. 498 The Agencies believe the
requirement to make reasonable efforts to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting
position should achieve this stated goal and, thus, the Agencies do not believe an
additional revenue requirement for securitization activity is needed. 499
3.
a.

Section __.4(b): Market-Making Exemption

Introduction

495

See Occupy; supra Part IV.A.2.c.2. (discussing comments on unsold allotments and the requirement in
the final rule to make reasonable efforts to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting position).
496

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.

497

See supra Part IV.A.2.c.2.

498

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

499

See final rule § __.4(a)(2)(ii). Further, as noted above, this exemption does not permit the accumulation
of assets for securitization. See supra Part IV.A.2.c.1.c.v.

149

In adopting the final rule, the Agencies are striving to balance two goals of
section 13 of the BHC Act: to allow market making, which is important to wellfunctioning markets as well as to the economy, and simultaneously to prohibit proprietary
trading, unrelated to market making or other permitted activities, that poses significant
risks to banking entities and the financial system. In response to comments on the
proposed market-making exemption, the Agencies are adopting certain modifications to
the proposed exemption to better account for the varying characteristics of market
making-related activities across markets and asset classes, while requiring that banking
entities maintain a robust set of risk controls for their market making-related activities. A
flexible approach to this exemption is appropriate because the activities a market maker
undertakes to provide important intermediation and liquidity services will differ based on
the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for a given type of financial instrument.
The statute specifically permits banking entities to continue to provide these beneficial
services to their clients, customers, and counterparties. 500 Thus, the Agencies are
adopting an approach that recognizes the full scope of market making-related activities
banking entities currently undertake and requires that these activities be subject to clearly
defined, verifiable, and monitored risk parameters.
b.

Overview

500

As discussed in Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.i., infra, the terms “client,” “customer,” and “counterparty” are
defined in the same manner in the final rule. Thus, the Agencies use these terms synonymously throughout
this discussion and sometimes use the term “customer” to refer to all entities that meet the definition of
“client, customer, and counterparty” in the final rule’s market-making exemption.

150

1.

Proposed market-making exemption
Section 13(d)(1)(B) of the BHC Act provides an exemption from the prohibition

on proprietary trading for the purchase, sale, acquisition, or disposition of securities,
derivatives, contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, and options on any of
the foregoing in connection with market making-related activities, to the extent that such
activities are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of
clients, customers, or counterparties. 501
Section __.4(b) of the proposed rule would have implemented this statutory
exemption by requiring that a banking entity’s market making-related activities comply
with seven standards. As discussed in the proposal, these standards were designed to
ensure that any banking entity relying on the exemption would be engaged in bona fide
market making-related activities and, further, would conduct such activities in a way that
was not susceptible to abuse through the taking of speculative, proprietary positions as a
part of, or mischaracterized as, market making-related activities. The Agencies proposed
to use additional regulatory and supervisory tools in conjunction with the proposed
market-making exemption, including quantitative measurements for banking entities
engaged in significant covered trading activity in proposed Appendix A, commentary on
how the Agencies proposed to distinguish between permitted market making-related
activity and prohibited proprietary trading in proposed Appendix B, and a compliance
regime in proposed § __.20 and, where applicable, Appendix C of the proposal. This

501

12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(B).

151

multi-faceted approach was intended to address the complexities of differentiating
permitted market making-related activities from prohibited proprietary trading. 502
2.

Comments on the proposed market-making exemption
The Agencies received significant comment regarding the proposed market-

making exemption. In this Part, the Agencies highlight the main issues, concerns, and
suggestions raised by commenters with respect to the proposed market-making
exemption. As discussed in greater detail below, commenters’ views on the effectiveness
of the proposed exemption varied. Commenters discussed a broad range of topics related
to the proposed market-making exemption including, among others: the overall scope of
the proposed exemption and potential restrictions on market making in certain markets or
asset classes; the potential market impact of the proposed market-making exemption; the
appropriate level of analysis for compliance with the proposed exemption; the
effectiveness of the individual requirements of the proposed exemption; and specific
activities that should or should not be considered permitted market making-related
activity under the rule.
a.

Comments on the overall scope of the proposed exemption
With respect to the general scope of the exemption, a number of commenters

expressed concern that the proposed approach to implementing the market-making
exemption is too narrow or restrictive, particularly with respect to less liquid markets.
These commenters expressed concern that the proposed exemption would not be
workable in many markets and asset classes and does not take into account how market-

502

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,869; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8354-8355.

152

making services are provided in those markets and asset classes. 503 Some commenters
expressed particular concern that the proposed exemption may restrict or limit certain
activities currently conducted by market makers (e.g., holding inventory or interdealer
trading). 504 Several commenters stated that the proposed exemption would create too
much uncertainty regarding compliance 505 and, further, may have a chilling effect on
banking entities’ market making-related activities. 506 Due to the perceived restrictions
and burdens of the proposed exemption, many commenters indicated that the rule may

503

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (stating that the proposed exemption “seems to
view market making based on a liquid, exchange-traded equity model in which market makers are simple
intermediaries akin to agents” and that “[t]his view does not fit market making even in equity markets and
widely misses the mark for the vast majority of markets and asset classes”); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb.
2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); ICI (Feb. 2012); BoA; Columbia Mgmt.; Comm. on Capital Markets
Regulation; Invesco; ASF (Feb. 2012) (“The seven criteria in the proposed rule, and the related criterion for
identifying permitted hedging, are overly restrictive and will make it impractical for dealers to continue
making markets in most securitized products.”); Chamber (Feb. 2012) (expressing particular concern about
the commercial paper market).
504

Several commenters stated that the proposed rule would limit a market maker’s ability to maintain
inventory. See, e.g., NASP; Oliver Wyman (Dec. 2011); Wellington; Prof. Duffie; Standish Mellon;
MetLife; Lord Abbett; NYSE Euronext; CIEBA; British Columbia; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012); Shadow Fin. Regulatory Comm.; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Morgan Stanley; Goldman (Prop. Trading);
BoA; STANY; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012); IRSG; Abbott Labs et al. (Feb.
14, 2012); Abbott Labs et al. (Feb. 21, 2012); Australian Bankers Ass’n. (Feb. 2012); FEI; ASF (Feb.
2012); RBC; PUC Texas; Columbia Mgmt.; SSgA (Feb. 2012); PNC et al.; Fidelity; ICI (Feb. 2012);
British Bankers’ Ass’n.; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; IHS; Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012); Thakor
Study (stating that by artificially constraining the security holdings that a banking entity can have in its
inventory for market making or proprietary trading purposes, section 13 of the BHC Act will make bank
risk management less efficient and may adversely impact the diversified financial services business model
of banks). However, some commenters stated that market makers should seek to minimize their inventory
or should not need large inventories. See, e.g., AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Johnson & Prof.
Stiglitz. Other commenters expressed concern that the proposed rule could limit interdealer trading. See,
e.g., Prof. Duffie; Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; Morgan Stanley; Goldman (Prop. Trading); Chamber
(Feb. 2012); Oliver Wyman (Dec. 2011).
505

See, e.g., BlackRock; Putnam; Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; ACLI (Feb. 2012); MetLife;
IAA; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); T. Rowe Price; Sen. Bennet; Sen. Corker; PUC Texas; Fidelity; ICI
(Feb. 2012); Invesco.
506

See, e.g., Wellington; Prof. Duffie; Standish Mellon; Commissioner Barnier; NYSE Euronext; BoA;
Citigroup (Feb. 2012); STANY; ICE; Chamber (Feb. 2012); BDA (Feb. 2012); Putnam; FTN; Fixed
Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; ACLI (Feb. 2012); IAA; CME Group; Capital Group; PUC Texas;
Columbia Mgmt.; SSgA (Feb. 2012); Eaton Vance; ICI (Feb. 2012); Invesco; Comm. on Capital Markets
Regulation; Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); Thakor Study.

153

change the way in which market-making services are provided. 507 A number of
commenters expressed the view that the proposed exemption is inconsistent with
Congressional intent because it would restrict and reduce banking entities’ current market
making-related activities. 508
Other commenters, however, stated that the proposed exemption was too broad
and recommended that the rule place greater restrictions on market making, particularly
in illiquid, nontransparent markets. 509 Many of these commenters suggested that the
exemption should only be available for traditional market-making activity in relatively
safe, “plain vanilla” instruments. 510 Two commenters represented that the proposed
exemption would have little to no impact on banking entities’ current market makingrelated services. 511
Commenters expressed differing views regarding the ease or difficulty of
distinguishing permitted market making-related activity from prohibited proprietary

507

For example, some commenters stated that market makers may revert to an agency or “special order”
model. See, e.g., Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); ACLI (Feb. 2012); Vanguard; RBC. In addition,
some commenters stated that new systems will be developed, such as alternative market matching
networks, but these commenters disagreed about whether such changes would happen in the near term.
See, e.g., CalPERS; BlackRock; Stuyvesant; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation. Other commenters
stated that it is unlikely that new systems will be developed. See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012). One commenter stated that the proposed rule may cause a banking
organization that engages in significant market-making activity to give up its banking charter or spin off its
market-making operations to avoid compliance with the proposed exemption. See Prof. Duffie.
508

See, e.g., NASP; Wellington; JPMC; Morgan Stanley; Credit Suisse (Seidel); BoA; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); Citigroup (Feb. 2012); STANY; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012);
Putnam; ICI (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); NYSE Euronext; Sen. Corker; Invesco.
509

See, e.g., Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb.
2012); Public Citizen; Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz.
510

See, e.g., Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb.
2012); Public Citizen.
511

See Occupy (“[I]t is unclear that this rule, as written, will markedly alter the current customer-serving
business. Indeed, this rule has gone to excessive lengths to protect the covered banking entities’ ability to
maintain responsible customer-facing business.”); Alfred Brock.

154

trading. A number of commenters represented that it is difficult or impossible to
distinguish prohibited proprietary trading from permitted market making-related
activity. 512 With regard to this issue, several commenters recommended that the
Agencies not try to remove all aspects of proprietary trading from market making-related
activity because doing so would likely restrict certain legitimate market-making
activity. 513
Other commenters were of the view that it is possible to differentiate between
prohibited proprietary trading and permitted market making-related activity. 514 For
example, one commenter stated that, while the analysis may involve subtle distinctions,
the fundamental difference between a banking entity’s market-making activities and
proprietary trading activities is the emphasis in market making on seeking to meet
customer needs on a consistent and reliable basis throughout a market cycle. 515
According to another commenter, holding substantial securities in a trading book for an
extended period of time assumes the character of a proprietary position and, while there
may be occasions when a customer-oriented purchase and subsequent sale extend over

512

See, e.g., Rep. Bachus et al.; IIF; Morgan Stanley (stating that beyond walled-off proprietary trading,
the line is hard to draw, particularly because both require principal risk-taking and the features of market
making vary across markets and asset classes and become more pronounced in times of market stress);
CFA Inst. (representing that the distinction is particularly difficult in the fixed-income market); ICFR; Prof.
Duffie; WR Hambrecht.
513

See, e.g., Chamber (Feb. 2012) (citing an article by Stephen Breyer stating that society should not
expend disproportionate resources trying to reduce or eliminate “the last 10 percent” of the risks of a
certain problem); JPMC; RBC; ICFR; Sen. Hagan. One of these commenters indicated that any concerns
that banking entities would engage in speculative trading as a result of an expansive market-making
exemption would be addressed by other reform initiatives (e.g., Basel III implementation will provide
laddered disincentives to holding positions as principal as a result of capital and liquidity requirements).
See RBC.
514

See Wellington; Paul Volcker; Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Occupy.

515

See Wellington.

155

days and cannot be more quickly executed or hedged, substantial holdings of this
character should be relatively rare and limited to less liquid markets. 516
Several commenters expressed general concern that the proposed exemption may
be applied on a transaction-by-transaction basis and explained the burdens that may result
from such an approach. 517 Commenters appeared to attribute these concerns to language
in the proposed exemption referring to a “purchase or sale of a [financial instrument]” 518
or to language in Appendix B indicating that the Agencies may assess certain factors and
criteria at different levels, including a “single significant transaction.” 519 With respect to
the burdens of a transaction-by-transaction analysis, some commenters noted that
banking entities can engage in a large volume of market-making transactions daily, which
would make it burdensome to apply the exemption to each trade. 520 A few commenters
indicated that, even if the Agencies did not intend to require transaction-by-transaction
analysis, the proposed rule’s language can be read to imply such a requirement. These
commenters indicated that ambiguity on this issue could have a chilling effect on market
making or could allow some examiners to rigidly apply the requirements of the

516

See Paul Volcker.

517

See Wellington; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); HSBC;
Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; ACLI (Feb. 2012); PUC Texas; ERCOT; Invesco. See also IAA
(stating that it is unclear whether the requirements must be applied on a transaction-by-transaction basis or
if compliance with the requirements is based on overall activities). This issue is addressed in Part
IV.A.3.c.1.c., infra.
518

See, e.g., Barclays; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). As explained above, the term “covered
financial position” from the proposal has been replaced by the term “financial instrument” in the final rule.
Because the types of instruments included in both definitions are identical, the term “financial instrument”
is used throughout this Part.
519

See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading); Wellington.

520

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Barclays (stating that “hundreds or thousands of
trades can occur in a single day in a single trading unit”).

156

exemption on a trade-by-trade basis. 521 Other commenters indicated that it would be
difficult to determine whether a particular trade was or was not a market-making trade
without consideration of the relevant unit’s overall activities. 522 One commenter
elaborated on this point by stating that “an analysis that seeks to characterize specific
transactions as either market making…or prohibited activity does not accord with the
way in which modern trading units operate, which generally view individual positions as
a bundle of characteristics that contribute to their complete portfolio.” 523 This
commenter noted that a position entered into as part of market making-related activities
may serve multiple functions at one time, such as responding to customer demand,
hedging a risk, and building inventory. The commenter also expressed concern that
individual transactions or positions may not be severable or separately identifiable as
serving a market-making purpose. 524 Two commenters suggested that the requirements
in the market-making exemption be applied at the portfolio level rather than the trade
level. 525
Moreover, commenters also set forth their views on the organizational level at
which the requirements of the proposed market-making exemption should apply. 526 The
proposed exemption generally applied requirements to a “trading desk or other
organizational unit” of a banking entity. In response to this proposed approach,
521

See, e.g., ICI (Feb. 2012); Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading).

522

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading).

523

SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

524

See id. (suggesting that the Agencies “give full effect to the statutory intent to allow market making by
viewing the permitted activity on a holistic basis”).
525

See ACLI (Feb. 2012); Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable.

526

See Wellington; Morgan Stanley; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); ACLI (Feb. 2012); Fixed
Income Forum/Credit Roundtable. The Agencies address this topic in Part IV.A.3.c.1.c., infra.

157

commenters stated that compliance should be assessed at each trading desk or
aggregation unit 527 or at each trading unit. 528
Several commenters suggested alternative or additive means of implementing the
statutory exemption for market making-related activity. 529 Commenters’ recommended
approaches varied, but a number of commenters requested approaches involving one or
more of the following elements: (i) safe harbors, 530 bright lines, 531 or presumptions of
compliance with the exemption based on the existence of certain factors (e.g., compliance
program, metrics, general customer focus or orientation, providing liquidity, and/or
exchange registration as a market maker); 532 (ii) a focus on metrics or other objective

527

See Wellington. This commenter did not provide greater specificity about how it would define “trading
desk” or “aggregation unit.” See id.
528

See Morgan Stanley (stating that “trading unit” should be defined as “each organizational unit that is
used to structure and control the aggregate risk-taking activities and employees that are engaged in the
coordinated implementation of a customer-facing revenue generation strategy and that participate in the
execution of any covered trading activity”); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). One of these
commenters discussed its suggested definition of “trading unit” in the context of the proposed requirement
to record and report certain quantitative measurements, but it is unclear that the commenter was also
suggesting that this definition be used for purposes of the market-making exemption. For example, this
commenter expressed support for a multi-level approach to defining “trading unit,” and it is not clear how a
definition that captures multiple organizational levels across a banking organization would work in the
context of the market-making exemption. See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (suggested that
“trading unit” be defined “at a level that presents its activities in the context of the whole” and noting that
the appropriate level may differ depending on the structure of the banking entity).
529

See, e.g., Wellington; Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Prof. Duffie; IR&M; G2 FinTech; MetLife; NYSE
Euronext; Anthony Flynn and Koral Fusselman; IIF; CalPERS; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012);
Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Shadow Fin. Regulatory Comm.; John Reed; Prof. Richardson; Credit
Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; Morgan Stanley; Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA; Citigroup (Feb. 2012);
STANY; ICE; BlackRock; Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; ACLI (Feb.
2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); WR Hambrecht; Vanguard; Capital Group; PUC Texas; SSgA (Feb.
2012); PNC et al.; Fidelity; Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Invesco; ISDA (Feb. 2012); Stephen Roach;
Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012). The Agencies respond to these comments in Part IV.A.3.b.3., infra.
530

See, e.g., Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); John Reed; Prof. Richardson; Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz;
Capital Group; Invesco; BDA (Feb. 2012) (Oct. 2012) (suggesting a safe harbor for any trading desk that
effects more than 50 percent of its transactions through sales representatives).
531

See, e.g., Flynn & Fusselman; Prof. Colesanti et al.

532

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); IIF; NYSE Euronext; Credit Suisse (Seidel);
JPMC; Barclays; BoA; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading) (suggesting that the rule: (i) provide a general grant of
authority to engage in any transactions entered into as part of a banking entity's market-making business,

158

factors; 533 (iii) guidance on permitted market making-related activity, rather than rule
requirements; 534 (iv) risk management structures and/or risk limits; 535 (v) adding a new
customer-facing criterion or focusing on client-related activities; 536 (vi) capital and
liquidity requirements; 537 (vii) development of individualized plans for each banking
entity, in coordination with regulators; 538 (viii) ring fencing affiliates engaged in market
making-related activity; 539 (ix) margin requirements; 540 (x) a compensation-focused
approach; 541 (xi) permitting all swap dealing activity; 542 (xii) additional provisions
regarding material conflicts of interest and high-risk assets and trading strategies; 543
and/or (xiii) making the exemption as broad as possible under the statute. 544

where “market making” is defined as “the business of being willing to facilitate customer purchases and
sales of [financial instruments] as an intermediary over time and in size, including by holding positions in
inventory;” and (ii) allow banking entities to monitor compliance with this exemption internally through
their compliance and risk management infrastructure); PNC et al.; Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012).
533

See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading); Morgan Stanley; Barclays; Wellington; CalPERS; BlackRock;
SSgA (Feb. 2012); Invesco.
534

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (suggesting that this guidance could be incorporated
in banking entities’ policies and procedures for purposes of complying with the rule, in addition to the
establishment of risk limits, controls, and metrics); JPMC; BoA; PUC Texas; SSgA (Feb. 2012); PNC et
al.; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).
535

See, e.g., Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Citigroup (Feb. 2012).

536

See, e.g., Morgan Stanley; Stephen Roach.

537

See, e.g., Prof. Duffie; CalPERS; STANY; ICE; Vanguard; Capital Group.

538

See MetLife; Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; ACLI (Feb. 2012).

539

See, e.g., Prof. Duffie; Shadow Fin. Regulatory Comm. See also Wedbush.

540

See WR Hambrecht.

541

See G2 FinTech.

542

See ISDA (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Apr. 2012).

543

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012) (stating that the exemption should expressly mention the
conflicts provision and provide examples to warn against particular conflicts, such as recommending clients
buy poorly performing assets in order to remove them from the banking entity’s book or attempting to
move market prices in favor of trading positions a banking entity has built up in order to make a profit);
Stephen Roach (suggesting that the exemption integrate the limitations on permitted activities).
544

See Fidelity (stating that the exemption needs to be as broad as possible to account for customer-facing
principal trades, block trades, and market making in OTC derivatives). See also STANY (stating that it is
better to make the exemption too broad than too narrow).

159

b.

Comments regarding the potential market impact of the proposed exemption
As discussed above, several commenters stated that the proposed rule would

impact a banking entity’s ability to engage in market making-related activity. Many of
these commenters represented that, as a result, the proposed exemption would likely
result in reduced liquidity, 545 wider bid-ask spreads, 546 increased market volatility, 547
reduced price discovery or price transparency, 548 increased costs of raising capital or
higher financing costs, 549 greater costs for investors or consumers, 550 and slower

545

See, e.g., AllianceBernstein; Rep. Bachus et al. (Dec. 2011); EMTA; NASP; Wellington; Japanese
Bankers Ass’n.; Sen. Hagan; Prof. Duffie; Investure; Standish Mellon; IR&M; MetLife; Lord Abbett;
Commissioner Barnier; Quebec; IIF; Sumitomo Trust; Liberty Global; NYSE Euronext; CIEBA; EFAMA;
SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; Morgan Stanley; Barclays;
Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); STANY; ICE; BlackRock; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.)
(Feb. 2012); BDA (Feb. 2012); Putnam; Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; Western Asset Mgmt.;
ACLI (Feb. 2012); IAA; CME Group; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); Abbott Labs et al. (Feb. 14, 2012);
Abbott Labs et al. (Feb. 21, 2012); T. Rowe Price; Australian Bankers Ass’n. (Feb. 2012); FEI; AFMA;
Sen. Carper et al.; PUC Texas; ERCOT; IHS; Columbia Mgmt.; SSgA (Feb. 2012); PNC et al.; Eaton
Vance; Fidelity; ICI (Feb. 2012); British Bankers’ Ass’n.; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; Union
Asset; Sen. Casey; Oliver Wyman (Dec. 2011); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012) (providing estimated impacts
on asset valuation, borrowing costs, and transaction costs in the corporate bond market based on
hypothetical liquidity reduction scenarios); Thakor Study. The Agencies respond to comments regarding
the potential market impact of the rule in Part IV.A.3.b.3., infra.
546

See, e.g., AllianceBernstein; Wellington; Investure; Standish Mellon; MetLife; Lord Abbett; Barclays;
Goldman (Prop. Trading); Citigroup (Feb. 2012); BlackRock; Putnam; ACLI (Feb. 2012); Abbott Labs et
al. (Feb. 14, 2012); Abbott Labs et al. (Feb. 21, 2012); T. Rowe Price; Sen. Carper et al.; IHS; Columbia
Mgmt.; ICI (Feb. 2012) British Bankers’ Ass’n.; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; Thakor Study
(stating that section 13 of the BHC Act will likely result in higher bid-ask spreads by causing at least some
retrenchment of banks from market making, resulting in fewer market makers and less competition).
547

See, e.g., Wellington; Prof. Duffie; Standish Mellon; Lord Abbett; IIF; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading)
(Feb. 2012); Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); BDA (Feb. 2012); IHS; FTN; IAA; Wells Fargo (Prop.
Trading); T. Rowe Price; Columbia Mgmt.; SSgA (Feb. 2012); Eaton Vance; British Bankers’ Ass’n.;
Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation.
548

See, e.g., Prof. Duffie (arguing that, for example, “during the financial crisis of 2007-2009, the reduced
market making capacity of major dealer banks caused by their insufficient capital levels resulted in
dramatic downward distortions in corporate bond prices”); IIF; Barclays; IAA; Vanguard; Wellington;
FTN.
549

See, e.g., AllianceBernstein; Chamber (Dec. 2011); Members of Congress (Dec. 2011); Wellington;
Sen. Hagan; Prof. Duffie; IR&M; MetLife; Lord Abbett; Liberty Global; NYSE Euronext; SIFMA et al.
(Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); NCSHA; ASF (Feb. 2012) (stating that “[f]ailure to permit the activities
necessary for banking entities to act in [a] market-making capacity [in asset-backed securities] would have
a dramatic adverse effect on the ability of securitizers to access the asset-backed securities markets and thus

160

execution times. 551 Some commenters expressed particular concern about potential
impacts on institutional investors (e.g., mutual funds and pension funds) 552 or on small or
midsized companies. 553 A number of commenters discussed the interrelationship

to obtain the debt financing necessary to ensure a vibrant U.S. economy” ); Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC;
Morgan Stanley; Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); STANY; BlackRock;
Chamber (Feb. 2012); IHS; BDA (Feb. 2012); Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; ACLI (Feb. 2012);
Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); Abbott Labs et al. (Feb. 14, 2012); Abbott Labs et al. (Feb. 21, 2012); T.
Rowe Price; FEI; AFMA; SSgA (Feb. 2012); PNC et al.; ICI (Feb. 2012); British Bankers’ Ass’n.; Oliver
Wyman (Dec. 2011); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012); GE (Feb. 2012); Thakor Study (stating that when a firm’s
cost of capital goes up, it invests less—resulting in lower economic growth and lower employment—and
citing supporting data indicating that a 1 percent increase in the cost of capital would lead to a $55 to $82.5
billion decline in aggregate annual capital spending by U.S. nonfarm firms and job losses between 550,000
and 1.1 million per year in the nonfarm sector). One commenter further noted that a higher cost of capital
can lead a firm to make riskier, short-term investments. See Thakor Study.
550

See, e.g., Wellington; Standish Mellon; IR&M; MetLife; Lord Abbett; NYSE Euronext; CIEBA;
Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); STANY; ICE; BlackRock; Fixed Income
Forum/Credit Roundtable; ACLI (Feb. 2012); IAA; Abbott Labs et al. (Feb. 14, 2012); Abbott Labs et al.
(Feb. 21, 2012); T. Rowe Price; Vanguard; Australian Bankers Ass’n. (Feb. 2012); FEI; Sen. Carper et al.;
Columbia Mgmt.; SSgA (Feb. 2012); ICI (Feb. 2012); Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; TMA Hong
Kong; Sen. Casey; IHS; Oliver Wyman (Dec. 2011); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012); Thakor Study.
551

See, e.g., Barclays; FTN; Abbott Labs et al. (Feb. 14, 2012); Abbott Labs et al. (Feb. 21, 2012).

552

See, e.g., AllianceBernstein (stating that, to the extent the rule reduces liquidity provided by market
makers, open end mutual funds that are largely driven by the need to respond to both redemptions and
subscriptions will be immediately impacted in terms of higher trading costs); Wellington (indicating that
periods of extreme market stress are likely to exacerbate costs and challenges, which could force investors
such as mutual funds and pension funds to accept distressed prices to fund redemptions or pay current
benefits); Lord Abbett (stating that certain factors, such as reduced bank capital to support market-making
businesses and economic uncertainty, have already reduced liquidity and caused asset managers to have an
increased preference for highly liquid credits and expressing concern that, if section 13 of the BHC Act
further reduces liquidity, then: (i) asset managers’ increased preference for highly liquid credit could lead
to unhealthy portfolio concentrations, and (ii) asset managers will maintain a larger cash cushion in
portfolios that may be subject to redemption, which will likely result in investors getting poorer returns);
EFAMA; BlackRock (stating that investment decisions are heavily dependent on a liquidity factor input, so
as liquidity dissipates, investment strategies become more limited and returns to investors are diminished
by wider spreads and higher transaction costs); CFA Inst. (noting that a mutual fund that tries to liquidate
holdings to meet redemptions may have difficulty selling at acceptable prices, thus impairing the fund’s
NAV for both redeeming investors and for those that remain in the fund); Putnam; Fixed Income
Forum/Credit Roundtable; ACLI; T. Rowe Price; Vanguard; IAA; FEI; Sen. Carper et al.; Columbia
Mgmt.; ICI (Feb. 2012); Invesco; Union Asset; Standish Mellon; Morgan Stanley; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.)
(Feb. 2012).
553

See, e.g., CIEBA (stating that for smaller issuers in particular, market makers need to have incentives to
make markets, and the proposal removes important incentives); ACLI (indicating that lower liquidity will
most likely result in higher costs for issuers of debt and, for lesser known or lower quality issuers, this cost
may be significant and in some cases prohibitive because the cost will vary depending on the credit quality
of the issuer, the amount of debt it has in the market, and the maturity of the security); PNC et al.
(expressing concern that a regional bank’s market-making activity for small and middle market customers
is more likely to be inappropriately characterized as impermissible proprietary trading due to lower trading

161

between primary and secondary market activity and indicated that restrictions on market
making would impact the underwriting process. 554
A few commenters expressed the view that reduced liquidity would not
necessarily be a negative result. 555 For example, two commenters noted that liquidity is
vulnerable to liquidity spirals, in which a high level of market liquidity during one period
feeds a sharp decline in liquidity during the next period by initially driving asset prices
upward and supporting increased leverage. The commenters explained that liquidity
spirals lead to “fire sales” by market speculators when events reveal that assets are
overpriced and speculators must sell their assets to reduce their leverage. 556 According to
another commenter, banking entities’ access to the safety net allows them to distort
market prices and, arguably, produce excess liquidity. The commenter further
represented that it would be preferable to allow the discipline of the market to choose the
pricing of securities and the amount of liquidity. 557 Some commenters cited an economic
study indicating that the U.S. financial system has become less efficient in generating
economic growth in recent years, despite increased trading volumes. 558

volume involving less liquid securities); Morgan Stanley; Chamber (Feb. 2012); Abbott Labs et al. (Feb.
14, 2012); Abbott Labs et al. (Feb. 21, 2012); FEI; ICI (Feb. 2012); TMA Hong Kong; Sen. Casey.
554

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; RBC; NYSE Euronext; Credit Suisse (Seidel).

555

See, e.g., Paul Volcker; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Prof. Richardson; Johnson & Prof.
Stiglitz; Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Prof. Johnson.
556

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen. See also Paul Volcker (stating that at some point, greater
liquidity, or the perception of greater liquidity, may encourage more speculative trading).

557

See Prof. Richardson.

558

See, e.g., Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz (citing Thomas Phillippon, Has the U.S. Finance Industry Become
Less Efficient?, NYU Working Paper, Nov. 2011); AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Better Markets
(Feb. 2012); Prof. Johnson.

162

Some commenters stated that it is unlikely the proposed rule would result in the
negative market impacts identified above, such as reduced market liquidity. 559 For
example, a few commenters stated that other market participants, who are not subject to
section 13 of the BHC Act, may enter the market or increase their trading activities to
make up for any reduction in banking entities’ market-making activity or other trading
activity. 560 For instance, one of these commenters suggested that the revenue and profits
from market making will be sufficient to attract capital and competition to that activity. 561
In addition, one commenter expressed the view that prohibiting proprietary trading may
support more liquid markets by ensuring that banking entities focus on providing
liquidity as market makers, rather than taking liquidity from the market in the course of
“trading to beat” institutional buyers like pension funds, university endowments, and
mutual funds. 562 Another commenter stated that, while section 13 of the BHC Act may
temporarily reduce trading volume and excessive liquidity at the peak of market bubbles,

559

See, e.g., Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012) (stating that there is no convincing, independent evidence
that the rule would increase trading costs or reduce liquidity, and the best evidence available suggests that
the buy-side firms would greatly benefit from the competitive pressures that transparency can bring); Better
Markets (Feb. 2012) (“Industry’s claim that [section 13 of the BHC Act] will ‘reduce market liquidity,
capital formation, and credit availability, and thereby hamper economic growth and job creation’ disregard
the fact that the financial crisis did more damage to those concerns than any rule or reform possibly
could.”); Profs. Stout & Hastings; Prof. Johnson; Occupy; Public Citizen; Profs. Admati & Pfleiderer;
Better Markets (June 2012); AFR et al. (Feb. 2012). One commenter stated that the proposed rule would
improve market liquidity, efficiency, and price transparency. See Alfred Brock.
560

See, e.g., Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Prof. Richardson; Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Profs.
Stout & Hastings; Prof. Johnson; Occupy; Public Citizen; Profs. Admati & Pfleiderer; Better Markets (June
2012). Similarly, one commenter indicated that non-banking entity market participants could fill the
current role of banking entities in the market if implementation of the rule is phased in. See ACLI (Feb.
2012).
561

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012).

562

See Prof. Johnson.

163

it should increase the long-run stability of the financial system and render genuine
liquidity and credit availability more reliable over the long term. 563
Other commenters, however, indicated that it is uncertain or unlikely that nonbanking entities will enter the market or increase their trading activities, particularly in
the short term. 564 For example, one commenter noted the investment that banking entities
have made in infrastructure for trading and compliance would take smaller or new firms
years and billions of dollars to replicate. 565 Another commenter questioned whether
other market participants, such as hedge funds, would be willing to dedicate capital to
fully serving customer needs, which is required to provide ongoing liquidity. 566 One
commenter stated that even if non-banking entities move in to replace lost trading activity
from banking entities, the value of the current interdealer network among market makers
will be reduced due to the exit of banking entities. 567 Several commenters expressed the
view that migration of market making-related activities to firms outside the banking
system would be inconsistent with Congressional intent and would have potentially
adverse consequences for the safety and soundness of the U.S. financial system. 568

563

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

564

See, e.g., Wellington; Prof. Duffie; Investure; IIF; Liberty Global; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; Morgan Stanley; Barclays; BoA; STANY; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.)
(Feb. 2012); FTN; Western Asset Mgmt.; IAA; PUC Texas; ICI (Feb. 2012); IIB/EBF; Invesco. In
addition, some commenters recognized that other market participants are likely to fill banking entities’
roles in the long term, but not in the short term. See, e.g., ICFR; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation;
Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012).
565

See Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012) (“Major bank-affiliated market makers have large capital bases, balance
sheets, technology platforms, global operations, relationships with clients, sales forces, risk infrastructure,
and management processes that would take smaller or new dealers years and billions of dollars to
replicate.”).

566

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

567

See Thakor Study.

568

See, e.g., Prof. Duffie; Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012).

164

Many commenters requested additional clarification on how the proposed marketmaking exemption would apply to certain asset classes and markets or to particular types
of market making-related activities. In particular, commenters requested greater clarity
regarding the permissibility of: (i) interdealer trading, 569 including trading for price
discovery purposes or to test market depth; 570 (ii) inventory management; 571 (iii) block
positioning activity; 572 (iv) acting as an authorized participant or market maker in
ETFs; 573 (v) arbitrage or other activities that promote price transparency and liquidity; 574
(vi) primary dealer activity; 575 (vii) market making in futures and options; 576 (viii) market
making in new or bespoke products or customized hedging contracts; 577 and (ix) inter-

569

See, e.g., MetLife; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC; Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC;
BoA; ACLI (Feb. 2012); AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Oliver
Wyman (Feb. 2012).
570

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading).

571

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); Goldman (Prop. Trading);
MFA; RBC.
572

See infra Part IV.A.3.c.1.b.ii. (discussing commenters’ requests for greater clarity regarding the
permissibility of block positioning activity).

573

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); BoA; ICI (Feb. 2012); ICI Global; Vanguard; SSgA (Feb. 2012).
574

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; Goldman (Prop. Trading);
FTN; RBC; ISDA (Feb. 2012).
575

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Goldman (Prop. Trading); Banco de
México; IIB/EBF.
576

See CME Group (requesting clarification that the market-making exemption permits a banking entity to
engage in market making in exchange-traded futures and options because the dealer registration requirement in
§ __.4(b)(2)(iv) of the proposed rule did not refer to such instruments and stating that lack of an explicit
exemption would reduce market-making activities in these instruments, which would decrease liquidity). But
See Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz (stating that the Agencies should pay special attention to options trading and other
derivatives because they are highly volatile assets that are difficult if not impossible to effectively hedge, except
through a completely matched position, and suggesting that options and similar derivatives may need to be
required to be sold only as riskless principal under § __.6(b)(1)(ii) of the proposed rule or significantly limited
through capital charges); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012) (stating that asset classes that are particularly hard
to hedge, such as options, should be given special attention under the hedging exemption).

165

affiliate transactions. 578 As discussed in more detail in Part IV.B.2.c., a number of
commenters requested that the market-making exemption apply to the restrictions on
acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in a covered fund. 579 Some commenters
stated that no other activities should be considered permitted market making-related
activity under the rule. 580 In addition, a few commenters requested clarification that
high-frequency trading would not qualify for the market-making exemption. 581
3.

Final market-making exemption
After carefully considering comment letters, the Agencies are adopting certain

refinements to the proposed market-making exemption. The Agencies are adopting a
market-making exemption that is consistent with the statutory exemption for this activity
and designed to permit banking entities to continue providing intermediation and
liquidity services. The Agencies note that, while all market-making activity should
ultimately be related to the intermediation of trading, whether directly to individual
customers through bilateral transactions or more broadly to a given marketplace, certain
577

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012). Other commenters, however, stated that banking entities
should be limited in their ability to rely on the market-making exemption to conduct transactions in
bespoke or customized derivatives. See, e.g., AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.
578

See, e.g., Japanese Bankers Ass’n. (stating that transactions with affiliates and subsidiaries and related
to hedging activities are a type of market making-related activity or risk-mitigating hedging activity that
should be exempted by the rule); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). According to one of these
commenters, inter-affiliate transactions should be viewed as part of a coordinated activity for purposes of
determining whether a banking entity qualifies for an exemption. This commenter stated that, for example,
if a market maker shifts positions held in inventory to an affiliate that is better able to manage the risk of
such positions, both the market maker and its affiliate would be engaged in permitted market makingrelated activity. This commenter further represented that fitting the inter-affiliate swap into the exemption
may be difficult (e.g., one of the affiliates entering into the swap may not be holding itself out as a willing
counterparty). See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).
579

See, e.g., Cleary Gottlieb; JPMC; BoA; Credit Suisse (Williams).

580

See, e.g., Occupy; Alfred Brock.

581

See, e.g., Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; Sens. Merkley &
Levin (Feb. 2012); John Reed.

166

characteristics of a market-making business may differ among markets and asset
classes. 582 The final rule is intended to account for these differences to allow banking
entities to continue to engage in market making-related activities by providing customer
intermediation and liquidity services across markets and asset classes, if such activities
do not violate the statutory limitations on permitted activities (e.g., by involving or
resulting in a material conflict of interest with a client, customer, or counterparty) and are
conducted in conformance with the exemption.
At the same time, the final rule requires development and implementation of
trading, risk and inventory limits, risk management strategies, analyses of how the
specific market making-related activities are designed not to exceed the reasonably
expected near term demands of customers, compensation standards, and monitoring and
review requirements that are consistent with market-making activities. 583 These
requirements are designed to distinguish exempt market making-related activities from
impermissible proprietary trading. In addition, these requirements are designed to ensure
that a banking entity is aware of, monitors, and limits the risks of its exempt activities
consistent with the prudent conduct of market making-related activities.

582

Consistent with the FSOC study and the proposal, the final rule recognizes that the precise nature of a
market maker’s activities often varies depending on the liquidity, trade size, market infrastructure, trading
volumes and frequency, and geographic location of the market for any particular type of financial
instrument. See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,870; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8356; FSOC study (stating that
“characteristics of permitted activities in one market or asset class may not be the same in another market
(e.g., permitted activities in a liquid equity securities market may vary significantly from an illiquid overthe-counter derivatives market)”).
583

Certain of these requirements, like the requirements to have risk and inventory limits, risk management
strategies, and monitoring and review requirements were included in the enhanced compliance program
requirement in proposed Appendix C, but were not separately included in the proposed market-making
exemption. Like the statute, the proposed rule would have required that market making-related activities be
designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demand of clients, customers, or counterparties.
The Agencies are adding an explicit requirement in the final rule that a trading desk conduct analyses of
customer demand for purposes of complying with this statutory requirement.

167

As described in detail below, the final market-making exemption consists of the
following elements:
• A framework that recognizes the differences in market making-related activities
across markets and asset classes by establishing criteria that can be applied based
on the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the particular type of
financial instrument.
• A general focus on analyzing the overall “financial exposure” and “market-maker
inventory” held by any given trading desk rather than a transaction-bytransaction analysis. The “financial exposure” reflects the aggregate risks of the
financial instruments, and any associated loans, commodities, or foreign
exchange or currency, held by a banking entity or its affiliate and managed by a
particular trading desk as part of its market making-related activities. The
“market-maker inventory” means all of the positions, in the financial instruments
for which the trading desk stands ready to make a market that are managed by
the trading desk, including the trading desk’s open positions or exposures arising
from open transactions. 584
• A definition of the term “trading desk” that focuses on the operational
functionality of the desk rather than its legal status, and requirements that apply
at the trading desk level of organization within a single banking entity or across
two or more affiliates. 585

584

See infra Part IV.A.3.c.1.c.ii. See also final rule §§ __.4(b)(4), (5).

585

See infra Part IV.A.3.c.1.c.i. The term “trading desk” is defined as “the smallest discrete unit of
organization of a banking entity that buys or sells financial instruments for the trading account of the
banking entity or an affiliate thereof.” Final rule § __.3(e)(13).

168

• Five requirements for determining whether a banking entity is engaged in
permitted market making-related activities. Many of these criteria have
similarities to the factors included in the proposed rule, but with important
modifications in response to comments. These standards require that:
o The trading desk that establishes and manages a financial exposure
routinely stands ready to purchase and sell one or more types of financial
instruments related to its financial exposure and is willing and available
to quote, buy and sell, or otherwise enter into long and short positions in
those types of financial instruments for its own account, in commercially
reasonable amounts and throughout market cycles, on a basis appropriate
for the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types
of financial instruments; 586
o The amount, types, and risks of the financial instruments in the trading
desk’s market-maker inventory are designed not to exceed, on an
ongoing basis, the reasonably expected near term demands of clients,
customers, or counterparties, as required by the statute and based on
certain factors and analysis; 587
o The banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and
enforces an internal compliance program that is reasonably designed to
ensure its compliance with the market-making exemption, including

586

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(i); infra Part IV.A.3.c.1.c.iii.

587

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(ii); infra Part IV.A.3.c.2.c. In addition, the Agencies are adopting a
definition of the terms “client,” “customer,” and “counterparty” in § __.4(b)(3) of the final rule.

169

reasonably designed written policies and procedures, internal controls,
analysis, and independent testing identifying and addressing:
 The financial instruments each trading desk stands ready to
purchase and sell in accordance with § __.4(b)(2)(i) of the final
rule;
 The actions the trading desk will take to demonstrably reduce or
otherwise significantly mitigate promptly the risks of its financial
exposure consistent with its established limits; the products,
instruments, and exposures each trading desk may use for risk
management purposes; the techniques and strategies each trading
desk may use to manage the risks of its market making-related
activities and inventory; and the process, strategies, and personnel
responsible for ensuring that the actions taken by the trading desk
to mitigate these risks are and continue to be effective; 588
 Limits for each trading desk, based on the nature and amount of
the trading desk’s market making-related activities, including
factors used to determine the reasonably expected near term
demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, on: the amount,
types, and risks of its market-maker inventory; the amount, types,
and risks of the products, instruments, and exposures the trading
588

Routine market making-related risk management activity by a trading desk is permitted under the
market-making exemption and, provided the standards of the exemption are met, is not required to
separately meet the requirements of the hedging exemption. The circumstances under which risk
management activity relating to the trading desk’s financial exposure is permitted under the market-making
exemption or must separately comply with the hedging exemption are discussed in more detail in Parts
IV.A.3.c.1.c.ii. and IV.A.3.c.4., infra.

170

desk uses for risk management purposes; the level of exposures to
relevant risk factors arising from its financial exposure; and the
period of time a financial instrument may be held;
 Internal controls and ongoing monitoring and analysis of each
trading desk’s compliance with its limits; and
 Authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that
require review and approval of any trade that would exceed a
trading desk’s limit(s), demonstrable analysis that the basis for
any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk’s limit(s)
is consistent with the requirements of the market-making
exemption, and independent review of such demonstrable
analysis and approval; 589
o To the extent that any limit identified above is exceeded, the trading desk
takes action to bring the trading desk into compliance with the limits as
promptly as possible after the limit is exceeded; 590
o The compensation arrangements of persons performing market makingrelated activities are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited
proprietary trading; 591 and
o The banking entity is licensed or registered to engage in market makingrelated activities in accordance with applicable law. 592

589

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii); infra Part IV.A.3.c.3.

590

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iv).

591

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(v); infra Part IV.A.3.c.5.

171

• The use of quantitative measurements to highlight activities that warrant further
review for compliance with the exemption.593 As discussed further in Part
IV.C.3., the Agencies have reduced some of the compliance burdens by adopting
a more tailored subset of metrics than was proposed to better focus on those
metrics that the Agencies believe are most germane to the evaluation of the
activities that firms conduct under the market-making exemption.
In refining the proposed approach to implementing the statute’s market-making
exemption, the Agencies closely considered the various alternative approaches suggested
by commenters. 594 However, like the proposed approach, the final market-making
exemption continues to adhere to the statutory mandate that provides for an exemption to
the prohibition on proprietary trading for market making-related activities. Therefore, the
final rule focuses on providing a framework for assessing whether trading activities are
consistent with market making. The Agencies believe this approach is consistent with the
statute 595 and strikes an appropriate balance between commenters’ desire for both clarity
and flexibility. For example, while a bright-line or safe harbor based approach would
generally provide a high degree of certainty about whether an activity qualifies for the

592

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(vi); infra Part IV.A.3.c.6. As discussed further below, this provision pertains
to legal registration or licensing requirements that may apply to an entity engaged in market making-related
activities, depending on the facts and circumstances. This provision would not require a banking entity to
comply with registration requirements that are not required by law, such as discretionary registration with a
national securities exchange as a market maker on that exchange.
593

See infra Part IV.C.3.

594

See supra Part IV.A.3.b.2.

595

Certain approaches suggested by commenters, such as relying solely on capital requirements, requiring
ring fencing, permitting all swap dealing activity, or focusing solely on how traders are compensated do not
appear to be consistent with the statutory language because they do not appear to limit market makingrelated activity to that which is designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of
clients, customers, or counterparties, as required by the statute. See Prof. Duffie; STANY; ICE; Shadow
Fin. Regulatory Comm.; ISDA (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Apr. 2012); G2 FinTech.

172

market-making exemption, it would also provide less flexibility to recognize the
differences in market-making activities across markets and asset classes. 596 In addition,
any bright-line approach would be more likely to be subject to gaming and avoidance as
new products and types of trading activities are developed than other approaches to
implementing the market-making exemption. 597 Although a purely guidance-based
approach would provide greater flexibility, it would also provide less clarity, which could
make it difficult for trading personnel, internal compliance personnel, and Agency
supervisors and examiners to determine whether an activity complies with the rule and
would lead to an increased risk of evasion of the statutory requirements. 598
Some commenters suggested an approach to implementing the market-making
exemption that would focus on metrics or other objective factors. 599 As discussed below,

596

While an approach establishing a number of safe harbors that are each tailored to a specific asset class
would address the need to recognize differences across asset classes, such an approach may also increase
the complexity of the final rule. Further, commenters did not provide sufficient information to determine
the appropriate parameters of a safe harbor-based approach.
597

As noted above, a number of commenters suggested the Agencies adopt a bright-line rule, provide a
safe harbor for certain types of activities, or establish a presumption of compliance based on certain factors.
See, e.g., Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); John Reed; Prof. Richardson; Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz;
Capital Group; Invesco; BDA (Oct. 2012); Flynn & Fusselman; Prof. Colesanti et al.; SIFMA et al. (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012); IIF; NYSE Euronext; Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; Barclays; BoA; Wells Fargo
(Prop. Trading); PNC et al.; Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012). Many of these commenters expressed general
concern that the proposed market-making exemption may create uncertainty for individual traders engaged
in market making-related activity and suggested that their proposed approach would alleviate such concern.
The Agencies believe that the enhanced focus on risk and inventory limits for each trading desk (which
must be tied to the near term customer demand requirement) and the clarification that the final marketmaking exemption does not require a trade-by-trade analysis should address concerns about individual
traders having to assess whether they are complying with the market-making exemption on a trade-by-trade
basis.
598

Several commenters suggested a guidance-based approach, rather than requirements in the final rule.
See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (suggesting that this guidance could then be
incorporated in banking entities’ policies and procedures for purposes of complying with the rule, in
addition to the establishment of risk limits, controls, and metrics); JPMC; BoA; PUC Texas; SSgA (Feb.
2012); PNC et al.; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).
599

See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading); Morgan Stanley; Barclays; Wellington; CalPERS; BlackRock;
SSgA (Feb. 2012); Invesco.

173

a number of commenters expressed support for using the metrics as a tool to monitor
trading activity and not to determine compliance with the rule. 600 While the Agencies
agree that quantitative measurements are useful for purposes of monitoring a trading
desk’s activities and are requiring certain banking entities to calculate, record, and report
quantitative measurements to the Agencies in the final rule, the Agencies do not believe
that quantitative measurements should be used as a dispositive tool for determining
compliance with the market-making exemption. 601
In response to two commenters’ request that the final rule focus on a banking
entity’s risk management structures or risk limits and not on attempting to define marketmaking activities, 602 the Agencies do not believe that management of risk, on its own, is
sufficient to differentiate permitted market making-related activities from impermissible
proprietary trading. For example, the existence of a risk management framework or risk
limits, while important, would not ensure that a trading desk is acting as a market maker
by engaging in customer-facing activity and providing intermediation and liquidity
services. 603 The Agencies also decline to take an approach to implementing the marketmaking exemption that would require the development of individualized plans for each
banking entity in coordination with the Agencies, as suggested by a few commenters. 604

600

See infra Part IV.C.3. (discussing the final rule’s metrics requirement). See SIFMA et al. (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); RBC; ICI (Feb. 2012); Occupy (stating that there are
serious limits to the capabilities of the metrics and the potential for abuse and manipulation of the input
data is significant); Alfred Brock.

601

See infra Part IV.C.3. (discussing the final metrics requirement).

602

See, e.g., Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Citigroup (Feb. 2012).

603

However, as discussed below, the Agencies believe risk limits can be a useful tool when they must
account for the nature and amount of a particular trading desk’s market making-related activities, including
the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties.
604

See MetLife; Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; ACLI (Feb. 2012).

174

The Agencies believe it is useful to establish a consistent framework that will apply to all
banking entities to reduce the potential for unintended competitive impacts that could
arise if each banking entity is subject to an individualized plan that is tailored to its
specific organizational structure and trading activities and strategies.
Although the Agencies are not in the final rule modifying the basic structure of
the proposed market-making exemption, certain general items suggested by commenters,
such as enhanced compliance program elements and risk limits, have been incorporated
in the final rule text for the market-making exemption, instead of a separate appendix. 605
Moreover, as described below, the final market-making exemption includes specific
substantive changes in response to a wide variety of commenter concerns.
The Agencies understand that the economics of market making – and financial
intermediation in general – require a market maker to be active in markets. In
determining the appropriate scope of the market-making exemption, the Agencies have
been mindful of commenters’ views on market making and liquidity. Several
commenters stated that the proposed rule would impact a banking entity’s ability to
engage in market making-related activity, with corresponding reductions in market
605

The Agencies are not, however, adding certain additional requirements suggested by commenters, such
as a new customer-facing criterion, margin requirements, or additional provisions regarding material
conflicts of interest or high-risk assets or trading strategies. See, e.g., Morgan Stanley; Stephen Roach; WR
Hambrecht; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012). The Agencies believe that the final rule includes
sufficient requirements to ensure that a trading desk relying on the market-making exemption is engaged in
customer-facing activity (for example, the final rule requires the trading desk to stand ready to buy and sell
a type of financial instrument as market maker and that the trading desk’s market-maker inventory is
designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties).
The Agencies decline to include margin requirements in the final exemption because banking entities are
currently subject to a number of different margin requirements, including those applicable to, among
others: SEC-registered broker-dealers; CFTC-registered swap dealers; SEC-registered security-based swap
dealers: and foreign dealer entities. Further, the Agencies are not providing new requirements regarding
material conflicts of interest and high-risk assets and trading strategies in the market-making exemption
because the Agencies believe these issues are adequately addressed in § __.7 of the final rule. The
limitations in § __.7 will apply to market making-related activities and all other exempted activities.

175

liquidity. 606 However, commenters disagreed about whether reduced liquidity would be
beneficial or detrimental to the market, or if any such reductions would even
materialize. 607 Many commenters stated that reduced liquidity could lead to other
negative market impacts, such as wider spreads, higher transaction costs, greater market
volatility, diminished price discovery, and increased cost of capital.
The Agencies understand that market makers play an important role in providing
and maintaining liquidity throughout market cycles and that restricting market-making
activity may result in reduced liquidity, with corresponding negative market impacts. For
instance, absent a market maker who stands ready to buy and sell, investors may have to
make large price concessions or otherwise expend resources searching for counterparties.
By stepping in to intermediate trades and provide liquidity, market makers thus add value
to the financial system by, for example, absorbing supply and demand imbalances. This
often means taking on financial exposures, in a principal capacity, to satisfy reasonably
expected near term customer demand, as well as to manage the risks associated with
meeting such demand.
The Agencies recognize that, as noted by commenters, liquidity can be associated
with narrower spreads, lower transaction costs, reduced volatility, greater price discovery,
606

See supra note 545 and accompanying text. The Agencies acknowledge that reduced liquidity can be
costly. One commenter provided estimated impacts on asset valuation, borrowing costs, and transaction
costs in the corporate bond market based on certain hypothetical scenarios of reduced market liquidity.
This commenter noted that its hypothetical liquidity shifts of 5, 10, and 15 percentile points were
“necessarily arbitrary” but judged “to be realistic potential outcomes of the proposed rule.” Oliver Wyman
(Feb. 2012). Because the Agencies have made significant modifications to the proposed rule in response to
comments, the Agencies believe this commenter’s concerns about the market impacts of the proposed rule
have been substantially addressed.
607

As noted above, a few commenters stated that reduced liquidity may provide certain benefits. See, e.g.,
Paul Volcker; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Prof. Richardson; Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; Better
Markets (Feb. 2012); Prof. Johnson. However, a number of commenters stated that reduced liquidity
would have negative market impacts. See supra note 545 and accompanying text.

176

and lower costs of capital. 608 The Agencies agree with these commenters that liquidity
provides important benefits to the financial system, as more liquid markets are
characterized by competitive market makers, narrow bid-ask spreads, and frequent
trading, and that a narrowly tailored market-making exemption could negatively impact
the market by, as described above, forcing investors to make price concessions or
unnecessarily expend resources searching for counterparties. 609 For example, while bidask spreads compensate market makers for providing liquidity when asset values are
uncertain, under competitive forces, dealers compete with respect to spreads, thus
lowering their profit margins on a per trade basis and benefitting investors. 610 Volatility
is driven by both uncertainty about fundamental value and the liquidity needs of
investors. When markets are illiquid, participants may have to make large price
concessions to find a counterparty willing to trade, increasing the importance of the
liquidity channel for addressing volatility. If liquidity-based volatility is not
diversifiable, investors will require a risk premium for holding liquidity risk, increasing

608

See supra Part IV.A.3.b.2.b.

609

See supra Part IV.A.3.b.2.b. As discussed above, a few other commenters suggested that to the extent
liquidity is vulnerable to destabilizing liquidity spirals, any reduced liquidity stemming from section 13 of
the BHC Act and its implementing rules would not necessarily be a negative result. See AFR et al. (Feb.
2012); Public Citizen. See also Paul Volcker. These commenters also suggested that the Agencies adopt
stricter conditions in the market-making exemption, as discussed throughout this Part IV.A.3. However,
liquidity – essentially, the ease with which assets can be converted into cash – is not destabilizing in and of
itself. Rather, liquidity spirals are a function of how firms are funded. During market downturns, when
margin requirements tend to increase, firms that fund their operations with leverage face higher costs of
providing liquidity; firms that run up against their maximum leverage ratios may be forced to retreat from
market making, contributing to the liquidity spiral. Viewed in this light, it is institutional features of
financial markets – in particular, leverage – rather than liquidity itself that contributes to liquidity spirals.
610

Wider spreads can be costly for investors. For example, one commenter estimated that a 10 basis point
increase in spreads in the corporate bond market would cost investors $29 billion per year. See Wellington.
Wider spreads can also be particularly costly for open-end mutual funds, which must trade in and out of the
fund’s portfolio holdings on a daily basis in order to satisfy redemptions and subscriptions. See
Wellington; AllianceBernstein.

177

the cost of capital. 611 Commenters additionally suggested that the effects of diminished
liquidity could be concentrated in securities markets for small or midsize companies or
for lesser-known issuers, where trading is already infrequent. 612 Volume in these markets
can be low, increasing the inventory risk of market makers. The Agencies recognize that,
if the final rule creates disincentives for banking entities to provide liquidity, these low
volume markets may be impacted first.
As discussed above, the Agencies received several comments suggesting that the
negative consequences associated with reduced liquidity would be unlikely to materialize
under the proposed rule. For example, a few commenters stated that non-bank financial
intermediaries, who are not subject to section 13 of the BHC Act, may increase their
market-making activities in response to any reduction in market making by banking
entities, a topic the Agencies discuss in more detail below. 613 In addition, some
commenters suggested that the restrictions on proprietary trading would support liquid
markets by encouraging banking entities to focus on financial intermediation activities
that supply liquidity, rather than proprietary trades that demand liquidity, such as
speculative trades or trades that front-run institutional investors. 614 The statute prohibits

611

A higher cost of capital increases financing costs and translates into reduced capital investment. While
one commenter estimated that a one percent increase in the cost of capital would lead to a $55 to $82.5
billion decline in capital investments by U.S. nonfarm firms, the Agencies cannot independently verify
these potential costs. Further, this commenter did not indicate what aspect of the proposed rule could cause
a one percent increase in the cost of capital. See Thakor Study. In any event, the Agencies have made
significant changes to the proposed approach to implementing the market-making exemption that should
help address this commenter’s concern.
612

See, e.g., CIEBA; ACLI; PNC et al.; Morgan Stanley; Chamber (Feb. 2012); Abbott Labs et al. (Feb.
14, 2012); FEI; ICI (Feb. 2012); TMA Hong Kong; Sen. Casey.
613

See, e.g., Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Prof. Richardson; Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Profs.
Stout & Hastings; Prof. Johnson; Occupy; Public Citizen; Profs. Admati & Pfleiderer; Better Markets (June
2012).
614

See, e.g., Prof. Johnson.

178

proprietary trading activity that is not exempted. As such, the termination of nonexempt
proprietary trading activities of banking entities may lead to some general reductions in
liquidity of certain asset classes. Although the Agencies cannot say with any certainty,
there is good reason to believe that to a significant extent the liquidity reductions of this
type may be temporary since the statute does not restrict proprietary trading activities of
other market participants. Thus, over time, non-banking entities may provide much of
the liquidity that is lost by restrictions on banking entities’ trading activities. If so,
eventually, the detrimental effects of increased trading costs, higher costs of capital, and
greater market volatility should be mitigated.
Based on the many detailed comments provided, the Agencies have made
substantive refinements to the market-making exemption that the Agencies believe will
reduce the likelihood that the rule, as implemented, will negatively impact the ability of
banking entities to engage in the types of market making-related activities permitted
under the statute and, therefore, will continue to promote the benefits to investors and
other market participants described above, including greater market liquidity, narrower
bid-ask spreads, reduced price concessions and price impact, lower volatility, and
reduced counterparty search costs, thus reducing the cost of capital. For instance, the
final market-making exemption does not require a trade-by-trade analysis, which was a
significant source of concern from commenters who represented, among other things, that
a trade-by-trade analysis could have a chilling effect on individual traders’ willingness to
engage in market-making activities. 615 Rather, the final rule has been crafted around the
overall market making-related activities of individual trading desks, with various
615

See supra note 517 (discussing commenters’ concerns regarding a trade-by-trade analysis).

179

requirements that these activities be demonstrably related to satisfying reasonably
expected near term customer demands and other market-making activities. The Agencies
believe that applying certain requirements to the aggregate risk exposure of a trading
desk, along with the requirement to establish risk and inventory limits to routinize a
trading desk’s compliance with the near term customer demand requirement, will reduce
negative potential impacts on individual traders’ decision-making process in the normal
course of market making. 616 In addition, in response to a large number of comments
expressing concern that the proposed market-making exemption would restrict or prohibit
market making-related activities in less liquid markets, the Agencies are clarifying that
the application of certain requirements in the final rule, such as the frequency of required
quoting and the near term demand requirement, will account for the liquidity, maturity,
and depth of the market for a given type of financial instrument. Thus, banking entities
will be able to continue to engage in market making-related activities across markets and
asset classes.
At the same time, the Agencies recognize that an overly broad market-making
exemption may allow banking entities to mask speculative positions as liquidity
provision or related hedges. The Agencies believe the requirements included in the final
rule are necessary to prevent such evasion of the market-making exemption, ensure
compliance with the statute, and facilitate internal banking entity and external Agency
reviews of compliance with the final rule. Nevertheless, the Agencies acknowledge that

616

For example, by clarifying that individual trades will not be viewed in isolation and requiring strong
compliance procedures, this approach will generally allow an individual trader to operate within the
compliance framework established for his or her trading desk without having to assess whether each
individual transaction complies with all requirements of the market-making exemption.

180

these additional costs may have an impact on banking entities’ willingness to engage in
market making-related activities. Banking entities will incur certain compliance costs in
connection with their market making-related activities under the final rule. For example,
banking entities may not currently limit their trading desks’ market-maker inventory to
that which is designed not to exceed reasonably expected near term customer demand, as
required by the statute.
As discussed above, commenters presented diverging views on whether nonbanking entities are likely to enter the market or increase their market-making activities if
the final rule should cause banking entities to reduce their market-making activities. 617
The Agencies note that prior to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, market-making
services were more commonly provided by non-bank-affiliated broker-dealers than by
banking entities. As discussed above, by intermediating and facilitating trading, market
makers provide value to the markets and profit from providing liquidity. Should banking
entities retreat from making markets, the profit opportunities available from providing
liquidity will provide an incentive for non-bank-affiliated broker-dealers to enter the
market and intermediate trades. The Agencies are unable to assess the likely effect with
any certainty, but the Agencies recognize that a market-making operation requires certain
infrastructure and capital, which will impact the ability of non-banking entities to enter
the market-making business or to increase their presence. Therefore, should banking

617

See supra notes 560 and 564 and accompanying text (discussing comments on the issue of whether nonbanking entities are likely to enter the market or increase their trading activities in response to reduced
trading activity by banking entities). For example, one commenter stated that broker-dealers that are not
affiliated with a bank would have reduced access to lender-of-last resort liquidity from the central bank,
which could limit their ability to make markets during times of market stress or when capital buffers are
small. See Prof. Duffie. However, another commenter noted that the presence and evolution of market
making after the enactment of the Glass-Steagall Act mutes this particular concern. See Prof. Richardson.

181

entities retreat from making markets, there could be a transition period with reduced
liquidity as non-banking entities build up the needed infrastructure and obtain capital.
However, because the Agencies have substantially modified this exemption in response
to comments to ensure that market making related to near-term customer demand is
permitted as contemplated by the statute, the Agencies do not believe the final rule
should significantly impact currently-available market-making services. 618
c.

Detailed Explanation of the Market-Making Exemption
1.

Requirement to routinely stand ready to purchase and sell

a.

Proposed requirement to hold self out
Section __.4(b)(2)(ii) of the proposed rule would have required the trading desk

or other organizational unit that conducts the purchase or sale in reliance on the marketmaking exemption to hold itself out as being willing to buy and sell, including through
entering into long and short positions in, the financial instrument for its own account on a
regular or continuous basis. 619 The proposal stated that a banking entity could rely on the

618

Certain non-banking entities, such as some SEC-registered broker-dealers that are not banking entities
subject to the final rule, currently engage in market-making activities and, thus, should have the needed
infrastructure and may attract additional capital. If the final rule has a marginal impact on banking entities’
willingness to engage in market making-related activities, these non-banking entities should be able to
respond by increasing their market making-related activities. The Agencies recognize, however, that firms
that do not have existing infrastructure or sufficient capital are unlikely to be able to act as market makers
shortly after the final rule is implemented. Nevertheless, because some non-bank-affiliated broker-dealers
currently operate market-making desks, and because it was the dominant model prior to the Gramm-LeachBliley Act, the Agencies believe that non-bank-affiliated financial intermediaries will be able to provide
market-making services longer term.
619

See proposed rule § __.4(b)(2)(ii).

182

proposed exemption only for the type of financial instrument that the entity actually made
a market in. 620
The proposal recognized that the precise nature of a market maker’s activities
often varies depending on the liquidity, trade size, market infrastructure, trading volumes
and frequency, and geographic location of the market for any particular financial
instrument. 621 To account for these variations, the Agencies proposed indicia for
assessing compliance with this requirement that differed between relatively liquid
markets and less liquid markets. Further, the Agencies recognized that the proposed
indicia could not be applied at all times and under all circumstances because some may
be inapplicable to the specific asset class or market in which the market making-related
activity is conducted.
In particular, the proposal stated that a trading desk or other organizational unit’s
market making-related activities in relatively liquid markets, such as equity securities or
other exchange-traded instruments, should generally include: (i) making continuous, twosided quotes and holding oneself out as willing to buy and sell on a continuous basis; (ii)
a pattern of trading that includes both purchases and sales in roughly comparable
amounts to provide liquidity; (iii) making continuous quotations that are at or near the
market on both sides; and (iv) providing widely accessible and broadly disseminated

620

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,870 (“Notably, this criterion requires that a banking entity relying on
the exemption with respect to a particular transaction must actually make a market in the [financial
instrument] involved; simply because a banking entity makes a market in one type of [financial instrument]
does not permit it to rely on the market-making exemption for another type of [financial instrument].”);
CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8355-8356.
621

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,870; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8356.

183

quotes. 622 With respect to market making in less liquid markets, the proposal noted that
the appropriate indicia of market making-related activities will vary, but should generally
include: (i) holding oneself out as willing and available to provide liquidity by providing
quotes on a regular (but not necessarily continuous) basis; 623 (ii) with respect to
securities, regularly purchasing securities from, or selling securities to, clients, customers,
or counterparties in the secondary market; and (iii) transaction volumes and risk
proportionate to historical customer liquidity and investments needs. 624
In discussing this proposed requirement, the Agencies stated that bona fide market
making-related activity may include certain block positioning and anticipatory positiontaking. More specifically, the proposal indicated that the bona fide market makingrelated activity described in § __.4(b)(2)(ii) of the proposed rule would include: (i) block
positioning if undertaken by a trading desk or other organizational unit of a banking
entity for the purpose of intermediating customer trading; 625 and (ii) taking positions in
securities in anticipation of customer demand, so long as any anticipatory buying or

622

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,870-68,871; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8356. These proposed factors
are generally consistent with the indicia used by the SEC to assess whether a broker-dealer is engaged in
bona fide market making for purposes of Regulation SHO under the Exchange Act. See Joint Proposal, 76
FR at 68,871 n.148; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8356 n.155.
623

The Agencies noted that, with respect to this factor, the frequency of regular quotations will vary, as
moderately illiquid markets may involve quotations on a daily or more frequent basis, while highly illiquid
markets may trade only by appointment. See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,871 n.149; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR
at 8356 n.156.
624

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,871; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8356.

625

In the preamble to the proposed rule, the Agencies stated that the SEC’s definition of “qualified block
positioner” may serve as guidance in determining whether a block positioner engaged in block positioning
is engaged in bona fide market making for purposes of § __.4(b)(2)(ii) of the proposed rule. See Joint
Proposal, 76 FR at 68,871 n.151; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8356 n.157.

184

selling activity is reasonable and related to clear, demonstrable trading interest of clients,
customers, or counterparties. 626
b.

Comments on the proposed requirement to hold self out
Commenters raised many issues regarding § __.4(b)(2)(ii) of the proposed

exemption, which would require a trading desk or other organizational unit to hold itself
out as willing to buy and sell the financial instrument for its own account on a regular or
continuous basis. As discussed below, some commenters viewed the proposed
requirement as too restrictive, while other commenters stated that the requirement was
too permissive. Two commenters expressed support for the proposed requirement. 627 A
number of commenters provided views on statements in the proposal regarding indicia of
bona fide market making in more and less liquid markets and the permissibility of block
positioning and anticipatory position-taking.
Several commenters represented that the proposed requirement was too
restrictive. 628 For example, a number of these commenters expressed concern that the
proposed requirement may limit a banking entity’s ability to act as a market maker under
certain circumstances, including in less liquid markets, for instruments lacking a twosided market, or in customer-driven, structured transactions. 629 In addition, a few

626

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,871; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8356-8357.

627

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Alfred Brock.

628

See infra Part IV.A.3.c.1.c.iii. (addressing these concerns).

629

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Morgan Stanley; Barclays; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); ABA; Chamber (Feb. 2012); BDA (Feb. 2012); Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; ACLI
(Feb. 2012); T. Rowe Price; PUC Texas; PNC; MetLife; RBC; IHS; SSgA (Feb. 2012).

185

commenters expressed specific concern about how this requirement would impact more
limited market-making activity conducted by banks. 630
Many commenters indicated that it was unclear whether this provision would
require a trading desk or other organizational unit to regularly or continuously quote
every financial instrument in which a market is made, but expressed concern that the
proposed language could be interpreted in this manner. 631 These commenters noted that
there are thousands of individual instruments within a given asset class, such as corporate
bonds, and that it would be burdensome for a market maker to provide quotes in such a
large number of instruments on a regular or continuous basis. 632 One of these
commenters represented that, because customer demand may be infrequent in a particular
instrument, requiring a banking entity to provide regular or continuous quotes in the
instrument may not provide a benefit to its customers. 633 A few commenters requested
that the Agencies provide further guidance on this issue or modify the proposed standard

630

See, e.g., PNC (stating that the proposed rule needs to account for market making by regional banks on
behalf of small and middle-market customers whose securities are less liquid); ABA (stating that the rule
should continue to permit banks to provide limited liquidity by buying securities that they feel are suitable
for their retail and institutional customer base by stating that a bank is “holding itself out” when it buys and
sells securities that are suitable for its customers).
631

This issue is further discussed in Part IV.A.3.c.1.c.iii., infra.

632

See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading) (stating that it would be burdensome for a U.S. credit marketmaking business to be required to produce and disseminate quotes for thousands of individual bond
CUSIPs that trade infrequently and noting that a market maker in credit markets will typically disseminate
indicative prices for the most liquid instruments but, for the thousands of other instruments that trade
infrequently, the market maker will generally provide a price for a trade upon request from another market
participant); Morgan Stanley; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC. See also BDA (Feb. 2012);
FTN (stating that in some markets, such as the markets for residential mortgage-backed securities and
investment grade corporate debt, a market maker will hold itself out in a subset of instruments (e.g.,
particular issues in the investment grade corporate debt market with heavy trading volume or that are in the
midst of particular credit developments), but will trade in other instruments within the group or sector upon
inquiry from customers and other dealers); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012) (discussing data regarding the
number of U.S. corporate bonds and frequency of trading in such bonds in 2009).
633

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

186

to state that holding oneself out in a range of similar instruments will be considered to be
within the scope of permitted market making-related activities. 634
To address concerns about the restrictiveness of this requirement, commenters
suggested certain modifications. For example, some commenters suggested adding
language to the requirement to account for market making in markets that do not typically
involve regular or continuous, or two-sided, quoting. 635 In addition, a few commenters
requested that the requirement expressly include transactions in new instruments or
transactions in instruments that occur infrequently to address situations where a banking
entity may not have previously had the opportunity to hold itself out as willing to buy and
sell the applicable instrument. 636 Other commenters supported alternative criteria for

634

See, e.g., RBC (recommending that the Agencies clarify that a trading desk is required to hold itself out
as willing to buy and sell a particular type of “product”); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012)
(suggesting that the Agencies use the term “instrument,” rather than “covered financial position,” to
provide greater clarity); CIEBA (supporting alternative criteria that would require a banking entity to hold
itself out generally as a market maker for the relevant asset class, but not for every instrument it purchases
and sells); Goldman (Prop. Trading). One of these commenters recommended that the Agencies recognize
and permit the following kinds of activity in related financial instruments: (i) options market makers should
be deemed to be engaged in market making in all put and call series related to a particular underlying
security and should be permitted to trade the underlying security regardless of whether such trade qualifies
for the hedging exemption; (ii) convertible bond traders should be permitted to trade in the associated
equity security; (iii) a market maker in one issuer’s bonds should be considered a market maker in similar
bonds of other issuers; and (iv) a market maker in standardized interest rate swaps should be considered to
be engaged in market making-related activity if it engages in a customized interest rate swap with a
customer upon request. See RBC.
635

See, e.g., Morgan Stanley (suggesting that the Agencies add the phrase “or, in markets where regular or
continuous quotes are not typically provided, the trading unit stands ready to provide quotes upon
request”); Barclays (suggesting addition of the phrase “to the extent that two-sided markets are typically
made by market makers in a given product,” as well as changing the reference to “purchase or sale” to
“market making-related activity” to avoid any inference of a trade-by-trade analysis). See also Fixed
Income Forum/Credit Roundtable. To address concerns about the requirement’s application to bespoke
products, one commenter suggested that the rule clearly state that a banking entity fulfills this requirement
if it markets structured transactions to its client base and stands ready to enter into such transactions with
customers, even though transactions may occur on a relatively infrequent basis. See JPMC.
636

See Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); RBC (supporting this approach as an alternative to removing the
requirement from the rule, but primarily supporting its removal). See also ISDA (Feb. 2012) (stating that
the analysis of compliance with the proposed requirement must carefully consider the degree of presence a
market maker wishes to have in a given market, which may include being a leader in certain types of
instruments, having a secondary presence in others, and potentially leaving or entering other submarkets).

187

assessing whether a banking entity is acting as a market maker, such as: (i) a willingness
to respond to customer demand by providing prices upon request; 637 (ii) being in the
business of providing prices upon request for that financial instrument or other financial
instruments in the same or similar asset class or product class; 638 or (iii) a historical test
of market-making activity, with compliance judged on the basis of actual trades. 639
Finally, two commenters stated that this requirement should be moved to Appendix B of
the rule, 640 which, according to one of these commenters, would provide the Agencies
greater flexibility to consider the facts and circumstances of a particular activity. 641
Other commenters took the view that the proposed requirement was too
permissive. 642 For example, one commenter stated that the proposed standard provided
too much room for interpretation and would be difficult to measure and monitor. This
commenter expressed particular concern that a trading desk or other organizational unit
could meet this requirement by regularly or continuously making wide, out of context
quotes that do not present any real risk of execution and do not contribute to market
liquidity. 643 Some commenters suggested the Agencies place greater restrictions on a
banking entity’s ability to rely on the market-making exemption in certain illiquid
markets, such as assets that cannot be reliably valued, products that do not have a genuine

637

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). This commenter also suggested that such test be assessed
at the “trading unit” level. See id.
638

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

639

See FTN.

640

See Flynn & Fusselman; JPMorgan.

641

See JPMC.

642

See, e.g., Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; John Reed. See
infra note 746 and accompanying text (responding to these comments).
643

See Occupy.

188

external market, or instruments for which a banking entity does not expect to have
customers wishing to both buy and sell. 644 In support of these requests, commenters
stated that trading in illiquid products raises certain concerns under the rule, including: a
lack of reliable data for purposes of using metrics to monitor a banking entity’s market
making-related activity (e.g., products whose valuations are determined by an internal
model that can be manipulated, rather than an observable market price); 645 relation to the
last financial crisis; 646 lack of important benefits to the real economy; 647 similarity to
prohibited proprietary trading; 648 and inconsistency with the statute’s requirements that
market making-related activity must be “designed not to exceed the reasonably expected
near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties” and must not result in a
material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies. 649
These commenters also requested that the proposed requirement be modified in
certain ways. In particular, several commenters stated that the proposed exemption
should only permit market making in assets that can be reliably valued through external
market transactions. 650 In order to implement such a limitation, three commenters

644

See Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; Sens. Merkley & Levin
(Feb. 2012); John Reed.

645

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy.

646

See Occupy.

647

See John Reed.

648

See Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz.

649

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012) (stating that a banking entity must have or reasonably expect at
least two customers—one for each side of the trade—and must have a reasonable expectation of the second
customer coming to take the position or risk off its books in the “near term”); AFR et al. (Feb. 2012);
Public Citizen.
650

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) (stating that the rule should ban market making in illiquid and opaque
securities with no genuine external market, but permit market making in somewhat illiquid securities, such
as certain corporate bonds, as long as the securities can be reliably valued with reference to other extremely
similar securities that are regularly traded in liquid markets and the financial outcome of the transaction is

189

suggested that the Agencies prohibit banking entities from market making in assets
classified as Level 3 under FAS 157. 651 One of these commenters explained that Level 3
assets are generally highly illiquid assets whose fair value cannot be determined using
either market prices or models. 652 In addition, a few commenters suggested that banking
entities be subject to additional capital charges for market making in illiquid products. 653
Another commenter stated that the Agencies should require all market making-related
activity to be conducted on a multilateral organized electronic trading platform or
exchange to make it possible to monitor and confirm certain trading data. 654 Two
commenters emphasized that their recommended restrictions on market making in illiquid
markets should not prohibit banking entities from making markets in corporate bonds. 655
i.

The proposed indicia

reasonably predictable); Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz (recommending that permitted market making be limited
to assets that can be reliably valued in, at a minimum, a moderately liquid market evidenced by trading
within a reasonable period, such as a week, through a real transaction and not simply with interdealer
trades); Public Citizen (stating that market making should be limited to assets that can be reliably valued in
a market where transactions take place on a weekly basis).
651

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) (stating that such a limitation would be consistent with the proposed
limitation on “high-risk assets” and the discussion of this limitation in proposed Appendix C); Public
Citizen; Prof. Richardson.

652

See Prof. Richardson.

653

Two commenters recommended that banking entities be required to treat trading in assets that cannot be
reliably valued and that trade only by appointment, such as bespoke derivatives and structured products, as
providing an illiquid bespoke loan, which are subject to higher capital charges under the Federal banking
agencies’ capital rules. See Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; John Reed. Another commenter suggested that, if not
directly prohibited, trading in bespoke instruments that cannot be reliably valued should be assessed an
appropriate capital charge. See Public Citizen.
654

See Occupy. This commenter further suggested that the exemption exclude all activities that include:
(i) assets whose changes in value cannot be mitigated by effective hedges; (ii) new products with rapid
growth, including those that do not have a market history; (iii) assets or strategies that include significant
imbedded leverage; (iv) assets or strategies that have demonstrated significant historical volatility; (v)
assets or strategies for which the application of capital and liquidity standards would not adequately
account for the risk; and (vi) assets or strategies that result in large and significant concentrations to sectors,
risk factors, or counterparties. See id.
655

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz.

190

As noted above, the proposal set forth certain indicia of bona fide market makingrelated activity in liquid and less liquid markets that the Agencies proposed to apply
when evaluating whether a banking entity was eligible for the proposed exemption. 656
Several commenters provided their views regarding the effectiveness of the proposed
indicia.
With respect to the proposed indicia for liquid markets, a few commenters
expressed support for the proposed indicia. 657 One of these commenters stated that while
the proposed factors are reasonably consistent with bona fide market making, the
Agencies should add two other factors: (i) a willingness to transact in reasonable
quantities at quoted prices, and (ii) inventory turnover. 658
Other commenters, however, stated that the proposed use of factors from the
SEC’s analysis of bona fide market making under Regulation SHO was inappropriate in
this context. In particular, these commenters represented that bona fide market making
for purposes of Regulation SHO is a purposefully narrow concept that permits a subset of
market makers to qualify for an exception from the “locate” requirement in Rule 203 of
Regulation SHO. The commenters further expressed the belief that the policy goals of
section 13 of the BHC Act do not necessitate a similarly narrow interpretation of market
making. 659

656

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.1.a.

657

See Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); NYSE Euronext (expressing support for the indicia set forth in the
FSOC study, which are substantially the same as the indicia in the proposal); Alfred Brock.

658

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

659

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

191

A few commenters expressed particular concern about how the factor regarding
patterns of purchases and sales in roughly comparable amounts would apply to market
making in exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”). According to these commenters,
demonstrating this factor could be difficult because ETF market making involves a
pattern of purchases and sales of groups of equivalent securities (i.e., the ETF shares and
the basket of securities and cash that is exchanged for them), not a single security. In
addition, the commenters were unsure whether this factor could be demonstrated in times
of limited trading in ETF shares. 660
The preamble to the proposed rule also provided certain proposed indicia of bona
fide market making-related activity in less liquid markets. 661 As discussed above,
commenters had differing views about whether the exemption for market making-related
activity should permit banking entities to engage in market making in some or all illiquid
markets. Thus, with respect to the proposed indicia for market making in less liquid
markets, commenters generally stated that the indicia should be broader or narrower,
depending on the commenter’s overall view on the issue of market making in illiquid
markets. One commenter stated that the proposed indicia are effective. 662
The first proposed factor of market making-related activity in less liquid markets
was holding oneself out as willing and available to provide liquidity by providing quotes
on a regular (but not necessarily continuous) basis. As noted above, several commenters
expressed concern about a requirement that market makers provide regular quotations in

660

See ICI (Feb. 2012); ICI Global.

661

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.1.a.

662

See Alfred Brock.

192

less liquid instruments, including in fixed income markets and bespoke, customized
derivatives. 663 With respect to the interaction between the rule language requiring
“regular” quoting and the proposal’s language permitting trading by appointment under
certain circumstances, some of these commenters expressed uncertainty about how a
market maker trading only by appointment would be able to satisfy the proposed rule’s
regular quotation requirement. 664 In addition, another commenter stated that the
proposal’s recognition of trading by appointment does not alleviate concerns about
applying the “regular” quotation requirement to market making in less liquid instruments
in markets that are not, as a whole, highly illiquid, such as credit and interest rate
markets. 665
Other commenters expressed concern about only requiring a market maker to
provide regular quotations or permitting trading by appointment to qualify for the marketmaking exemption. With respect to regular quotations, some commenters stated that such
a requirement enables evasion of the prohibition on proprietary trading because a
proprietary trader may post a quote at a time of little interest in a financial product or may
post wide, out of context quotes on a regular basis with no real risk of execution. 666
Several commenters stated that trading only by appointment should not qualify as market

663

See supra note 629 accompanying text. With respect to this factor, one commenter requested that the
Agencies delete the parenthetical of “but not necessarily continuous” from the proposed factor as part of a
broader effort to recognize the relative illiquidity of swap markets. See ISDA (Feb. 2012).
664

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); CIEBA. These commenters requested greater clarity or
guidance on the meaning of “regular” in the instance of a market maker trading only by appointment. See
id.
665

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

666

See Public Citizen; Occupy. One of these commenters further noted that most markets lack a structural
framework that would enable monitoring of compliance with this requirement. See Occupy.

193

making for purposes of the proposed rule. 667 Some of these commenters stated that there
is no “market” for assets that trade only by appointment, such as customized, structured
products and OTC derivatives. 668
The second proposed criterion for market making-related activity in less liquid
markets was, with respect to securities, regularly purchasing securities from, or selling
securities to, clients, customers, or counterparties in the secondary market. Two
commenters expressed concern about this proposed factor. 669 In particular, one of these
commenters stated that the language is fundamentally inconsistent with market making
because it contemplates that only taking one side of the market is sufficient, rather than
both buying and selling an instrument. 670 The other commenter expressed concern that
banking entities would be allowed to accumulate a significant amount of illiquid risk
because the indicia for market making-related activity in less liquid markets did not
require a market maker to buy and sell in comparable amounts (as required by the indicia
for liquid markets). 671
Finally, the third proposed factor of market making in less liquid markets would
consider transaction volumes and risk proportionate to historical customer liquidity and
investment needs. A few commenters indicated that there may not be sufficient
information available for a banking entity to conduct such an analysis. 672 For example,

667

See, e.g., Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; John Reed; Public Citizen.

668

See, e.g., John Reed; Public Citizen.

669

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy.

670

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012)

671

See Occupy.

672

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Occupy.

194

one commenter stated that historical information may not necessarily be available for
new businesses or developing markets in which a market maker may seek to establish
trading operations. 673 Another commenter expressed concern that this factor would not
help differentiate market making from prohibited proprietary trading because most
illiquid markets do not have a source for such historical risk and volume data. 674
ii.

Treatment of block positioning activity
The proposal provided that the activity described in § __.4(b)(2)(ii) of the

proposed rule would include block positioning if undertaken by a trading desk or other
organizational unit of a banking entity for the purpose of intermediating customer
trading. 675
A number of commenters supported the general language in the proposal
permitting block positioning, but expressed concern about the reference to the definition
of “qualified block positioner” in SEC Rule 3b-8(c). 676 With respect to using Rule 3b8(c) as guidance under the proposed rule, these commenters represented that Rule 3b8(c)’s requirement to resell block positions “as rapidly as possible” would cause negative
results (e.g., fire sales) or create market uncertainty (e.g., when, if ever, a longer unwind
would be permitted). 677 According to one of these commenters, gradually disposing of a

673

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

674

See Occupy.

675

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,871.

676

See, e.g., RBC; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading). See also infra note 735
(responding to these comments).
677

See RBC (expressing concern about fire sales); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012) (expressing concern
about fire sales, particularly in less liquid markets where a block position would overwhelm the market and
undercut the price a market maker can obtain); Goldman (Prop. Trading) (representing that this requirement

195

large long position purchased from a customer may be the best means of reducing near
term price volatility associated with the supply shock of trying to sell the position at
once. 678 Another commenter expressed concern about the second requirement of Rule
3b-8(c), which provides that the dealer must determine in the exercise of reasonable
diligence that the block cannot be sold to or purchased from others on equivalent or better
terms. This commenter stated that this kind of determination would be difficult in less
liquid markets because those markets do not have widely disseminated quotes that dealers
can use for purposes of comparison. 679
Beyond the reference to Rule 3b-8(c), a few commenters expressed more general
concern about the proposed rule’s application to block positioning activity. 680 One
commenter noted that the proposal only discussed block positioning in the context of the
proposed requirement to hold oneself out, which implies that block positioning activity
also must meet the other requirements of the market-making exemption. This commenter
requested an explicit recognition that banking entities meet the requirements of the
market-making exemption when they enter into block trades for customers, including
related trades entered to support the block, such as hedging transactions. 681 Finally, one
commenter expressed concern that the inventory metrics in proposed Appendix A would

could create uncertainty about whether a longer unwind would be permissible and, if so, under what
circumstances).
678

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

679

See RBC.

680

See SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); Fidelity (requesting that the Agencies explicitly recognize that
block trades qualify for the market-making exemption); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012).
681

See SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012).

196

make dealers reluctant to execute large, principal transactions because such trades would
have a transparent impact on inventory metrics in the relevant asset class. 682
iii.

Treatment of anticipatory market making
In the proposal, the Agencies proposed that “bona fide market making-related

activity may include taking positions in securities in anticipation of customer demand, so
long as any anticipatory buying or selling activity is reasonable and related to clear,
demonstrable trading interest of clients, customers, or counterparties.” 683 Many
commenters indicated that the language in the proposal is inconsistent with the statute’s
language regarding near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties.
According to these commenters, the statute’s “designed” and “reasonably expected”
language expressly acknowledges that a market maker may need to accumulate inventory
before customer demand manifests itself. Commenters further represented that the
proposed standard may unduly limit a banking entity’s ability to accumulate inventory in
anticipation of customer demand. 684

682

See Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012). This commenter estimated that investors trading out of large block
positions on their own, without a market maker directly providing liquidity, would have to pay incremental
transaction costs between $1.7 and $3.4 billion per year. This commenter estimated a block trading size of
$850 billion, based on a haircut of total block trading volume reported for NYSE and Nasdaq. The
commenter then estimated, based on market interviews and analysis of standard market impact models
provided by dealers, that the market impact of executing large block orders without direct market maker
liquidity provision would be the difference between the market impact costs of executing a block trade over
a 5-day period versus a 1-day period – which would be approximately 20 to 50 basis points, depending on
the size of the trade. See id.
683

Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,871; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8356-8357.

684

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (expressing concern that requiring trades to be
related to clear demonstrable trading interest could curtail the market-making function by removing a
market maker’s discretion to develop inventory to best serve its customers and adversely restrict liquidity);
Goldman (Prop. Trading); Chamber (Feb. 2012); Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation. See also Morgan
Stanley (requesting certain revisions to more closely track the statute); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012)
(expressing general concern that the standard creates limitations on a market maker’s inventory). These
comments are addressed in Part IV.A.3.c.2., infra.

197

In addition, two commenters expressed concern that the proposal’s language
would effectively require a banking entity to engage in impermissible front running. 685
One of these commenters indicated that the Agencies should not restrict anticipatory
trading to such a short time period. 686 To the contrary, the other commenter stated that
anticipatory accumulation of inventory should be considered to be prohibited proprietary
trading. 687 A few commenters noted that the standard in the proposal explicitly refers to
securities and requested that the reference be changed to encompass the full scope of
financial instruments covered by the rule to avoid ambiguity. 688 Several commenters
recommended that the language be eliminated 689 or modified 690 to address the concerns
discussed above.
iv.

High-frequency trading

685

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Occupy. See also Public Citizen (expressing general concern that
accumulating positions in anticipation of demand opens issues of front running).
686

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

687

See Occupy.

688

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); ISDA (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

689

See BoA (stating that a market maker must acquire inventory in advance of express customer demand
and customers expect a market maker’s inventory to include not only the financial instruments in which
customers have previously traded, but also instruments that the banking entity believes they may want to
trade); Occupy.
690

See Morgan Stanley (suggesting a new standard providing that a purchase or sale must be “reasonably
consistent with observable customer demand patterns and, in the case of new asset classes or markets, with
reasonably expected future developments on the basis of the trading unit’s client relationships”); Chamber
(Feb. 2012) (requesting that the final rule permit market makers to make individualized assessments of
anticipated customer demand based on their expertise and experience in the markets and make trades
according to those assessments); Goldman (Prop. Trading) (recommending that the Agencies instead focus
on how trading activities are “designed” to meet the reasonably expected near term demands of clients over
time, rather than whether those demands have actually manifested themselves at a given point in time);
ISDA (Feb. 2012) (stating that the Agencies should clarify this language to recognize differences between
liquid and illiquid markets and noting that illiquid and low volume markets necessitate that swap dealers
take a longer and broader view than dealers in liquid markets).

198

A few commenters stated that high-frequency trading should be considered
prohibited proprietary trading under the rule, not permitted market making-related
activity. 691 For example, one commenter stated that the Agencies should not confuse
high volume trading and market making. This commenter emphasized that algorithmic
traders in general – and high-frequency traders in particular – do not hold themselves out
in the manner required by the proposed rule, but instead only offer to buy and sell when
they think it is profitable. 692 Another commenter suggested the Agencies impose a
resting period on any order placed by a banking entity in reliance on any exemption in the
rule by, for example, prohibiting a banking entity from buying and subsequently selling a
position within a span of two seconds. 693
c.

Final requirement to routinely stand ready to purchase and sell
Section __.4(b)(2)(i) of the final rule provides that the trading desk that

establishes and manages the financial exposure must routinely stand ready to purchase
and sell one or more types of financial instruments related to its financial exposure and be
willing and available to quote, buy and sell, or otherwise enter into long and short
positions in those types of financial instruments for its own account, in commercially
reasonable amounts and throughout market cycles, on a basis appropriate for the
liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments.
As discussed in more detail below, the standard of “routinely” standing ready to purchase
and sell one or more types of financial instruments will be interpreted to account for

691

See, e.g., Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen.

692

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012). See also infra note 742 (addressing this issue).

693

See Occupy.

199

differences across markets and asset classes. In addition, this requirement provides that a
trading desk must be willing and available to provide quotations and transact in the
particular types of financial instruments in commercially reasonable amounts and
throughout market cycles. Thus, a trading desk’s activities would not meet the terms of
the market-making exemption if, for example, the trading desk only provides wide
quotations on one or both sides of the market relative to prevailing market conditions or
is only willing to trade on an irregular, intermittent basis.
While this provision of the market-making exemption has some similarity to the
requirement to hold oneself out in § __.4(b)(2)(ii) of the proposed rule, the Agencies have
made a number of refinements in response to comments. Specifically, a number of
commenters expressed concern that the proposed requirement did not sufficiently account
for differences between markets and asset classes and would unduly limit certain types of
market making by requiring “regular or continuous” quoting in a particular instrument. 694
The explanation of this requirement in the proposal was intended to address many of
these concerns. For example, the Agencies stated that the proposed “indicia cannot be
applied at all times and under all circumstances because some may be inapplicable to the
specific asset class or market in which the market-making activity is conducted.” 695
Nonetheless, the Agencies believe that certain modifications are warranted to clarify the
rule and to prevent a potential chilling effect on market making-related activities
conducted by banking entities.

694

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.1.b. (discussing comments on this issue). The Agencies did not intend for the
reference to “covered financial position” in the proposed rule to imply a single instrument, although
commenters contended that the proposal may not have been sufficiently clear on this point.
695

Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,871; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8356.

200

Commenters represented that the requirement that a trading desk hold itself out as
being willing to buy and sell “on a regular or continuous basis,” as was originally
proposed, was impossible to meet or impractical in the context of many markets,
especially less liquid markets. 696 Accordingly, the final rule requires a trading desk that
establishes and manages the financial exposure to “routinely” stand ready to trade one or
more types of financial instruments related to its financial exposure. As discussed below,
the meaning of “routinely” will account for the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the
market for a type of financial instrument, which should address commenter concern that
the proposed standard would not work in less liquid markets and would have a chilling
effect on banking entities’ ability to act as market makers in less liquid markets. A
concept of market making that is applicable across securities, commodity futures, and
derivatives markets has not previously been defined by any of the Agencies. Thus, while
this standard is based generally on concepts from the securities laws and is consistent
with the CFTC’s and SEC’s description of market making in swaps, 697 the Agencies note

696

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Morgan Stanley; Barclays; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); ABA; Chamber (Feb. 2012); BDA (Feb. 2012); Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; ACLI
(Feb. 2012); T. Rowe Price; PUC Texas; PNC; MetLife; RBC; SSgA (Feb. 2012). Some commenters
suggested alternative criteria, such as providing prices upon request, using a historical test of market
making, or a purely guidance-based approach. See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman
(Prop. Trading); FTN; Flynn & Fusselman; JPMC. The Agencies are not adopting a requirement that the
trading desk only provide prices upon request because the Agencies believe it would be inconsistent with
market making in liquid exchange-traded instruments where market makers regularly or continuously post
quotes on an exchange. With respect to one commenter’s suggested approach of a historical test of market
making, this commenter did not provide enough information about how such a test would work for the
Agencies’ consideration. Finally, the final rule does not adopt a purely guidance-based approach because,
as discussed further above, the Agencies believe it could lead to an increased risk of evasion.
697

See Further Definition of “Swap Dealer,” “Security-Based Swap Dealer,” “Major Swap Participant,”
“Major Security-Based Swap Participant” and “Eligible Contract Participant”, 77 FR 30596, 30609 (May
23, 2012) (describing market making in swaps as “routinely standing ready to enter into swaps at the
request or demand of a counterparty”).

201

that it is not directly based on an existing definition of market making. 698 Instead, the
approach taken in the final rule is intended to take into account and accommodate the
conditions in the relevant market for the financial instrument in which the banking entity
is making a market.
i.

Definition of “trading desk”
The Agencies are adopting a market-making exemption with requirements that

generally focus on a financial exposure managed by a “trading desk” of a banking entity
and such trading desk’s market-maker inventory. The market-making exemption as
originally proposed would have applied to “a trading desk or other organizational unit” of
a banking entity. In addition, for purposes of the proposed requirement to report and
record certain quantitative measurements, the proposal defined the term “trading unit” as
each of the following units of organization of a banking entity: (i) each discrete unit that
is engaged in the coordinated implementation of a revenue-generation strategy and that
participates in the execution of any covered trading activity; (ii) each organizational unit
that is used to structure and control the aggregate risk-taking activities and employees of
one or more trading units described in paragraph (i); and (iii) all trading operations,
collectively. 699

698

As a result, activity that is considered market making under this final rule may not necessarily be
considered market making for purposes of other laws or regulations, such as the U.S. securities laws, the
rules and regulations thereunder, or self-regulatory organization rules. In addition, the Agencies note that a
banking entity acting as an underwriter would continue to be treated as an underwriter for purposes of the
securities laws and the regulations thereunder, including any liability arising under the securities laws as a
result of acting in such capacity, regardless of whether it is able to meet the terms of the market-making
exemption for its activities. See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).
699

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,957; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8436.

202

The Agencies received few comments regarding the organizational level at which
the requirements of the market-making exemption should apply, and many of the
commenters that addressed this issue did not describe their suggested approach in
detail. 700 One commenter suggested that the market-making exemption apply to each
“trading unit” of a banking entity, defined as “each organizational unit that is used to
structure and control the aggregate risk-taking activities and employees that are engaged
in the coordinated implementation of a customer-facing revenue generation strategy and
that participate in the execution of any covered trading activity.” 701 This suggested
approach is substantially similar to the second prong of the Agencies’ proposed definition
of “trading unit” in Appendix A of the proposal. The Agencies described this prong as
generally including management or reporting divisions, groups, sub-groups, or other
intermediate units of organization used by the banking entity to manage one or more
discrete trading units (e.g., “North American Credit Trading,” “Global Credit Trading,”
etc.). 702 The Agencies are concerned that this commenter’s suggested approach, or any
other approach applying the exemption’s requirements to a higher level of organization
than the trading desk, would impede monitoring of market making-related activity and
detection of impermissible proprietary trading by combining a number of different
trading strategies and aggregating a larger volume of trading activities. 703 Further, key
requirements in the market-making exemption, such as the required limits and risk

700

See Wellington; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

701

Morgan Stanley.

702

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,957 n.2.

703

See, e.g., Occupy (expressing concern that, with respect to the proposed definition of “trading unit,” an
“oversized” unit could combine significantly unrelated trading desks, which would impede detection of
proprietary trading activity).

203

management procedures, are generally used by banking entities for risk control and
applied at the trading desk level. Thus, applying them at a broader organizational level
than the trading desk would create a separate system for compliance with this exemption
designed to permit a banking entity to aggregate disparate trading activities and apply
limits more generally. Applying the conditions of the exemption at a more aggregated
level would allow banking entities more flexibility in trading and could result in a higher
volume of trading that could contribute modestly to liquidity. 704 Instead of taking that
approach, the Agencies have determined to permit a broader range of market makingrelated activities that can be effectively controlled by building on risk controls used by
trading desks for business purposes. This will allow an individual trader to use
instruments or strategies within limits established in the compliance program to
confidently trade in the type of financial instruments in which his or her trading desk
makes a market. The Agencies believe this addresses concerns that uncertainty would
negatively impact liquidity. It also addresses concerns that applying the market-making
exemption at a higher level of organization would reduce the effectiveness of the
requirements in the final rule aimed at ensuring that the quality and character of trading is
consistent with market making-related activity and would increase the risk of evasion.
Moreover, several provisions of the final rule are intended to account for the liquidity,
maturity, and depth of the market for a given type of financial instrument in which the
trading desk makes a market. The final rule takes account of these factors to, among
704

The Agencies recognize that the proposed rule’s application to a trading desk “or other organizational
unit” would have provided banking entities with this type of flexibility to determine the level of
organization at which the market-making exemption should apply based on the entity’s particular business
structure and trading strategies, which would likely reduce the burdens of this aspect of the final rule.
However, for the reasons noted above regarding application of this exemption to a higher organizational
level than the trading desk, the Agencies are not adopting the “or other organizational unit” language.

204

other things, respond to commenters’ concerns about the proposed rule’s potential impact
on market making in less liquid markets. Applying these requirements at an
organizational level above the trading desk would be more likely to result in aggregation
of trading in various types of instruments with differing levels of liquidity, which would
make it more difficult for these market factors to be taken into account for purposes of
the exemption (for example, these factors are considered for purposes of tailoring the
analysis of reasonably expected near term demands of customers and establishing risk,
inventory, and duration limits).
Thus, the Agencies continue to believe that certain requirements of the exemption
should apply to a relatively granular level of organization within a banking entity (or
across two or more affiliated banking entities). These requirements of the final marketmaking exemption have been formulated to best reflect the nature of activities at the
trading desk level of granularity.
As explained below, the Agencies are applying certain requirements to a “trading
desk” of a banking entity and adopting a definition of this term in the final rule. 705 The
definition of “trading desk” is similar to the first prong of the proposed definition of
“trading unit.” The Agencies are not adopting the proposed “or other organizational unit”
language because the Agencies are concerned that approach would have provided
banking entities with too much discretion to independently determine the organizational
level at which the requirements should apply, including a more aggregated level of
organization, which could lead to evasion of the general prohibition on proprietary
trading and the other concerns noted above. The Agencies believe that adopting an
705

See final rule § __.3(e)(13).

205

approach focused on the trading desk level will allow banking entities and the Agencies
to better distinguish between permitted market making-related activities and trading that
is prohibited by section 13 of the BHC Act and, thus, will prevent evasion of the statutory
requirements, as discussed in more detail below. Further, as discussed below, the
Agencies believe that applying requirements at the trading desk level is balanced by the
financial exposure-based approach, which will address commenters’ concerns about the
burdens of trade-by-trade analyses.
In the final rule, trading desk is defined to mean the smallest discrete unit of
organization of a banking entity that buys or sells financial instruments for the trading
account of the banking entity or an affiliate thereof. The Agencies expect that a trading
desk would be managed and operated as an individual unit and should reflect the level at
which the profit and loss of market-making traders is attributed. 706 The geographic
location of individual traders is not dispositive for purposes of the analysis of whether the
traders may comprise a single trading desk. For instance, a trading desk making markets
in U.S. investment grade telecom corporate credits may use trading personnel in both
New York (to trade U.S. dollar-denominated bonds issued by U.S.-incorporated telecom
companies) and London (to trade Euro-denominated bonds issued by the same type of
companies). This approach allows more effective management of risks of trading activity
by requiring the establishment of limits, management oversight, and accountability at the
level where trading activity actually occurs. It also allows banking entities to tailor the

706

For example, the Agencies expect a banking entity may determine the foreign exchange options desk to
be a trading desk; however, the Agencies do not expect a banking entity to consider an individual Japanese
Yen options trader (i.e., the trader in charge of all Yen-based options trades) as a trading desk, unless the
banking entity manages its profit and loss, market making, and hedging in Japanese Yen options
independently of all other financial instruments.

206

limits and procedures to the type of instruments traded and markets served by each
trading desk.
In response to comments, and as discussed below in the context of the “financial
exposure” definition, a trading desk may manage a financial exposure that includes
positions in different affiliated legal entities. 707 Similarly, a trading desk may include
employees working on behalf of multiple affiliated legal entities or booking trades in
multiple affiliated entities. Using the previous example, the U.S. investment grade
telecom corporate credit trading desk may include traders working for or booking into a
broker-dealer entity (for corporate bond trades), a security-based swap dealer entity (for
single-name CDS trades), and/or a swap dealer entity (for index CDS or interest rate
swap hedges). To clarify this issue, the definition of “trading desk” specifically provides
that the desk can buy or sell financial instruments “for the trading account of a banking
entity or an affiliate thereof.” Thus, a trading desk need not be constrained to a single
legal entity, although it is permissible for a trading desk to only trade for a single legal
entity. A trading desk booking positions in different affiliated legal entities must have
records that identify all positions included in the trading desk’s financial exposure and
where such positions are held, as discussed below. 708
The Agencies believe that establishing a defined organizational level at which
many of the market-making exemption’s requirements apply will address potential
evasion concerns. Applying certain requirements of the market-making exemption at the

707

See infra note 724 and accompanying text. Several commenters noted that market-making activities
may be conducted across separate affiliated legal entities. See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading).
708

See infra note 727 and accompanying text.

207

trading desk level will strengthen their effectiveness and prevent evasion of the
exemption by ensuring that the aggregate trading activities of a relatively limited group
of traders on a single desk are conducted in a manner that is consistent with the
exemption’s standards. In particular, because many of the requirements in the marketmaking exemption look to the specific type(s) of financial instruments in which a market
is being made, and such requirements are designed to take into account differences
among markets and asset classes, the Agencies believe it is important that these
requirements be applied to a discrete and identifiable unit engaged in, and operated by
personnel whose responsibilities relate to, making a market in a specific set or type of
financial instruments. Further, applying requirements at the trading desk level should
facilitate banking entity monitoring and review of compliance with the exemption by
limiting the aggregate trading volume that must be reviewed, as well as allowing
consideration of the particular facts and circumstances of the desk’s trading activities
(e.g., the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial
instruments). As discussed above, the Agencies believe that applying the requirements of
the market-making exemption to a higher level of organization would reduce the ability
to consider the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for a type of financial
instrument, would impede effective monitoring and compliance reviews, and would
increase the risk of evasion.
ii.

Definitions of “financial exposure” and “market-maker inventory”

208

Certain requirements of the proposed market-making exemption referred to a
“purchase or sale of a [financial instrument].” 709 Even though the Agencies did not
intend to require a trade-by-trade review, a significant number of commenters expressed
concern that this language could be read to require compliance with the proposed marketmaking exemption on a transaction-by-transaction basis. 710 In response to these
concerns, the Agencies are modifying the exemption to clarify the manner in which
compliance with certain provisions will be assessed. In particular, rather than a
transaction-by-transaction focus, the market-making exemption in the final rule focuses
on two related aspects of market-making activity: a trading desk’s “market-maker
inventory” and its overall “financial exposure.” 711
The Agencies are adopting an approach that focuses on both a trading desk’s
financial exposure and market-maker inventory in recognition that market making-related
activity is best viewed in a holistic manner and that, during a single day, a trading desk
may engage in a large number of purchases and sales of financial instruments. While all
these transactions must be conducted in compliance with the market-making exemption,
the Agencies recognize that they involve financial instruments for which the trading desk
acts as market maker (i.e., by standing ready to purchase and sell that type of financial

709

See proposed rule § __.4(b).

710

Some commenters also contended that language in proposed Appendix B raised transaction-bytransaction implications. See supra notes 517 to 524 and accompanying text (discussing commenters’
transaction-by-transaction concerns).
711

The Agencies are not adopting a transaction-by-transaction approach because the Agencies are
concerned that such an approach would be unduly burdensome or impractical and inconsistent with the
manner in which bona fide market making-related activity is conducted. Additionally, the Agencies are
concerned that the burdens of such an approach would cause banking entities to significantly reduce or
cease market making-related activities, which would cause negative market impacts harmful to both
investors and issuers, as well as the financial system generally.

209

instrument) and instruments that are acquired to manage the risks of positions in financial
instruments for which the desk acts as market maker, but in which the desk is not itself a
market maker. 712
The final rule requires that activity by a trading desk under the market-making
exemption be evaluated by a banking entity through monitoring and setting limits for the
trading desk’s market-maker inventory and financial exposure. The market-maker
inventory of a trading desk includes the positions in financial instruments, including
derivatives, in which the trading desk acts as market maker. The financial exposure of
the trading desk includes the aggregate risks of financial instruments in the market-maker
inventory of the trading desk plus the financial instruments, including derivatives, that are
acquired to manage the risks of the positions in financial instruments for which the
trading desk acts as a market maker, but in which the trading desk does not itself make a
market, as well as any associated loans, commodities, and foreign exchange that are
acquired as incident to acting as a market maker. In addition, the trading desk generally
must maintain its market-maker inventory and financial exposure within its market-maker
inventory limit and its financial exposure limit, respectively and, to the extent that any
limit of the trading desk is exceeded, the trading desk must take action to bring the
trading desk into compliance with the limits as promptly as possible after the limit is
exceeded. 713 Thus, if market movements cause a trading desk’s financial exposure to
exceed one or more of its risk limits, the trading desk must promptly take action to reduce

712

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,870 n.146 (“The Agencies note that a market maker may often make a
market in one type of [financial instrument] and hedge its activities using different [financial instruments]
in which it does not make a market.”); CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8356 n.152.
713

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iv).

210

its financial exposure or obtain approval for an increase to its limits through the required
escalation procedures, detailed below. A trading desk may not, however, enter into a
trade that would cause it to exceed its limits without first receiving approval through its
escalation procedures. 714
Under the final rule, the term market-maker inventory is defined to mean all of
the positions, in the financial instruments for which the trading desk stands ready to make
a market in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, that are managed by the
trading desk, including the trading desk’s open positions or exposures arising from open
transactions. 715 Those financial instruments in which a trading desk acts as market maker
must be identified in the trading desk’s compliance program under § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(A) of
the final rule. As used throughout this Supplementary Information, the term
“inventory” refers to both the retention of financial instruments (e.g., securities) and, in
the context of derivatives trading, the risk exposures arising out of market-making related
activities. 716 Consistent with the statute, the final rule requires that the market-maker
inventory of a trading desk be designed not to exceed, on an ongoing basis, the
reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties.
The financial exposure concept is broader in scope than market-maker inventory
and reflects the aggregate risks of the financial instruments (as well as any associated
loans, spot commodities, or spot foreign exchange or currency) the trading desk manages

714

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(E).

715

See final rule § __.4(b)(5).

716

As noted in the proposal, certain types of market making-related activities, such as market making in
derivatives, involves the retention of principal exposures rather than the retention of actual financial
instruments. See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,869 n.143; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8354 n.149. This type
of activity would be included under the concept of “inventory” in the final rule.

211

as part of its market making-related activities. 717 Thus, a trading desk’s financial
exposure will take into account a trading desk’s positions in instruments for which it does
not act as a market maker, but which are established as part of its market making-related
activities, which includes risk mitigation and hedging. For instance, a trading desk that
acts as a market maker in Euro-denominated corporate bonds may, in addition to Eurodenominated bonds, enter into credit default swap transactions on individual European
corporate bond issuers or an index of European corporate bond issuers in order to hedge
its exposure arising from its corporate bond inventory, in accordance with its documented
hedging policies and procedures. Though only the corporate bonds would be considered
as part of the trading desk’s market-maker inventory, its overall financial exposure would
also include the credit default swaps used for hedging purposes.
As noted above, the Agencies believe the extent to which a trading desk is
engaged in permitted market making-related activities is best determined by evaluating
both the financial exposure that results from the desk’s trading activity and the amount,
types, and risks of the financial instruments in the desk’s market-maker inventory. Both
concepts are independently valuable and will contribute to the effectiveness of the
market-making exemption. Specifically, a trading desk’s financial exposure will
highlight the net exposure and risks of its positions and, along with an analysis of the

717

The Agencies recognize that under the statute a banking entity’s positions in loans, spot commodities,
and spot foreign exchange or currency are not subject to the final rule’s restrictions on proprietary trading.
Thus, a banking entity’s trading in these instruments does not need to comply with the market-making
exemption or any other exemption to the prohibition on proprietary trading. A banking entity may,
however, include exposures in loans, spot commodities, and spot foreign exchange or currency that are
related to the desk’s market-making activities in determining the trading desk’s financial exposure and in
turn, the desk’ s financial exposure limits under the market-making exemption. The Agencies believe this
will provide a more accurate picture of the trading desk’s financial exposure. For example, a market maker
in foreign exchange forwards or swaps may mitigate the risks of its market-maker inventory with spot
foreign exchange.

212

actions the trading desk will take to demonstrably reduce or otherwise significantly
mitigate promptly the risks of that exposure consistent with its limits, the extent to which
it is appropriately managing the risk of its market-maker inventory consistent with
applicable limits, all of which are significant to an analysis of whether a trading desk is
engaged in market making-related activities. An assessment of the amount, types, and
risks of the financial instruments in a trading desk’s market-maker inventory will identify
the aggregate amount of the desk’s inventory in financial instruments for which it acts as
market maker, the types of these financial instruments that the desk holds at a particular
time, and the risks arising from such holdings. Importantly, an analysis of a trading
desk’s market-maker inventory will inform the extent to which this inventory is related to
the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties.
Because the market-maker inventory concept is more directly related to the
financial instruments that a trading desk buys and sells from customers than the financial
exposure concept, the Agencies believe that requiring review and analysis of a trading
desk’s market-maker inventory, as well as its financial exposure, will enhance
compliance with the statute’s near-term customer demand requirement. While the
amount, types, and risks of a trading desk’s market-maker inventory are constrained by
the near-term customer demand requirement, any other positions in financial instruments
managed by the trading desk as part of its market making-related activities (i.e., those
reflected in the trading desk’s financial exposure, but not included in the trading desk’s
market-maker inventory) are also constrained because they must be consistent with the
market-maker inventory or, if taken for hedging purposes, designed to reduce the risks of
the trading desk’s market-maker inventory.

213

The Agencies note that disaggregating the trading desk’s market-maker inventory
from its other exposures also allows for better identification of the trading desk’s hedging
positions in instruments for which the trading desk does not make a market. As a result,
a banking entity’s systems should be able to readily identify and monitor the trading
desk’s hedging positions that are not in its market-maker inventory. As discussed in Part
IV.A.3.c.3., a trading desk must have certain inventory and risk limits on its marketmaker inventory, the products, instruments, and exposures the trading desk may use for
risk management purposes, and its financial exposure that are designed to facilitate the
trading desk’s compliance with the exemption and that are based on the nature and
amount of the trading desk’s market making-related activities, including analyses
regarding the reasonably expected near term demands of customers. 718
The final rule also requires these policies and procedures to contain escalation
procedures if a trade would exceed the limits set for the trading desk. However, the final
rule does not permit a trading desk to exceed the limits solely based on customer demand.
Rather, before executing a trade that would exceed the desk’s limits or changing the
desk’s limits, a trading desk must first follow the relevant escalation procedures, which
may require additional approval within the banking entity and provide demonstrable
analysis that the basis for any temporary or permanent increase in limits is consistent with
the reasonably expected near term demands of customers.
Due to these considerations, the Agencies believe the final rule should result in
more efficient compliance analyses on the part of both banking entities and Agency
supervisors and examiners and should be less costly for banking entities to implement
718

See infra Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.; final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(C).

214

than a transaction-by-transaction or instrument-by-instrument approach. For example,
the Agencies believe that some banking entities already compute and monitor most
trading desks’ financial exposures for risk management or other purposes. 719 The
Agencies also believe that focusing on the financial exposure and market-maker
inventory of a trading desk, as opposed to each separate individual transaction, is
consistent with the statute’s goal of reducing proprietary trading risk in the banking
system and its exemption for market making-related activities. The Agencies recognize
that banking entities may not currently disaggregate trading desks’ market-maker
inventory from their financial exposures and that, to the extent banking entities do not
currently separately identify trading desks’ market-maker inventory, requiring such
disaggregation for purposes of this rule will impose certain costs. In addition, the
Agencies understand that an approach focused solely on the aggregate of all the unit’s
trading positions, as suggested by some commenters, would present fewer burdens. 720
However, for the reasons discussed above, the Agencies believe such disaggregation is
necessary to give full effect to the statute’s near term customer demand requirement.
The Agencies note that whether a financial instrument or exposure stemming
from a derivative is considered to be market-maker inventory is based only on whether
the desk makes a market in the financial instrument, regardless of the type of
counterparty or the purpose of the transaction. Thus, the Agencies believe that banking

719

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (stating that modern trading units generally view
individual positions as a bundle of characteristics that contribute to their complete portfolio). See also
Federal Reserve Board, Trading and Capital-Markets Activities Manual §2000.1 (Feb. 1998) (“The riskmeasurement system should also permit disaggregation of risk by type and by customer, instrument, or
business unit to effectively support the management and control of risks.”).
720

See ACLI (Feb. 2012); Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012).

215

entities should be able to develop a standardized methodology for identifying a trading
desk’s positions and exposures in the financial instruments for which it acts as a market
maker. As further discussed in this Part, a trading desk’s financial exposure must reflect
the aggregate risks managed by the trading desk as part of its market making-related
activities, 721 and a banking entity should be able to demonstrate that the financial
exposure of a trading desk is related to its market-making activities.
The final rule defines “financial exposure” to mean the “aggregate risks of one or
more financial instruments and any associated loans, commodities, or foreign exchange
or currency, held by a banking entity or its affiliate and managed by a particular trading
desk as part of the trading desk’s market making-related activities.” 722 In this context,
the term “aggregate” does not imply that a long exposure in one instrument can be
combined with a short exposure in a similar or related instrument to yield a total exposure
of zero. Instead, such a combination may reduce a trading desk’s economic exposure to
certain risk factors that are common to both instruments, but it would still retain any basis
risk between those financial instruments or potentially generate a new risk exposure in
the case of purposeful hedging.
With respect to the frequency with which a trading desk should determine its
financial exposure and the amount, types, and risks of the financial instruments in its
market-maker inventory, a trading desk’s financial exposure and market-maker inventory
should be evaluated and monitored at a frequency that is appropriate for the trading
721

See final rule § __.4(b)(4).

722

Final rule § __.4(b)(4). For example, in the case of derivatives, a trading desk’s financial position will
be the residual risks of the trading desk’s open positions. For instance, an options desk may have
thousands of open trades at any given time, including hedges, but the desk will manage, among other risk
factors, the trading desk’s portfolio delta, gamma, rho, and volatility.

216

desk’s trading strategies and the characteristics of the financial instruments the desk
trades, including historical intraday volatility. For example, a trading desk that
repeatedly acquired and then terminated significant financial exposures throughout the
day but that had little or no financial exposure at the end of the day should assess its
financial exposure based on its intraday activities, not simply its end-of-day financial
exposure. The frequency with which a trading desk’s financial exposure and marketmaker inventory will be monitored and analyzed should be specified in the trading desk’s
compliance program.
A trading desk’s financial exposure reflects its aggregate risk exposures. The
types of “aggregate risks” identified in the trading desk’s financial exposure should
reflect consideration of all significant market factors relevant to the financial instruments
in which the trading desk acts as market maker or that the desk uses for risk management
purposes pursuant to this exemption, including the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the
market for the relevant types of financial instruments. Thus, market factors reflected in a
trading desk’s financial exposure should include all significant and relevant factors
associated with the products and instruments in which the desk trades as market maker or
for risk management purposes, including basis risk arising from such positions. 723
Similarly, an assessment of the risks of the trading desk’s market-maker inventory must
reflect consideration of all significant market factors relevant to the financial instruments
in which the trading desk makes a market. Importantly, a trading desk’s financial

723

As discussed in Part IV.A.3.c.3., a banking entity must establish, implement, maintain, and enforce
policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and independent testing regarding the financial
instruments each trading desk stands ready to purchase and sell and the products, instruments, or exposures
each trading desk may use for risk management purposes. See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii).

217

exposure and the risks of its market-maker inventory will change based on the desk’s
trading activity (e.g., buying an instrument that it did not previously hold, increasing its
position in an instrument, or decreasing its position in an instrument) as well as changing
market conditions related to instruments or positions managed by the trading desk.
Because the final rule defines “trading desk” based on operational functionality
rather than corporate formality, a trading desk’s financial exposure may include positions
that are booked in different affiliated legal entities. 724 The Agencies understand that
positions may be booked in different legal entities for a variety of reasons, including
regulatory reasons. For example, a trading desk that makes a market in corporate bonds
may book its corporate bond positions in an SEC-registered broker-dealer and may book
index CDS positions acquired for hedging purposes in a CFTC-registered swap dealer. A
financial exposure that reflects both the corporate bond position and the index CDS
position better reflects the economic reality of the trading desk’s risk exposure (i.e., by
showing that the risk of the corporate bond position has been reduced by the index CDS
position).
In addition, a trading desk engaged in market making-related activities in
compliance with the final rule may direct another organizational unit of the banking
entity or an affiliate to execute a risk-mitigating transaction on the trading desk’s
behalf. 725 The other organizational unit may rely on the market-making exemption for
these purposes only if: (i) the other organizational unit acts in accordance with the trading

724

Other statutory or regulatory requirements, including those based on prudential safety and soundness
concerns, may prevent or limit a banking entity from booking hedging positions in a legal entity other than
the entity taking the underlying position.
725

See infra Part IV.A.3.c.4.

218

desk’s risk management policies and procedures established in accordance with §
__.4(b)(2)(iii) of the final rule; and (ii) the resulting risk-mitigating position is attributed
to the trading desk’s financial exposure (and not the other organizational unit’s financial
exposure) and is included in the trading desk’s daily profit and loss calculation. If
another organizational unit of the banking entity or an affiliate establishes a riskmitigating position for the trading desk on its own accord (i.e., not at the direction of the
trading desk) or if the risk-mitigating position is included in the other organizational
unit’s financial exposure or daily profit and loss calculation, then the other organizational
unit must comply with the requirements of the hedging exemption for such activity. 726 It
may not rely on the market-making exemption under these circumstances. If a trading
desk engages in a risk-mitigating transaction with a second trading desk of the banking
entity or an affiliate that is also engaged in permissible market making-related activities,
then the risk-mitigating position would be included in the first trading desk’s financial
exposure and the contra-risk would be included in the second trading desk’s marketmaker inventory and financial exposure. The Agencies believe the net effect of the final
rule is to allow individual trading desks to efficiently manage their own hedging and risk
mitigation activities on a holistic basis, while only allowing for external hedging directed
by staff outside of the trading desk under the additional requirements of the hedging
exemption.
To include in a trading desk’s financial exposure either positions held at an
affiliated legal entity or positions established by another organizational unit on the

726

Under these circumstances, the other organizational unit would also be required to meet the hedging
exemption’s documentation requirement for the risk-mitigating transaction. See final rule § __.5(c).

219

trading desk’s behalf, a banking entity must be able to provide supervisors or examiners
of any Agency that has regulatory authority over the banking entity pursuant to section
13(b)(2)(B) of the BHC Act with records, promptly upon request, that identify any
related positions held at an affiliated entity that are being included in the trading desk’s
financial exposure for purposes of the market-making exemption. Similarly, the
supervisors and examiners of any Agency that has supervisory authority over the banking
entity that holds financial instruments that are being included in another trading desk’s
financial exposure for purposes of the market-making exemption must have the same
level of access to the records of the trading desk. 727 Banking entities should be prepared
to provide all records that identify all positions included in a trading desk’s financial
exposure and where such positions are held.
As an example of how a trading desk’s market-maker inventory and financial
exposure will be analyzed under the market-making exemption, assume a trading desk
makes a market in a variety of U.S. corporate bonds and hedges its aggregated positions
with a combination of exposures to corporate bond indexes and specific name CDS in
which the desk does not make a market. To qualify for the market-making exemption,
the trading desk would have to demonstrate, among other things, that: (i) the desk
routinely stands ready to purchase and sell the U.S. corporate bonds, consistent with the
requirement of § __.4(b)(2)(i) of the final rule, and these instruments (or category of
instruments) are identified in the trading desk’s compliance program; (ii) the trading
desk’s market-maker inventory in U.S. corporate bonds is designed not to exceed, on an

727

A banking entity must be able to provide such records when a related position is held at an affiliate,
even if the affiliate and the banking entity are not subject to the same Agency’s regulatory jurisdiction.

220

ongoing basis, the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or
counterparties, consistent with the analysis and limits established by the banking entity
for the trading desk; (iii) the trading desk’s exposures to corporate bond indexes and
single name CDS are designed to mitigate the risk of its financial exposure, are consistent
with the products, instruments, or exposures and the techniques and strategies that the
trading desk may use to manage its risk effectively (and such use continues to be
effective), and do not exceed the trading desk’s limits on the amount, types, and risks of
the products, instruments, and exposures the trading desk uses for risk management
purposes; and (iv) the aggregate risks of the trading desk’s exposures to U.S. corporate
bonds, corporate bond indexes, and single name CDS do not exceed the trading desk’s
limits on the level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its financial exposure.
Our focus on the financial exposure of a trading desk, rather than a trade-by-trade
requirement, is designed to give banking entities the flexibility to acquire not only
market-maker inventory, but positions that facilitate market making, such as positions
that hedge market-maker inventory. 728 As commenters pointed out, a trade-by-trade
requirement would view trades in isolation and could fail to recognize that certain trades
that are not customer-facing are nevertheless integral to market making and financial
intermediation. 729 The Agencies understand that the risk-reducing effects of combining
large diverse portfolios could, in certain instances, mask otherwise prohibited proprietary

728

The Agencies believe it is appropriate to apply the requirements of the exemption to the financial
exposure of a “trading desk,” rather than the portfolio of a higher level of organization, for the reasons
discussed above, including our concern that aggregating a large number of disparate positions and
exposures across a range of trading desks could increase the risk of evasion. See supra Part IV.A.3.c.1.c.i.
(discussing the determination to apply requirements at the trading desk level).
729

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

221

trading. 730 However, the Agencies do not believe that taking a transaction-by-transaction
approach is necessary to address this concern. Rather, the Agencies believe that the
broader definitions of “financial exposure” and “market-maker inventory” coupled with
the tailored definition of “trading desk” facilitates the analysis of aggregate risk
exposures and positions in a manner best suited to apply and evaluate the market-making
exemption.
In short, this approach is designed to mitigate the costs of a trade-by-trade
analysis identified by commenters. The Agencies recognize, however, that this approach
is only effective at achieving the goals of the section 13 of the BHC Act – promoting
financial intermediation and limiting speculative risks within banking entities – if there
are limits on a trading desk’s financial exposure. That is, a permissive market-making
exemption that gives banking entities maximum discretion in acquiring positions to
provide liquidity runs the risk of also allowing banking entities to engage in speculative
trades. As discussed more fully in the following Parts of this Supplementary
Information, the final market-making exemption provides a number of controls on a
trading desk’s financial exposure. These controls include, among others, a provision
requiring that a trading desk’s market-maker inventory be designed not to exceed, on an
ongoing basis, the reasonably expected near term demands of customers and that any
other financial instruments managed by the trading desk be designed to mitigate the risk
of such desk’s market-maker inventory. In addition, the final market-making exemption
requires the trading desk’s compliance program to include appropriate risk and inventory
limits tied to the near term demand requirement, as well as escalation procedures if a
730

See, e.g., Occupy.

222

trade would exceed such limits. The compliance program, which includes internal
controls and independent testing, is designed to prevent instances where transactions not
related to providing financial intermediation services are part of a desk’s financial
exposure.
iii.

Routinely standing ready to buy and sell
The requirement to routinely stand ready to buy and sell a type of financial

instrument in the final rule recognizes that market making-related activities differ based
on the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant type of financial
instrument. For example, a trading desk acting as a market maker in highly liquid
markets would engage in more regular quoting activity than a market maker in less liquid
markets. Moreover, the Agencies recognize that the maturity and depth of the market
also play a role in determining the character of a market maker’s activity.
As noted above, the standard of “routinely” standing ready to buy and sell will
differ across markets and asset classes based on the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the
market for the type of financial instrument. For instance, a trading desk that is a market
maker in liquid equity securities generally should engage in very regular or continuous
quoting and trading activities on both sides of the market. In less liquid markets, a
trading desk should engage in regular quoting activity across the relevant type(s) of
financial instruments, although such quoting may be less frequent than in liquid equity
markets. 731 Consistent with the CFTC’s and SEC’s interpretation of market making in
swaps and security-based swaps for purposes of the definitions of “swap dealer” and
731

Indeed, in the most specialized situations, such quotations may only be provided upon request. See
infra note 735 and accompanying text (discussing permissible block positioning).

223

“security-based swap dealer,” “routinely” in the swap market context means that the
trading desk should stand ready to enter into swaps or security-based swaps at the request
or demand of a counterparty more frequently than occasionally. 732 The Agencies note
that a trading desk may routinely stand ready to enter into derivatives on both sides of the
market, or it may routinely stand ready to enter into derivatives on either side of the
market and then enter into one or more offsetting positions in the derivatives market or
another market, particularly in the case of relatively less liquid derivatives. While a
trading desk may respond to requests to trade certain products, such as custom swaps,
even if it does not normally quote in the particular product, the trading desk should hedge
against the resulting exposure in accordance with its financial exposure and hedging
limits.733 Further, the Agencies continue to recognize that market makers in highly
illiquid markets may trade only intermittently or at the request of particular customers,
which is sometimes referred to as trading by appointment. 734 A trading desk’s block
positioning activity would also meet the terms of this requirement provided that, from
time to time, the desk engages in block trades (i.e., trades of a large quantity or with a
high dollar value) with customers. 735

732

The Agencies will consider factors similar to those identified by the CFTC and SEC in connection with
this standard. See Further Definition of “Swap Dealer,” “Security-Based Swap Dealer,” “Major Swap
Participant,” “Major Security-Based Swap Participant” and “Eligible Contract Participant”, 77 FR 30596,
30609 (May 23, 2012)
733

The Agencies recognize that, as noted by commenters, preventing a banking entity from conducting
customized transactions with customers may impact customers’ risk exposures or transaction costs. See
Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012). The Agencies are not prohibiting this
activity under the final rule, as discussed in this Part.
734

The Agencies have considered comments on the issue of whether trading by appointment should be
permitted under the final market-making exemption. The Agencies believe it is appropriate to permit
trading by appointment to the extent that there is customer demand for liquidity in the relevant products.
735

As noted in the preamble to the proposed rule, the size of a block will vary among different asset
classes. The Agencies also stated in the proposal that the SEC’s definition of “qualified block positioner”

224

Regardless of the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for a particular type
of financial instrument, a trading desk should have a pattern of providing price
indications on either side of the market and a pattern of trading with customers on each
side of the market. In particular, in the case of relatively illiquid derivatives or structured
instruments, it would not be sufficient to demonstrate that a trading desk on occasion
creates a customized instrument or provides a price quote in response to a customer
in Rule 3b-8(c) under the Exchange Act may serve as guidance for determining whether block positioning
activity qualifies for the market-making exemption. In referencing that rule as guidance, the Agencies did
not intend to imply that a banking entity engaged in block positioning activity would be required to meet all
terms of the “qualified block positioner” definition at all times. Nonetheless, a number of commenters
indicated that it was unclear when a banking entity would need to act as a qualified block positioner in
accordance with Rule 3b-8(c) and expressed concern that uncertainty could have a chilling effect on a
banking entity’s willingness to facilitate customer block trades. See, e.g., RBC; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.)
(Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading). For example, a few commenters stated that certain requirements in
Rule 3b-8(c) could cause fire sales or general market uncertainty. See id. After considering comments, the
Agencies have decided that the reference to Rule 3b-8(c) is unnecessary for purposes of the final rule. In
particular, the Agencies believe that the requirements in the market-making exemption provide sufficient
safeguards, and the additional requirements of the “qualified block positioner” definition may present
unnecessary burdens or redundancies with the rule, as adopted. For example, the Agencies believe that
there is some overlap between § __.4(b)(2)(ii) of the exemption, which provides that the amount, types, and
risks of the financial instruments in the trading desk’s market-maker inventory must be designed not to
exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, and Rule 3b8(c)(iii), which requires the sale of the shares comprising the block as rapidly as possible commensurate
with the circumstances. In other words, the market-making exemption would require a banking entity to
appropriately manage its inventory when engaged in block positioning activity, but would not speak
directly to the timing element given the diversity of markets to which the exemption applies.
As noted above, one commenter analyzed the potential market impact of a complete restriction on a market
maker’s ability to provide direct liquidity to help a customer execute a large block trade. See supra note
682 and accompanying text. Because the Agencies are not restricting a banking entity’s ability to engage
in block positioning in the manner suggested by this commenter, the Agencies do not believe that the final
rule will cause the cited market impact of incremental transaction costs between $1.7 and $3.4 billion per
year. The Agencies address this commenter’s concern about the impact of inventory metrics on a banking
entity’s willingness to engage in block trading in Part IV.C.3. (discussing the metrics requirement in the
final rule and noting that metrics will not be used to determine compliance with the rule but, rather, will be
monitored for patterns over time to identify activities that may warrant further review).
One commenter appeared to request that block trading activity not be subject to all requirements of the
market-making exemption. See SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012). Any activity conducted in reliance on
the market-making exemption, including block trading activity, must meet the requirements of the marketmaking exemption. The Agencies believe the requirements in the final rule are workable for block
positioning activity and do not believe it would be appropriate to subject block positioning to lesser
requirements than general market-making activity. For example, trading in large block sizes can expose a
trading desk to greater risk than market making in smaller sizes, particularly absent risk management
requirements. Thus, the Agencies believe it is important for block positioning activity to be subject to the
same requirements, including the requirements to establish risk limits and risk management procedures, as
general market-making activity.

225

request. Instead, the trading desk would need to be able to demonstrate a pattern of
taking these actions in response to demand from multiple customers with respect to both
long and short risk exposures in identified types of instruments.
This requirement of the final rule applies to a trading desk’s activity in one or
more “types” of financial instruments. 736 The Agencies recognize that, in some markets,
such as the corporate bond market, a market maker may regularly quote a subset of
instruments (generally the more liquid instruments), but may not provide regular quotes
in other related but less liquid instruments that the market maker is willing and available
to trade. Instead, the market maker would provide a price for those instruments upon
request. 737 The trading desk’s activity, in the aggregate for a particular type of financial
instrument, indicates whether it is engaged in activity that is consistent with §
__.4(b)(2)(i) of the final rule.
Notably, this requirement provides that the types of financial instruments for
which the trading desk routinely stands ready to purchase and sell must be related to its
authorized market-maker inventory and it authorized financial exposure. Thus, the types
of financial instruments for which the desk routinely stands ready to buy and sell should
compose a significant portion of its overall financial exposure. The only other financial
instruments contributing to the trading desk’s overall financial exposure should be those
designed to hedge or mitigate the risk of the financial instruments for which the trading
desk is making a market. It would not be consistent with the market-making exemption
736

This approach is generally consistent with commenters’ requested clarification that a trading desk’s
quoting activity will not be assessed on an instrument-by-instrument basis, but rather across a range of
similar instruments for which the trading desk acts as a market maker. See, e.g., RBC; SIFMA et al. (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012); CIEBA; Goldman (Prop. Trading).
737

See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading); Morgan Stanley; RBC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

226

for a trading desk to hold only positions in, or be exposed to, financial instruments for
which the trading desk is not a market maker. 738
A trading desk’s routine presence in the market for a particular type of financial
instrument would not, on its own, be sufficient grounds for relying on the market-making
exemption. This is because the frequency at which a trading desk is active in a particular
market would not, on its own, distinguish between permitted market making-related
activity and impermissible proprietary trading. In response to comments, the final rule
provides that a trading desk also must be willing and available to quote, buy and sell, or
otherwise enter into long and short positions in the relevant type(s) of financial
instruments for its own account in commercially reasonable amounts and throughout
market cycles. 739 Importantly, a trading desk would not meet the terms of this
requirement if it provides wide quotations relative to prevailing market conditions and is
not engaged in other activity that evidences a willingness or availability to provide
intermediation services. 740 Under these circumstances, a trading desk would not be
standing ready to purchase and sell because it is not genuinely quoting or trading with
customers.

738

The Agencies recognize that there could be limited circumstances under which a trading desk’s
financial exposure does not relate to the types of financial instruments that it is standing ready to buy and
sell for a short period of time. However, the Agencies would expect for such occurrences to be minimal.
For example, this scenario could occur if a trading desk unwinds a hedge position after the market-making
position has already been unwound or if a trading desk acquires an anticipatory hedge position prior to
acquiring a market-making position. As discussed more thoroughly in Part IV.A.3.c.3., a banking entity
must establish written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and independent testing that
establish appropriate parameters around such activities.
739

See, e.g., Occupy; Better Markets (Feb. 2012).

740

One commenter expressed concern that a banking entity may be able to rely on the market-making
exemption when it is providing only wide, out of context quotes. See Occupy.

227

In the context of this requirement, “commercially reasonable amounts” means that
the desk generally must be willing to quote and trade in sizes requested by other market
participants. 741 For trading desks that engage in block trading, this would include block
trades requested by customers, and this language is not meant to restrict a trading desk
from acting as a block positioner. Further, a trading desk must act as a market maker on
an appropriate basis throughout market cycles and not only when it is most favorable for
it to do so. 742 For example, a trading desk should be facilitating customer needs in both
upward and downward moving markets.
As discussed further in Part IV.A.3.c.3., the financial instruments the trading desk
stands ready to buy and sell must be identified in the trading desk’s compliance
program. 743 Certain requirements in the final exemption apply to the amount, types, and
risks of these financial instruments that a trading desk can hold in its market-maker
inventory, including the near term customer demand requirement 744 and the need to have
certain risk and inventory limits. 745
In response to the proposed requirement that a trading desk or other
organizational unit hold itself out, some commenters requested that the Agencies limit the
741

As discussed below, this may include providing quotes in the interdealer trading market.

742

Algorithmic trading strategies that only trade when market factors are favorable to the strategy’s
objectives or that otherwise frequently exit the market would not be considered to be standing ready to
purchase or sell a type of financial instrument throughout market cycles and, thus, would not qualify for the
market-making exemption. The Agencies believe this addresses commenters’ concerns about highfrequency trading activities that are only active in the market when it is believed to be profitable, rather
than to facilitate customers. See, e.g., Better Markets (Feb. 2012). The Agencies are not, however,
prohibiting all high-frequency trading activities under the final rule or otherwise limiting high-frequency
trading by banking entities by imposing a resting period on their orders, as requested by certain
commenters. See, e.g., Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen.
743

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(A).

744

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(ii).

745

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(C).

228

availability of the market-making exemption to trading in particular asset classes or
trading on particular venues (e.g., organized trading platforms). The Agencies are not
limiting the availability of the market-making exemption in the manner requested by
these commenters. 746 Provided there is customer demand for liquidity in a type of
financial instrument, the Agencies do not believe the availability of the market-making
exemption should depend on the liquidity of that type of financial instrument or the
ability to trade such instruments on an organized trading platform. The Agencies see no
basis in the statutory text for either approach and believe that the likely harms to
investors seeking to trade affected instruments (e.g., reduced ability to purchase or sell a
particular instrument, potentially higher transaction costs) and market quality (e.g.,
reduced liquidity) that would arise under such an approach would not be justified, 747
particularly in light of the minimal benefits that might result from restricting or
eliminating a banking entity’s ability to hold less liquid assets in connection with its
market making-related activities. The Agencies believe these commenters’ concerns are
adequately addressed by the final rule’s requirements in the market-making exemption

746

For example, a few commenters requested that the rule prohibit banking entities from market making in
assets classified as Level 3 under FAS 157. See supra note 651 and accompanying text. The Agencies
continue to believe that it would be inappropriate to incorporate accounting standards in the rule because
accounting standards could change in the future without consideration of the potential impact on the final
rule. See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,859 n.101 (explaining why the Agencies declined to incorporate
certain accounting standards in the proposed rule); CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8344 n.107.
Further, a few commenters suggested that the exemption should only be available for trading on an
organized trading facility. This type of limitation would require significant and widespread market
structure changes (with associated systems and infrastructure costs) in a relatively short period of time, as
market making in certain assets is primarily or wholly conducted in the OTC market, and organized trading
platforms may not currently exist for these assets. The Agencies do not believe that the costs of such
market structure changes would be warranted for purposes of this rule.
747

As discussed above, a number of commenters expressed concern about the potential market impacts of
the perceived restrictions on market making under the proposed rule, particularly with respect to less liquid
markets, such as the corporate bond market. See, e.g., Prof. Duffie; Wellington; BlackRock; ICI.

229

that are designed to ensure that a trading desk cannot hold risk in excess of what is
appropriate to provide intermediation services designed not to exceed, on an ongoing
basis, the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties.
In response to comments on the proposed interpretation regarding anticipatory
position-taking, 748 the Agencies note that the near term demand requirement in the final
rule addresses when a trading desk may take positions in anticipation of reasonably
expected near term customer demand. 749 The Agencies believe this approach is generally
consistent with the comments the Agencies received on this issue. 750 In addition, the
Agencies note that modifications to the proposed near term demand requirement in the
final rule also address commenters concerns on this issue. 751
2.

Near term customer demand requirement

a.

Proposed near term customer demand requirement
Consistent with the statute, the proposed rule required that the trading desk or

other organizational unit’s market making-related activities be, with respect to the

748

Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,871 (stating that “bona fide market making-related activity may include
taking positions in securities in anticipation of customer demand, so long as any anticipatory buying or
selling activity is reasonable and related to clear, demonstrable trading interest of clients, customers, or
counterparties”); CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8356-8357; See also Morgan Stanley (requesting certain
revisions to more closely track the statute); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop.
Trading); Chamber (Feb. 2012); Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb.
2012).
749

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(ii); infra Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.

750

See BoA; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Morgan Stanley;
Chamber (Feb. 2012); Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012).

751

For example, some commenters suggested that the final rule allow market makers to make
individualized assessments of anticipated customer demand, based on their expertise and experience, and
account for differences between liquid and less liquid markets. See Chamber (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb.
2012). The final rule allows such assessments, based on historical customer demand and other relevant
factors, and recognizes that near term demand may differ based on the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the
market for a particular type of financial instrument. See infra Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.iii.

230

financial instrument, designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands
of clients, customers, or counterparties. 752 This requirement is intended to prevent a
trading desk from taking a speculative proprietary position that is unrelated to customer
needs as part of the desk’s purported market making-related activities. 753
In the proposal, the Agencies stated that a banking entity’s expectations of near
term customer demand should generally be based on the unique customer base of the
banking entity’s specific market-making business lines and the near term demand of
those customers based on particular factors, beyond a general expectation of price
appreciation. The Agencies further stated that they would not expect the activities of a
trading desk or other organizational unit to qualify for the market-making exemption if
the trading desk or other organizational unit is engaged wholly or principally in trading
that is not in response to, or driven by, customer demands, regardless of whether those
activities promote price transparency or liquidity. The proposal stated that, for example,
a trading desk or other organizational unit of a banking entity that is engaged wholly or
principally in arbitrage trading with non-customers would not meet the terms of the
proposed rule’s market-making exemption. 754
With respect to market making in a security that is executed on an exchange or
other organized trading facility, the proposal provided that a market maker’s activities are
generally consistent with reasonably expected near term customer demand when such
activities involve passively providing liquidity by submitting resting orders that interact

752

See proposed rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii).

753

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,871; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8357.

754

See id.

231

with the orders of others in a non-directional or market-neutral trading strategy and the
market maker is registered, if the exchange or organized trading facility registers market
makers. Under the proposal, activities on an exchange or other organized trading facility
that primarily take liquidity, rather than provide liquidity, would not qualify for the
market-making exemption, even if conducted by a registered market maker. 755
b.

Comments Regarding the Proposed Near Term Customer Demand Requirement
As noted above, the proposed near term customer demand requirement would

implement language found in the statute’s market-making exemption. 756 Some
commenters expressed general support for this requirement. 757 For example, these
commenters emphasized that the proposed near term demand requirement is an important
component that restricts disguised position-taking or market making in illiquid
markets. 758 Several other commenters expressed concern that the proposed requirement
is too restrictive 759 because, for example, it may impede a market maker’s ability to build
or retain inventory 760 or may impact a market maker’s willingness to engage in block

755

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,871-68,872; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8357.

756

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.2.a.

757

See, e.g., Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Flynn & Fusselman; Better Markets (Feb. 2012).

758

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

759

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012); T. Rowe Price; SIFMA
(Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); ACLI (Feb. 2012); MetLife; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; CIEBA;
Credit Suisse (Seidel); SSgA (Feb. 2012); IAA (stating that the proposed requirement is too subjective and
would be difficult to administer in a range of scenarios); Barclays; Prof. Duffie.
760

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); T. Rowe Price; CIEBA; Credit Suisse (Seidel);
Barclays; Wellington; MetLife; Chamber (Feb. 2012); RBC; Prof. Duffie; ICI (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Asset
Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012). The Agencies respond to these comments in Part IV.A.3.c.2.c., infra. For a
discussion of comments regarding inventory management activity conducted in connection with market
making, See Part IV.A.3.c.2.b.vi., infra.

232

trading. 761 Comments on particular aspects of this proposed requirement are discussed
below, including the proposed interpretation of this requirement in the proposal, the
requirement’s potential impact on market maker inventory, potential differences in this
standard across asset classes, whether it is possible to predict near term customer
demand, and whether the terms “client,” “customer,” or “counterparty” should be defined
for purposes of the exemption.
i.

The proposed guidance for determining compliance with the near term customer
demand requirement

As discussed in more detail above, the proposal set forth proposed guidance on
how a banking entity may comply with the proposed near term customer demand
requirement. 762 With respect to the language indicating that a banking entity’s
determination of near term customer demand should generally be based on the unique
customer base of a specific market-making business line (and not merely an expectation
of future price appreciation), one commenter stated that it is unclear how a banking entity
would be able to make such determinations in markets where trades occur infrequently
and customer demand is hard to predict. 763

761

See, e.g., ACLI (Feb. 2012); MetLife; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation (noting that a market
maker may need to hold significant inventory to accommodate potential block trade requests). Two of
these commenters stated that a market maker may provide a worse price or may be unwilling to
intermediate a large customer position if the market maker has to determine whether holding such position
will meet the near term demand requirement, particularly if the market maker would be required to sell the
block position over a short period of time. See ACLI (Feb. 2012); MetLife. These comments are addressed
in Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.iii., infra.
762

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.2.a.

763

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). Another commenter suggested that the Agencies
“establish clear criteria that reflect appropriate revenue from changes in the bid-ask spread,” noting that a
legitimate market maker should be both selling and buying in a rising market (or, likewise, in a declining
market). Public Citizen.

233

Several commenters expressed concern about the proposal’s statement that a
trading desk or other organizational unit engaged wholly or principally in trading that is
not in response to, or driven by, customer demands (e.g., arbitrage trading with noncustomers) would not qualify for the exemption, regardless of whether the activities
promote price transparency or liquidity. 764 In particular, commenters stated that it would
be difficult for a market-making business to try to divide its activities that are in response
to customer demand (e.g., customer intermediation and hedging) from activities that
promote price transparency and liquidity (e.g., interdealer trading to test market depth or
arbitrage trading) in order to determine their proportionality. 765 Another commenter
stated that, as a matter of organizational efficiency, firms will often restrict arbitrage
trading strategies to certain specific individual traders within the market-making
organization, who may sometimes be referred to as a “desk,” and expressed concern that
this would be prohibited under the rule. 766
In response to the proposed interpretation regarding market making on an
exchange or other organized trading facility (and certain similar language in proposed
Appendix B), 767 several commenters indicated that the reference to passive submission of
resting orders may be too restrictive and provided examples of scenarios where market

764

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); BoA; ICI (Feb. 2012); ICI Global; Vanguard; SSgA (Feb. 2012); See also infra Part
IV.A.3.c.2.b.viii. (discussing comments on whether arbitrage trading should be permitted under the marketmaking exemption under certain circumstances).
765

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); RBC. One of these commenters agreed, however, that a trading desk
that is “wholly” engaged in trading that is unrelated to customer demand should not qualify for the
proposed market-making exemption. See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

766

See JPMC.

767

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,871-68,872; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8357.

234

makers may need to use market or marketable limit orders. 768 For example, many of
these commenters stated that market makers may need to enter market or marketable
limit orders to: (i) build or reduce inventory; 769 (ii) address order imbalances on an
exchange by, for example, using market orders to lessen volatility and restore pricing
equilibrium; (iii) hedge market-making positions; (iv) create markets; 770 (v) test the depth
of the markets; (vi) ensure that ETFs, American depositary receipts (“ADRs”), options,
and other instruments remain appropriately priced; 771 and (vii) respond to movements in
prices in the markets. 772 Two commenters noted that distinctions between limit and
market or marketable limit orders may not be workable in the international context,
where exchanges may not use the same order types as U.S. trading facilities. 773
A few commenters also addressed the proposed use of a market maker’s exchange
registration status as part of the analysis. 774 Two commenters stated that the proposed
rule should not require a market maker to be registered with an exchange to qualify for
the proposed market-making exemption. According to these commenters, there are a
large number of exchanges and organized trading facilities on which market makers may

768

See, e.g., NYSE Euronext; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); RBC.
Comments on proposed Appendix B are discussed further in Part IV.A.3.c.8.b., infra. This issue is
addressed in note 939 and its accompanying text, infra.
769

Some commenters stated that market makers may need to use market or marketable limit orders to build
inventory in anticipation of customer demand or in connection with positioning a block trade for a
customer. See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC; Goldman (Prop. Trading). Two of these
commenters noted that these order types may be needed to dispose of positions taken into inventory as part
of market making. See RBC; Goldman (Prop. Trading).
770

See NYSE Euronext.

771

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

772

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

773

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading).

774

See NYSE Euronext; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Occupy.
See also infra notes 940 to 941 and accompanying text (addressing these comments).

235

need to trade to maintain liquidity across the markets and to provide customers with
favorable prices. These commenters indicated that any restrictions or burdens on such
trading may decrease liquidity or make it harder to provide customers with the best price
for their trade. 775 One commenter, however, stated that the exchange registration
requirement is reasonable and further supported adding a requirement that traders
demonstrate adherence to the same or commensurate standards in markets where
registration is not possible. 776
Some commenters recommended certain modifications to the proposed analysis.
For example, a few commenters requested that the rule presume that a trading unit is
engaged in permitted market making-related activity if it is registered as a market maker
on a particular exchange or organized trading facility. 777 In support of this
recommendation, one commenter represented that it would be warranted because
registered market makers directly contribute to maintaining liquid and orderly markets

775

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (stating that trading units may currently register as
market makers with particular, primary exchanges on which they trade, but will serve in a market-making
capacity on other trading venues from time to time); Goldman (Prop. Trading) (noting that there are more
than 12 exchanges and 40 alternative trading systems currently trading U.S. equities).
776

See Occupy. In the alternative, this commenter would require all market making to be performed on an
exchange or organized trading facility. See id.
777

See NYSE Euronext (recognizing that registration status is not necessarily conclusive of engaging in
market making-related activities); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (stating that to the extent a
trading unit is registered on a particular exchange or organized trading facility for any type of financial
instrument, all of its activities on that exchange or organized trading facility should be presumed to be
market making); Goldman (Prop. Trading). See also infra note 940 (responding to these comments). Two
commenters noted that certain exchange rules may require market makers to deal for their own account
under certain circumstances in order to maintain fair and orderly markets. See NYSE Euronext (discussing
NYSE rules); Goldman (Prop. Trading) (discussing NYSE and CBOE rules). For example, according to
these commenters, NYSE Rule 104(f)(ii) requires a market maker to maintain fair and orderly markets,
which may involve dealing for their own account when there is a lack of price continuity, lack of depth, or
if a disparity between supply and demand exists or is reasonably anticipated. See id.

236

and are subject to extensive regulatory requirements in that capacity. 778 Another
commenter suggested that the Agencies instead use metrics to compare, in the aggregate
and over time, the liquidity that a market maker makes rather than takes as part of a
broader consideration of the market-making character of the relevant trading activity. 779
ii.

Potential inventory restrictions and differences across asset classes
A number of commenters expressed concern that the proposed requirement may

unduly restrict a market maker’s ability to manage its inventory. 780 Several of these
commenters stated that limitations on inventory would be especially problematic for
market making in less liquid markets, like the fixed-income market, where customer
demand is more intermittent and positions may need to be held for a longer period of
time. 781 Some commenters stated that the Agencies’ proposed interpretation of this
requirement would restrict a market maker’s inventory in a manner that is inconsistent
with the statute. These commenters indicated that the “designed” and “reasonably
expected” language of the statute seem to recognize that market makers must anticipate
customer requests and accumulate sufficient inventory to meet those reasonably expected

778

See Goldman (Prop. Trading). This commenter further stated that trading activities of exchange market
makers may be particularly difficult to evaluate with customer-facing metrics (because “specialist” market
makers may not have “customers”), so conferring a positive presumption of compliance on such market
makers would ensure that they can continue to contribute to liquidity, which benefits customers. This
commenter noted that, for example, NYSE designated market makers (“DMMs”) are generally prohibited
from dealing with customers and companies must “wall off” any trading units that act as DMMs. See id.
(citing NYSE Rule 98).
779

See id. (stating that spread-related metrics, such as Spread Profit and Loss, may be useful for this
purpose).
780

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); T. Rowe Price; CIEBA; Credit Suisse (Seidel);
Barclays; Wellington; MetLife; Chamber (Feb. 2012); RBC; Prof. Duffie; ICI (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Asset
Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012). These concerns are addressed in Part IV.A.3.c.2.c., infra.
781

See, e.g., SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); T. Rowe Price; CIEBA; ICI (Feb. 2012); RBC.

237

demands. 782 In addition, one commenter represented that a market maker must have
wide latitude and incentives for initiating trades, rather than merely reacting to customer
requests for quotes, to properly risk manage its positions or to prepare for anticipated
customer demand or supply. 783 Many commenters requested certain modifications to the
proposed requirement to limit its impact on market maker inventory. 784 Commenters’
views on the importance of permitting inventory management activity in connection with
market making are discussed below in Part IV.A.3.c.2.b.vi.
Several commenters requested that the Agencies recognize that near term
customer demand may vary across different markets and asset classes and implement this
requirement flexibly. 785 In particular, many of these commenters emphasized that the
concept of “near term demand” should be different for less liquid markets, where
transactions may occur infrequently, and for liquid markets, where transactions occur

782

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012).

783

See Prof. Duffie. However, another commenter stated that a legitimate market maker should respond to
customer demand rather than initiate transactions, which is indicative of prohibited proprietary trading. See
Public Citizen.
784

See Credit Suisse (Seidel) (suggesting that the rule allow market makers to build inventory in products
where they believe customer demand will exist, regardless of whether the inventory can be tied to a
particular customer in the near term or to historical trends in customer demand); Barclays (recommending
the rule require that “the market making-related activity is conducted by each trading unit such that its
activities (including the maintenance of inventory) are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near
term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties consistent with the market and trading patterns of the
relevant product, and consistent with the reasonable judgment of the banking entity where such demand
cannot be determined with reasonable accuracy”); CIEBA. In addition, some commenters suggested an
interpretation that would provide greater discretion to market makers to enter into trades based on factors
such as experience and expertise dealing in the market and market exigencies. See SIFMA et al. (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012). Two commenters suggested that the proposed requirement
should be interpreted to permit market-making activity as it currently exists. See MetLife; ACLI (Feb.
2012). One commenter requested that the proposed requirement be moved to Appendix B of the rule to
provide greater flexibility to consider facts and circumstances of a particular activity. See JPMC.
785

See CIEBA; Morgan Stanley; RBC; ICI (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012); Comm. on Capital Markets
Regulation; Alfred Brock. The Agencies respond to these comments in Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.ii., infra.

238

more often. 786 One commenter requested that the Agencies add the phrase “based on the
characteristics of the relevant market and asset class” to the end of the requirement to
explicitly acknowledge these differences. 787
iii.

Predicting near term customer demand
Commenters provided views on whether and, if so how, a banking entity may be

able to predict near term customer demand for purposes of the proposed requirement. 788
For example, two commenters suggested ways in which a banking entity could predict
near term customer demand. 789 One of these commenters indicated that banking entities
should be able to utilize current risk management tools to predict near term customer
demand, although these tools may need to be adapted to comply with the rule’s
requirements. According to this commenter, dealers commonly assess the following
factors across product lines, which can relate to expected customer demand: (i) recent
volumes and customer trends; (ii) trading patterns of specific customers; (iii) analysis of
whether the firm has an ability to win new customer business; (iv) comparison of the
current market conditions to prior similar periods; (v) liquidity of large investors; and (vi)
the schedule of maturities in customers’ existing positions.790 Another commenter stated

786

See ICI (Feb. 2012); CIEBA (stating that, absent a different interpretation for illiquid instruments,
market makers will err on the side of holding less inventory to avoid sanctions for violating the rule); RBC.
787

See Morgan Stanley.

788

See Wellington; MetLife; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb.
2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012); FTN; RBC; Alfred Brock. These comments are addressed in Part
IV.A.3.c.2.c.iii., infra.

789

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); FTN.

790

See FTN. The commenter further indicated that errors in estimating customer demand are managed
through kick-out rules and oversight by risk managers and committees, with latitude in decisions being
closely related to expected or empirical costs of hedging positions until they result in trading with
counterparties. See id.

239

that the reasonableness of a market maker’s inventory can be measured by looking to the
specifics of the particular market, the size of the customer base being served, and
expected customer demand, which banking entities should be required to take into
account in both their inventory practices and policies and their actual inventories. This
commenter recommended that the rule permit a banking entity to assume a position under
the market-making exemption if it can demonstrate a track record or reasonable
expectation that it can dispose of a position in the near term. 791
Some commenters, however, emphasized that reasonably expected near term
customer demand cannot always be accurately predicted. 792 Several of these commenters
requested the Agencies clarify that banking entities will not be subject to regulatory
sanctions if reasonably anticipated near term customer demand does not materialize. 793
One commenter further noted that a banking entity entering a new market, or gaining or
losing customers, may need greater flexibility in applying the near term demand
requirement because its anticipated demand may fluctuate. 794
iv.

Potential definitions of “client,” “customer,” or “counterparty”

791

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012) (stating that banking entities should be required to collect
inventory data, evaluate the data, develop policies on how to handle particular positions, and make regular
adjustments to ensure a turnover of assets commensurate with near term demand of customers). This
commenter also suggested that the rule specify the types of inventory metrics that should be collected and
suggested that the rate of inventory turnover would be helpful. See id.
792

See MetLife; Chamber (Feb. 2012); RBC; CIEBA; Wellington; ICI (Feb. 2012); Alfred Brock. This
issue is addressed in Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.iii., infra.

793

See ICI (Feb. 2012); CIEBA; RBC; Wellington; Invesco.

794

See CIEBA.

240

Appendix B of the proposal discussed the proposed meaning of the term
“customer” in the context of permitted market making-related activity. 795 In addition, the
proposal inquired whether the terms “client,” “customer,” or “counterparty” should be
defined in the rule for purposes of the market-making exemption. 796 Commenters
expressed varying views on the proposed interpretations in the proposal and on whether
these terms should be defined in the final rule. 797
With respect to the proposed interpretations of the term “customer” in Appendix
B, one commenter agreed with the proposed interpretations and expressed the belief that
the interpretations will allow interdealer market making where brokers or other dealers
act as customers. However, this commenter also requested that the Agencies expressly
incorporate providing liquidity to other brokers and dealers into the rule text. 798 Another
commenter similarly stated that instead of focusing solely on customer demand, the rule
795

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,960; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8439. More specifically, Appendix B
stated: “In the context of market making in a security that is executed on an organized trading facility or an
exchange, a ‘customer’ is any person on behalf of whom a buy or sell order has been submitted by a
broker-dealer or any other market participant. In the context of market making in a [financial instrument] in
an OTC market, a ‘customer’ generally would be a market participant that makes use of the market maker’s
intermediation services, either by requesting such services or entering into a continuing relationship with
the market maker with respect to such services.” Id. On this last point, the proposal elaborated that in
certain cases, depending on the conventions of the relevant market (e.g., the OTC derivatives market), such
a “customer” may consider itself or refer to itself more generally as a “counterparty.” See Joint Proposal,
76 FR at 68,960 n.2; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8439 n.2.
796

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,874; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8359. In particular, Question 99 states:
“Should the terms ‘client,’ ‘customer,’ or ‘counterparty’ be defined for purposes of the market making
exemption? If so, how should these terms be defined? For example, would an appropriate definition of
‘customer’ be: (i) A continuing relationship in which the banking entity provides one or more financial
products or services prior to the time of the transaction; (ii) a direct and substantive relationship between
the banking entity and a prospective customer prior to the transaction; (iii) a relationship initiated by the
banking entity to a prospective customer to induce transactions; or (iv) a relationship initiated by the
prospective customer with a view to engaging in transactions?” Id.
797

Comments on this issue are addressed in Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.i., infra.

798

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). See also Credit Suisse (Seidel); RBC (requesting that
the Agencies recognize “wholesale” market making as permissible and representing that “[i]t is irrelevant
to an investor whether market liquidity is provided by a broker-dealer with whom the investor maintains a
customer account, or whether that broker-dealer looks to another dealer for market liquidity”).

241

should be clarified to reflect that demand can come from other dealers or future
customers. 799
In response to the proposal’s question about whether the terms “client,”
“customer,” and “counterparty” should be further defined, a few commenters stated that
that the terms should not be defined in the rule. 800 Other commenters indicated that
further definition of these terms would be appropriate. 801 Some of these commenters
suggested that there should be greater limitations on who can be considered a “customer”
under the rule. 802 These commenters generally indicated that a “customer” should be a
person or institution with whom the banking entity has a continuing, or a direct and
substantive, relationship prior to the time of the transaction. 803 In the case of a new
customer, some of these commenters suggested requiring a relationship initiated by the
prospective customer with a view to engaging in transactions. 804 A few commenters
indicated that a party should not be considered a client, customer, or counterparty if the
banking entity: (i) originates a financial product and then finds a counterparty to take the
other side of the transaction; 805 or (ii) engages in transactions driven by algorithmic

799

See Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation.

800

See FTN; ISDA (Feb. 2012); Alfred Brock.

801

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.

802

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen. One of these commenters also requested that the
Agencies remove the terms “client” and “counterparty” from the proposed near term demand requirement.
See Occupy.

803

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen. These commenters stated that other banking
entities should never be “customers” under the rule. See id. In addition, one of these commenters would
further prevent a banking entity’s employees and covered funds from being “customers” under the rule.
See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012)
804

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) (providing a similar definition for the term “client” as well); Public Citizen.

805

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen. See also Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012) (stating that a
banking entity’s activities that involve attempting to sell clients financial instruments that it originated,
rather than facilitating a secondary market for client trades in previously existing financial products, should

242

trading strategies. 806 Three commenters requested more permissive definitions of these
terms. 807 According to one of these commenters, because these terms are listed in the
disjunctive in the statute, the broadest term – a “counterparty” – should prevail. 808
v.

Interdealer trading and trading for price discovery or to test market depth
With respect to interdealer trading, many commenters expressed concern that the

proposed rule could be interpreted to restrict a market maker’s ability to engage in
interdealer trading. 809 As a general matter, commenters attributed these concerns to
statements in proposed Appendix B 810 or to the Customer-Facing Trade Ratio metric in
proposed Appendix A. 811 A number of commenters requested that the rule be modified

be analyzed under the underwriting exemption, not the market-making exemption; in addition, compiling
inventory of financial instruments that the bank originated should be viewed as proprietary trading).
806

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

807

See Credit Suisse (Seidel) (stating that “customer” should be explicitly defined to include any
counterparty to whom a banking entity is providing liquidity); ISDA (Feb. 2012) (recommending that, if
the Agencies decide to define these terms, a “counterparty” should be defined as the entity on the other side
of a transaction, and the terms “client” and “customer” should not be interpreted to require a relationship
beyond the isolated provision of a transaction); Japanese Bankers Ass’n. (requesting that it be clearly noted
that interbank participants can be customers for interbank market makers).

808

See ISDA (Feb. 2012). This commenter’s primary position was that further definitions are not required
and could create additional and unnecessary complexity. See id.
809

See, e.g., JPMC; Morgan Stanley; Goldman (Prop. Trading); Chamber (Feb. 2012); MetLife; Credit
Suisse (Seidel); BoA; ACLI (Feb. 2012); RBC; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012); Oliver Wyman
(Dec. 2011); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012). A few commenters noted that the proposed rule would permit a
certain amount of interdealer trading. See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (citing
statements in the proposal providing that a market maker’s “customers” vary depending on the asset class
and market in which intermediation services are provided and interpreting such statements as allowing
interdealer market making where brokers or other dealers act as “customers” within the proposed
construct); Goldman (Prop. Trading) (stating that interdealer trading related to hedging or exiting a
customer position would be permitted, but expressing concern that requiring each banking entity to justify
each of its interdealer trades as being related to one of its own customers would be burdensome and would
reduce the effectiveness of the interdealer market). Commenters’ concerns regarding interdealer trading
are addressed in Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.i., infra.
810

See infra Part IV.A.3.c.8.

811

See, e.g., JPMC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012) (recognizing
that the proposed rule did not include specific limits on interdealer trading, but expressing concern that
explicit or implicit limits could be established by supervisors during or after the conformance period).

243

to clearly recognize interdealer trading as a component of permitted market makingrelated activity812 and suggested ways in which this could be accomplished (e.g., through
a definition of “customer” or “counterparty”). 813
Commenters emphasized that interdealer trading provides certain market benefits,
including increased market liquidity; 814 more efficient matching of customer order
flow; 815 greater hedging options to reduce risks; 816 enhanced ability to accumulate
inventory for current or near term customer demand, work down concentrated positions
arising from a customer trade, or otherwise exit a position acquired from a customer; 817
and general price discovery among dealers. 818 Regarding the impact of interdealer
trading on a market maker’s ability to intermediate customer needs, one commenter

812

See MetLife; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC; Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; BoA;
ACLI (Feb. 2012); AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Oliver Wyman
(Feb. 2012).
813

See RBC (suggesting that explicitly incorporating liquidity provision to other brokers and dealers in the
market-making exemption would be consistent with the statute’s reference to meeting the needs of
“counterparties,” in addition to the needs of clients and customers); AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) (recognizing
that the ability to manage inventory through interdealer transactions should be accommodated in the rule,
but recommending that this activity be conditioned on a market maker having an appropriate level of
inventory after an interdealer transaction); Goldman (Prop. Trading) (representing that the Agencies could
evaluate and monitor the amount of interdealer trading that is consistent with a particular trading unit’s
market making-related or hedging activity through the customer-facing activity category of metrics); Oliver
Wyman (Feb. 2012) (recommending removal or modification of any metrics or principles that would
indicate that interdealer trading is not permitted).
814

See Prof. Duffie; MetLife; ACLI (Feb. 2012); BDA (Feb. 2012).

815

See Oliver Wyman (Dec. 2011); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012); MetLife; ACLI (Feb. 2012). See also
Thakor Study (stating that, when a market maker provides immediacy to a customer, it relies on being able
to unwind its positions at opportune times by trading with other market makers, who may have knowledge
about impending orders form their own customers that may induce them to trade with the market maker).
816

See MetLife; ACLI (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Morgan Stanley; Oliver Wyman (Dec.
2011); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012).
817

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Chamber (Feb. 2012). See also Prof. Duffie (stating that a market maker
acquiring a position from a customer may wish to rebalance its inventory relatively quickly through the
interdealer network, which is often more efficient than requesting immediacy from another customer or
waiting for another customer who wants to take the opposite side of the trade).
818

See Chamber (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading).

244

studied the potential impact of interdealer trading limits – in combination with inventory
limits – on trading in the U.S. corporate bond market. According to this commenter, if
interdealer trading had been prohibited and a market maker’s inventory had been limited
to the average daily volume of the market as a whole, 69 percent of customer trades
would have been prevented. 819 Some commenters stated that a banking entity would be
less able or willing to provide market-making services to customers if it could not engage
in interdealer trading. 820
As noted above, a few commenters stated that market makers may use interdealer
trading for price discovery purposes. 821 Some commenters separately discussed the
importance of this activity and requested that, when conducted in connection with
market-making activity, trading for price discovery be considered permitted market
making-related activity under the rule. 822 Commenters indicated that price discoveryrelated trading results in certain market benefits, including enhancing the accuracy of
prices for customers, 823 increasing price efficiency, preventing market instability, 824

819

See Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012) (basing its finding on data from 2009). This commenter also
represented that the natural level of interdealer volume in the U.S. corporate bond market made up 16
percent of total trading volume in 2010. See id.

820

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Morgan Stanley. See also BDA (Feb. 2012) (stating that if dealers in the
fixed-income market are not able to trade with other dealers to “cooperate with each other to provide
adequate liquidity to the market as a whole,” an essential source of liquidity will be eliminated from the
market and existing values of fixed income securities will decline and become volatile, harming both
investors who currently hold such positions and issuers, who will experience increased interest costs).
821

See Chamber (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading).

822

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading). One
commenter provided the following example of such activity: if Security A and Security B have some price
correlation but neither trades regularly, then a trader may execute a trade in Security A for price discovery
purposes, using the price of Security A to make an informed bid-ask market to a customer in Security B.
See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).
823

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Chamber (Feb. 2012) (stating that this type of trading is necessary in
more illiquid markets); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

824

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

245

improving market liquidity, and reducing overall costs for market participants. 825 As a
converse, one of these commenters stated that restrictions on such activity could result in
market makers setting their prices too high, exposing them to significant risk and causing
a reduction of market-making activity or widening of spreads to offset the risk. 826 One
commenter further requested that trading to test market depth likewise be permitted under
the market-making exemption. 827 This commenter represented that the Agencies would
be able to evaluate the extent to which trading for price discovery and market depth are
consistent with market making-related activities for a particular market through a
combination of customer-facing activity metrics, including the Inventory Risk Turnover
metric, and knowledge of a banking entity’s trading business developed by regulators as
part of the supervisory process. 828
vi.

Inventory management
Several commenters requested that the rule provide banking entities with greater

discretion to manage their inventories in connection with market making-related activity,
including acquiring or disposing of positions in anticipation of customer demand. 829
Commenters represented that market makers need to be able to build, manage, and

825

See Chamber (Feb. 2012).

826

See id.

827

See Goldman (Prop. Trading). This commenter represented that market makers often make trades with
other dealers to test the depth of the markets at particular price points and to understand where supply and
demand exist (although such trading is not conducted exclusively with other dealers). This commenter
stated that testing the depth of the market is necessary to provide accurate prices to customers, particularly
when customers Seeks to enter trades in amounts larger than the amounts offered by dealers who have sent
indications to inter-dealer brokers. See id.

828

See id.

829

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); Goldman (Prop. Trading);
MFA; RBC. Inventory management is addressed in Part IV.A.3.c.2.c., infra.

246

maintain inventories to facilitate customer demand. These commenters further stated that
the rule needs to provide some degree of flexibility for inventory management activities,
as inventory needs may differ based on market conditions or the characteristics of a
particular instrument. 830 A few commenters cited legislative history in support of
allowing banking entities to hold and manage inventory in connection with market
making-related activities. 831 Several commenters noted benefits that are associated with
a market maker’s ability to appropriately manage its inventory, including being able to
meet reasonably anticipated future client, customer, or counterparty demand; 832
accommodating customer transactions more quickly and at favorable prices; reducing
near term price volatility (in the case of selling a customer block position); 833 helping
maintain an orderly market and provide the best price to customers (in the case of
accumulating long or short positions in anticipation of a large customer sale or
purchase); 834 ensuring that markets continue to have sufficient liquidity; 835 fostering a

830

See, e.g., MFA (stating that it is critical for banking entities to continue to be able to maintain sufficient
levels of inventory, which is dynamic in nature and requires some degree of flexibility in application); RBC
(requesting that the Agencies explicitly acknowledge that, depending on market conditions or the
characteristics of a particular security, it may be appropriate or necessary for a firm to maintain inventories
over extended periods of time in the course of market making-related activities).
831

See, e.g., RBC; NYSE Euronext; Fidelity. These commenters cited a colloquy in the Congressional
Record between Senator Bayh and Senator Dodd, in which Senator Bayh stated: “With respect to [section
13 of the BHC Act], the conference report states that banking entities are not prohibited from purchasing
and disposing of securities and other instruments in connection with underwriting or market-making
activities, provided that activity does not exceed the reasonably expected near-term demands of clients,
customers, or counterparties. I want to clarify this language would allow banks to maintain an appropriate
dealer inventory and residual risk positions, which are essential parts of the market-making function.
Without that flexibility, market makers would not be able to provide liquidity to markets.” 156 Cong. Rec.
S5906 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Bayh).
832

See, e.g., RBC.

833

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

834

See id.

835

See MFA.

247

two-way market; and establishing a market-making presence. 836 Some commenters
noted that market makers may need to accumulate inventory to meet customer demand
for certain products or under certain trading scenarios, such as to create units of
structured products (e.g., ETFs and asset-backed securities) 837 and in anticipation of an
index rebalance. 838
Commenters also expressed views with respect to how much discretion a banking
entity should have to manage its inventory under the exemption and how to best monitor
inventory levels. For example, one commenter recommended that the rule allow market
makers to build inventory in products where they believe customer demand will exist,
regardless of whether the inventory can be tied to a particular customer in the near term
or to historical trends in customer demand. 839 A few commenters suggested that the
Agencies provide banking entities with greater discretion to accumulate inventory, but
discourage market makers from holding inventory for long periods of time by imposing
increasingly higher capital requirements on aged inventory. 840 One commenter

836

See RBC.

837

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA.

838

See Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012). As this commenter explained, some mutual funds and ETFs track
major equity indices and, when the composition of an index changes (e.g., due to the addition or removal of
a security or to rising or falling values of listed shares), an announcement is made and all funds tracking the
index need to rebalance their portfolios. According to the commenter, banking entities may need to step in
to provide liquidity for rebalances of less liquid indices because trades executed on the open market would
substantially affect share prices. The commenter estimated that if market makers are not able to provide
direct liquidity for rebalance trades, investors tracking these indices could potentially pay incremental costs
of $600 million to $1.8 billion every year. This commenter identified the proposed inventory metrics in
Appendix A as potentially limiting a banking entity’s willingness or ability to facilitate index rebalance
trades. See id. Two other commenters also discussed the index rebalancing scenario. See Prof. Duffie;
Thakor Study. Index rebalancing is addressed in note 931, infra.
839

See Credit Suisse (Seidel).

840

See CalPERS; Vanguard. These commenters represented that placing increasing capital requirements
on aged inventory would ease the rule’s impact on investor liquidity, allow banking entities to internalize
the cost of continuing to hold a position at the expense of its ability to take on new positions, and

248

represented that a trading unit’s inventory management practices could be monitored with
the Inventory Risk Turnover metric, in conjunction with other metrics. 841
vii.

Acting as an authorized participant or market maker in exchange-traded funds
With respect to ETF trading, commenters generally requested clarification that a

banking entity can serve as an authorized participant (“AP”) to an ETF issuer or can
engage in ETF market making under the proposed exemption. 842 According to
commenters, APs may engage in the following types of activities with respect to ETFs:
(i) trading directly with the ETF issuer to create or redeem ETF shares, which involves
trading in ETF shares and the underlying components; 843 (ii) trading to maintain price

potentially decrease the possibility of a firm realizing a loss on a position by decreasing the time such
position is held. See id. One commenter noted that some banking entities already use this approach to
manage risk on their market-making desks. See Vanguard. See also Capital Group (suggesting that one
way to implement the statutory exemption would be to charge a trader or a trading desk for positions held
on its balance sheet beyond set time periods and to increase the charge at set intervals). These comments
are addressed in note 923, infra.
841

See Goldman (Prop. Trading) (representing that the Inventory Risk Turnover metric will allow the
Agencies to evaluate the length of time that a trading unit tends to hold risk positions in inventory and
whether that holding time is consistent with market making-related activities in the relevant market).

842

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); BoA; ICI (stating that an AP may trade with the ETF issuer in different capacities—in connection
with traditional market-making activity, on behalf of customers, or for the AP’s own account); ICI Global
(discussing non-U.S. ETFs specifically); Vanguard; SSgA (Feb. 2012). One commenter represented that an
AP’s transactions in ETFs do not create risks associated with proprietary trading because, when an AP
trades with an ETF issuer for its own account, the AP typically enters into an offsetting transaction in the
underlying portfolio of securities, which cancels out investment risk and limits the AP’s exposure to the
difference between the market price for ETF shares and the ETF’s net asset value (“NAV”). See Vanguard.
With respect to market-making activity in an ETF, several commenters noted that market makers play an
important role in maintaining price alignment by engaging in arbitrage transactions between the ETF shares
and the shares of the underlying components. See, e.g., JPMC; Goldman (Prop. Trading) (making similar
statement with respect to ADRs as well); SSgA (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012);
Credit Suisse (Seidel); RBC. AP and market maker activity in ETFs are addressed in Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.i.,
infra.
843

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); BoA; ICI (Feb. 2012) ICI Global; Vanguard; SSgA
(Feb. 2012).

249

alignment between the ETF shares and the underlying components; 844 (iii) traditional
market-making activity; 845 (iv) “seeding” a new ETF by entering into several initial
creation transactions with an ETF issuer and holding the ETF shares, possibly for an
extended period of time, until the ETF establishes regular trading and liquidity in the
secondary markets; 846 (v) “create to lend” transactions, where an AP enters a creation
transaction with the ETF issuer and lends the ETF shares to an investor; 847 and (vi)
hedging. 848 A few commenters noted that an AP may not engage in traditional marketmaking activity in the relevant ETF and expressed concern that the proposed rule may
limit a banking entity’s ability to act in an AP capacity. 849 One commenter estimated that
APs that are banking entities make up between 20 percent to 100 percent of creation and
redemption activity for individual ETFs, with an average of approximately 35 percent of
creation and redemption activity across all ETFs attributed to banking entities. This
commenter expressed the view that, if the rule limits banking entities’ ability to serve as

844

See JPMC; Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012); ICI
(Feb. 2012) ICI Global.
845

See ICI Global; ICI (Feb. 2012) SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); BoA.

846

See BoA; ICI (Feb. 2012); ICI Global.

847

See BoA (stating that lending the ETF shares to an investor gives the investor a more efficient way to
hedge its exposure to assets correlated with those underlying the ETF).
848

See ICI Global; ICI (Feb. 2012).

849

See, e.g., Vanguard (noting that APs may not engage in market-making activity in the ETF and
expressing concern that if AP activities are not separately permitted, banking entities may exit or not enter
the ETF market); SSgA (Feb. 2012) (stating that APs are under no obligation to make markets in ETF
shares and requiring such an obligation would discourage banking entities from acting as APs); ICI (Feb.
2012).

250

APs, then individual investors’ investments in ETFs will become more expensive due to
higher premiums and discounts versus the ETF’s NAV. 850
A number of commenters stated that certain requirements of the proposed
exemption may limit a banking entity’s ability to serve as AP to an ETF, including the
proposed near term customer demand requirement, 851 the proposed source of revenue
requirement, 852 and language in the proposal regarding arbitrage trading. 853 With respect
to the proposed near term customer demand requirement, a few commenters noted that
this requirement could prevent an AP from building inventory to assemble creation
units. 854 Two other commenters expressed the view that the ETF issuer would be the
banking entity’s “counterparty” when the banking entity trades directly with the ETF
issuer, so this trading and inventory accumulation would meet the terms of the proposed
requirement. 855 To permit banking entities to act as APs, two commenters suggested that

850

See SSgA (Feb. 2012). This commenter further stated that as of 2011, an estimated 3.5 million – or 3
percent – of U.S. households owned ETFs and, as of September 2011, ETFs represented assets of
approximately $951 billion. See id.
851

See BoA; Vanguard (stating that this determination may be particularly difficult in the case of a new
ETF).

852

See BoA. This commenter noted that the proposed source of revenue requirement could be interpreted
to prevent a banking entity acting as AP from entering into creation and redemption transactions, “Seeding”
an ETF, engaging in “create to lend” transactions, and performing secondary market making in an ETF
because all of these activities require an AP to build an inventory – either in ETF shares or the underlying
components – which often result in revenue attributable to price movements. See id.
853

Commenters noted that this language would restrict an AP from engaging in price arbitrage to maintain
efficient markets in ETFs. See Vanguard; RBC; Goldman (Prop. Trading); JPMC; SIFMA et al. (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012). See supra Part IV.A.3.c.2.a. (discussing the proposal’s proposed interpretation
regarding arbitrage trading).
854

See BoA; Vanguard (stating that this determination may be particularly difficult in the case of a new
ETF).
855

See ICI Global; ICI (Feb. 2012).

251

trading in the capacity of an AP should be deemed permitted market making-related
activity, regardless of whether the AP is acting as a traditional market maker. 856
viii.

Arbitrage or other activities that promote price transparency and liquidity
In response to a question in the proposal, 857 a number of commenters stated that

certain types of arbitrage activity should be permitted under the market-making
exemption.858 For example, some commenters stated that a banking entity’s arbitrage
activity should be considered market making to the extent the activity is driven by
creating markets for customers tied to the price differential (e.g., “box” strategies,
“calendar spreads,” merger arbitrage, “Cash and Carry,” or basis trading) 859 or to the
extent that demand is predicated on specific price relationships between instruments (e.g.,
ETFs, ADRs) that market makers must maintain. 860 Similarly, another commenter
suggested that arbitrage activity that aligns prices should be permitted, such as index
arbitrage, ETF arbitrage, and event arbitrage. 861 One commenter noted that many
markets, such as futures and options markets, rely on arbitrage activities of market
makers for liquidity purposes and to maintain convergence with underlying instruments
856

See ICI (Feb. 2012) ICI Global. These commenters provided suggested rule text on this issue and
suggested that the Agencies could require a banking entity’s compliance policies and internal controls to
take a comprehensive approach to the entirety of an AP’s trading activity, which would facilitate easy
monitoring of the activity to ensure compliance. See id.
857

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,873 (question 91) (inquiring whether the proposed exemption should be
modified to permit certain arbitrage trading activities engaged in by market makers that promote liquidity
or price transparency but do not service client, customer, or counterparty demand); CFTC Proposal, 77 FR
at 8359.
858

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); FTN; RBC; ISDA (Feb. 2012). Arbitrage trading is further discussed in Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.i.,
infra.
859

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

860

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC.

861

See Credit Suisse (Seidel).

252

for cash-settled options, futures, and index-based products. 862 Commenters stated that
arbitrage trading provides certain market benefits, including enhanced price
transparency, 863 increased market efficiency, 864 greater market liquidity, 865 and general
benefits to customers. 866 A few commenters noted that certain types of hedging activity
may appear to have characteristics of arbitrage trading. 867
Commenters suggested certain methods for permitting and monitoring arbitrage
trading under the exemption. For example, one commenter suggested a framework for
permitting certain arbitrage within the market-making exemption, with requirements such
as: (i) common personnel with market-making activity; (ii) policies that cover the timing
and appropriateness of arbitrage positions; (iii) time limits on arbitrage positions; and (iv)
compensation that does not reward successful arbitrage, but instead pools any such
revenues with market-making profits and losses. 868 A few commenters represented that,
if permitted under the rule, the Agencies would be able to monitor arbitrage activities for
862

See RBC.

863

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

864

See Credit Suisse (Seidel); RBC.

865

See RBC.

866

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; FTN; ISDA (Feb. 2012) (stating that arbitrage
activities often yield positions that are ultimately put to use in serving customer demand and representing
that the process of consistently trading makes a dealer ready and available to serve customers on a
competitive basis).

867

See JPMC (stating that firms commonly organize their market-making activities so that risks delivered
to client-facing desks are aggregated and transferred by means of internal transactions to a single utility
desk (which hedges all of the risks in the aggregate), and this may optically bear some characteristics of
arbitrage, although the commenter requested that such activity be recognized as permitted market makingrelated activity under the rule); ISDA (Feb. 2012) (stating that in some swaps markets, dealers hedge
through multiple instruments, which can give an impression of arbitrage in a function that is risk reducing;
for example, a dealer in a broad index equity swap may simultaneously hedge in baskets of stocks, futures,
and ETFs). But See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012) (“When banks use complex hedging techniques or
otherwise engage in trading that is suggestive of arbitrage, regulators should require them to provide
evidence and analysis demonstrating what risk is being reduced.”).
868

See FTN.

253

patterns of impermissible proprietary trading through the use of metrics, as well as
compliance and examination tools. 869
Other commenters stated that the exemption should not permit certain types of
arbitrage. One commenter stated that the rule should ensure that relative value and
complex arbitrage strategies cannot be conducted. 870 Another commenter expressed the
view that the market-making exemption should not permit any type of arbitrage
transactions. This commenter stated that, in the event that liquidity or transparency is
inhibited by a lack of arbitrage trading, a market maker should be able to find a customer
who would seek to benefit from it. 871
ix.

Primary dealer activities
A number of commenters requested that the market-making exemption permit

banking entities to meet their primary dealer obligations in foreign jurisdictions,
particularly if trading in foreign sovereign debt is not separately exempted in the final
rule. 872 According to commenters, a banking entity may be obligated to perform the
following activities in its capacity as a primary dealer: undertaking to maintain an orderly

869

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC; Goldman (Prop. Trading). One of these
commenters stated that the customer-facing activity category of metrics, as well as other metrics, would be
available to evaluate whether the trading unit is engaged in a directly customer-facing business and the
extent to which its activities are consistent with the market-making exemption. See Goldman (Prop.
Trading).
870

See Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz. See also AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) (noting that arbitrage, spread, or carry
trades are a classic type of proprietary trade).
871

See Occupy.

872

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (stating that permitted activities should include
trading necessary to meet the relevant jurisdiction’s primary dealer and other requirements); JPMC
(indicating that the exemption should cover all of a firm’s activities that are necessary or reasonably
incidental to its acting as a primary dealer in a foreign government’s debt securities); Goldman (Prop.
Trading); Banco de México; IIB/EBF. See infra notes 905 to 906 and accompanying text (addressing these
comments).

254

market, preventing or correcting any price dislocations, 873 and bidding on each issuance
of the relevant jurisdiction’s sovereign debt. 874 Commenters expressed concern that a
banking entity’s trading activity as primary dealer may not comply with the proposed
near term customer demand requirement 875 or the proposed source of revenue
requirement. 876 To address the first issue, one commenter stated that the final rule should
clarify that a banking entity acting as a primary dealer of foreign sovereign debt is
engaged in primary dealer activity in response to the near term demands of the sovereign,
which should be considered a client, customer, or counterparty of the banking entity. 877
Another commenter suggested that the Agencies permit primary dealer activities through
commentary stating that fulfilling primary dealer obligations will not be included in
determinations of whether the market-making exemption applies to a trading unit. 878
x.

New or bespoke products or customized hedging contracts
Several commenters indicated that the proposed exemption does not adequately

address market making in new or bespoke products, including structured, customerdriven transactions, and requested that the rule be modified to clearly permit such

873

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

874

See Banco de México.

875

See JPMC; Banco de México. These commenters stated that a primary dealer is required to assume
positions in foreign sovereign debt even when near term customer demand is unpredictable. See id.
876

See Banco de México (stating that primary dealers need to be able to profit from their positions in
sovereign debt, including by holding significant positions in anticipation of future price movements, so that
the primary dealer business is financially attractive); IIB/EBF (stating that primary dealers may actively
Seek to profit from price and interest rate movements based on their debt holdings, which governments
support as providing much-needed liquidity for securities that are otherwise purchased largely pursuant to
buy-and-hold strategies of institutional investors and other entities Seeking safe returns and liquidity
buffers).
877

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

878

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

255

activity. 879 Many of these commenters emphasized the role such transactions play in
helping customers hedge the unique risks they face. 880 Commenters stated that, as a
result, limiting a banking entity’s ability to conduct such transactions would subject
customers to increased risks and greater transaction costs. 881 One commenter suggested
that the Agencies explicitly state that a banking entity’s general willingness to engage in
bespoke transactions is sufficient to make it a market maker in unique products for
purposes of the rule. 882
Other commenters stated that banking entities should be limited in their ability to
rely on the market-making exemption to conduct transactions in bespoke or customized
derivatives. 883 For example, one commenter suggested that a banking entity be required
to disaggregate such derivatives into liquid risk elements and illiquid risk elements, with
liquid risk elements qualifying for the market-making exemption and illiquid risk
elements having to be conducted on a riskless principal basis under § __.6(b)(1)(ii) of the
proposed rule. According to this commenter, such an approach would not impact the end
user customer. 884 Another commenter stated that a banking entity making a market in
bespoke instruments should be required both to hold itself out in accordance with §

879

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012). This issue is addressed in Part IV.A.3.c.1.c.iii., supra, and
Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.iii., infra.
880

See Credit Suisse (Seidel); Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012).

881

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012).

882

See SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012).

883

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.

884

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012)

256

__.4(b)(2)(ii) of the proposed rule and to demonstrate the purchase and the sale of such
an instrument. 885
c.

Final near term customer demand requirement
Consistent with the statute, § __.4(b)(2)(ii) of the final rule’s market-making

exemption requires that the amount, types, and risks of the financial instruments in the
trading desk’s market-maker inventory be designed not to exceed, on an ongoing basis,
the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, based
on certain market factors and analysis. 886 As discussed above in Part IV.A.3.c.1.c.ii., the
trading desk’s market-maker inventory consists of positions in financial instruments in
which the trading desk stands ready to purchase and sell consistent with the final rule. 887
The final rule requires the financial instruments to be identified in the trading desk’s
compliance program. Thus, this requirement focuses on a trading desk’s positions in
financial instruments for which it acts as market maker. These positions of a trading desk
are more directly related to the demands of customers than positions in financial
instruments used for risk management purposes, but in which the trading desk does not
make a market. As noted above, a position or exposure that is included in a trading
desk’s market-maker inventory will remain in its market-maker inventory for as long as
the position or exposure is managed by the trading desk. As a result, the trading desk
must continue to account for that position or exposure, together with other positions and
885

See Public Citizen.

886

The final rule includes certain refinements to the proposed standard, which would have required that the
market making-related activities of the trading desk or other organizational unit that conducts the purchase
or sale are, with respect to the financial instrument, designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near
term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties. See proposed rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii).
887

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.1.c.ii.; final rule § __.4(b)(5).

257

exposures in its market-maker inventory, in determining whether the amount, types, and
risks of its market-maker inventory are designed not to exceed, on an ongoing basis, the
reasonably expected near term demands of customers.
While the near term customer demand requirement directly applies only to the
trading desk’s market-maker inventory, this does not mean a trading desk may establish
other positions, outside its market-maker inventory, that exceed what is needed to
manage the risks of the trading desk’s market making-related activities and inventory.
Instead, a trading desk must have limits on its market-maker inventory, the products,
instruments, and exposures the trading desk may use for risk management purposes, and
its aggregate financial exposure that are based on the factors set forth in the near term
customer demand requirement, as well as other relevant considerations regarding the
nature and amount of the trading desk’s market making-related activities. A banking
entity must establish, implement, maintain, and enforce a limit structure, as well as other
compliance program elements (e.g., those specifying the instruments a trading desk trades
as a market maker or may use for risk management purposes and providing for specific
risk management procedures), for each trading desk that are designed to prevent the
trading desk from engaging in trading activity that is unrelated to making a market in a
particular type of financial instrument or managing the risks associated with making a
market in that type of financial instrument. 888
To clarify the application of this standard in response to comments, 889 the final
rule provides two factors for assessing whether the amount, types, and risks of the

888

See infra Part IV.A.3.c.3. (discussing the compliance program requirements); final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii).

889

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.2.b.i.

258

financial instruments in the trading desk’s market-maker inventory are designed not to
exceed, on an ongoing basis, the reasonably expected near term demands of clients,
customers, or counterparties. Specifically, the following must be considered under the
revised standard: (i) the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant type
of financial instrument(s), 890 and (ii) demonstrable analysis of historical customer
demand, current inventory of financial instruments, and market and other factors
regarding the amount, types, and risks of or associated with positions in financial
instruments in which the trading desk makes a market, including through block trades.
Under the final rule, a banking entity must account for these considerations when
establishing risk and inventory limits for each trading desk. 891
For purposes of this provision, “demonstrable analysis” means that the analysis
for determining the amount, types, and risks of financial instruments a trading desk may
manage in its market-maker inventory, in accordance with the near term demand
requirement, must be based on factors that can be demonstrated in a way that makes the
analysis reviewable. This may include, among other things, the normal trading records of
the trading desk and market information that is readily available and retrievable. If the
analysis cannot be supported by the banking entity’s books and records and available
market data, on their own, then the other factors utilized must be identified and

890

This language has been added to the final rule to respond to commenters’ concerns that the proposed
near term demand requirement would be unworkable in less liquid markets or would otherwise restrict a
market maker’s ability to hold and manage its inventory in less liquid markets. See supra Part
IV.A.3.c.2.b.ii. In addition, this provision is substantially similar to one commenter’s suggested approach
of adding the phrase “based on the characteristics of the relevant market and asset class” to the proposed
requirement, but the Agencies have added more specificity about the relevant characteristics that should be
taken into consideration. See Morgan Stanley.
891

See infra Part IV.A.3.c.3.

259

documented and the analysis of those factors together with the facts gathered from the
trading and market records must be identified in a way that makes it possible to test the
analysis.
Importantly, a determination of whether a trading desk’s market-maker inventory
is appropriate under this requirement will take into account reasonably expected near
term customer demand, including historical levels of customer demand, expectations
based on market factors, and current demand. For example, at any particular time, a
trading desk may acquire a position in a financial instrument in response to a customer’s
request to sell the financial instrument or in response to reasonably expected customer
buying interest for such instrument in the near term. 892 In addition, as discussed below,
this requirement is not intended to impede a trading desk’s ability to engage in certain
market making-related activities that are consistent with and needed to facilitate
permissible trading with its clients, customers, or counterparties, such as inventory
management and interdealer trading. These activities must, however, be consistent with
the analysis conducted under the final rule and the trading desk’s limits discussed
below. 893 Moreover, as explained below, the banking entity must also have in place
escalation procedures to address, analyze, and document trades made in response to
customer requests that would exceed one of a trading desk’s limits.

892

As discussed further below, acquiring a position in a financial instrument in response to reasonably
expected customer demand would not include creating a structured product for which there is no current
customer demand and, instead, soliciting customer demand during or after its creation. See infra note 938
and accompanying text; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).
893

The formation of structured finance products and securitizations is discussed in detail in Part IV.B.2.b.
of this Supplementary Information.

260

The near term demand requirement is an ongoing requirement that applies to the
amount, types, and risks of the financial instruments in the trading desk’s market-maker
inventory. For instance, a trading desk may acquire exposures as a result of entering into
market-making transactions with customers that are within the desk’s market-marker
inventory and financial exposure limits. Even if the trading desk is appropriately
managing the risks of its market-maker inventory, its market-maker inventory still must
be consistent with the analysis of the reasonably expected near term demands of clients,
customers, and counterparties and the liquidity, maturity and depth of the market for the
relevant instruments in the inventory. Moreover, the trading desk must take action to
ensure that its financial exposure does not exceed its financial exposure limits. 894 A
trading desk may not maintain an exposure in its market-maker inventory, irrespective of
customer demand, simply because the exposure is hedged and the resulting financial
exposure is below the desk’s financial exposure limit. In addition, the amount, types, and
risks of financial instruments in a trading desk’s market-maker inventory would not be
consistent with permitted market-making activities if, for example, the trading desk has a
pattern or practice of retaining exposures in its market-maker inventory, while refusing to
engage in customer transactions when there is customer demand for those exposures at
commercially reasonable prices.
The following is an example of the interplay between a trading desk’s marketmaker inventory and financial exposure. An airline company customer may seek to
hedge its long-term exposure to price fluctuations in jet fuel by asking a banking entity to
create a structured ten-year, $1 billion jet fuel swap for which there is no liquid market.
894

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(B), (C).

261

A trading desk that makes a market in energy swaps may service its customer’s needs by
executing a custom jet fuel swap with the customer and holding the swap in its marketmaker inventory, if the resulting transaction does not cause the trading desk to exceed its
market-maker inventory limit on the applicable class of instrument, or the trading desk
has received approval to increase the limit in accordance with the authorization and
escalation procedures under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(E). In keeping with the market-making
exemption as provided in the final rule, the trading desk would be required to hedge the
risk from this swap, either individually or as part of a set of aggregated positions, if the
trade would result in a financial exposure that exceeds the desk’s financial exposure
limits. The trading desk may hedge the risk of the swap, for example, by entering into
one or more futures or swap positions that are identified as permissible hedging products,
instruments, or exposures in the trading desk’s compliance program and that analysis,
including correlation analysis as appropriate, indicates would demonstrably reduce or
otherwise significantly mitigate risks associated with the financial exposure from its
market-making activities. Alternatively, if the trading desk also acts as a market maker in
crude oil futures, then the desk’s exposures arising from its market-making activities may
naturally hedge the jet fuel swap (i.e., it may reduce its financial exposure levels resulting
from such instruments). 895 The trading desk must continue to appropriately manage risks
of its financial exposure over time in accordance with its financial exposure limits.
As discussed above, several commenters expressed concern that the near-term
customer demand requirement is too restrictive and that it could impede a market maker’s

895

This natural hedge with futures would introduce basis risk which, like other risks of the trading desk,
must be managed within the desk’s limits.

262

ability to build or retain inventory, particularly in less liquid markets where demand is
intermittent. 896 Because customer demand in illiquid markets can be difficult to predict
with precision, market-maker inventory may not closely track customer order flow. The
Agencies acknowledge that market makers will face costs associated with demonstrating
that market-maker inventory is designed not to exceed, on an ongoing basis, the
reasonably expected near term demands of customers, as required by the statute and the
final rule because this is an analysis that banking entities may not currently undertake.
However, the final rule includes certain modifications to the proposed rule that are
intended to reduce the negative impacts cited by commenters, such as limitations on
inventory management activity and potential restrictions on market making in less liquid
instruments, which the Agencies believe should reduce the perceived burdens of the
proposed near term demand requirement. For example, the final rule recognizes that
liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market vary across asset classes. The Agencies
expect that the express recognition of these differences in the rule should avoid unduly
impeding a market maker’s ability to build or retain inventory. More specifically, the
Agencies recognize the relationship between market-maker inventory and customer order
flow can vary across asset classes and that an inflexible standard for demonstrating that
inventory does not exceed reasonably expected near term demand could provide an
incentive to stop making markets in illiquid asset classes.
i.

896

Definition of “client,” “customer,” and “counterparty”

See SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); T. Rowe Price; CIEBA; ICI (Feb. 2012) RBC.

263

In response to comments requesting further definition of the terms “client,”
“customer,” and “counterparty” for purposes of this standard, 897 the Agencies have
defined these terms in the final rule. In particular, the final rule defines “client,”
“customer,” and “counterparty” as, on a collective or individual basis, “market
participants that make use of the banking entity’s market making-related services by
obtaining such services, responding to quotations, or entering into a continuing
relationship with respect to such services.” 898 However, for purposes of the analysis
supporting the market-maker inventory held to meet the reasonably expected near-term
demands of clients, customer and counterparties, a client, customer, or counterparty of
the trading desk does not include a trading desk or other organizational unit of another
entity if that entity has $50 billion or more in total trading assets and liabilities, measured
in accordance with § __.20(d)(1), 899 unless the trading desk documents how and why
such trading desk or other organizational unit should be treated as a customer or the
transactions are conducted anonymously on an exchange or similar trading facility that
permits trading on behalf of a broad range of market participants. 900

897

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.

898

Final rule § __.4(b)(3).

899

See final rule § __.4(b)(3)(i). The Agencies are using a $50 billion threshold for these purposes in
recognition that firms engaged in substantial trading activity do not typically act as customers to other
market makers, while smaller regional firms may Seek liquidity from larger firms as part of their market
making-related activities.
900

See final rule § __.4(b)(3)(i)(A), (B). In Appendix C of the proposed rule, a trading unit engaged in
market making-related activities would have been required to describe how it identifies its customers for
purposes of the Customer-Facing Trading Ratio, if applicable, including documentation explaining when,
how, and why a broker-dealer, swap dealer, security-based swap dealer, or any other entity engaged in
market making-related activities, or any affiliate thereof, is considered to be a customer of the trading unit.
See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,964. While the proposed approach would not have necessarily prevented
any of these entities from being considered a customer of the trading desk, it would have required enhanced
documentation and justification for treating any of these entities as a customer. The final rule’s exclusion
from the definition of client, customer, and counterparty is similar to the proposed approach, but is more

264

The Agencies believe this definition is generally consistent with the proposed
interpretation of “customer” in the proposal. The proposal generally provided that, for
purposes of market making on an exchange or other organized trading facility, a customer
is any person on behalf of whom a buy or sell order has been submitted. In the context of
the over-the-counter market, a customer was generally considered to be a market
participant that makes use of the market maker’s intermediation services, either by
requesting such services or entering into a continuing relationship for such services. 901
The definition of client, customer, and counterparty in the final rule recognizes that, in
the context of market making in a financial instrument that is executed on an exchange or
other organized trading facility, a client, customer, or counterparty would be any person
whose buy or sell order executes against the banking entity’s quotation posted on the
exchange or other organized trading facility. 902 Under these circumstances, the person
would be trading with the banking entity in response to the banking entity’s quotations
and obtaining the banking entity’s market making-related services. In the context of
market making in a financial instrument in the OTC market, a client, customer, or
counterparty generally would be a person that makes use of the banking entity’s
intermediation services, either by requesting such services (possibly via a request-forquote on an established trading facility) or entering into a continuing relationship with the
banking entity with respect to such services. For purposes of determining the reasonably
expected near-term demands of customers, a client, customer, or counterparty generally
narrowly focused on firms that have $50 billion or more trading assets and liabilities because, as noted
above, the Agencies believe firms engaged in such substantial trading activity are less likely to act as
customers to market makers than smaller regional firms.
901

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,960; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8439.

902

See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading) (explaining generally how exchange-based market makers operate).

265

would not include a trading desk or other organizational unit of another entity that has
$50 billion or more in total trading assets except if the trading desk has a documented
reason for treating the trading desk or other organizational unit of such entity as a
customer or the trading desk’s transactions are executed anonymously on an exchange or
similar trading facility that permits trading on behalf of a broad range of market
participants. The Agencies believe that this exclusion balances commenters’ suggested
alternatives of either defining as a client, customer, or counterparty anyone who is on the
other side of a market maker’s trade 903 or preventing any banking entity from being a
client, customer, or counterparty. 904 The Agencies believe that the first alternative is
overly broad and would not meaningfully distinguish between permitted market makingrelated activity and impermissible proprietary trading. For example, the Agencies are
concerned that such an approach would allow a trading desk to maintain an outsized
inventory and to justify such inventory levels as being tangentially related to expected
market-wide demand. On the other hand, preventing any banking entity from being a
client, customer, or counterparty under the final rule would result in an overly narrow
definition that would significantly impact banking entities’ ability to provide and access
market making-related services. For example, most banks look to market makers to
provide liquidity in connection with their investment portfolios.
The Agencies further note that, with respect to a banking entity that acts as a
primary dealer (or functional equivalent) for a sovereign government, the sovereign

903

See ISDA (Feb. 2012). In addition, a number of commenters suggested that the rule should not limit
broker-dealers from being customers of a market maker. See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012);
Credit Suisse (Seidel); RBC; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation.
904

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen.

266

government and its central bank are each a client, customer, or counterparty for purposes
of the market-making exemption as well as the underwriting exemption. 905 The Agencies
believe this interpretation, together with the modifications in the rule that eliminate the
requirement to distinguish between revenues from spreads and price appreciation and the
recognition that the market-making exemption extends to market making-related
activities appropriately captures the unique relationship between a primary dealer and the
sovereign government. Thus, generally a banking entity may rely on the market-making
exemption for its activities as primary dealer (or functional equivalent) to the extent those
activities are outside of the underwriting exemption. 906
For exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”) (and related structures), Authorized
Participants (“APs”) are generally the conduit for market participants seeking to create or

905

A primary dealer is a firm that trades a sovereign government’s obligations directly with the sovereign
(in many cases, with the sovereign’s central bank) as well as with other customers through market making.
The sovereign government may impose conditions on a primary dealer or require that it engage in certain
trading in the relevant government obligations (e.g., participate in auctions for the government obligation or
maintain a liquid secondary market in the government obligations). Further, a sovereign government may
limit the number of primary dealers that are authorized to trade with the sovereign. A number of countries
use a primary dealer system, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China-Hong Kong, France, Germany,
Greece, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Portugal, South Africa, South Korea,
Spain, Turkey, the U.K., and the U.S. See, e.g., Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012). The Agencies note that this
standard would similarly apply to the relationship between a banking entity and a sovereign that does not
have a formal primary dealer system, provided the sovereign’s process functions like a primary dealer
framework.
906

See Goldman (Prop. Trading). See also supra Part IV.A.3.c.2.b.ix. (discussing commenters’ concerns
regarding primary dealer activity). Each suggestion regarding the treatment of primary dealer activity has
not been incorporated into the rule. Specifically, the exemption for market making as applied to a primary
dealer does not extend without limitation to primary dealer activities that are not conducted under the
conditions of one of the exemptions. These interpretations would be inconsistent with Congressional intent
for the statute, to limit permissible market- making activity through the statute’s near term demand
requirement and, thus, does not permit trading without limitation. See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012) (stating that permitted activities should include trading necessary to meet the relevant jurisdiction’s
primary dealer and other requirements); JPMC (indicating that the exemption should cover all of a firm’s
activities that are necessary or reasonably incidental to its acting as a primary dealer in a foreign
government’s debt securities); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Banco de México; IIB/EBF. Rather, recognizing
that market making by primary dealers is a key function, the limits and other conditions of the rule are
flexible enough to permit necessary market making-related activities.

267

redeem shares of the fund (or equivalent structure). 907 For example, an AP may buy ETF
shares from market participants who would like to redeem those shares for cash or a
basket of instruments upon which the ETF is based. To provide this service, the AP may
in turn redeem these shares from the ETF itself. Similarly, an AP may receive cash or
financial instruments from a market participant seeking to purchase ETF shares, in which
case the AP may use that cash or set of financial instruments to create shares from the
ETF. In either case, for the purpose of the market-making exemption, such market
participants as well as the ETF itself would be considered clients, customers, or
counterparties of the AP. 908 The inventory of ETF shares or underlying instruments held
by the AP can therefore be evaluated under the criteria of the market-making exemption,
such as how these holdings relate to reasonably expected near term customer demand. 909

907

ETF sponsors enter into relationships with one or more financial institutions that become APs for the
ETF. Only APs are permitted to purchase and redeem shares directly from the ETF, and they can do so
only in large aggregations or blocks that are commonly called “creation units.” In response to a question in
the proposal, a number of commenters expressed concern that the proposed market-making exemption may
not permit certain AP and market maker activities in ETFs and requested clarification that these activities
would be permitted under the market-making exemption. See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,873 (question 91)
(“Do particular markets or instruments, such as the market for exchange-traded funds, raise particular
issues that are not adequately or appropriately addressed in the proposal? If so, how could the proposal
better address those instruments, markets or market features?”); CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8359 (question
91); supra Part IV.A.3.c.2.b.vii. (discussing comments on this issue).
908

This is consistent with two commenters’ request that an ETF issuer be considered a “counterparty” of
the banking entity when it trades directly with the ETF issuer as an AP. See ICI Global; ICI (Feb. 2012).
Further, this approach is intended to address commenters’ concerns that the near term demand requirement
may limit a banking entity’s ability to act as AP for an ETF. See BoA; Vanguard. The Agencies believe
that one commenter’s concern about the impact of the proposed source of revenue requirement on AP
activity should be addressed by the replacement of this proposed requirement with a metric-based focus on
when a trading desk generates revenue from its trading activity. See BoA; infra Part IV.A.3.c.7.c.
(discussing the new approach to assessing a trading desk’s pattern of profit and loss).
909

This does not imply that the AP must perfectly predict future customer demand, but rather that there is a
demonstrable, statistical, or historical basis for the size of the inventory held, as more fully discussed
below. Consider, for example, a fixed-income ETF with $500 million in assets. If, on a typical day, an AP
generates requests for $10 to $20 million of creations or redemptions, then an inventory of $10 to $20
million in bonds upon which the ETF is based (or some small multiple thereof) could be construed as
consistent with reasonably expected near term customer demand. On the other hand, if under the same
circumstances an AP holds $1 billion of these bonds solely in its capacity as an AP for this ETF, it would

268

These criteria can be similarly applied to other activities of the AP, such as building
inventory to “seed” a new ETF or engaging in ETF-loan related transactions. 910 The
Agencies recognize that banking entities currently conduct a substantial amount of AP
creation and redemption activity in the ETF market and, thus, if the rule were to prevent
or restrict a banking entity from acting as an AP for an ETF, then the rule would impact
the functioning of the ETF market. 911
Some firms, whether or not an AP in a given ETF, may also actively engage in
buying and selling shares of an ETF and its underlying instruments in the market to
maintain price continuity between the ETF and its underlying instruments, which are
exchangeable for one another. Sometimes these firms will register as market makers on
an exchange for a given ETF, but other times they may not register as market maker.
Regardless of whether or not the firm is registered as a market maker on any given
exchange, this activity not only provides liquidity for ETFs, but also, and very
importantly, helps keep the market price of an ETF in line with the NAV of the fund.
The market-making exemption can be used to evaluate trading that is intended to
be more difficult to justify this as needed for reasonably expected near term customer demand and may be
indicative of an AP engaging in prohibited proprietary trading.
910

In ETF loan transactions (also referred to as “create-to-lend” transactions), an AP borrows the
underlying instruments that form the creation basket of an ETF, submits the borrowed instruments to the
ETF agent in exchange for a creation unit of ETF shares, and lends the resulting ETF shares to a customer
that wants to borrow the ETF. At the end of the ETF loan, the borrower returns the ETF shares to the AP,
and the AP redeems the ETF shares with the ETF agent in exchange for the underlying instruments that
form the creation basket. The AP may return the underlying instruments to the parties from whom it
borrowed them or may use them for another loan, as long as the AP is not obligated to return them at that
time. For the term of the ETF loan transaction, the AP hedges against market risk arising from any
rebalancing of the ETF, which would change the amount or type of underlying instruments the AP would
receive in exchange for the ETF compared to the underlying instruments the AP borrowed and submitted to
the ETF agent to create the ETF shares. See David J. Abner, The ETF Handbook, Ch. 12 (2010); Jean M.
McLoughlin, Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, to Division of Corporation Finance, U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, dated Jan. 23, 2013, available at http://www.sec.gov/divisions/corpfin/cfnoaction/2013/davis-polk-wardwell-llp-012813-16a.pdf.
911

See SSgA (Feb. 2012).

269

maintain price continuity between these exchangeable instruments by considering how
the firm quotes, maintains risk and exposure limits, manages its inventory and risk, and,
in the case of APs, exercises its ability to create and redeem shares from the fund.
Because customers take positions in ETFs with an expectation that the price relationship
will be maintained, such trading can be considered to be market making-related
activity. 912
After considering comments, the Agencies continue to take the view that a trading
desk would not qualify for the market-making exemption if it is wholly or principally
engaged in arbitrage trading or other trading that is not in response to, or driven by, the
demands of clients, customers, or counterparties. 913 The Agencies believe this activity,
which is not in response to or driven by customer demand, is inconsistent with the
Congressional intent that market making-related activity be designed not to exceed the
reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties. For
example, a trading desk would not be permitted to engage in general statistical arbitrage
trading between instruments that have some degree of correlation but where neither
instrument has the capability of being exchanged, converted, or exercised for or into the

912

A number of commenters expressed concern that the proposed rule would limit market making or AP
activity in ETFs because market makers and APs engage in trading to maintain a price relationship between
ETFs and their underlying components, which promotes ETF market efficiency. See Vanguard; RBC;
Goldman (Prop. Trading); JPMC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012); Credit
Suisse (Prop. Trading).
913

Some commenters suggested that a range of arbitrage trading should be permitted under the marketmaking exemption. See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading); RBC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012);
JPMC. Other commenters, however, stated that arbitrage trading should be prohibited under the final rule.
See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Volcker; Occupy. In response to commenters representing that it would be
difficult to comply with this standard because it requires a trading desk to determine the proportionality of
its activities in response to customer demand compared to its activities that are not in response to customer
demand, the Agencies believe that the statute requires a banking entity to distinguish between market
making-related activities that are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of
customers and impermissible proprietary trading. See Goldman (Prop. Trading); RBC.

270

other instrument. A trading desk may, however, act as market maker to a customer
engaged in a statistical arbitrage trading strategy. Furthermore as suggested by some
commenters, 914 trading activity used by a market maker to maintain a price relationship
that is expected and relied upon by clients, customers, and counterparties is permitted as
it is related to the demands of clients, customers, or counterparties because the relevant
instrument has the capability of being exchanged, converted, or exercised for or into
another instrument. 915
The Agencies recognize that a trading desk, in anticipating and responding to
customer needs, may engage in interdealer trading as part of its inventory management
activities and that interdealer trading provides certain market benefits, such as more
efficient matching of customer order flow, greater hedging options to reduce risk, and
enhanced ability to accumulate or exit customer-related positions. 916 The final rule does
not prohibit a trading desk from using the market-making exemption to engage in
interdealer trading that is consistent with and related to facilitating permissible trading
with the trading desk’s clients, customers, or counterparties. 917 However, in determining

914

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC.

915

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Credit Suisse (Seidel). For example,
customers have an expectation of general price alignment under these circumstances, both at the time they
decide to invest in the instrument and for the remaining time they hold the instrument. To the contrary,
general statistical arbitrage does not maintain a price relationship between related instruments that is
expected and relied upon by customers and, thus, is not permitted under the market-making exemption.
Firms engage in general statistical arbitrage to profit from differences in market prices between
instruments, assets, or price or risk elements associated with instruments or assets that are thought to be
statistically related, but which do not have a direct relationship of being exchangeable, convertible, or
exercisable for the other.
916

See MetLife; ACLI (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Morgan Stanley; Chamber (Feb. 2012);
Prof. Duffie; Oliver Wyman (Dec. 2011); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012).

917

A number of commenters requested that the rule be modified to clearly recognize interdealer trading as
a component of permitted market making-related activity. See MetLife; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012); RBC; Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; BoA; ACLI (Feb. 2012); AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb.

271

the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, a
trading desk generally may not account for the expected trading interests of a trading
desk or other organizational unit of an entity with aggregate trading assets and liabilities
of $50 billion or greater (except if the trading desk documents why and how a particular
trading desk or other organizational unit at such a firm should be considered a customer
or the trading desk or conduct market-making activity anonymously on an exchange or
similar trading facility that permits trading on behalf of a broad range of market
participants). 918
A trading desk may engage in interdealer trading to: establish or acquire a
position to meet the reasonably expected near term demands of its clients, customers, or
counterparties, including current demand; unwind or sell positions acquired from clients,
customers, or counterparties; or engage in risk-mitigating or inventory management
transactions. 919 The Agencies believe that allowing a trading desk to continue to engage
in customer-related interdealer trading is appropriate because it can help a trading desk
appropriately manage its inventory and risk levels and can effectively allow clients,
customers, or counterparties to access a larger pool of liquidity. While the Agencies
recognize that effective intermediation of client, customer, or counterparty trading may
2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012). One of these commenters analyzed the
potential market impact of preventing interdealer trading, combined with inventory limits. See Oliver
Wyman (Feb. 2012). Because the final rule does not prohibit interdealer trading or limit inventory in the
manner this commenter assumed for purposes of its analysis, the Agencies do not believe the final rule will
have the market impact cited by this commenter.
918

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) (recognizing that the ability to manage inventory through interdealer
transactions should be accommodated in the rule, but recommending that this activity be conditioned on a
market maker having an appropriate level of inventory after an interdealer transaction).
919

Provided it is consistent with the requirements of the market-making exemption, including the near
term customer demand requirement, a trading desk may trade for purposes of determining how to price a
financial instrument a customer Seeks to trade with the trading desk or to determine the depth of the market
for a financial instrument a customer Seeks to trade with the trading desk. See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

272

require a trading desk to engage in a certain amount of interdealer trading, this is an
activity that will bear some scrutiny by the Agencies and should be monitored by banking
entities to ensure it reflects market-making activities and not impermissible proprietary
trading.
ii.

Impact of the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market on the analysis
Several commenters expressed concern about the potential impact of the proposed

near term demand requirement on market making in less liquid markets and requested
that the Agencies recognize that near term customer demand may vary across different
markets and asset classes. 920 The Agencies understand that reasonably expected near
term customer demand may vary based on the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market
for the relevant type of financial instrument(s) in which the trading desk acts as market
maker. 921 As a result, the final rule recognizes that these factors impact the analysis of
reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties and the
amount, types, and risks of market-maker inventory needed to meet such demand. 922 In
particular, customer demand is likely to be more frequent in more liquid markets than in
less liquid or illiquid markets. As a result, market makers in more liquid cash-based
markets, such as liquid equity securities, should generally have higher rates of inventory
turnover and less aged inventory than market makers in less liquid or illiquid markets. 923

920

See CIEBA (stating that, absent a different interpretation for illiquid instruments, market makers will
err on the side of holding less inventory to avoid sanctions for violating the rule); Morgan Stanley; RBC;
ICI (Feb. 2012) ISDA (Feb. 2012); Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; Alfred Brock.
921

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.2.b.ii. (discussing comments on this issue).

922

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(ii)(A).

923

The final rule does not impose additional capital requirements on aged inventory to discourage a trading
desk from retaining positions in inventory, as suggested by some commenters. See CalPERS; Vanguard.

273

Market makers in less liquid cash-based markets are more likely to hold a particular
position for a longer period of time due to intermittent customer demand. In the
derivatives markets, market makers carry open positions and manage various risk factors,
such as exposure to different points on a yield curve. These exposures are analogous to
inventory in the cash-based markets. Further, it may be more difficult to reasonably
predict near term customer demand in less mature markets due to, among other things, a
lack of historical experience with client, customer, or counterparty demands for the
relevant product. Under these circumstances, the Agencies encourage banking entities to
consider their experience with similar products or other relevant factors. 924
iii.

Demonstrable analysis of certain factors
In the proposal, the Agencies stated that permitted market making includes taking

positions in securities in anticipation of customer demand, so long as any anticipatory
buying or selling activity is reasonable and related to clear, demonstrable trading interest
of clients, customers, or counterparties. 925 A number of commenters expressed concern
about this proposed interpretation’s impact on market makers’ inventory management
activity and represented that it was inconsistent with the statute’s near term demand
standard, which permits market-making activity that is “designed” not to exceed the

The Agencies believe the final rule already limit a trading desk’s ability to hold inventory over an extended
period and do not See a need at this time to include additional capital requirements in the final rule. For
example, a trading desk must have written policies and procedures relating to its inventory and must be
able to demonstrate, as needed, its analysis of why the levels of its market-maker inventory are necessary to
meet, or is a result of meeting, customer demand. See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(ii), (iii)(C).
924

The Agencies agree, as suggested by one commenter, it may be appropriate for a market maker in a new
asset class or market to look to reasonably expected future developments on the basis of the trading desk’s
customer relationships. See Morgan Stanley. As discussed further below, the Agencies recognize that a
trading desk could encounter similar issues if it is a new entrant in an existing market.
925

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,871; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8356-8357.

274

“reasonably expected” near term demands of customers. 926 In response to comments, the
Agencies are permitting a trading desk to take positions in reasonable expectation of
customer demand in the near term based on a demonstrable analysis that the amount,
types, and risks of the financial instruments in the trading desk’s market-maker inventory
are designed not to exceed, on an ongoing basis, the reasonably expected near term
demands of customers.
The proposal also stated that a banking entity’s determination of near term
customer demand should generally be based on the unique customer base of a specific
market-making business line (and not merely an expectation of future price appreciation).
Several commenters stated that it was unclear how such determinations should be made
and expressed concern that near term customer demand cannot always be accurately
predicted, 927 particularly in markets where trades occur infrequently and customer
demand is hard to predict 928 or when a banking entity is entering a new market. 929 To
address these comments, the Agencies are providing additional information about how a
banking entity can comply with the statute’s near term customer demand requirement,
including a new requirement that a banking entity conduct a demonstrable assessment of
reasonably expected near term customer demand and several examples of factors that
may be relevant for conducting such an assessment. The Agencies believe it is important
to require such demonstrable analysis to allow determinations of reasonably expected

926

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Chamber (Feb. 2012);
Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation. See also Morgan Stanley; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012).
927

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); MetLife; Chamber (Feb. 2012); RBC; CIEBA;
Wellington; ICI (Feb. 2012) Alfred Brock.

928

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

929

See CIEBA.

275

near term demand and associated inventory levels to be monitored and tested to ensure
compliance with the statute and the final rule.
The final rule provides that, to help determine the appropriate amount, types, and
risks of the financial instruments in the trading desk’s market-maker inventory and to
ensure that such inventory is designed not to exceed, on an ongoing basis, the reasonably
expected near term demands of client, customers, or counterparties, a banking entity must
conduct demonstrable analysis of historical customer demand, current inventory of
financial instruments, and market and other factors regarding the amount, types, and risks
of or associated with financial instruments in which the trading desk makes a market,
including through block trades. This analysis should not be static or fixed solely on
current market or other factors. Instead, an appropriately conducted analysis under this
provision will be both backward- and forward-looking by taking into account relevant
historical trends in customer demand 930 and any events that are reasonably expected to
occur in the near term that would likely impact demand. 931 Depending on the facts and
circumstances, it may be proper for a banking entity to weigh these factors differently

930

To determine an appropriate historical dataset, a banking entity should assess the relation between
current or reasonably expected near term conditions and demand and those of prior market cycles.
931

This analysis may, where appropriate, take into account prior and/or anticipated cyclicality to the
demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, which may cause variations in the amounts, types, and
risks of financial instruments needed to provide intermediation services at different points in a cycle. For
example, the final rule recognizes that a trading desk may need to accumulate a larger-than-average amount
of inventory in anticipation of an index rebalance. See supra note 838 (discussing a comment on this
issue). The Agencies are aware that a trading desk engaged in block positioning activity may have a less
consistent pattern of inventory because of the need to take on large block positions at the request of
customers. See supra note 761 and accompanying text (discussing comments on this issue).
Because the final rule does not prevent banking entities from providing direct liquidity for rebalance trades,
the Agencies do not believe that the final rule will cause the market impacts that one commenter predicted
would occur were such a restriction adopted. See Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012) (estimating that if market
makers are not able to provide direct liquidity for rebalance trades, investors tracking these indices could
potentially pay incremental costs of $600 million to $1.8 billion every year).

276

when conducting an analysis under this provision. For example, historical trends in
customer demand may be less relevant when a trading desk is experiencing or expects to
experience a change in the pattern of customer needs (e.g., requests for block
positioning), adjustments to its business model (e.g., efforts to expand or contract its
market shares), or changes in market conditions. 932 On the other hand, absent these types
of current or anticipated events, the amount, types, and risks of the financial instruments
in the trading desk’s market-maker inventory should be relatively consistent with such
trading desk’s historical profile of market-maker inventory. 933
Moreover, the demonstrable analysis required under § __.4(b)(2)(ii)(B) should
account for, among other things, how the market factors discussed in § __.4(b)(2)(ii)(A)
impact the amount, types, and risks of market-maker inventory the trading desk may need
to facilitate reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or
counterparties. 934 Other potential factors that could be used to assess reasonably
expected near term customer demand and the appropriate amount, types, and risks of
932

In addition, the Agencies recognize that a new entrant to a particular market or asset class may not have
knowledge of historical customer demand in that market or asset class at the outset. See supra note 924 and
accompanying text (discussing factors that may be relevant to new market entrants for purposes of
determining the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties).
933

One commenter suggested an approach that would allow market makers to build inventory in products
where they believe customer demand will exist, regardless of whether inventory can be tied to a particular
customer in the near term or to historical trends in customer demand. See Credit Suisse (Seidel). The
Agencies believe an approach that does not provide for any consideration of historical trends could result in
a heightened risk of evasion. At the same time, as discussed above, the Agencies recognize that historical
trends may not always determine the amount of inventory a trading desk may need to meet reasonably
expected near term demand and it may under certain circumstances be appropriate to build inventory in
anticipation of a reasonably expected near term event that would likely impact customer demand. While
the Agencies are not requiring that market-maker inventory be tied to a particular customer, The Agencies
are requiring that a banking entity analyze and support its expectations for near term customer demand.
934

The Agencies recognize that a trading desk could acquire either a long or short position in reasonable
anticipation of near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties. In particular, if it is expected
that customers will want to buy an instrument in the near term, it may be appropriate for the desk to acquire
a long position in such instrument. If it is expected that customers will want to sell the instrument,
acquiring a short position may be appropriate under certain circumstances.

277

financial instruments in the trading desk’s market-maker inventory include, among
others: (i) recent trading volumes and customer trends; (ii) trading patterns of specific
customers or other observable customer demand patterns; (iii) analysis of the banking
entity’s business plan and ability to win new customer business; (iv) evaluation of
expected demand under current market conditions compared to prior similar periods; (v)
schedule of maturities in customers’ existing portfolios; and (vi) expected market events,
such as an index rebalancing, and announcements. The Agencies believe that some
banking entities already analyze these and other relevant factors as part of their overall
risk management processes. 935
With respect to the creation and distribution of complex structured products, a
trading desk may be able to use the market-making exemption to acquire some or all of
the risk exposures associated with the product if the trading desk has evidence of
customer demand for each of the significant risks associated with the product. 936 To have
evidence of customer demand under these circumstances, there must be prior express
interest from customers in the specific risk exposures of the product. Without such
express interest, a trading desk would not have sufficient information to support the
required demonstrable analysis (e.g., information about historical customer demand or
other relevant factors). 937 The Agencies are concerned that, absent express interest in

935

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.2.b.iii. See FTN; Morgan Stanley (suggesting a standard that would require a
position to be “reasonably consistent with observable customer demand patterns”).
936

Complex structured products can contain a combination of several different types of risks, including,
among others, market risk, credit risk, volatility risk, and prepayment risk.
937

In contrast, a trading desk may respond to requests for customized transactions, such as custom swaps,
provided that the trading desk is a market maker in the risk exposures underlying the swap or can hedge the
underlying risk exposures, consistent with its financial exposure and hedging limits, and otherwise meets
the requirements of the market-making exemption. For example, a trading desk may routinely make
markets in underlying exposures and, thus, would meet the requirements for engaging in transactions in

278

each significant risk associated with the product, a trading desk could evade the marketmaking exemption by structuring a deal with certain risk exposures, or amounts of risk
exposures, for which there is no customer demand and that would be retained in the
trading desk’s inventory, potentially for speculative purposes. Thus, a trading desk
would not be engaged in permitted market making-related activity if, for example, it
structured a product solely to acquire a desired exposure and not to respond to customer
demand. 938 When a trading desk acquires risk exposures in these circumstances, the
trading desk would be expected to enter into appropriate hedging transactions or
otherwise mitigate the risks of these exposures, consistent with its hedging policies and
procedures and risk limits.
With regard to a trading desk that conducts its market-making activities on an
exchange or other similar anonymous trading facility, the Agencies continue to believe
that market-making activities are generally consistent with reasonably expected near term
customer demand when such activities involve passively providing liquidity by
submitting resting orders that interact with the orders of others in a non-directional or
market-neutral trading strategy or by regularly responding to requests for quotes in
markets where resting orders are not generally provided. This ensures that the trading
desk has a pattern of providing, rather than taking, liquidity. However, this does not
mean that a trading desk acting as a market maker on an exchange or other similar
anonymous trading facility is only permitted to use these types of orders in connection
with its market making-related activities. The Agencies recognize that it may be
derivatives that reflect the same exposures. Alternatively, a trading desk might meet the requirements by
routinely trading in the derivative and hedging in the underlying exposures. See supra Part IV.A.3.c.1.c.iii.
938

See, e.g., Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

279

appropriate for a trading desk to enter market or marketable limit orders on an exchange
or other similar anonymous trading facility, or to request quotes from other market
participants, in connection with its market making-related activities for a variety of
purposes including, among others, inventory management, addressing order imbalances
on an exchange, and hedging. 939 In response to comments, the Agencies are not
requiring a banking entity to be registered as a market maker on an exchange or other
similar anonymous trading facility, if the exchange or other similar anonymous trading
facility registers market makers, for purposes of the final rule. 940 The Agencies
recognize, as noted by commenters, that there are a large number of exchanges and
organized trading facilities on which market makers may need to trade to maintain
liquidity across the markets and to provide customers with favorable prices and that
requiring registration with each exchange or other trading facility may unnecessarily
restrict or impose burdens on exchange market-making activities. 941

939

The Agencies are clarifying this point in response to commenters who expressed concern that the
proposal would prevent an exchange market maker from using market or marketable limit orders under
these circumstances. See, e.g., NYSE Euronext; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman
(Prop. Trading); RBC.
940

See supra notes 774 to 779 and accompanying text (discussing commenters’ response to statements in
the proposal requiring exchange registration as a market maker under certain circumstances). Similarly, the
final rule does not establish a presumption of compliance with the market-making exemption based on
registration as a market maker with an exchange, as requested by a few commenters. See supra note 777
and accompanying text. As noted above, activity that is considered market making for purposes of this rule
may not be considered market making for purposes of other rules, including self-regulatory organization
rules, and vice versa. In addition, exchange requirements for registered market makers are subject to
change without consideration of the impact on this rule. Although a banking entity is not required to be an
exchange-registered market maker under the final rule, a banking entity must be licensed or registered to
engage in market making-related activities in accordance with applicable law. For example, a banking
entity would be required to be an SEC-registered broker-dealer to engage in market making-related
activities in securities in the U.S. unless the banking entity is exempt from registration or excluded from
regulation as a dealer under the Exchange Act. See infra Part IV.A.3.c.6.; final rule § __.4(b)(2)(vi).
941

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading) (noting that there are more
than 12 exchanges and 40 alternative trading systems currently trading U.S. equities).

280

A banking entity is not required to conduct the demonstrable analysis under §
__.4(b)(2)(B) of the final rule on an instrument-by-instrument basis. The Agencies
recognize that, in certain cases, customer demand may be for a particular type of
exposure, and a customer may be willing to trade any one of a number of instruments that
would provide the demanded exposure. Thus, an assessment of the amount, types, and
risks of financial instruments that the trading desk may hold in market-maker inventory
and that would be designed not to exceed, on an ongoing basis, the reasonably expected
near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties does not need to be made for
each financial instrument in which the trading desk acts as market maker. Instead, the
amount and types of financial instruments in the trading desk’s market-maker inventory
should be consistent with the types of financial instruments in which the desk makes a
market and the amount and types of such instruments that the desk’s customers are
reasonably expected to be interested in trading.
In response to commenters’ concern that banking entities may be subject to
regulatory sanctions if reasonably expected customer demand does not materialize, 942 the
Agencies recognize that predicting the reasonably expected near term demands of clients,
customers, or counterparties is inherently subject to changes based on market and other
factors that are difficult to predict with certainty. Thus, there may at times be differences
between predicted demand and actual demand from clients, customers, or counterparties.
However, assessments of expected near term demand may not be reasonable if, in the
aggregate and over longer periods of time, a trading desk exhibits a repeated pattern or
practice of significant variation in the amount, types, and risks of financial instruments in
942

See RBC; CIEBA; Wellington; ICI (Feb. 2012) Invesco.

281

its market-maker inventory in excess of what is needed to facilitate near term customer
demand.
iv.

Relationship to required limits
As discussed further below, a banking entity must establish limits for each trading

desk on the amount, types, and risks of its market-maker inventory, level of exposures to
relevant risk factors arising from its financial exposure, and period of time a financial
instrument may be held by a trading desk. These limits must be reasonably designed to
ensure compliance with the market-making exemption, including the near term customer
demand requirement, and must take into account the nature and amount of the trading
desk’s market making-related activities. Thus, the limits should account for and
generally be consistent with the historical near term demands of the desk’s clients,
customers, or counterparties and the amount, types, and risks of financial instruments that
the trading desk has historically held in market-maker inventory to meet such demands.
In addition to the limits that a trading desk selects in managing its positions to ensure
compliance with the market-making exemption set out in § __.4(b), the Agencies are
requiring, for banking entities that must report metrics in Appendix A, such limits
include, at a minimum, “Risk Factor Sensitivities” and “Value-at-Risk and Stress Valueat-Risk” metrics as limits, except to the extent any of the “Risk Factor Sensitivities” or
“Value-at-Risk and Stress Value-at-Risk” metrics are demonstrably ineffective for
measuring and monitoring the risks of a trading desk based on the types of positions
traded by, and risk exposures of, that desk. 943 The Agencies believe that these metrics

943

See Appendix A.

282

can be useful for measuring and managing many types of positions and trading activities
and therefore can be useful in establishing a minimum set of metrics for which limits
should be applied. 944
As this requirement applies on an ongoing basis, a trade in excess of one or more
limits set for a trading desk should not be permitted simply because it responds to
customer demand. Rather, a banking entity’s compliance program must include
escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade that would exceed
one or more of a trading desk’s limits, demonstrable analysis that the basis for any
temporary or permanent increase to one or more of a trading desk’s limits is consistent
with the requirements of this near term demand requirement and with the prudent
management of risk by the banking entity, and independent review of such demonstrable
analysis and approval. 945 The Agencies expect that a trading desk’s escalation
procedures will generally explain the circumstances under which a trading desk’s limits
can be increased, either temporarily or permanently, and that such increases must be
consistent with reasonably expected near term demands of the desk’s clients, customers,
or counterparties and the amount and type of risks to which the trading desk is authorized
to be exposed.

944

The Agencies recognize that for some types of positions or trading strategies, the use of “Risk Factor
Sensitivities” and “Value-at-Risk and Stress Value-at-Risk” metrics may be ineffective and accordingly
limits do not need to be set for those metrics if such ineffectiveness is demonstrated by the banking entity.
945

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii); infra Part IV.A.3.c.3.c. (discussing the meaning of “independent” review
for purposes of this requirement).

283

3.

Compliance program requirement

a.

Proposed compliance program requirement
To ensure that a banking entity relying on the market-making exemption had an

appropriate framework in place to support its compliance with the exemption, §
__.4(b)(2)(i) of the proposed rule required a banking entity to establish an internal
compliance program, as required by subpart D of the proposal, designed to ensure
compliance with the requirements of the market-making exemption. 946
b.

Comments on the proposed compliance program requirement
A few commenters supported the proposed requirement that a banking entity

establish a compliance program under § __.20 of the proposed rule as effective. 947 For
example, one commenter stated that the requirement “keeps a strong focus on the bank’s
own workings and allows banks to self-monitor.” 948 One commenter indicated that a
comprehensive compliance program is a “cornerstone of effective corporate governance,”
but cautioned against placing “undue reliance” on compliance programs. 949 As discussed
further below in Parts IV.C.1. and IV.C.3., many commenters expressed concern about
the potential burdens of the proposed rule’s compliance program requirement, as well as
the proposed requirement regarding quantitative measurements. According to one

946

See proposed rule § __.4(b)(2)(i); Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,870; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8355.

947

See Flynn & Fusselman; Morgan Stanley.

948

See Flynn & Fusselman.

949

See Occupy.

284

commenter, the compliance burdens associated with these requirements may dissuade a
banking entity from attempting to comply with the market-making exemption. 950
c.

Final compliance program requirement
Similar to the proposed exemption, the market-making exemption adopted in the

final rule requires that a banking entity establish and implement, maintain, and enforce an
internal compliance program required by subpart D that is reasonably designed to ensure
the banking entity’s compliance with the requirements of the market-making exemption,
including reasonably designed written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis,
and independent testing. 951 This provision further requires that the compliance program
include particular written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and
independent testing identifying and addressing:
•

The financial instruments each trading desk stands ready to purchase and sell as a
market maker;

•

The actions the trading desk will take to demonstrably reduce or otherwise
significantly mitigate promptly the risks of its financial exposure consistent with
the required limits; the products, instruments, and exposures each trading desk
may use for risk management purposes; the techniques and strategies each trading
desk may use to manage the risks of its market making-related activities and
inventory; and the process, strategies, and personnel responsible for ensuring that

950

See ICI (Feb. 2012).

951

The independent testing standard is discussed in more detail in Part IV.C., which discusses the
compliance program requirement in § __.20 of the final rule.

285

the actions taken by the trading desk to mitigate these risks are and continue to be
effective;
•

Limits for each trading desk, based on the nature and amount of the trading desk’s
market making-related activities, that address the factors prescribed by the near
term customer demand requirement of the final rule, on:
o The amount, types, and risks of its market-maker inventory;
o The amount, types, and risks of the products, instruments, and exposures
the trading desk uses for risk management purposes;
o Level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its financial
exposure; and
o Period of time a financial instrument may be held;

•

Internal controls and ongoing monitoring and analysis of each trading desk’s
compliance with its required limits; and

•

Authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and
approval of any trade that would exceed a trading desk’s limit(s), demonstrable
analysis that the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk’s
limit(s) is consistent with the requirements of § __.4(b)(2)(ii) of the final rule, and
independent review (i.e., by risk managers and compliance officers at the
appropriate level independent of the trading desk) of such demonstrable analysis
and approval. 952
The compliance program requirement in the proposed market-making exemption

did not include specific references to all the compliance program elements now listed in
952

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii).

286

the final rule. Instead, these elements were generally included in the compliance
requirements of Appendix C of the proposed rule. The Agencies are moving certain of
these requirements into the market-making exemption to ensure that critical components
are made part of the compliance program for market making-related activities. Further,
placing these requirements within the market-making exemption emphasizes the
important role they play in overall compliance with the exemption. 953 Banking entities
should note that these compliance procedures must be established, implemented,
maintained, and enforced for each trading desk engaged in market making-related
activities under the final rule. Each of the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(A)
through (E) must be appropriately tailored to the individual trading activities and
strategies of each trading desk on an ongoing basis.
As a threshold issue, the compliance program must identify the products,
instruments, and exposures the trading desk may trade as market maker or for risk

953

The Agencies note that a number of commenters requested that the Agencies place a greater emphasis
on inventory limits and risk limits in the final exemption. See, e.g., Citigroup (suggesting that the marketmaking exemption utilize risk limits that would be set for each trading unit based on expected levels of
customer trading—estimated by looking to historical results, target product and customer lists, and target
market share—and an appropriate amount of required inventory to support that level of customer trading);
Prof. Colesanti et al. (suggesting that the exemption include, among other things, a bright-line threshold of
the amount of risk that can be retained (which cannot be in excess of the size and type required for market
making), positions limits, and limits on holding periods); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012) (suggesting
the use of specific parameters for inventory levels, along with a number of other criteria, to establish a safe
harbor); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (recommending the use of risk limits in combination
with a guidance-based approach); Japanese Bankers Ass’n. (suggesting that the rule set risk allowances for
market making-related activities based on required capital for such activities). The Agencies are not
establishing specific limits in the final rule, as some commenters appeared to recommend, in recognition of
the fact that appropriate limits will differ based on a number of factors, including the size of the marketmaking operation and the liquidity, depth, and maturity of the market for the particular type(s) of financial
instruments in which the trading desk is permitted to trade. See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Prof.
Colesanti et al. However, banking entities relying on the market-making exemption must set limits and
demonstrate how the specific limits and limit methodologies they have chosen are reasonably designed to
limit the amount, types, and risks of the financial instruments in a trading desk’s market-maker inventory
consistent with the reasonably expected near term demands of the banking entity’s clients, customers, and
counterparties, subject to the market and conditions discussed above, and to commensurately control the
desk’s overall financial exposure.

287

management purposes. 954 Identifying the relevant instruments in which a trading desk is
permitted to trade will facilitate monitoring and oversight of compliance with the
exemption by preventing an individual trader on a market-making desk from establishing
positions in instruments that are unrelated to the desk’s market-making function. Further,
this identification of instruments helps form the basis for the specific types of inventory
and risk limits that the banking entity must establish and is relevant to considerations
throughout the exemption regarding the liquidity, depth, and maturity of the market for
the relevant type of financial instrument. The Agencies note that a banking entity should
be able to demonstrate the relationship between the instruments in which a trading desk
may act as market maker and the instruments the desk may use to manage the risk of its
market making-related activities and inventory and why the instruments the desk may use
to manage its risk appropriately and effectively mitigate the risk of its market makingrelated activities without generating an entirely new set of risks that outweigh the risks
that are being hedged.
The final rule provides that a banking entity must establish an appropriate risk
management framework for each of its trading desks that rely on the market-making
exemption.955 This includes not only the techniques and strategies that a trading desk

954

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(A) (requiring written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis,
and independent testing regarding the financial instruments each trading desk stands ready to purchase and
sell in accordance with § __.4(b)(2)(i) of the final rule); final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(B) (requiring written
policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and independent testing regarding the products,
instruments, or exposures each trading desk may use for risk management purposes).
955

This standard addresses issues raised by commenters concerning: certain language in proposed
Appendix B regarding market making-related risk management; the market making-related hedging
provision in § __.4(b)(3) of the proposed rule; and, to some extent, the proposed source of revenue
requirement in § __.4(b)(2)(v) of the proposed rule. See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,960; CFTC Proposal,
77 FR at 8439-8440; proposed rule § __.4(b)(3); Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,873; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at
8358; Wellington; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Morgan Stanley; PUC Texas; CIEBA; SSgA (Feb. 2012);
AllianceBernstein; Investure; Invesco; Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012);

288

may use to manage its risk exposures, but also the actions the trading desk will take to
demonstrably reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate promptly the risks of its financial
exposures consistent with its required limits, which are discussed in more detail below.
While the Agencies do not expect a trading desk to hedge all of the risks that arise from
its market making-related activities, the Agencies do expect each trading desk to take
appropriate steps consistent with market-making activities to contain and limit risk
exposures (such as by unwinding unneeded positions) and to follow reasonable
procedures to monitor the trading desk’s risk exposures (i.e., its financial exposure) and
hedge risks of its financial exposure to remain within its relevant risk limits. 956
As discussed in Part IV.A.3.c.4.c., managing the risks associated with maintaining
a market-maker inventory that is appropriate to meet the reasonably expected near-term
demands of customers is an important part of market making. 957 The Agencies

FTN; RBC; NYSE Euronext; MFA. As discussed in more detail above, a number of commenters
emphasized that market making-related activities necessarily involve a certain amount of risk-taking to
provide “immediacy” to customers. See, e.g., Prof. Duffie; Morgan Stanley; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading)
(Feb. 2012). Commenters also represented that the amount of risk a market maker needs to retain may
differ across asset classes and markets. See, e.g., Morgan Stanley; Credit Suisse (Seidel). The Agencies
believe that the requirement we are adopting better recognizes that appropriate risk management will tailor
acceptable position, risk and inventory limits based on the type(s) of financial instruments in which the
trading desk is permitted to trade and the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant type
of financial instrument.
956

It may be more efficient for a banking entity to manage some risks at a higher organizational level than
the trading desk level. As a result, a banking entity’s written policies and procedures may delegate the
responsibility to mitigate specific risks of the trading desk’s financial exposure to an entity other than the
trading desk, including another organizational unit of the banking entity or of an affiliate, provided that
such organizational unit of the banking entity or of an affiliate is identified in the banking entity’s written
policies and procedures. Under these circumstances, the other organizational unit of the banking entity or
of an affiliate must conduct such hedging activity in accordance with the requirements of the hedging
exemption in § __.5 of the final rule, including the documentation requirement in § __.5(c). As recognized
in Part IV.A.4.d.4., hedging activity conducted by a different organizational unit than the unit responsible
for the positions being hedged presents a greater risk of evasion. Further, the risks being managed by a
higher organizational level than the trading desk may be generated by trading desks engaged in market
making-related activity or by trading desks engaged in other permitted activities. Thus, it would be
inappropriate for such hedging activity to be conducted in reliance on the market-making exemption.
957

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.2.c. (discussing the final near term demand requirement).

289

understand that, in the context of market-making activities, inventory management
includes adjustment of the amount and types of market-maker inventory to meet the
reasonably expected near term demands of customers. 958 Adjustments of the size and
types of a financial exposure are also made to reduce or mitigate the risks associated with
financial instruments held as part of a trading desk’s market-maker inventory. A
common strategy in market making is to establish market-maker inventory in anticipation
of reasonably expected customer needs and then to reduce that market-maker inventory
over time as customer demand materializes. 959 If customer demand does not materialize,
the market maker addresses the risks associated with its market-maker inventory by
adjusting the amount or types of financial instruments in its inventory as well as taking
steps otherwise to mitigate the risk associated with its inventory.
The Agencies recognize that, to provide effective intermediation services, a
trading desk engaged in permitted market making-related activities retains a certain
amount of risk arising from the positions it holds in inventory and may hedge certain
aspects of that risk. The requirements in the final rule establish controls around a trading
desk’s risk management activities, yet still recognize that a trading desk engaged in
market making-related activities may retain a certain amount of risk in meeting the
reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties. As the
Agencies noted in the proposal, where the purpose of a transaction is to hedge a market
making-related position, it would appear to be market making-related activity of the type

958

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); Goldman (Prop. Trading);
MFA; RBC.
959

See, e.g., BoA; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012).

290

described in section 13(d)(1)(B) of the BHC Act. 960 The Agencies emphasize that the
only risk management activities that qualify for the market-making exemption – and that
are not subject to the hedging exemption – are risk management activities conducted or
directed by the trading desk in connection with its market making-related activities and in
conformance with the trading desk’s risk management policies and procedures. 961 A
trading desk engaged in market making-related activities would be required to comply
with the hedging exemption or another available exemption for any risk management or
other activity that is not in conformance with the trading desk’s required market-making
risk management policies and procedures.
A banking entity’s written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and
independent testing identifying and addressing the products, instruments, or exposures
and the techniques and strategies that may be used by each trading desk to manage the
risks of its market making-related activities and inventory must cover both how the
trading desk may establish hedges and how such hedges are removed once the risk they
were mitigating is unwound. With respect to establishing positions that hedge or
otherwise mitigate the risk(s) of market making-related positions held by the trading

960

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,873; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8358.

961

As discussed above, if a trading desk operating under the market-making exemption directs a different
organizational unit of the banking entity or an affiliate to establish a hedge position on the desk’s behalf,
then the other organizational unit may rely on the market-making exemption to establish the hedge position
as long as: (i) the other organizational unit’s hedging activity is consistent with the trading desk’s risk
management policies and procedures (e.g., the hedge instrument, technique, and strategy are consistent
with those identified in the trading desk’s policies and procedures); and (ii) the hedge position is attributed
to the financial exposure of the trading desk and is included in the trading desk’s daily profit and loss. If a
different organizational unit of the banking entity or of an affiliate establishes a hedge for the trading desk’s
financial exposure based on its own determination, or if such position was not established in accordance
with the trading desk’s required procedures or was included in that other organizational unit’s financial
exposure and/or daily profit and loss, then that hedge position must be established in compliance with the
hedging exemption in § __.5 of the rule, including the documentation requirement in § __.5(c). See supra
Part IV.A.3.c.1.c.ii.

291

desk, the written policies and procedures may consider the natural hedging and
diversification that occurs in an aggregation of long and short positions in financial
instruments for which the trading desk is a market maker, 962 as it documents its specific
risk-mitigating strategies that use instruments for which the desk is a market maker or
instruments for which the desk is not a market maker. Further, the written policies and
procedures identifying and addressing permissible hedging techniques and strategies
must address the circumstances under which the trading desk may be permitted to engage
in anticipatory hedging. Like the proposed rule’s hedging exemption, a trading desk may
establish an anticipatory hedge position before it becomes exposed to a risk that it is
highly likely to become exposed to, provided there is a sound risk management rationale
for establishing such an anticipatory hedge position. 963 For example, a trading desk may
hedge against specific positions promised to customers, such as volume-weighted
average price (“VWAP”) orders or large block trades, to facilitate the customer trade. 964
The amount of time that an anticipatory hedge may precede the establishment of the
position to be hedged will depend on market factors, such as the liquidity of the hedging
position.
Written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and independent
testing established pursuant to the final rule identifying and addressing permissible

962

For example, this may occur if a U.S. corporate bond trading desk acquires a $100 million long position
in the corporate bonds of one issuer from clients, customers, or counterparties and separately acquires a $50
million short position in another issuer in the same market sector in reasonable expectation of near term
demand of clients, customers, or counterparties. Although both positions were acquired to facilitate
customer demand, the positions may also naturally hedge each other, to some extent.
963

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,875; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8361.

964

Two commenters recommended that banking entities be permitted to establish hedges prior to acquiring
the underlying risk exposure under these circumstances. See Credit Suisse (Seidel); BoA.

292

hedging techniques and strategies should be designed to prevent a trading desk from
over-hedging its market-maker inventory or financial exposure. Over-hedging would
occur if, for example, a trading desk established a position in a financial instrument for
the purported purpose of reducing a risk associated with one or more market-making
positions when, in fact, that risk had already been mitigated to the full extent possible.
Over-hedging results in a new risk exposure that is unrelated to market-making activities
and, thus, is not permitted under the market-making exemption.
A trading desk’s financial exposure generally would not be considered to be
consistent with market making-related activities to the extent the trading desk is engaged
in hedging activities that are inconsistent with the management of identifiable risks in its
market-maker inventory or maintains significant hedge positions after the underlying
risk(s) of the market-maker inventory have been unwound. A banking entity’s written
policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and independent testing regarding the
trading desk’s permissible hedging techniques and strategies must be designed to prevent
a trading desk from engaging in over-hedging or maintaining hedge positions after they
are no longer needed. 965 Further, the compliance program must provide for the process
and personnel responsible for ensuring that the actions taken by the trading desk to
mitigate the risks of its market making-related activities are and continue to be effective,
which would include monitoring for and addressing any scenarios where a trading desk
may be engaged in over-hedging or maintaining unnecessary hedge positions or new
significant risks have been introduced by the hedging activity.

965

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(B).

293

As a result of these limitations, the size and risks of the trading desk’s hedging
positions are naturally constrained by the size and risks of its market-maker inventory,
which must be designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of
clients, customers, or counterparties, as well as by the risk limits and controls established
under the final rule. This ultimately constrains a trading desk’s overall financial exposure
since such position can only contain positions, risks, and exposures related to the marketmaker inventory that are designed to meet current or near term customer demand and
positions, risks and exposures designed to mitigate the risks in accordance with the limits
previously established for the trading desk.
The written policies and procedures identifying and addressing a trading desk’s
hedging techniques and strategies also must describe how and under what timeframe a
trading desk must remove hedge positions once the underlying risk exposure is unwound.
Similarly, the compliance program established by the banking entity to specify and
control the trading desk’s hedging activities in accordance with the final rule must be
designed to prevent a trading desk from purposefully or inadvertently transforming its
positions taken to manage the risk of its market-maker inventory under the exemption
into what would otherwise be considered prohibited proprietary trading.
Moreover, the compliance program must provide for the process and personnel
responsible for ensuring that the actions taken by the trading desk to mitigate the risks of
its market making-related activities and inventory – including the instruments,
techniques, and strategies used for risk management purposes – are and continue to be
effective. This includes ensuring that hedges taken in the context of market makingrelated activities continue to be effective and that positions taken to manage the risks of

294

the trading desk’s market-maker inventory are not purposefully or inadvertently
transformed into what would otherwise be considered prohibited proprietary trading. If a
banking entity’s monitoring procedures find that a trading desk’s risk management
procedures are not effective, such deficiencies must be promptly escalated and remedied
in accordance with the banking entity’s escalation procedures. A banking entity’s written
policies and procedures must set forth the process for determining the circumstances
under which a trading desk’s risk management strategies may be modified. In addition,
risk management techniques and strategies developed and used by a trading desk must be
independently tested or verified by management separate from the trading desk.
To control and limit the amount and types of financial instruments and risks that
a trading desk may hold in connection with its market making-related activities, a
banking entity must establish, implement, maintain, and enforce reasonably designed
written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and independent testing
identifying and addressing specific limits on a trading desk’s market-maker inventory,
risk management positions, and financial exposure. In particular, the compliance
program must establish limits for each trading desk, based on the nature and amount of its
market making-related activities (including the factors prescribed by the near term
customer demand requirement), on the amount, types, and risks of its market-maker
inventory, the amount, types, and risks of the products, instruments, and exposures the
trading desk may use for risk management purposes, the level of exposures to relevant
risk factors arising from its financial exposure, and the period of time a financial

295

instrument may be held. 966 The limits would be set, as appropriate, and supported by an
analysis for specific types of financial instruments, levels of risk, and duration of
holdings, which would also be required by the compliance appendix. This approach will
build on existing risk management infrastructure for market-making activities that subject
traders to a variety of internal, predefined limits. 967 Each of these limits is independent
of the others, and a trading desk must maintain its aggregated market-making position
within each of these limits, including by taking action to bring the trading desk into
compliance with the limits as promptly as possible after the limit is exceeded. 968 For
example, if changing market conditions cause an increase in one or more risks within the
trading desk’s financial exposure and that increased risk causes the desk to exceed one or
more of its limits, the trading desk must take prompt action to reduce its risk exposure
(either by hedging the risk or unwinding its existing positions) or receive approval of a
temporary or permanent increase to its limit through the required escalation procedures.
The Agencies recognize that trading desks’ limits will differ across asset classes
and acknowledge that trading desks engaged in market making-related activities in less
liquid asset classes, such as corporate bonds, certain derivatives, and securitized products,
may require different inventory, risk exposure, and holding period limits than trading
desks engaged in market making-related activities in more liquid financial instruments,
such as certain listed equity securities. Moreover, the types of risk factors for which
limits are established should not be limited solely to market risk factors. Instead, such
966

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(C).

967

See, e.g., Citigroup (Feb. 2012) (noting that its suggested approach to implementing the market-making
exemption, which would focus on risk limits and risk architecture, would build on existing risk limits and
risk management systems already present in institutions).
968

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iv).

296

limits should also account for all risk factors that arise from the types of financial
instruments in which the trading desk is permitted to trade. In addition, these limits
should be sufficiently granular and focused on the particular types of financial
instruments in which the desk may trade. For example, a trading desk that makes a
market in derivatives would have exposures to counterparty risk, among others, and
would need to have appropriate limits on such risk. Other types of limits that may be
relevant for a trading desk include, among others, position limits, sector limits, and
geographic limits.
A banking entity must have a reasonable basis for the limits it establishes for a
trading desk and must have a robust procedure for analyzing, establishing, and
monitoring limits, as well as appropriate escalation procedures. 969 Among other things,
the banking entity’s compliance program must provide for: (i) written policies and
procedures and internal controls establishing and monitoring specific limits for each
trading desk; and (ii) analysis regarding how and why these limits are determined to be
appropriate and consistent with the nature and amount of the desk’s market makingrelated activities, including considerations related to the near term customer demand
requirement. In making these determinations, a banking entity should take into account
and be consistent with the type(s) of financial instruments the desk is permitted to trade,
the desk’s trading and risk management activities and strategies, the history and
experience of the desk, and the historical profile of the desk’s near term customer
demand and market and other factors that may impact the reasonably expected near term
demands of customers.
969

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(C).

297

The limits established by a banking entity should generally reflect the amount and
types of inventory and risk that a trading desk holds to meet the reasonably expected near
term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties. As discussed above, while the
trading desk’s market-maker inventory is directly limited by the reasonably expected near
term demands of customers, the positions managed by the trading desk outside of its
market-maker inventory are similarly constrained by the near term demand requirement
because they must be designed to manage the risks of the market-maker inventory in
accordance with the desk’s risk management procedures. As a result, the trading desk’s
risk management positions and aggregate financial exposure are also limited by the
current and reasonably expected near term demands of customers. A trading desk’s
market-maker inventory, risk management positions, or financial exposure would not,
however, be permissible under the market-making exemption merely because the marketmaker inventory, risk management positions, or financial exposure happens to be within
the desk’s prescribed limits. 970
In addition, a banking entity must establish internal controls and ongoing
monitoring and analysis of each trading desk’s compliance with its limits, including the
frequency, nature, and extent of a trading desk exceeding its limits and patterns regarding
the portions of the trading desk’s limits that are accounted for by the trading desk’s

970

For example, if a U.S. corporate bond trading desk has a prescribed limit of $200 million net exposure
to any single sector of related issuers, the desk’s limits may permit it to acquire a net economic exposure of
$400 million long to issuer ABC and a net economic exposure of $300 million short to issuer XYZ, where
ABC and XYZ are in the same sector. This is because the trading desk’s net exposure to the sector would
only be $100 million, which is within its limits. Even though the net exposure to this sector is within the
trading desk’s prescribed limits, the desk would still need to be able to demonstrate how its net exposure of
$400 million long to issuer ABC and $300 million short to issuer XYZ is related to customer demand.

298

activity. 971 This may include the use of management and exception reports. Moreover,
the compliance program must set forth a process for determining the circumstances under
which a trading desk’s limits may be modified on a temporary or permanent basis (e.g.,
due to market changes or modifications to the trading desk’s strategy). 972 This process
must cover potential scenarios when a trading desk’s limits should be raised, as well as
potential scenarios when a trading desk’s limits should be lowered. For example, if a
trading desk experiences reduced customer demand over a period of time, that trading
desk’s limits should be decreased to address the factors prescribed by the near term
demand requirement.
A banking entity’s compliance program must also include escalation procedures
that require review and approval of any trade that would exceed one or more of a trading
desk’s limits, demonstrable analysis that the basis for any temporary or permanent
increase to one or more of a trading desk’s limits is consistent with the near term
customer demand requirement, and independent review of such demonstrable analysis
and approval of any increase to one or more of a trading desk’s limits. 973 Thus, in order
to increase a limit of a trading desk – on either a temporary or permanent basis – there
must be an analysis of why such increase would be appropriate based on the reasonably

971

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(D).

972

For example, a banking entity may determine to permit temporary, short-term increases to a trading
desk’s risk limits due to an increase in short-term credit spreads or in response to volatility in instruments
in which the trading desk makes a market, provided the increased limit is consistent with the reasonably
expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties. As noted above, other potential
circumstances that could warrant changes to a trading desk’s limits include: a change in the pattern of
customer needs, adjustments to the market maker’s business model (e.g., new entrants or existing market
makers trying to expand or contract their market share), or changes in market conditions. See supra note
932 and accompanying text.
973

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(E).

299

expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, including the factors
identified in § __.4(b)(2)(ii) of the final rule, which must be independently reviewed. A
banking entity also must maintain documentation and records with respect to these
elements, consistent with the requirement of § __.20(b)(6).
As already discussed, commenters have represented that the compliance costs
associated with the proposed rule, including the compliance program and metrics
requirements, may be significant and “may dissuade a banking entity from attempting to
comply with the market making-related activities exemption.” 974 The Agencies believe
that a robust compliance program is necessary to ensure adherence to the rule and to
prevent evasion, although, as discussed in Part IV.C.3., the Agencies are adopting a more
tailored set of quantitative measurements to better focus on those that are most germane
to evaluating market making-related activity. The Agencies acknowledge that the
compliance program requirements for the market-making exemption, including
reasonably designed written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and
independent testing, represent a new regulatory requirement for banking entities and the
Agencies have thus been mindful that it may impose significant costs and may cause a
banking entity to reconsider whether to conduct market making-related activities.
Despite the potential costs of the compliance program, the Agencies believe they are
warranted to ensure that the goals of the rule and statute will be met, such as promoting
the safety and soundness of banking entities and the financial stability of the United
States.

974

See ICI (Feb. 2012).

300

4.

Market making-related hedging

a.

Proposed treatment of market making-related hedging
In the proposal, certain hedging transactions related to market making were

considered to be made in connection with a banking entity’s market making-related
activity for purposes of the market-making exemption. The Agencies explained that
where the purpose of a transaction is to hedge a market making-related position, it would
appear to be market making-related activity of the type described in section 13(d)(1)(B)
of the BHC Act. 975 To qualify for the market-making exemption, a hedging transaction
would have been required to meet certain requirements under § __.4(b)(3) of the
proposed rule. This provision required that the purchase or sale of a financial instrument:
(i) be conducted to reduce the specific risks to the banking entity in connection with and
related to individual or aggregated positions, contracts, or other holdings acquired
pursuant to the market-making exemption; and (ii) meet the criteria specified in § __.5(b)
of the proposed hedging exemption and, where applicable, § __.5(c) of the proposal. 976
In the proposal, the Agencies noted that a market maker may often make a market in one
type of financial instrument and hedge its activities using different financial instruments
in which it does not make a market. The Agencies stated that this type of hedging
transaction would meet the terms of the market-making exemption if the hedging
transaction met the requirements of § __.4(b)(3) of the proposed rule. 977

975

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,873; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8358.

976

See proposed rule § __.4(b)(3); Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,873; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8358.

977

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,870 n.146; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8356 n.152.

301

b.

Comments on the proposed treatment of market making-related hedging
Several commenters recommended that the proposed market-making exemption

be modified to establish a more permissive standard for market maker hedging. 978 A few
of these commenters stated that, rather than applying the standards of the risk-mitigating
hedging exemption to market maker hedging, a market maker’s hedge position should be
permitted as long as it is designed to mitigate the risk associated with positions acquired
through permitted market making-related activities. 979 Other commenters emphasized
the need for flexibility to permit a market maker to choose the most effective hedge. 980
In general, these commenters expressed concern that limitations on hedging market
making-related positions may cause a reduction in liquidity, wider spreads, or increased
risk and trading costs for market makers. 981 For example, one commenter stated that
“[t]he ability of market makers to freely offset or hedge positions is what, in most cases,
makes them willing to buy and sell [financial instruments] to and from customers, clients
or counterparties,” so “[a]ny impediment to hedging market making-related positions will
decrease the willingness of banking entities to make markets and, accordingly, reduce
liquidity in the marketplace.” 982

978

See, e.g., Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel);
FTN; RBC; NYSE Euronext; MFA. These comments are addressed in Part IV.A.3.c.4.c., infra.
979

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC. See also FTN (stating that the principal
requirement for such hedges should be that they reduce the risk of market making).
980

See NYSE Euronext (stating that the best hedge sometimes involves a variety of complex and dynamic
transactions over the time in which an asset is held, which may fall outside the parameters of the
exemption); MFA; JPMC.
981

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); NYSE Euronext; MFA; Japanese
Bankers Ass’n.; RBC.
982

RBC.

302

In addition, some commenters expressed concern that certain requirements in the
proposed hedging exemption may result in a reduction in market-making activities under
certain circumstances. 983 For example, one commenter expressed concern that the
proposed hedging exemption would require a banking entity to identify and tag hedging
transactions when hedges in a particular asset class take place alongside a trading desk’s
customer flow trading and inventory management in that same asset class. 984 Further, a
few commenters represented that the proposed reasonable correlation requirement in the
hedging exemption could impact market making by discouraging market makers from
entering into customer transactions that do not have a direct hedge 985 or making it more
difficult for market makers to cost-effectively hedge the fixed income securities they hold
in inventory, including hedging such inventory positions on a portfolio basis. 986
One commenter, however, stated that the proposed approach is effective. 987
Another commenter indicated that it is confusing to include hedging within the marketmaking exemption and suggested that a market maker be required to rely on the hedging
exemption under § __.5 of the proposed rule for its hedging activity. 988
As noted above in the discussion of comments on the proposed source of revenue
requirement, a number of commenters expressed concern that the proposed rule assumed
that there are effective, or perfect, hedges for all market making-related positions.989

983

See BoA; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012).

984

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

985

See BoA.

986

See SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012).

987

See Alfred Brock.

988

See Occupy.

989

See infra notes 1068 to 1070 and accompanying text.

303

Another commenter stated that market makers should be required to hedge whenever an
inventory imbalance arises, and the absence of a hedge in such circumstances may
evidence prohibited proprietary trading. 990
c.

Treatment of market making-related hedging in the final rule
Unlike the proposed rule, the final rule does not require that market making-

related hedging activities separately comply with the requirements found in the riskmitigating hedging exemption if conducted or directed by the same trading desk
conducting the market-making activity. Instead, the Agencies are including requirements
for market making-related hedging activities within the market-making exemption in
response to comments. 991 As discussed above, a trading desk’s compliance program
must include written policies and procedures, internal controls, independent testing and
analysis identifying and addressing the products, instruments, exposures, techniques, and
strategies a trading desk may use to manage the risks of its market making-related
activities, as well as the actions the trading desk will take to demonstrably reduce or
otherwise significant mitigate the risks of its financial exposure consistent with its
required limits. 992 The Agencies believe this approach addresses commenters’ concerns
that limitations on hedging market making-related positions may cause a reduction in
liquidity, wider spreads, or increased risk and trading costs for market makers because it
allows banking entities to determine how best to manage the risks of trading desks’
market making-related activities through reasonable policies and procedures, internal
990

See Public Citizen.

991

See, e.g., Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel);
FTN; RBC; NYSE Euronext; MFA.
992

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(iii)(B); supra Part IV.A.3.c.3.c.

304

controls, independent testing, and analysis, rather than requiring compliance with the
specific requirements of the hedging exemption. 993 Further, this approach addresses
commenters’ concerns about the impact of certain requirements of the hedging exemption
on market making-related activities. 994
The Agencies believe it is consistent with the statute’s reference to “market
making-related” activities to permit market making-related hedging activities under this
exemption. In addition, the Agencies believe it is appropriate to require a trading desk to
appropriately manage its risks, consistent with its risk management procedures and limits,
because management of risk is a key factor that distinguishes permitted market makingrelated activity from impermissible proprietary trading. As noted in the proposal, while
“a market maker attempts to eliminate some [of the risks arising from] its retained
principal positions and risks by hedging or otherwise managing those risks [ ], a
proprietary trader seeks to capitalize on those risks, and generally only hedges or
manages a portion of those risks when doing so would improve the potential profitability
of the risk it retains.” 995
The Agencies recognize that some banking entities may manage the risks
associated with market making at a different level than the individual trading desk. 996
While this risk management activity is not permitted under the market-making

993

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); NYSE Euronext; MFA; Japanese
Bankers Ass’n.; RBC.
994

See BoA; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading).

995

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,961.

996

See, e.g., letter from JPMC (stating that, to minimize risk management costs, firms commonly organize
their market-making activities so that risks delivered to client-facing desks are aggregated and passed by
means of internal transactions to a single utility desk and suggesting this be recognized as permitted market
making-related behavior).

305

exemption, it may be permitted under the hedging exemption, provided the requirements
of that exemption are met. Thus, the Agencies believe banking entities will continue to
have options available that allow them to efficiently hedge the risks arising from their
market-making operations. Nevertheless, the Agencies understand that this rule will
result in additional documentation or other potential burdens for market making-related
hedging activity that is not conducted by the trading desk responsible for the marketmaking positions being hedged. 997 As discussed in Part IV.A.4.d.4., hedging conducted
by a different organizational unit than the trading desk that is responsible for the
underlying positions presents an increased risk of evasion, so the Agencies believe it is
appropriate for such hedging activity to be required to comply with the hedging
exemption, including the associated documentation requirement.
5.

Compensation requirement

a.

Proposed compensation requirement
Section __.4(b)(2)(vii) of the proposed market-making exemption would have

required that the compensation arrangements of persons performing market makingrelated activities at the banking entity be designed not to reward proprietary risktaking. 998 In the proposal, the Agencies noted that activities for which a banking entity
has established a compensation incentive structure that rewards speculation in, and
appreciation of, the market value of a financial instrument position held in inventory,

997

See final rule § __.5(c).

998

See proposed rule § __.4(b)(2)(vii).

306

rather than success in providing effective and timely intermediation and liquidity services
to customers, would be inconsistent with the proposed market-making exemption.
The Agencies stated that under the proposed rule, a banking entity relying on the
market-making exemption should provide compensation incentives that primarily reward
customer revenues and effective customer service, not proprietary risk-taking. However,
the Agencies noted that a banking entity relying on the proposed market-making
exemption would be able to appropriately take into account revenues resulting from
movements in the price of principal positions to the extent that such revenues reflect the
effectiveness with which personnel have managed principal risk retained. 999
b.

Comments regarding the proposed compensation requirement
Several commenters recommended certain revisions to the proposed

compensation requirement. 1000 Two commenters stated that the proposed requirement is
effective, 1001 while one commenter stated that it should be removed from the rule. 1002
Moreover, in addressing this proposed requirement, commenters provided views on:
identifiable characteristics of compensation arrangements that incentivize prohibited

999

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,872; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8358.

1000

See Prof. Duffie; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); John Reed; Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC;
Morgan Stanley; Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012);
Public Citizen.

1001

See FTN; Alfred Brock.

1002

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.

307

proprietary trading, 1003 methods of monitoring compliance with this requirement, 1004 and
potential negative incentives or outcomes this requirement could cause. 1005
With respect to suggested modifications to this requirement, a few commenters
suggested that a market maker’s compensation should be subject to additional
limitations.1006 For example, two commenters stated that compensation should be
restricted to particular sources, such as fees, commissions, and spreads. 1007 One
commenter suggested that compensation should not be symmetrical between gains and
losses and, further, that trading gains reflecting an unusually high variance in position
values should either not be reflected in compensation and bonuses or should be less
reflected than other gains and losses. 1008 Another commenter recommended that the
Agencies remove “designed” from the rule text and provide greater clarity about how a
banking entity’s compensation regime must be structured. 1009 Moreover, a number of
commenters stated that compensation should be vested for a period of time, such as until
the trader’s market making positions have been fully unwound and are no longer in the
banking entity’s inventory. 1010 As one commenter explained, such a requirement would

1003

See Occupy.

1004

See Occupy; Goldman (Prop. Trading).

1005

See AllianceBernstein; Prof. Duffie; Investure; STANY; Chamber (Dec. 2011).

1006

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy; John Reed; AFR et
al. (Feb. 2012); Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; Prof. Duffie; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012). These
comments are addressed in note 1027, infra.

1007

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.

1008

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012)

1009

See Occupy.

1010

See John Reed; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; Prof. Duffie (“A trader’s incentives
for risk taking can be held in check by vesting incentive-based compensation over a substantial period of
time. Pending compensation can thus be forfeited if a trader’s negligence causes substantial losses or if his
or her employer fails.”); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

308

discourage traders from carrying inventory and encourage them to get out of positions as
soon as possible. 1011 Some commenters also recommended that compensation be risk
adjusted. 1012
A few commenters indicated that the proposed approach may be too
restrictive. 1013 Two of these commenters stated that the compensation requirement
should instead be set forth as guidance in Appendix B. 1014 In addition, two commenters
requested that the Agencies clarify that compensation arrangements must be designed not
to reward prohibited proprietary risk-taking. These commenters were concerned the
proposed approach may restrict a banking entity’s ability to provide compensation for
permitted activities, which also involve proprietary trading. 1015
Two commenters discussed identifiable characteristics of compensation
arrangements that clearly incentivize prohibited proprietary trading. 1016 For example, one
commenter stated that rewarding pure profit and loss, without consideration for the risk
that was assumed to capture it, is an identifiable characteristic of an arrangement that
incentivizes proprietary risk-taking. 1017 For purposes of monitoring and ensuring
compliance with this requirement, one commenter noted that existing Board regulations
for systemically important banking entities require comprehensive firm-wide policies that

1011

See John Reed.

1012

See Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; John Reed; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1013

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Morgan Stanley.

1014

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC.

1015

See Morgan Stanley; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). The Agencies respond to these
comments in note 1026 and its accompanying text, infra.

1016

See Occupy; Alfred Brock.

1017

See Occupy. The Agencies respond to this comment in Part IV.A.3.c.5.c., infra.

309

determine compensation. This commenter stated that those regulations, along with
appropriately calibrated metrics, should ensure that compensation arrangements are not
designed to reward prohibited proprietary risk-taking. 1018 For similar purposes, another
commenter suggested that compensation incentives should be based on a metric that
meaningfully accounts for the risk underlying profitability. 1019
Certain commenters expressed concern that the proposed compensation
requirement could incentivize market makers to act in a way that would not be beneficial
to customers or market liquidity. 1020 For example, two commenters expressed concern
that the requirement could cause market makers to widen their spreads or charge higher
fees because their personal compensation depends on these factors. 1021 One commenter
stated that the proposed requirement could dampen traders’ incentives and discretion and
may make market makers less likely to accept trades involving significant increases in
risk or profit. 1022 Another commenter expressed the view that profitability-based
compensation arrangements encourage traders to exercise due care because such
arrangements create incentives to avoid losses. 1023 Finally, one commenter stated that
compliance with the proposed requirement may be difficult or impossible if the Agencies
do not take into account the incentive-based compensation rulemaking. 1024

1018

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

1019

See Occupy.

1020

See AllianceBernstein; Investure; Prof. Duffie; STANY. This issue is addressed in note 1027, infra.

1021

See AllianceBernstein; Investure.

1022

See Prof. Duffie.

1023

See STANY.

1024

See Chamber (Dec. 2011).

310

c.

Final compensation requirement
Similar to the proposed rule, the market-making exemption requires that the

compensation arrangements of persons performing the banking entity’s market makingrelated activities, as described in the exemption, are designed not to reward or incentivize
prohibited proprietary trading. 1025 The language of the final compensation requirement
has been modified in response to comments expressing concern about the proposed
language regarding “proprietary risk-taking.” 1026 The Agencies note that the Agencies do
not intend to preclude an employee of a market-making desk from being compensated for
successful market making, which involves some risk-taking.
The Agencies continue to hold the view that activities for which a banking entity
has established a compensation incentive structure that rewards speculation in, and
appreciation of, the market value of a position held in inventory, rather than use of that
inventory to successfully provide effective and timely intermediation and liquidity
services to customers, are inconsistent with permitted market making-related activities.
Although a banking entity relying on the market-making exemption may appropriately
take into account revenues resulting from movements in the price of principal positions to
the extent that such revenues reflect the effectiveness with which personnel have
managed retained principal risk, a banking entity relying on the market-making
exemption should provide compensation incentives that primarily reward customer

1025

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(v).

1026

See Morgan Stanley; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

311

revenues and effective customer service, not prohibited proprietary trading. 1027 For
example, a compensation plan based purely on net profit and loss with no consideration
for inventory control or risk undertaken to achieve those profits would not be consistent
with the market-making exemption.
6.

Registration requirement

a.

Proposed registration requirement
Under § __.4(b)(2)(iv) of the proposed rule, a banking entity relying on the

market-making exemption with respect to trading in securities or certain derivatives
would be required to be appropriately registered as a securities dealer, swap dealer, or
security-based swap dealer, or exempt from registration or excluded from regulation as
such type of dealer, under applicable securities or commodities laws. Further, if the
banking entity was engaged in the business of a securities dealer, swap dealer, or
security-based swap dealer outside the United States in a manner for which no U.S.
registration is required, the banking entity would be required to be subject to substantive
regulation of its dealing business in the jurisdiction in which the business is located. 1028

1027

Because the Agencies are not limiting a market maker’s compensation to specific sources, such as fees,
commissions, and bid-ask spreads, as recommended by a few commenters, the Agencies do not believe the
compensation requirement in the final rule will incentivize market makers to widen their quoted spreads or
charge higher fees and commissions, as suggested by certain other commenters. See Better Markets (Feb.
2012); Public Citizen; AllianceBernstein; Investure. In addition, the Agencies note that an approach
requiring revenue from fees, commissions, and bid-ask spreads to be fully distinguished from revenue from
price appreciation can raise certain practical difficulties, as discussed in Part IV.A.3.c.7. The Agencies also
are not requiring compensation to be vested for a period of time, as recommended by some commenters to
reduce traders’ incentives for undue risk-taking. The Agencies believe the final rule includes sufficient
controls around risk-taking activity without a compensation vesting requirement. See John Reed; AFR et
al. (Feb. 2012); Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; Prof. Duffie; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).
1028

See proposed rule § __.4(b)(2)(iv); Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,872; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 83578358.

312

b.

Comments on the proposed registration requirement
A few commenters stated that the proposed dealer registration requirement is

effective. 1029 However, a number of commenters opposed the proposed dealer
registration requirement in whole or in part. 1030 Commenters’ primary concern with the
requirement appeared to be its application to market making-related activities outside of
the United States for which no U.S. registration is required. 1031 For example, several
commenters stated that many non-U.S. markets do not provide substantive regulation of
dealers for all asset classes. 1032 In addition, two commenters stated that booking entities
may be able to rely on intra-group exemptions under local law rather than carrying dealer
registrations, or a banking entity may execute customer trades through an international
dealer but book the position in a non-dealer entity for capital adequacy and risk
management purposes. 1033 Several of these commenters requested, at a minimum, that
the dealer registration requirement not apply to dealers in non-U.S. jurisdictions. 1034
In addition, with respect to the provisions that would generally require a banking
entity to be a form of SEC- or CFTC-registered dealer for market-making activities in
securities or derivatives in the United States, a few commenters stated that these

1029

See Occupy; Alfred Brock.

1030

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (stating that if the requirement is not removed from the
rule, then it should only be an indicative factor of market making); Morgan Stanley; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); ISDA (Feb. 2012).

1031

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Morgan Stanley; RBC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); ISDA
(Feb. 2012); JPMC. This issue is addressed in note 1044 and its accompanying text, infra.

1032

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); RBC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1033

See JPMC; Goldman (Prop. Trading).

1034

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); RBC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). See also Morgan
Stanley (requesting the addition of the phrase “to the extent it is legally required to be subject to such
regulation” to the non-U.S. dealer provisions).

313

provisions should be removed from the rule. 1035 These commenters represented that
removing these provisions would be appropriate for several reasons. For example, one
commenter stated that dealer registration does not help distinguish between market
making and speculative trading. 1036 Another commenter indicated that effective market
making often requires a banking entity to trade on several exchange and platforms in a
variety of markets, including through legal entities other than SEC- or CFTC-registered
dealer entities. 1037 One commenter expressed general concern that the proposed
requirement may result in the market-making exemption being unavailable for market
making in exchange-traded futures and options because those markets do not have a
corollary to dealer registration requirements in securities, swaps, and security-based
swaps markets. 1038
Some commenters expressed particular concern about the provisions that would
generally require registration as a swap dealer or a security-based swap dealer. 1039 For
example, one commenter expressed concern that these provisions may require banking
regulators to redundantly enforce CFTC and SEC registration requirements. Moreover,
according to this commenter, the proposed definitions of “swap dealer” and “securitybased swap dealer” do not focus on the market making core of the swap dealing

1035

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Morgan Stanley; ISDA (Feb.
2012). Rather than remove the requirement entirely, one commenter recommended that the Agencies move
the dealer registration requirement to proposed Appendix B, which would allow the Agencies to take into
account the facts and circumstances of a particular trading activity. See JPMC.

1036

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1037

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

1038

See CME Group.

1039

See ISDA (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

314

business. 1040 Another commenter stated that incorporating the proposed definitions of
“swap dealer” and “security-based swap dealer” is contrary to the Administrative
Procedure Act. 1041
c.

Final registration requirement
The final requirement of the market-making exemption provides that the banking

entity must be licensed or registered to engage in market making-related activity in
accordance with applicable law. 1042 The Agencies have considered comments regarding
the dealer registration requirement in the proposed rule. 1043 In response to comments, the
Agencies have narrowed the scope of the proposed requirement’s application to banking
entities engaged in market making-related activity in foreign jurisdictions. 1044 Rather
than requiring these banking entities to be subject to substantive regulation of their
dealing business in the relevant foreign jurisdiction, the final rule only require a banking
entity to be a registered dealer in a foreign jurisdiction to the extent required by
applicable foreign law. The Agencies have also simplified the language of the proposed
requirement, although the Agencies have not modified the scope of the requirement with
respect to U.S. dealer registration requirements.

1040

See ISDA (Feb. 2012).

1041

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1042

See final rule § __.4(b)(2)(vi).

1043

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.5.b. One commenter expressed concern that the instruments listed in §
__.4(b)(2)(iv) of the proposed rule could be interpreted as limiting the availability of the market-making
exemption to other instruments, such as exchange-traded futures and options. In response to this comment,
the Agencies note that the reference to particular instruments in § __.4(b)(2)(iv) was intended to reflect that
trading in certain types of instruments gives rise to dealer registration requirements. This provision was not
intended to limit the availability of the market-making exemption to certain types of financial instruments.
See CME Group.
1044

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); RBC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Morgan Stanley.

315

This provision is not intended to expand the scope of licensing or registration
requirements under relevant U.S. or foreign law that are applicable to a banking entity
engaged in market-making activities. Instead, this provision recognizes that compliance
with applicable law is an essential indicator that a banking entity is engaged in marketmaking activities. 1045 For example, a U.S. banking entity would be expected to be an
SEC-registered dealer to rely on the market-making exemption for trading in securities—
other than exempted securities, security-based swaps, commercial paper, bankers
acceptances, or commercial bills—unless the banking entity is exempt from registration
or excluded from regulation as a dealer. 1046 Similarly, a U.S. banking entity is expected
to be a CFTC-registered swap dealer or SEC-registered security-based swap dealer to rely
on the market-making exemption for trading in swaps or security-based swaps,
respectively, 1047 unless the banking entity is exempt from registration or excluded from

1045

In response to commenters who stated that the dealer registration requirement should be removed from
the rule because, among other things, registration as a dealer does not distinguish between permitted market
making and impermissible proprietary trading, the Agencies recognize that acting as a registered dealer
does not ensure that a banking entity is engaged in permitted market making-related activity. See SIFMA
et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Morgan Stanley; ISDA (Feb. 2012).
However, this requirement recognizes that registration as a dealer is an indicator of market making-related
activities in the circumstances in which a person is legally obligated to be a registered dealer to act as a
market maker.

1046

A banking entity relying on the market-making exemption for transactions in security-based swaps
would generally be required to be a registered security-based swap dealer and would not be required to be a
registered securities dealer. However, a banking entity may be required to be a registered securities dealer
if it engages in market-making transactions involving security-based swaps with persons that are not
eligible contract participants. The definition of “dealer” in section 3(a)(5) of the Exchange Act generally
includes “any person engaged in the business of buying and selling securities (not including security-based
swaps, other than security-based swaps with or for persons that are not eligible contract participants), for
such person’s own account.” 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5).
To the extent, if any, that a banking entity relies on the market-making exemption for its trading in
municipal securities or government securities, rather than the exemption in § __.6(a) of the final rule, this
provision may require the banking entity to be registered or licensed as a municipal securities dealer or
government securities dealer.
1047

As noted above, under certain circumstances, a banking entity acting as market maker in securitybased swaps may be required to be a registered securities dealer. See supra note 1046.

316

regulation as a swap dealer or security-based swap dealer. 1048 In response to comments
on whether this provision should generally require registration as a swap dealer or
security-based swap dealer to make a market in swaps or security-based swaps, 1049 the
Agencies continue to believe that this requirement is appropriate. In general, a person
that is engaged in making a market in swaps or security-based swaps or other activity
causing oneself to be commonly known in the trade as a market maker in swaps or
security-based swaps is required to be a registered swap dealer or registered securitybased swap dealer, unless exempt from registration or excluded from regulation as
such. 1050 As noted above, compliance with applicable law is an essential indicator that a
banking entity is engaged in market-making activities.
As noted above, the Agencies have determined that, rather than require a banking
entity engaged in the business of a securities dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap
dealer outside the United States to be subject to substantive regulation of its dealing
business in the foreign jurisdiction in which the business is located, a banking entity’s
dealing activity outside the U.S. should only be subject to licensing or registration
requirements under applicable foreign law (provided no U.S. registration or licensing
requirements apply to the banking entity’s activities). As a result, this requirement will
not impact a banking entity’s ability to engage in permitted market making-related

1048

For example, a banking entity meeting the conditions of the de minimis exception in SEC Rule 3a71-2
under the Exchange Act would not need to be a registered security-based swap dealer to act as a market
maker in security-based swaps. See 17 CFR 240.3a71-2.
1049

See ISDA (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1050

See 7 U.S.C. 1a(49)(A); 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71)(A).

317

activities in a foreign jurisdiction that does not provide for substantive regulation of
dealers. 1051
7.

Source of revenue analysis

a.

Proposed source of revenue requirement
To qualify for the market-making exemption, the proposed rule required that the

market making-related activities of the trading desk or other organizational unit be
designed to generate revenues primarily from fees, commissions, bid/ask spreads or other
income not attributable to appreciation in the value of financial instrument positions it
holds in trading accounts or the hedging of such positions.1052 This proposed requirement
was intended to ensure that activities conducted in reliance on the market-making
exemption demonstrate patterns of revenue generation and profitability consistent with,
and related to, the intermediation and liquidity services a market maker provides to its
customers, rather than changes in the market value of the positions or risks held in
inventory. 1053
b.

Comments regarding the proposed source of revenue requirement
As discussed in more detail below, many commenters expressed concern about

the proposed source of revenue requirement. These commenters raised a number of
concerns including, among others, the proposed requirement’s potential impact on a

1051

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); RBC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Morgan Stanley. This
is consistent with one commenter’s suggestion that the Agencies add “to the extent it is legally required to
be subject to such regulation” to the non-U.S. dealer provisions. See Morgan Stanley.
1052

See proposed rule § __.4(b)(2)(v).

1053

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,872; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8358.

318

market maker’s inventory or on costs to customers, the difficulty of differentiating
revenues from spreads and revenues from price appreciation in certain markets, and the
need for market makers to be compensated for providing intermediation services. 1054
Several of these commenters requested that the proposed source of revenue requirement
be removed from the rule or modified in certain ways. Some commenters, however,
expressed support for the proposed requirement or requested that the Agencies place
greater restrictions on a banking entity’s permissible sources of revenue under the
market-making exemption. 1055
i.

Potential restrictions on inventory, increased costs for customers, and other
changes to market-making services
Many commenters stated that the proposed source of revenue requirement may

limit a market maker’s ability to hold sufficient inventory to facilitate customer
demand. 1056 Several of these commenters expressed particular concern about applying
this requirement to less liquid markets or to facilitating large customer positions, where a
market maker is more likely to hold inventory for a longer period of time and has
increased risk of potential price appreciation (or depreciation). 1057 Further, another

1054

These concerns are addressed in Part IV.A.3.c.7.c., infra.

1055

See infra note 1103 (responding to these comments).

1056

See, e.g., NYSE Euronext; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Morgan Stanley; Goldman
(Prop. Trading); BoA; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); STANY; BlackRock; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012);
ACLI (Feb. 2012); T. Rowe Price; PUC Texas; SSgA (Feb. 2012); ICI (Feb. 2012) Invesco; MetLife;
MFA.
1057

See, e.g., Morgan Stanley; BoA; BlackRock; T. Rowe Price; Goldman (Prop. Trading); NYSE
Euronext (suggesting that principal trading by market makers in large sizes is essential in some securities,
such as an AP’s trading in ETFs); Prof. Duffie; SSgA (Feb. 2012); CIEBA; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading)
(Feb. 2012); MFA. To explain its concern, one commenter stated that bid-ask spreads are useful to capture
the concept of market-making revenues when a market maker is intermediating on a close to real-time basis
between balanced customer buying and selling interest for the same instrument, but such close-in-time

319

commenter questioned how the proposed requirement would apply when unforeseen
market pressure or disappearance of customer demand results in a market maker holding
a particular position in inventory for longer than expected. 1058 In response to this
proposed requirement, a few commenters stated that it is important for market makers to
be able to hold a certain amount of inventory to: provide liquidity (particularly in the face
of order imbalances and market volatility), 1059 facilitate large trades, and hedge positions
acquired in the course of market making. 1060
Several commenters expressed concern that the proposed source of revenue
requirement may incentivize a market maker to widen its quoted spreads or otherwise
impose higher fees to the detriment of its customers. 1061 For example, some commenters
stated that the proposed requirement could result in a market maker having to sell a
position in its inventory within an artificially prescribed period of time and, as a result,
the market maker would pay less to initially acquire the position from a customer. 1062
Other commenters represented that the proposed source of revenue requirement would
compel market makers to hedge their exposure to price movements, which would likely
increase the cost of intermediation. 1063

intermediation does not occur in many large or illiquid assets, where demand gaps may be present for days,
weeks, or months. See Morgan Stanley.
1058

See Capital Group.

1059

See NYSE Euronext; CIEBA (stating that if the rule discourages market makers from holding
inventory, there will be reduced liquidity for investors and issuers).

1060

See NYSE Euronext. For a more in-depth discussion of comments regarding the benefits of permitting
market makers to hold and manage inventory, See Part IV.A.3.c.2.b.vi., infra.

1061

See, e.g., Wellington; CIEBA; MetLife; ACLI (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012); PUC Texas; ICI (Feb.
2012) BoA.
1062

See MetLife; ACLI (Feb. 2012); ICI (Feb. 2012) SSgA (Feb. 2012).

1063

See SSgA (Feb. 2012); PUC Texas.

320

Some commenters stated that the proposed source of revenue requirement may
make a banking entity less willing to make markets in instruments that it may not be able
to resell immediately or in the short term. 1064 One commenter indicated that this concern
may be heightened in times of market stress. 1065 Further, a few commenters expressed
the view that the proposed requirement would cause banking entities to exit the marketmaking business due to restrictions on their ability to make a profit from market-making
activities. 1066 Moreover, in one commenter’s opinion, the proposed requirement would
effectively compel market makers to trade on an agency basis. 1067
ii.

Certain price appreciation-related profits are an inevitable or important
component of market making

A number of commenters indicated that market makers will inevitably make some
profit from price appreciation of certain inventory positions because changes in market
values cannot be precisely predicted or hedged. 1068 In particular, several commenters
emphasized that matched or perfect hedges are generally unavailable for most types of

1064

See ICI (Feb. 2012) SSgA (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); BoA.

1065

See CIEBA (arguing that banking entities may be reluctant to provide liquidity when markets are
declining and there are more sellers than buyers because it would be necessary to hold positions in
inventory to avoid losses).

1066

See Credit Suisse (Seidel) (arguing that banking entities are likely to cease being market makers if they
are: (i) unable to take into account the likely direction of a financial instrument, or (ii) forced to take losses
if a financial instrument moves against them, but cannot take gains if the instrument’s price moves in their
favor); STANY (contending that banking entities cannot afford to maintain unprofitable or marginally
profitable operations in highly competitive markets, so this requirement would cause banking entities to
eliminate a majority of their market-making functions).

1067

See IR&M (arguing that domestic corporate and securitized credit markets are too large and
heterogeneous to be served appropriately by a primarily agency-based trading model).

1068

See Wellington; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Morgan Stanley; PUC Texas (contending that it is impossible
to predict the behavior of even the most highly correlated hedge in comparison to the underlying position);
CIEBA; SSgA (Feb. 2012); AllianceBernstein; Investure; Invesco.

321

positions.1069 According to one commenter, a provision that effectively requires a
market-making business to hedge all of its principal positions would discourage essential
market-making activity. The commenter explained that effective hedges may be
unavailable in less liquid markets and hedging can be costly, especially in relation to the
relative risk of a trade and hedge effectiveness. 1070 A few commenters further indicated
that making some profit from price appreciation is a natural part of market making or is
necessary to compensate a market maker for its willingness to take a position, and its
associated risk (e.g., the risk of market changes or decreased value), from a customer. 1071
iii.

Concerns regarding the workability of the proposed standard in certain markets or
asset classes
Some commenters represented that it would be difficult or burdensome to identify

revenue attributable to the bid-ask spread versus revenue arising from price appreciation,
either as a general matter or for specific markets. 1072 For example, one commenter
expressed the opinion that the difference between the bid-ask spread and price
appreciation is “metaphysical” in some sense, 1073 while another stated that it is almost

1069

See Morgan Stanley; Credit Suisse (Seidel); SSgA (Feb. 2012); PUC Texas; Wellington;
AllianceBernstein; Investure.

1070

See Wellington. Moreover, one commenter stated that, as a general matter, market makers need to be
compensated for bearing risk related to providing immediacy to a customer. This commenter stated that
“[t]he greater the inventory risk faced by the market maker, the higher the expected return (compensation)
that the market maker needs,” to compensate the market maker for bearing the risk and reward its
specialization skills in that market (e.g., its knowledge about market conditions and early indicators that
may imply future price movements in a particular direction). This commenter did not, however, discuss the
source of revenue requirement in the proposed rule. See Thakor Study.

1071

See Capital Group; Prof. Duffie; Investure; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); STANY;
SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); RBC; PNC.

1072

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA; Citigroup (Feb.
2012); Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Sumitomo Trust; Morgan Stanley; Barclays; RBC; Capital Group.
1073

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

322

impossible to objectively identify a bid-ask spread or to capture profit and loss solely
from a bid-ask spread in most markets. 1074 Other commenters represented that it is
particularly difficult to make this distinction when trades occur infrequently or where
prices are not transparent, such as in the fixed-income market where no spread is
published. 1075
Many commenters expressed particular concern about the proposed requirement’s
application to specific markets, including: the fixed-income markets; 1076 the markets for
commodities, derivatives, securitized products, and emerging market securities; 1077
equity and physical commodity derivatives markets; 1078 and customized swaps used by

1074

See Citigroup (Feb. 2012). See also Barclays (arguing that a bid-ask spread cannot be defined on a
consistent basis with respect to many instruments).
1075

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA; Morgan Stanley (“Observable, actionable, bid/ask spreads exist in
only a small subset of institutional products and markets. Indicative bid/ask spreads may be observable for
certain products, but this pricing would typically be specific to small size standard lot trades and would not
represent a spread applicable to larger and/or more illiquid trades. End-of-day valuations for assets are
calculated, but they are not an effective proxy for real-time bid/ask spreads because of intra-day price
movements.”); RBC; Capital Group (arguing that bid-ask spreads in fixed-income markets are not always
quantifiable or well defined and can fluctuate widely within a trading day because of small or odd lot
trades, price discovery activity, a lack of availability to cover shorts, or external factors not directly related
to the security being traded).
1076

See Capital Group; CIEBA; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012). These
commenters stated that the requirement may be problematic for the fixed-income markets because, for
example, market makers must hold inventory in these markets for a longer period of time than in more
liquid markets. See id.

1077

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012) (stating that these markets are characterized by even less
liquidity and less frequent trading than the U.S. corporate bond market). This commenter also stated that in
markets where trades are large and less frequent, such as the market for customized securitized products,
appreciation in price of one position may be a predominate contributor to the overall profit and loss of the
trading unit. See id.

1078

See BoA. According to this commenter, the distinction between capturing a spread and price
appreciation is fundamentally flawed in some markets, like equity derivatives, because the market does not
trade based on movements of a particular security or underlying instrument. This commenter indicated that
expected returns are instead based on the bid-ask spread the market maker charges for implied volatility as
reflected in options premiums and hedging of the positions. See id.

323

customers of banking entities for hedging purposes. 1079 Another commenter expressed
general concern about extremely volatile markets, where market makers often see large
upward or downward price swings over time. 1080
Two commenters emphasized that the revenues a market maker generates from
hedging the positions it holds in inventory are equivalent to spreads in many markets.
These commenters explained that, under these circumstances, a market maker generates
revenue from the difference between the customer price for the position and the banking
entity’s price for the hedge. The commenters noted that proposed Appendix B expressly
recognizes this in the case of derivatives and recommended that Appendix B’s guidance
on this point apply equally to certain non-derivative positions. 1081
A few commenters questioned how this requirement would work in the context of
block trading or otherwise facilitating large trades, where a market maker may charge a
premium or discount for taking on a large position to provide “immediacy” to its
customer. 1082 One commenter further explained that explicitly quoted bid-ask spreads are

1079

See CIEBA (stating that because it would be difficult for a market maker to enter promptly into an
offsetting swap, the market maker would not be able to generate income from the spread).

1080

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). This commenter questioned whether proposed
Appendix B’s reference to “unexpected market disruptions” as an explanatory fact and circumstance was
intended to permit such market making. See id.

1081

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading). In its discussion of
“customer revenues,” Appendix B states: “In the case of a derivative contract, these revenues reflect the
difference between the cost of entering into the derivative contract and the cost of hedging incremental,
residual risks arising from the contract.” Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,960; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8440.
See also RBC (requesting clarification on how the proposed standard would apply if a market maker took
an offsetting position in a different instrument (e.g., a different bond) and inquiring whether, if the trader
took the offsetting position, its revenue gain is attributable to price appreciation of the two offsetting
positions or from the bid-ask spread in the respective bonds).
1082

See Prof. Duffie; NYSE Euronext; Capital Group; RBC; Goldman (Prop. Trading). See also Thakor
Study (discussing market makers’ role of providing “immediacy” in general).

324

only valid for indicated trade sizes that are modest enough to have negligible market
impact, and such spreads cannot be used for purposes of a significantly larger trade. 1083
iv.

Suggested modifications to the proposed requirement
To address some or all of the concerns discussed above, many commenters

recommended that the source of revenue requirement be modified 1084 or removed from
the rule entirely. 1085 With respect to suggested changes, some commenters stated that the
Agencies should modify the rule text, 1086 use a metrics-based approach to focus on
customer revenues, 1087 or replace the proposed requirement with guidance. 1088 Some
commenters requested that the Agencies modify the focus of the requirement so that, for
example, dealers’ market-making activities in illiquid securities can function as close to
normal as possible 1089 or market makers can take short-term positions that may ultimately

1083

See CIEBA.

1084

See, e.g., JPMC; Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA; CFA Inst.; ICI (Feb. 2012) Flynn &
Fusselman.
1085

See, e.g., CIEBA; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Morgan Stanley; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); Capital Group; RBC. In addition to the concerns discussed above, one commenter stated that the
proposed requirement may set limits on the values of certain metrics, and it would be inappropriate to
prejudge the appropriate results of such metrics at this time. See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).
1086

See, e.g., Barclays. This commenter provided alternative rule text stating that “market making-related
activity is conducted by each trading unit such that its activities are reasonably designed to generate
revenues primarily from fees, commissions, bid-ask spreads, or other income attributable to satisfying
reasonably expected customer demand.” See id.

1087

See Goldman (Prop. Trading) (suggesting that the Agencies use a metrics-based approach to focus on
customer revenues, as measured by Spread Profit and Loss (when it is feasible to calculate) or other
metrics, especially because a proprietary trading desk would not be expected to earn any revenues this
way). This commenter also indicated that the “primarily” standard in the proposed rule is problematic and
can be read to mean “more than 50%,” which is different from Appendix B’s acknowledgment that the
proportion of customer revenues relative to total revenues will vary by asset class. See id.

1088

See BoA (recommending that the guidance state that the Agencies would consider the design and mix
of such revenues as an indicator of potentially prohibited proprietary trading, but only for those markets for
which revenues are quantifiable based on publicly available data, such as segments of certain highly liquid
equity markets).

1089

See CFA Inst.

325

result in a profit or loss. 1090 As discussed below, some commenters stated that the
Agencies should modify the proposed requirement to place greater restrictions on market
maker revenue.
v.

General support for the proposed requirement or for placing greater restrictions on
a market maker’s sources of revenue

Some commenters expressed support for the proposed source of revenue
requirement or stated that the requirement should be more restrictive. 1091 For example,
one of these commenters stated that a real market maker’s trading book should be fully
hedged, so it should not generate profits in excess of fees and commissions except in
times of rare and extraordinary market conditions. 1092 According to another commenter,
the final rule should make it clear that banking entities seeking to rely on the marketmaking exemption may not generally seek to profit from price movements in their
inventories, although their activities may give rise to modest and relatively stable profits
arising from their limited inventory. 1093 One commenter recommended that the proposed
requirement be interpreted to limit market making in illiquid positions because a banking

1090

See ICI (Feb. 2012).

1091

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Better Markets (Feb. 2012); FTN; Public Citizen; Occupy;
Alfred Brock.

1092

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012). See also Public Citizen (arguing that the imperfection of a hedge
should signal potential disqualification of the underlying position from the market-making exemption).
1093

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012). This commenter further suggested that the rule identify
certain red flags and metrics that could be used to monitor this requirement, such as: (i) failure to obtain
relatively low ratios of revenue-to-risk, low volatility, and relatively high turnover; (ii) significant revenues
from price appreciation relative to the value of securities being traded; (iii) volatile revenues from price
appreciation; or (iv) revenue from price appreciation growing out of proportion to the risk undertaken with
the security. See id.

326

entity cannot have the required revenue motivation when it enters into a position for
which there is no readily discernible exit price. 1094
Further, some commenters suggested that the Agencies remove the word
“primarily” from the provision to limit banking entities to specified sources of
revenue. 1095 In addition, one of these commenters requested that the Agencies restrict a
market maker’s revenue to fees and commissions and remove the allowance for revenue
from bid-ask spreads because generating bid-ask revenues relies exclusively on changes
in market values of positions held in inventory. 1096 For enforcement purposes, a few
commenters suggested that the Agencies require banking entities to disgorge any profit
obtained from price appreciation. 1097
c.

Final rule’s approach to assessing revenues
Unlike the proposed rule, the final rule does not include a requirement that a

trading desk’s market making-related activity be designed to generate revenue primarily
from fees, commissions, bid-ask spreads, or other income not attributable to appreciation
in the value of a financial instrument or hedging. 1098 The revenue requirement was one
of the most commented upon aspects of the market-making exemption in the
proposal. 1099

1094

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

1095

See Occupy; Better Markets (Feb. 2012). See supra note 1103 (addressing these comments).

1096

See Occupy.

1097

See Occupy; Public Citizen.

1098

See proposed rule § __.4(b)(2)(v).

1099

See infra Part IV.A.3.c.7.b.

327

The Agencies believe that an analysis of patterns of revenue generation and
profitability can help inform a judgment regarding whether trading activity is consistent
with the intermediation and liquidity services that a market maker provides to its
customers in the context of the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the relevant market, as
opposed to prohibited proprietary trading activities. To facilitate this type of analysis, the
Agencies have included a metrics data reporting requirement that is refined from the
proposed metric regarding profits and losses. The Comprehensive Profit and Loss
Attribution metric collects information regarding the daily fluctuation in the value of a
trading desk’s positions to various sources, along with its volatility, including: (i) profit
and loss attributable to current positions that were also held by the banking entity as of
the end of the prior day (“existing positions); (ii) profit and loss attributable to new
positions resulting from the current day’s trading activity (“new positions”); and (iii)
residual profit and loss that cannot be specifically attributed to existing positions or new
positions.1100
This quantitative measurement has certain conceptual similarities to the proposed
source of revenue requirement in § __.4(b)(2)(v) of the proposed rule and certain of the
proposed quantitative measurements. 1101 However, in response to comments on those
provisions, the Agencies have determined to modify the focus from particular revenue
sources (e.g., fees, commissions, bid-ask spreads, and price appreciation) to when the
trading desk generates revenue from its positions. The Agencies recognize that when the
1100

See Appendix A of the final rule (describing the Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution metric).
This approach is generally consistent with one commenter’s suggested metrics-based approach to focus on
customer-related revenues. See Goldman (Prop. Trading); See also Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012)
(suggesting the use of metrics to monitor a firm’s source of revenue); proposed Appendix A.
1101

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.7. and infra Part IV.C.3.

328

trading desk is engaged in market making-related activities, the day one profit and loss
component of the Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution metric may reflect
customer-generated revenues, like fees, commissions, and spreads (including embedded
premiums or discounts), as well as that day’s changes in market value. Thereafter, profit
and loss associated with the position carried in the trading desk’s book may reflect
changes in market price until the position is sold or unwound. The Agencies also
recognize that the metric contains a residual component for profit and loss that cannot be
specifically attributed to existing positions or new positions.
The Agencies believe that evaluation of the Comprehensive Profit and Loss
Attribution metric could provide valuable information regarding patterns of revenue
generation by market-making trading desks involved in market-making activities that
may warrant further review of the desk’s activities, while eliminating the requirement
from the proposal that the trading desk demonstrate that its primary source of revenue,
under all circumstances, is fees, commissions and bid/ask spreads. This modified focus
will reduce the burden associated with the proposed source of revenue requirement and
better account for the varying depth and liquidity of markets. 1102 In addition, the

1102

The Agencies understand that some commenters interpreted the proposed requirement as requiring that
both the bid-ask spread for a financial instrument and the revenue a market maker acquired from such bidask spread through a customer trade be identifiable on a close-to-real-time basis and readily distinguishable
from any additional revenue gained from price appreciation (both on the day of the transaction and for the
rest of the holding period). See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading);
BoA; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Sumitomo Trust; Morgan Stanley; Barclays; RBC;
Capital Group. We recognize that such a requirement would be unduly burdensome. In fact, the proposal
noted that bid-ask spreads or similar spreads may not be widely disseminated on a consistent basis or
otherwise reasonably ascertainable in certain asset classes for purposes of the proposed Spread Profit and
Loss metric in Appendix A of the proposal. See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,958-68,959; CFTC Proposal,
77 FR at 8438. Moreover, the burden associated with the proposed requirement should be further reduced
because we are not adopting a stand-alone requirement regarding a trading desk’s source of revenue.
Instead, when and how a trading desk generates profit and loss from its trading activities is a factor that
must be considered for purposes of the near term customer demand requirement. It is not a dispositive
factor for determining compliance with the exemption.

329

Agencies believe these modifications appropriately address commenters’ concerns about
the proposed source of revenue requirement and reduce the potential for negative market
impacts of the proposed requirement cited by commenters, such as incentives to widen
spreads or disincentives to engage in market making in less liquid markets. 1103
The Agencies recognize that this analysis is only informative over time, and
should not be determinative of an analysis of whether the amount, types, and risks of the
financial instruments in the trading desk’s market-maker inventory are designed not to
exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or
counterparties. The Agencies believe this quantitative measurement provides appropriate
flexibility to obtain information on market-maker revenues, which is designed to address
commenters’ concerns about the proposal’s source of revenue requirement (e.g., the
burdens associated with differentiating spread revenue from price appreciation revenue)
while also helping assess patterns of revenue generation that may be informative over

Further, some commenters expressed concern that the proposed requirement suggested market makers were
not permitted to profit from price appreciation, but rather only from observable spreads or explicit fees or
commissions. See, e.g., Wellington, Credit Suisse (Seidel); Morgan Stanley; PUC Texas; CIEBA; SSgA
(Feb. 2012); AllianceBernstein; Investure; Invesco. The Agencies confirm that the intent of the marketmaking exemption is not to preclude a trading desk from generating any revenue from price appreciation.
Because this approach clarifies that a trading desk’s source of revenue is not limited to its quoted spread,
the Agencies believe this quantitative measurement will address commenters concerns that the proposed
source of revenue requirement could create incentives for market makers to widen their spreads, result in
higher transaction costs, require market makers to hedge any exposure to price movements, or discourage a
trading desk from making a market in instruments that it may not be able to sell immediately. See
Wellington; CIEBA; MetLife; ACLI (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012); PUC Texas; ICI (Feb. 2012) BoA;
SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012). The modifications to this provision are designed to better reflect when,
on average and across many transactions, profits are gained rather than how they are gained, similar to the
way some firms measure their profit and loss today. See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading).
1103

See, e.g., Wellington; CIEBA; MetLife; ACLI (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012); PUC Texas; ICI (Feb.
2012) BoA. The Agencies are not adopting an approach that limits a market maker to specified revenue
sources (e.g., fees, commissions, and spreads), as suggested by some commenters, due to the considerations
discussed above. See Occupy; Better Markets (Feb. 2012). In response to the proposed source of revenue
requirement, some commenters noted that a market maker may charge a premium or discount for taking on
a large position from a customer. See Prof. Duffie; NYSE Euronext; Capital Group; RBC; Goldman (Prop.
Trading).

330

time about whether a market maker’s activities are designed to facilitate and provide
customer intermediation.
8.

Appendix B of the proposed rule

a.

Proposed Appendix B requirement
The proposed market-making exemption would have required that the market

making-related activities of the trading desk or other organizational unit of the banking
entity be consistent with the commentary in proposed Appendix B. 1104 In this proposed
Appendix, the Agencies provided overviews of permitted market making-related activity
and prohibited proprietary trading activity. 1105
The proposed Appendix also set forth various factors that the Agencies proposed
to use to help distinguish prohibited proprietary trading from permitted market makingrelated activity. More specifically, proposed Appendix B set forth six factors that, absent
explanatory facts and circumstances, would cause particular trading activity to be
considered prohibited proprietary trading activity and not permitted market makingrelated activity. The proposed factors focused on: (i) retaining risk in excess of the size
and type required to provide intermediation services to customers (“risk management
factor”); (ii) primarily generating revenues from price movements of retained principal
positions and risks, rather than customer revenues (“source of revenues factor”); (iii)
generating only very small or very large amounts of revenue per unit of risk, not
demonstrating consistent profitability, or demonstrating high earnings volatility

1104

See proposed rule § __.4(b)(2)(vi).

1105

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,873, 68,960-68,961; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8358, 8439-8440.

331

(“revenues relative to risk factor”); (iv) not trading through a trading system that interacts
with orders of others or primarily with customers of the banking entity’s market-making
desk to provide liquidity services, or retaining principal positions in excess of reasonably
expected near term customer demands (“customer-facing activity factor”); (v) routinely
paying rather than earning fees, commissions, or spreads (“payment of fees,
commissions, and spreads factor”); and (vi) providing compensation incentives to
employees that primarily reward proprietary risk-taking (“compensation incentives
factor”). 1106
b.

Comments on proposed Appendix B
Commenters expressed differing views about the accuracy of the commentary in

proposed Appendix B and the appropriateness of including such commentary in the rule.
For example, some commenters stated that the description of market making-related
activity in the proposed appendix is accurate 1107 or appropriately accounts for differences
among asset classes. 1108 Other commenters indicated that the appendix is too strict or
narrow. 1109 Some commenters recommended that the Agencies revise proposed

1106

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,873, 68,961-68,963; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8358, 8440-8442.

1107

See MetLife; ACLI (Feb. 2012).

1108

See Alfred Brock. But See, e.g., Occupy (stating that the proposed commentary only accounts for the
most liquid and transparent markets and fails to accurately describe market making in most illiquid or OTC
markets).
1109

See Morgan Stanley; IIF; Sumitomo Trust; ISDA (Apr. 2012); BDA (Feb. 2012) (Oct. 2012) (stating
that proposed Appendix B places too great of a focus on derivatives trading and does not reflect how
principal trading operations in equity and fixed income markets are structured). One of these commenters
requested that the appendix be modified to account for certain activities conducted in connection with
market making in swaps. This commenter indicated that a swap dealer may not regularly enjoy a dominant
flow of customer revenues and may consistently need to make revenue from its book management. In
addition, the commenter stated that the appendix should recognize that making a two-way market may be a
dominant theme, but there are certain to be frequent occasions when, as a matter of market or internal
circumstances, a market maker is unavailable to trade. See ISDA (Apr. 2012).

332

Appendix B’s approach by, for example, placing greater focus on what market making is
rather than what it is not, 1110 providing presumptions of activity that will be treated as
permitted market making-related activity, 1111 re-formulating the appendix as nonbinding
guidance, 1112 or moving certain requirements of the proposed exemption to the
appendix. 1113 One commenter suggested the Agencies remove Appendix B from the rule
and instead use the conformance period to analyze and develop a body of supervisory
guidance that appropriately characterizes the nature of market making-related activity. 1114
A few commenters expressed concern about the appendix’s facts-andcircumstances-based approach to distinguishing between prohibited proprietary trading
and permitted market making-related activity and stated that such an approach will make
it more difficult or burdensome for banking entities to comply with the proposed rule 1115
or will generate regulatory uncertainty. 1116 As discussed below, other commenters
opposed proposed Appendix B because of its level of granularity 1117 or due to perceived
restrictions on interdealer trading or generating revenue from retained principal positions

1110

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1111

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012). This commenter stated that, for example, Appendix B could
deem market making involving widely-traded stocks and bonds issued by well-established corporations,
government securities, or highly liquid asset-backed securities as the type of plain vanilla, low risk capital
activities that are presumptively permitted, provided the activity is within certain, specified parameters for
inventory levels, revenue-to-risk metrics, volatility, and hedging. See id.

1112

See Morgan Stanley; Flynn & Fusselman.

1113

See JPMC. In support of such an approach, the commenter argued that sometimes proposed § __.4(b)
and Appendix B addressed the same topic and, when this occurs, it is unclear whether compliance with
Appendix B constitutes compliance with § __.4(b) or if additional compliance steps are required. See id.

1114

See Morgan Stanley.

1115

See NYSE Euronext; Morgan Stanley.

1116

See IAA.

1117

See Wellington; Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012).

333

or risks in the proposed appendix.1118 A number of commenters expressed concern about
the complexity or prescriptiveness of the six proposed factors for distinguishing
permitted market making-related activity from prohibited proprietary trading. 1119
With respect to the level of granularity of proposed Appendix B, a number of
commenters expressed concern that the reference to a “single significant transaction”
indicated that the Agencies will review compliance with the proposed market-making
exemption on a trade-by-trade basis and stated that assessing compliance at the level of
individual transactions would be unworkable. 1120 One of these commenters further stated
that assessing compliance at this level of granularity would reduce a market maker’s
willingness to execute a customer sell order as principal due to concern that the market
maker may not be able to immediately resell such position. The commenter noted that
this chilling effect would be heightened in declining markets. 1121
A few commenters interpreted certain statements in proposed Appendix B as
limiting interdealer trading and expressed concerns regarding potential limitations on this
activity. 1122 These commenters emphasized that market makers may need to trade with

1118

See Morgan Stanley; Chamber (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading).

1119

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Chamber (Feb. 2012); ICFR; Morgan Stanley;
Goldman (Prop. Trading); Occupy; Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012); Oliver Wyman (Dec. 2011); Public
Citizen; NYSE Euronext. But See Alfred Brock (stating that the proposed factors are effective).

1120

See Wellington; Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012). In particular, proposed
Appendix B provided that “The particular types of trading activity described in this appendix may involve
the aggregate trading activities of a single trading unit, a significant number or series of transactions
occurring at one or more trading units, or a single significant transaction, among other potential scenarios.”
Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,961; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8441. The Agencies address commenters’ tradeby-trade concerns in Part IV.A.3.c.1.c.ii., infra.

1121

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

1122

See Morgan Stanley; Goldman (Prop. Trading); Chamber (Feb. 2012). Specifically, commenters cited
statements in proposed Appendix B indicating that market makers “typically only engage in transactions
with non-customers to the extent that these transactions directly facilitate or support customer
transactions.” On this issue, the appendix further stated that “a market maker generally only transacts with

334

non-customers to: (i) provide liquidity to other dealers and, indirectly, their customers, or
to otherwise allow customers to access a larger pool of liquidity; 1123 (ii) conduct price
discovery to inform the prices a market maker can offer to customers; 1124 (iii) unwind or
sell positions acquired from customers; 1125 (iv) establish or acquire positions to meet
reasonably expected near term customer demand; 1126 (v) hedge; 1127 and (vi) sell a
financial instrument when there are more buyers than sellers for the instrument at that
time. 1128 Further, one of these commenters expressed the view that the proposed
appendix’s statements are inconsistent with the statutory market-making exemption’s
reference to “counterparties.” 1129
In addition, a few commenters expressed concern about statements in proposed
Appendix B about a market maker’s source of revenue. 1130 According to one commenter,

non-customers to the extent necessary to hedge or otherwise manage the risks of its market making-related
activities, including managing its risk with respect to movements of the price of retained principal positions
and risks, to acquire positions in amounts consistent with reasonably expected near term demand of its
customers, or to sell positions acquired from its customers.” The appendix recognized, however, that the
“appropriate proportion of a market maker’s transactions that are with customers versus non-customers
varies depending on the type of positions involved and the extent to which the positions are typically
hedged in non-customer transactions.” Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,961; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8440.
Commenters’ concerns regarding interdealer trading are addressed in Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.i., infra.
1123

See Morgan Stanley; Goldman (Prop. Trading).

1124

See Morgan Stanley; Goldman (Prop. Trading); Chamber (Feb. 2012).

1125

See Morgan Stanley; Chamber (Feb. 2012) (stating that market makers in the corporate bond, interest
rate derivative, and natural gas derivative markets frequently trade with other dealers to work down a
concentrated position originating with a customer trade).

1126

See Morgan Stanley; Chamber (Feb. 2012).

1127

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

1128

See Chamber (Feb. 2012).

1129

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

1130

See Morgan Stanley; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading). On this
issue, Appendix B stated that certain types of “customer revenues” provide the primary source of a market
maker’s profitability and, while a market maker also incurs losses or generates profits as price movements
occur in its retained principal positions and risks, “such losses or profits are incidental to customer revenues
and significantly limited by the banking entity’s hedging activities.” Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,960; CFTC

335

the statement that profit and loss generated by inventory appreciation or depreciation
must be “incidental” to customer revenues is inconsistent with market making-related
activity in less liquid assets and larger transactions because market makers often must
retain principal positions for longer periods of time in such circumstances and are unable
to perfectly hedge these positions.1131 As discussed above with respect to the source of
revenue requirement in § __.4(b)(v) of the proposed rule, a few commenters requested
that Appendix B’s discussion of “customer revenues” be modified to state that revenues
from hedging will be considered to be customer revenues in certain contexts beyond
derivatives contracts. 1132
A number of commenters discussed the six proposed factors in Appendix B that,
absent explanatory facts and circumstances, would have caused a particular trading
activity to be considered prohibited proprietary trading activity and not permitted market
making-related activity. 1133 With respect to the proposed factors, one commenter
indicated that they are appropriate, 1134 while another commenter stated that they are
complex and their effectiveness is uncertain. 1135 Another commenter expressed the view
that “[w]hile each of the selected factors provides evidence of ‘proprietary trading,’
warrants regulatory attention, and justifies a shift in the burden of proof, some require

Proposal, 77 FR at 8440. The Agencies address commenters’ concerns about proposed requirements
regarding a market maker’s source of revenue in Part IV.A.3.c.7.c., infra.
1131

See Morgan Stanley.

1132

See supra note 1081 and accompanying text.

1133

See supra note 1106 and accompanying text.

1134

See Alfred Brock.

1135

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.

336

subjective judgments, are subject to gaming or data manipulation, and invite excessive
reliance on circumstantial evidence and lawyers’ opinions.” 1136
In response to the proposed risk management factor, 1137 one commenter expressed
concern that it could prevent a market maker from warehousing positions in anticipation
of predictable but unrealized customer demands and, further, could penalize a market
maker that misestimated expected demand. This commenter expressed the view that such
an outcome would be contrary to the statute and would harm market liquidity. 1138
Another commenter requested that this presumption be removed because in less liquid
markets, such as markets for corporate bonds, equity derivatives, securitized products,
emerging markets, foreign exchange forwards, and fund-linked products, a market maker
needs to act as principal to facilitate client requests and, as a result, will be exposed to
risk. 1139
Two commenters expressed concern about the proposed source of revenue
factor. 1140 One commenter stated that this factor does not accurately reflect how market
making occurs in a majority of markets and asset classes. 1141 The other commenter
expressed concern that this factor shifted the emphasis of § __.4(b)(v) of the proposed

1136

Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1137

The proposed appendix stated that the Agencies would use certain quantitative measurements required
in proposed Appendix A to help assess the extent to which a trading unit’s risks are potentially being
retained in excess amounts, including VaR, Stress VaR, VaR Exceedance, and Risk Factor Sensitivities.
See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,961-68,962; CFTC Proposal, 77 FR at 8441. One commenter questioned
whether, assuming such metrics are effective and the activity does not exceed the banking entity’s
expressed risk appetite, it is necessary to place greater restrictions on risk-taking, based on the Agencies’
judgment of the level of risk necessary for bona fide market making. See ICFR.

1138

See Chamber (Feb. 2012).

1139

See Credit Suisse (Seidel).

1140

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Morgan Stanley.

1141

See Morgan Stanley.

337

rule, which required that market making-related activities be “designed” to generate
revenue primarily from certain sources, to the actual outcome of activities. 1142
With respect to the proposed revenues relative to risk factor, one commenter
supported this aspect of the proposal. 1143 Some commenters, however, expressed concern
about using these factors to differentiate permitted market making-related activity from
prohibited proprietary trading. 1144 These commenters stated that volatile risk-taking and
revenue can be a natural result of principal market-making activity. 1145 One commenter
noted that customer flows are often “lumpy” due to, for example, a market maker’s
facilitation of large trades. 1146
A few commenters indicated that the analysis in the proposed customer-facing
activity factor may not accurately reflect how market making occurs in certain markets
and asset classes due to potential limitations on interdealer trading. 1147 According to
another commenter, however, a banking entity’s non-customer facing trades should be

1142

See Goldman (Prop. Trading). This commenter suggested that the Agencies remove any negative
presumptions based on revenues and instead use revenue metrics, such as Spread Profit and Loss (when it
is feasible to calculate) or other metrics for purposes of monitoring a banking entity’s trading activity. See
id.

1143

See Occupy (stating that these factors are important and will provide invaluable information about the
nature of the banking entity’s trading activity).

1144

See Morgan Stanley; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012); Oliver Wyman (Dec. 2011).

1145

See Morgan Stanley; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012); Oliver Wyman (Dec. 2011).
For example, one commenter stated that because markets and trading volumes are volatile, consistent
profitability and low earnings volatility are outside a market maker’s control. In support of this statement,
the commenter indicated that: (i) customer trading activity varies significantly with market conditions,
which results in volatility in a market maker’s earnings and profitability; and (ii) a market maker will
experience volatility associated with changes in the value of its inventory positions, and principal risk is a
necessary feature of market making. See Morgan Stanley.

1146

See Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012); Oliver Wyman (Dec. 2011).

1147

See Morgan Stanley; Goldman (Prop. Trading).

338

required to be matched with existing customer counterparties. 1148 With respect to the
near term customer demand component of this factor, one commenter expressed concern
that it goes farther than the statute’s activity-based “design” test by analyzing whether a
trading unit’s inventory has exceeded reasonably expected near term customer demand at
any particular point in time. 1149
Some commenters expressed concern about the payment of fees, commissions,
and spreads factor. 1150 One commenter appeared to support this proposed factor. 1151
According to one commenter, this factor fails to recognize that market makers routinely
pay a variety of fees in connection with their market making-related activity, including,
for example, fees to access liquidity on another market to satisfy customer demand,
transaction fees as a matter of course, and fees in connection with hedging transactions.
This commenter also indicated that, because spreads in current, rapidly-moving markets
are volatile, short-term measurements of profit compared to spread revenue is
problematic, particularly for less liquid stocks. 1152 Another commenter stated that this
factor reflects a bias toward agency trading and principal market making in highly liquid,
exchange-traded markets and does not reflect the nature of principal market making in
most markets. 1153 One commenter recommended that the rule require that a trader who

1148

See Public Citizen.

1149

See Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012).

1150

See NYSE Euronext; Morgan Stanley.

1151

See Public Citizen.

1152

See NYSE Euronext.

1153

See Morgan Stanley.

339

pays a fee be prepared to document the chain of custody to show that the instrument is
shortly re-sold to an interested customer. 1154
Regarding the proposed compensation incentives factor, one commenter
requested that the Agencies make clear that explanatory facts and circumstances cannot
justify a trading unit providing compensation incentives that primarily reward proprietary
risk-taking to employees engaged in market making. In addition, the commenter
recommended that the Agencies delete the word “primarily” from this factor. 1155
c.

Determination to not adopt proposed Appendix B
To improve clarity, the final rule establishes particular criteria for the exemption

and does not incorporate the commentary in proposed Appendix B regarding the
identification of permitted market making-related activities. This Supplementary
Information provides guidance on the standards for compliance with the market-making
exemption.
9.

Use of quantitative measurements
Consistent with the FSOC study and the proposal, the Agencies continue to

believe that quantitative measurements can be useful to banking entities and the Agencies
to help assess the profile of a trading desk’s trading activity and to help identify trading
activity that may warrant a more in-depth review. 1156 The Agencies will not use
quantitative measurements as a dispositive tool for differentiating between permitted
1154

See Public Citizen.

1155

See Occupy. This commenter also stated that the commentary in Appendix B stating that a banking
entity may give some consideration of profitable hedging activities in determining compensation would
provide inappropriate incentives. See id.

1156

See infra Part IV.C.3.; final rule Appendix A.

340

market making-related activities and prohibited proprietary trading. Like the framework
the Agencies have developed for the market-making exemption, the Agencies recognize
that there may be differences in the quantitative measurements across markets and asset
classes.
4.

Section __.5: Permitted Risk-Mitigating Hedging Activities.
Section __.5 of the proposed rule implemented section 13(d)(1)(C) of the BHC

Act, which provides an exemption from the prohibition on proprietary trading for certain
risk-mitigating hedging activities. 1157 Section 13(d)(1)(C) provides an exemption for
risk-mitigating hedging activities in connection with and related to individual or
aggregated positions, contracts, or other holdings of a banking entity that are designed to
reduce the specific risks to the banking entity in connection with and related to such
positions, contracts, or other holdings (the “hedging exemption”). Section __.5 of the
final rule implements the hedging exemption with a number of modifications from the
proposed rule to respond to commenters’ concerns as described more fully below.
a.

Summary of Proposal’s Approach to Implementing the Hedging Exemption
The proposed rule would have required seven criteria to be met in order for a

banking entity’s activity to qualify for the hedging exemption. First, §§ __.5(b)(1) and
__.5(b)(2)(i) of the proposed rule generally required that the banking entity establish an
internal compliance program that is designed to ensure the banking entity’s compliance
with the requirements of the hedging limitations, including reasonably designed written

1157

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(C); proposed rule § __.5.

341

policies and procedures, internal controls, and independent testing, and that a transaction
for which the banking entity is relying on the hedging exemption be made in accordance
with the compliance program established under § __.5(b)(1). Next, § __.5(b)(2)(ii) of the
proposed rule required that the transaction hedge or otherwise mitigate one or more
specific risks, including market risk, counterparty or other credit risk, currency or foreign
exchange risk, interest rate risk, basis risk, or similar risks, arising in connection with and
related to individual or aggregated positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking
entity. Moreover, § __.5(b)(2)(iii) of the proposed rule required that the transaction be
reasonably correlated, based upon the facts and circumstances of the underlying and
hedging positions and the risks and liquidity of those positions, to the risk or risks the
transaction is intended to hedge or otherwise mitigate. Furthermore, § __.5(b)(2)(iv) of
the proposed rule required that the hedging transaction not give rise, at the inception of
the hedge, to significant exposures that are not themselves hedged in a contemporaneous
transaction. Section __.5(b)(2)(v) of the proposed rule required that any hedge position
established in reliance on the hedging exemption be subject to continuing review,
monitoring and management. Finally, § __.5(b)(2)(vi) of the proposed rule required that
the compensation arrangements of persons performing the risk-mitigating hedging
activities be designed not to reward proprietary risk-taking. Additionally, § __.5(c) of the
proposed rule required the banking entity to document certain hedging transactions at the
time the hedge is established.
b.

Manner of Evaluating Compliance with the Hedging Exemption

342

A number of commenters expressed concern that the final rule required
application of the hedging exemption on a trade-by-trade basis. 1158 One commenter
argued that the text of the proposed rule seemed to require a trade-by-trade analysis
because each “purchase or sale” or “hedge” was subject to the requirements. 1159 The
final rule modifies the proposal by generally replacing references to a “purchase or sale”
in the § __.5(b) requirements with “risk-mitigating hedging activity.” The Agencies
believe this approach is consistent with the statute, which refers to “risk-mitigating
hedging activity.” 1160
Section 13(d)(1)(C) of the BHC Act specifically authorizes risk-mitigating
hedging activities in connection with and related to “individual or aggregated positions,
contracts or other holdings.” 1161 Thus, the statute does not require that exempt hedging
be conducted on a trade-by-trade basis, and permits hedging of aggregated positions. The
Agencies recognized this in the proposed rule, and the final rule continues to permit
hedging activities in connection with and related to individual or aggregated positions.
The statute also requires that, to be exempt under section 13(d)(1)(C), hedging
activities be risk-mitigating. The final rule incorporates this statutory requirement. As
explained in more detail below, the final rule requires that, in order to qualify for the
exemption for risk-mitigating hedging activities: the banking entity implement, maintain,
1158

See Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); See also Barclays; ICI (Feb. 2012); Investure;
MetLife; RBC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); Morgan
Stanley; Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; Fidelity; FTN.
1159

See Barclays.

1160

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(C) (stating that “risk-mitigating hedging activities” are permitted under
certain circumstances).

1161

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(C).

343

and enforce an internal compliance program, including policies and procedures that
govern and control these hedging activities; the hedging activity be designed to reduce or
otherwise significantly mitigate and demonstrably reduces or otherwise significantly
mitigates specific, identifiable risks; the hedging activity not give rise to significant new
risks that are left unhedged; the hedging activity be subject to continuing review,
monitoring and management to address risk that might develop over time; and the
compensation arrangements for persons performing risk-mitigating hedging activities be
designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading. These requirements
are designed to focus the exemption on hedging activities that are designed to reduce risk
and that also demonstrably reduce risk, in accordance with the requirement under section
13(d)(1)(C) that hedging activities be risk-mitigating to be exempt. Additionally, the
final rule imposes a documentation requirement on certain types of hedges.
Consistent with the other exemptions from the ban on proprietary trading for
market-making and underwriting, the Agencies intend to evaluate whether an activity
complies with the hedging exemption under the final rule based on the totality of
circumstances involving the products, techniques, and strategies used by a banking entity
as part of its hedging activity. 1162
c.

Comments on the Proposed Rule and Approach to Implementing the Hedging Exemption.
Commenters expressed a variety of views on the proposal’s hedging exemption.
A few commenters offered specific suggestions described more fully below regarding

1162

See Part IV.A.4.b., infra.

344

how, in their view, the hedging exemption should be strengthened to ensure proper
oversight of hedging activities. 1163 These commenters expressed concern that the
proposal’s exemption was too broad and argued that all proprietary trading could be
designated as a hedge under the proposal and thereby evade the prohibition of section
13. 1164
By contrast, a number of other commenters argued that the proposal imposed
burdensome requirements that were not required by statute, would limit the ability of
banking entities to hedge in a prudent and cost-effective manner, and would reduce
market liquidity. 1165 These commenters argued that implementation of the requirements
of the proposal would decrease safety and soundness of banking entities and the financial
system by reducing cost-effective risk management options. Some commenters
emphasized that the ability of banking entities to hedge their positions and manage risks
taken in connection with their permissible activities is a critical element of liquid and
efficient markets, and that the cumulative impact of the proposal would inhibit this riskmitigation by raising transaction costs and suppressing essential and beneficial hedging
activities. 1166

1163

See, e.g., AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); AFR (June 2013); Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley &
Levin (Feb. 2012).

1164

See, e.g., Occupy.

1165

See, e.g., Australian Bankers’ Ass’n (Feb. 2012); BoA; Barclays; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Goldman
(Prop. Trading); HSBC; ICI (Feb. 2012); Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; JPMC; Morgan Stanley; Chamber (Feb.
2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); Rep. Bachus et al.; RBC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012);
See also Stephen Roach.

1166

See Credit Suisse (Seidel); ICI (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); See also Banco de México;
SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA.

345

A number of commenters expressed concern that the proposal’s hedging
exemption did not permit the full breadth of transactions in which banking entities
engage to hedge or mitigate risks, such as portfolio hedging, 1167 dynamic hedging, 1168
anticipatory hedging, 1169 or scenario hedging. 1170 Some commenters stated that
restrictions on a banking entity’s ability to hedge may have a chilling effect on its
willingness to engage in other permitted activities, such as market making. 1171 In
addition, many of these commenters stated that, if a banking entity is limited in its ability
to hedge its market-making inventory, it may be less willing or able to assume risk on
behalf of customers or provide financial products to customers that are used for hedging
purposes. As a result, according to these commenters, it will be more difficult for
customers to hedge their risks and customers may be forced to retain risk. 1172
Another commenter contended that the proposal represented an inappropriate
“one-size-fits-all” approach to hedging that did not properly take into account the way
banking entities and especially market intermediaries operate, particularly in less-liquid
markets. 1173 Two commenters requested that the Agencies clarify that a banking entity
may use its discretion to choose any hedging strategy that meets the requirements of the
1167

See MetLife; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Morgan Stanley; Barclays; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); BoA; ABA; HSBC; Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; ICI (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012).

1168

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA.

1169

See Barclays; State Street (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Japanese Bankers
Ass’n.; Credit Suisse (Seidel); BoA; PNC et al.; ISDA (Feb. 2012).

1170

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA; Comm. on
Capital Markets Regulation. Each of these types of activities is discussed further below. See infra Part
IV.A.4.d.2.

1171

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); Barclays; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); BoA.

1172

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Credit Suisse (Seidel).

1173

See Barclays.

346

proposed exemption and, in particular, that a banking entity is not obligated to choose the
“best hedge” and may use the cheapest instrument available. 1174 One commenter
suggested uncertainty about the permissibility of a situation where gains on a hedge
position exceed losses on the underlying position. The commenter suggested that
uncertainty may lead banking entities to not use the most cost-effective hedge, which
would make hedging less efficient and raise costs for banking entities and customers. 1175
However, another commenter expressed concern about banking entities relying on the
cheapest satisfactory hedge. The commenter explained that such hedges lead to more
complicated risk profiles and require banking entities to engage in additional transactions
to hedge the exposures resulting from the imperfect, cheapest hedge. 1176
A few commenters suggested the hedging exemption be modified in favor of a
simpler requirement that banking entities adopt risk limits and policies and procedures
commensurate with qualitative guidance issued by the Agencies. 1177 Many of these
commenters also expressed concerns that the proposed rule’s hedging exemption would
not allow so-called asset-liability management (“ALM”) activities. 1178 Some
commenters proposed that the risk-mitigating hedging exemption reference a set of

1174

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel).

1175

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1176

See Occupy.

1177

See BoA; Barclays; CH/ABASA; Credit Suisse (Seidel); HSBC; ICI (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Apr. 2012);
JPMC; Morgan Stanley; PNC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); See also Stephen Roach.

1178

A detailed discussion of ALM activities is provided in Part IV.A.1.d.2 of this Supplementary
Information relating to the definition of trading account. As explained in that part, the final rule does not
allow use of the hedging exemption for ALM activities that are outside of the hedging activities specifically
permitted by the final rule.

347

relevant descriptive factors rather than specific prescriptive requirements. 1179 Other
alternative frameworks suggested by commenters include: (i) reformulating the proposed
requirements as supervisory guidance; 1180 (ii) establishing a safe harbor, 1181 presumption
of compliance, 1182 or bright line test; 1183 or (iii) a principles-based approach that would
require a banking entity to document its risk-mitigating hedging strategies for submission
to its regulator. 1184
d.

Final Rule
The final rule provides a multi-faceted approach to implementing the hedging
exemption that seeks to ensure that hedging activity is designed to be risk-reducing in
nature and not designed to mask prohibited proprietary trading. 1185 The final rule
includes a number of modifications in response to comments.
This multi-faceted approach is intended to permit hedging activities that are riskmitigating and to limit potential abuse of the hedging exemption while not unduly
constraining the important risk-management function that is served by a banking entity’s
hedging activities. This approach is also intended to ensure that any banking entity
relying on the hedging exemption has in place appropriate internal control processes to
support its compliance with the terms of the exemption. While commenters proposed a
1179

See BoA; JPMC; Morgan Stanley.

1180

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; PNC et al.; ICI.

1181

See Prof. Richardson; ABA (Keating).

1182

See Barclays; BoA; ISDA (Feb. 2012).

1183

See Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz.

1184

See HSBC.

1185

See final rule § __.5.

348

number of alternative frameworks for the hedging exemption, the Agencies believe the
final rule’s multi-faceted approach most effectively balances commenter concerns with
statutory purpose. In response to commenter requests to reformulate the proposed rule as
supervisory guidance, 1186 including the suggestion that the Agencies simply require
banking entities to adopt risk limits and policies and procedures commensurate with
qualitative Agency guidance, 1187 the Agencies believe that such an approach would
provide less clarity than the adopted approach. Although a purely guidance-based
approach could provide greater flexibility, it would also provide less specificity, which
could make it difficult for banking entity personnel and the Agencies to determine
whether an activity complies with the rule and could lead to an increased risk of evasion
of the statutory requirements. Further, while a bright-line or safe harbor approach to the
hedging exemption would generally provide a high degree of certainty about whether an
activity qualifies for the exemption, it would also provide less flexibility to recognize the
differences in hedging activity across markets and asset classes. 1188 In addition, the use
of any bright-line approach would more likely be subject to gaming and avoidance as
new products and types of trading activities are developed than other approaches to
implementing the hedging exemption. Similarly, the Agencies decline to establish a
presumption of compliance because, in light of the constant innovation of trading
activities and the differences in hedging activity across markets and asset classes,
1186

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; PNC et al.; ICI (Feb. 2012); BoA; Morgan
Stanley.

1187

See BoA; Barclays; CH/ABASA; Credit Suisse (Seidel); HSBC; ICI (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Apr. 2012);
JPMC; Morgan Stanley; PNC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); See also Stephen Roach.

1188

Some commenters requested that the Agencies establish a safe harbor. See Prof. Richardson; ABA
(Keating). One commenter requested that the Agencies adopt a bright-line test. See Johnson & Prof.
Stiglitz.

349

establishing appropriate parameters for a presumption of compliance with the hedging
exemption would potentially be less capable of recognizing these legitimate differences
than our current approach. 1189 Moreover, the Agencies decline to follow a principlesbased approach requiring a banking entity to document its hedging strategies for
submission to its regulator. 1190 The Agencies believe that evaluating each banking
entity’s trading activity based on an individualized set of documented hedging strategies
could be unnecessarily burdensome and result in unintended competitive impacts since
banking entities would not be subject to one uniform rule. The Agencies believe the
multi-faceted approach adopted in the final rule establishes a consistent framework
applicable to all banking entities that will reduce the potential for such adverse impacts.
Further, the Agencies believe the scope of the final hedging exemption is
appropriate because it permits risk-mitigating hedging activities, as mandated by section
13 of the BHC Act, 1191 while requiring a robust compliance program and other internal
controls to help ensure that only genuine risk-mitigating hedges can be used in reliance
on the exemption. 1192 In response to concerns that the proposed hedging exemption
would reduce legitimate hedging activity and thus impact market liquidity and the

1189

A few commenters requested that the Agencies establish a presumption of compliance. See Barclays;
BoA; ISDA (Feb. 2012).

1190

One commenter suggested this principles-based approach. See HSBC.

1191

Section 13(d)(1)(C) of the BHC Act permits “risk-mitigating hedging activities in connection with and
related to individual or aggregated positions, contracts, or other holdings of a banking entity that are
designed to reduce the specific risks to the banking entity in connection with and related to such positions,
contracts, or other holdings.” 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(C).

1192

Some commenters were concerned that the proposed hedging exemption was too broad and that all
proprietary trading could be designated as a hedge. See, e.g., Occupy.

350

banking entity’s willingness to engage in permissible customer-related activity, 1193 the
Agencies note that the requirements of the final hedging exemption are designed to
permit banking entities to properly mitigate specific risk exposures, consistent with the
statute. In addition, hedging related to market-making activity conducted by a marketmaking desk is subject to the requirements of the market-making exemption, which are
designed to permit banking entities to continue providing valuable intermediation and
liquidity services, including related risk-management activity. 1194 Thus, the final hedging
exemption will not negatively impact the safety and soundness of banking entities or the
financial system or have a chilling effect on a banking entity’s willingness to engage in
other permitted activities, such as market making. 1195
These limits and requirements are designed to prevent the type of activity
conducted by banking entities in the past that involved taking large positions using novel
strategies to attempt to profit from potential effects of general economic or market
developments and thereby potentially offset the general effects of those events on the
revenues or profits of the banking entity. The documentation requirements in the final
rule support these limits by identifying activity that occurs in reliance on the riskmitigating hedging exemption at an organizational level or desk that is not responsible for
establishing the risk or positions being hedged.
1193

See, e.g., Australian Bankers Ass’n. (Feb. 2012).; BoA; Barclays; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Goldman
(Prop. Trading); HSBC; Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; JPMC; Morgan Stanley; Chamber (Feb. 2012); Wells
Fargo (Prop. Trading); Rep. Bachus et al.; RBC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1194

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.4.

1195

Some commenters believed that restrictions on hedging would have a chilling effect on banking
entities’ willingness to engage in market making, and may result in customers experiencing difficulty in
hedging their risks or force customers to retain risk. See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit
Suisse (Seidel); Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA; IHS.

351

1.

Compliance program requirement
The first criterion of the proposed hedging exemption required a banking entity to

establish an internal compliance program designed to ensure the banking entity’s
compliance with the requirements of the hedging exemption and conduct its hedging
activities in compliance with that program. While the compliance program under the
proposal was expected to be appropriate for the size, scope, and complexity of each
banking entity’s activities and structure, the proposal would have required each banking
entity with significant trading activities to implement robust, detailed hedging policies
and procedures and related internal controls and independent testing designed to prevent
prohibited proprietary trading in the context of permitted hedging activity. 1196 These
enhanced programs for banking entities with large trading activity were expected to
include written hedging policies at the trading unit level and clearly articulated trader
mandates for each trader designed to ensure that hedging strategies mitigated risk and
were not for the purpose of engaging in prohibited proprietary trading.
Commenters, including industry groups, generally expressed support for requiring
policies and procedures to monitor the safety and soundness, as well as appropriateness,
of hedging activity. 1197 Some of these commenters advocated that the final rule presume
that a banking entity is in compliance with the hedging exemption if the banking entity’s
hedging activity is done in accordance with the written policies and procedures required

1196

These aspects of the compliance program requirement are described in further detail in Part IV.C. of
this Supplementary Information.

1197

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

352

under its compliance program. 1198 One commenter represented that the proposed
compliance framework was burdensome and complex.1199
Other commenters expressed concerns that the hedging exemption would be too
limiting and burdensome for community and regional banks. 1200 Some commenters
argued that foreign banking entities should not be subject to the requirements of the
hedging exemption for transactions that do not introduce risk into the U.S. financial
system. 1201 Other commenters stated that coordinated hedging through and by affiliates
should qualify as permitted risk-mitigating hedging activity. 1202
Some commenters urged the Agencies to adopt detailed limitations on hedging
activities. For example, one commenter urged that all hedging trades be labeled as such
at the inception of the trade and detailed information regarding the trader, manager, and
supervisor authorizing the trade be kept and reviewed. 1203 Another commenter suggested
that the hedging exemption contain a requirement that the banking entity employee who
approves a hedge affirmatively certify that the hedge conforms to the requirements of the
rule and has not been put in place for the direct or indirect purpose or effect of generating

1198

See BoA; Barclays; HSBC; JPMC; Morgan Stanley; See also Goldman (Prop. Trading); RBC;
Barclays; ICI (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Apr. 2012); PNC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). See the
discussion of why the Agencies decline to take a presumption of compliance approach above.
1199

See Barclays.

1200

See ICBA; M&T Bank.

1201

See, e.g., Bank of Canada; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks). Additionally, foreign
banking entities engaged in hedging activity may be able to rely on the exemption for trading activity
conducted by foreign banking entities in lieu of the hedging exemption, provided they meet the
requirements of the exemption for trading by foreign banking entities under § __.6(e) of the final rule. See
infra Part IV.A.8.

1202

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC.

1203

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

353

speculative profits. 1204 A few commenters requested limitations on instruments that can
be used for hedging purposes. 1205
The final rule retains the proposal’s requirement that a banking entity establish an
internal compliance program that is designed to ensure the banking entity limits its
hedging activities to hedging that is risk-mitigating. 1206 The final rule largely retains the
proposal’s approach to the compliance program requirement, except to the extent that, as
requested by some commenters, 1207 the final rule modifies the proposal to provide
additional detail regarding the elements that must be included in a compliance program.
Similar to the proposal, the final rule contemplates that the scope and detail of a
compliance program will reflect the size, activities, and complexity of banking entities in
order to ensure that banking entities engaged in more active trading have enhanced
compliance programs without imposing undue burden on smaller organizations and
entities that engage in little or no trading activity. 1208 The final rule also requires, like the
proposal, that the banking entity implement, maintain, and enforce the program. 1209

1204

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012).

1205

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Andrea Psoras.

1206

See final rule § __.5(b)(1). The final rule retains the proposal’s requirement that the compliance
program include, among other things, written hedging policies.

1207

See, e.g., BoA; ICI (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Morgan Stanley; PNC; SIFMA et al. (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1208

See final rule § __.20(a) (stating that “[t]he terms, scope and detail of [the] compliance program shall
be appropriate for the types, size, scope and complexity of activities and business structure of the banking
entity”). The Agencies believe this helps address some commenters’ concern that the hedging exemption
would be too limiting and burdensome for community and regional banks. See ICBA; M&T Bank.
1209

Many of these policies and procedures were contained as part of the proposed rule’s compliance
program requirements under Appendix C. They have been moved, and in some cases modified, in order to
more clearly demonstrate how they are incorporated into the requirements of the hedging exemption.

354

In response to commenter concerns about ensuring the appropriate level of senior
management involvement in establishing these policies, 1210 the final rule requires that the
written policies and procedures be developed and implemented by a banking entity at the
appropriate level of organization and expressly address the banking entity’s requirements
for escalation procedures, supervision, and governance related to hedging activities. 1211
Like the proposal, the final rule specifies that a banking entity’s compliance
regime must include reasonably designed written policies and procedures regarding the
positions, techniques and strategies that may be used for hedging, including
documentation indicating what positions, contracts or other holdings a trading desk may
use in its risk-mitigating hedging activities. 1212 The focus on policies and procedures
governing risk identification and mitigation, analysis and testing of position limits and
hedging strategies, and internal controls and ongoing monitoring is expected to limit use
of the hedging exception to risk-mitigating hedging. The final rule adds to the proposed
1210

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012). The final rule does not require affirmative certification of each hedge,
as suggested by this commenter, because the Agencies believe it would unnecessarily slow legitimate
transactions. The Agencies believe the final rule’s required management framework and escalation
procedures achieve the same objective as the commenter’s suggested approach, while imposing fewer
burdens on legitimate risk-mitigating hedging activity.

1211

See final rule §§ __.20(b), __.5(b). This approach builds on the proposal’s requirement that senior
management and intermediate managers be accountable for the effective implementation of the compliance
program.

1212

This approach is generally consistent with some commenters’ suggested approach of limiting the
instruments that can be used for hedging purposes; although the final rules provide banking entities with
discretion to determine the types of positions, contracts, or other holdings that will mitigate specific risks of
individual or aggregated holdings and thus may be used for risk-mitigating hedging activity. See Sens.
Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Andrea Psoras. In response to one commenter’s request that the
final rule require all hedges to be labeled at inception and certain detailed information be documented for
each hedge, the Agencies note that the final rules continue to require detailed documentation for hedging
activity that presents a heightened risk of evasion. See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); final rule §
__.5(c); infra Part IV.A.4.d.4. The Agencies believe a documentation requirement targeted at these
scenarios balances the need to prevent evasion of the general prohibition on proprietary trading with the
concern that documentation requirements can slow or impede legitimate risk-mitigating activity in the
normal course.

355

compliance program approach by requiring that the banking entity’s written policies and
procedures include position and aging limits with respect to such positions, contracts, or
other holdings. 1213 The final rule, similar to the proposed rule, also requires that the
compliance program contain internal controls and ongoing monitoring, management, and
authorization procedures, including relevant escalation procedures. 1214 Further, the final
rule retains the proposed requirement that the compliance program provide for the
conduct of analysis and independent testing designed to ensure that the positions,
techniques, and strategies that may be used for hedging may reasonably be expected to
demonstrably reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risks
being hedged. 1215
The final rule also adds that correlation analysis be undertaken as part of the
analysis of the hedging positions, techniques, and strategies that may be used. This
provision effectively changes the requirement in the proposed rule that the hedge must
maintain correlation into a requirement that correlation be analyzed as part of the
compliance program before a hedging activity is undertaken. This provision incorporates
the concept in the proposed rule that a hedge should be correlated (negatively, when sign
is considered) to the risk being hedged. However, the Agencies recognize that some
effective hedging activities, such as deep out-of-the-money puts and calls, may not be
exhibit a strong linear correlation to the risks being hedged and also that correlation over
1213

See final rule § __.5(b)(1)(i). Some commenters expressed support for the use of risk limits in
determining whether trading activity qualifies for the hedging exemption. See, e.g., Barclays; Credit Suisse
(Seidel); ICI (Feb. 2012); Morgan Stanley.

1214

See final rule § __.5(b)(1)(ii).

1215

See final rule § __.5(b)(1)(iii). The final rule’s requirement to demonstrably reduce or otherwise
significantly mitigate is discussed in greater detail below.

356

a period of time between two financial positions does not necessarily mean one position
will in fact reduce or mitigate a risk of the other. Rather, the Agencies expect the
banking entity to undertake a correlation analysis that will, in many but not all instances,
provide a strong indication of whether a potential hedging position, strategy, or technique
will or will not demonstrably reduce the risk it is designed to reduce. It is important to
recognize that the rule does not require the banking entity to prove correlation
mathematically or by other specific methods. Rather, the nature and extent of the
correlation analysis undertaken would be dependent on the facts and circumstances of the
hedge and the underlying risks targeted. If correlation cannot be demonstrated, then the
Agencies would expect that such analysis would explain why not and also how the
proposed hedging position, technique, or strategy is designed to reduce or significantly
mitigate risk and how that reduction or mitigation can be demonstrated without
correlation.
Moreover, the final rule requires hedging activity conducted in reliance on the
hedging exemption be subject to continuing review, monitoring, and management that is
consistent with the banking entity’s written hedging policies and procedures and is
designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate, and demonstrably reduces or
otherwise significantly mitigates, the specific, identifiable risks that develop over time
from hedging activity and underlying positions. 1216 This ongoing review should consider

1216

The proposal also contained a continuing review, monitoring, and management requirement. See
proposed rule § __.5(b)(2)(v). The final rule modifies the proposed requirement, however, by removing the
“reasonable correlation” requirement and instead requiring that the hedge demonstrably reduce or
otherwise significantly mitigate specific identifiable risks. Correlation analysis is, however, a necessary
component of the analysis element in the compliance program requirement of the hedging exemption in the
final rule. See final rule § __.5(b). This change is discussed below.

357

market developments, changes in positions or the configuration of aggregated positions,
changes in counterparty risk, and other facts and circumstances related to the risks
associated with the underlying and hedging positions, contracts, or other holdings.
The Agencies believe that requiring banking entities to develop and follow
detailed compliance policies and procedures related to risk-mitigating hedging activity
will help both banking entities and examiners understand the risks to which banking
entities are exposed and how these risks are managed in a safe and sound manner. With
this increased understanding, banking entities and examiners will be better able to
evaluate whether banking entities are engaged in legitimate, risk-reducing hedging
activity, rather than impermissible proprietary trading. While the Agencies recognize
there are certain costs associated with this compliance program requirement, 1217 we
believe this provision is necessary to ensure compliance with the statute and the final
rule. As discussed in Part IV.C.1., the Agencies have modified the proposed compliance
program structure to reduce burdens on small banking entities. 1218
The Agencies note that hedging may occur across affiliates under the hedging
exemption.1219 To ensure that hedging across trading desks or hedging done at a level of
the organization outside of the trading desk does not result in prohibited proprietary
trading, the final rule imposes enhanced documentation requirements on these activities,
which are discussed more fully below. The Agencies also note that nothing in the final

1217

See Barclays.

1218

See infra Part IV.C.1. Some commenters expressed concern that the compliance program requirement
would place undue burden on regional or community banks. See ICBA; M&T Bank.

1219

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC.

358

rule limits or restricts the ability of the appropriate supervisory agency of a banking entity
to place limits on interaffiliate hedging in a manner consistent with their safety and
soundness authority to the extent the agency has such authority. 1220 Additionally, nothing
in the final rule limits or modifies the applicability of CFTC regulations with respect to
the clearing of interaffiliate swaps. 1221
2.

Hedging of specific risks and demonstrable reduction of risk
Section __.5(b)(2)(ii) of the proposed rule required that a qualifying transaction

hedge or otherwise mitigate one or more specific risks, including market risk,
counterparty or other credit risk, currency or foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk,
basis risk, or similar risks, arising in connection with and related to individual or
aggregated positions, contracts, or other holdings of a banking entity. 1222 This criterion
implemented the essential element of the hedging exemption that the transaction be riskmitigating.
Some commenters expressed support for this provision, particularly the
requirement that a banking entity be able to tie a hedge to a specific risk. 1223 One of
these commenters stated that a demonstrated reduction in risk should be a key indicator

1220

In addition, section 608 of the Dodd-Frank Act added credit exposure arising from securities
borrowing and lending or a derivative transaction with an affiliate to the list of covered transactions subject
to the restrictions of section 23A of the FR Act, in each case to the extent that such transaction causes a
bank to have credit exposure to the affiliate. See 12 U.S.C. 371c(b)(7) and (8). As a consequence,
interaffiliate hedging activity within a banking entity may be subject to limitation or restriction under
section 23A of the FR Act.
1221

See 17 CFR 50.52.

1222

See proposed rule § __.5(b)(2)(ii); See also Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,875.

1223

See AFR (June 2013); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz.

359

of whether a hedge is in fact permitted. 1224 However, some commenters argued that the
list of risks eligible to be hedged under the proposed rule, which included risks arising
from aggregated positions, could justify transactions that should be viewed as prohibited
proprietary trading. 1225 Another commenter contended that the term “basis risk” was
undefined and could heighten the potential that this exemption would be used to evade
the prohibition on proprietary trading. 1226
Other commenters argued that requiring a banking entity to specify the particular
risk being hedged discourages effective hedging and increases the risk at banking entities.
These commenters contended that hedging activities must address constantly changing
positions and market conditions. 1227 Another commenter argued that this requirement
could render a banking entity’s hedges impermissible if those hedges do not succeed in
fully hedging or mitigating an identified risk as determined by a post hoc analysis and
could prevent banking entities from entering into hedging transactions in anticipation of
risks that the banking entity expects will arise (or increase). 1228 Certain commenters
requested that the hedging exemption provide a safe harbor for positions that satisfy
FASB ASC Topic 815 (formerly FAS 133) hedging accounting standards, which
provides that an entity recognize derivative instruments, including certain derivative
instruments embedded in other contracts, as assets or liabilities in the statement of

1224

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1225

See Public Citizen; See also Occupy.

1226

See Occupy.

1227

See, e.g., Japanese Bankers Ass’n.

1228

See Barclays.

360

financial position and measure them at fair value. 1229 Another commenter suggested that
scenario hedges could be identifiable and subject to review by the Agencies using VaR,
Stress VaR, and VaR Exceedance, as well as revenue metrics. 1230
The Agencies have considered these comments carefully in light of the statute.
Section 13(d)(1)(C) of the BHC Act provides an exemption from the prohibition on
proprietary trading only for hedging activity that is “designed to reduce the specific risks
to the banking entity in connection with and related to” individual or aggregated
positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity. 1231 Thus, while the statute
permits hedging of individual or aggregated positions (as discussed more fully below),
the statute requires that, to be exempt from the prohibition on proprietary trading,
hedging transactions be designed to reduce specific risks. 1232 Moreover, it requires that
these specific risks be in connection with or related to the individual or aggregated
positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity.
The final rule implements these requirements. To ensure that exempt hedging
activities are designed to reduce specific risks, the final rule requires that the hedging
activity at inception of the hedging activity, including, without limitation, any

1229

See ABA (Keating); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading). Although certain accounting standards, such as
FASB ASC Topic 815 hedge accounting standards, address circumstances in which a transaction may be
considered a hedge of another transaction, the final rule does not refer to or expressly rely on these
accounting standards because such standards: (i) are designed for financial statement purposes, not to
identify proprietary trading; and (ii) change often and are likely to change in the future without
consideration of the potential impact on section 13 of the BHC Act.
1230

See JPMC.

1231

12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(C).

1232

Some commenters expressed support for the requirement that a banking entity tie a hedge to a specific
risk. See AFR (June 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz.

361

adjustments to the hedging activity, be designed to reduce or otherwise significantly
mitigate and demonstrably reduces or otherwise significantly mitigates one or more
specific, identifiable risks, including market risk, counterparty or other credit risk,
currency or foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, basis risk, or
similar risks, arising in connection with and related to identified individual or aggregated
positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and
circumstances of the individual or aggregated underlying and hedging positions,
contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity and the risks and liquidity thereof. 1233
Hedging activities and limits should be based on analysis conducted by the banking entity
of the appropriateness of hedging instruments, strategies, techniques, and limits. As
discussed above, this analysis must include analysis of correlation between the hedge and
the specific identifiable risk or risks that the hedge is designed to reduce or significantly
mitigate. 1234
This language retains the focus of the statute and the proposed rule on reducing or
mitigating specific and identified risks. 1235 As discussed more fully above, banking
entities are required to describe in their compliance policies and procedures the types of
strategies, techniques, and positions that may be used for hedging.
1233

See final rule § __.5(b)(2)(ii).

1234

See final rule § __.5(b)(1)(iii).

1235

Some commenters represented that the proposed list of risks eligible to be hedged could justify
transactions that should be considered proprietary trading. See Public Citizen; Occupy. One commenter
was concerned about the proposed inclusion of “basis risk” in this list. See Occupy. As noted in the
proposal, the Agencies believe the inclusion of a list of eligible risks, including basis risk, helps implement
the essential element of the statutory hedging exemption – i.e., that the transaction is risk-reducing in
connection with a specific risk. See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,875. See also 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(C).
Further, the Agencies believe the other requirements of the final hedging exemption, including
requirements regarding internal controls and a compliance program, help to ensure that only legitimate
hedging activity qualifies for the exemption.

362

The final rule does not prescribe the hedging strategy that a banking entity must
employ. While one commenter urged that the final rule require each banking entity to
adopt the “best hedge” for every transaction, 1236 the Agencies believe that the complexity
of positions, market conditions at the time of a transaction, availability of hedging
transactions, costs of hedging, and other circumstances at the time of the transaction
make a requirement that a banking entity always adopt the “best hedge” impractical,
unworkable, and subjective.
Nonetheless, the statute requires that, to be exempt under section 13(d)(1)(C),
hedging activity must be risk-mitigating. To ensure that only risk-mitigating hedging is
permitted under this exemption, the final rule requires that in its written policies and
procedures the banking entity identify the instruments and positions that may be used in
hedging, the techniques and strategies the banking entity deems appropriate for its
hedging activities, as well as position limits and aging limits on hedging positions. These
written policies and procedures also must specify the escalation and approval procedures
that apply if a trader seeks to conduct hedging activities beyond the limits, position types,
strategies, or techniques authorized for the trader’s activities. 1237
As noted above, commenters were concerned that risks associated with permitted
activities and holdings change over time, making a determination regarding the
effectiveness of hedging activities in reducing risk dependent on the time when risk is

1236

See, e.g., Occupy.

1237

A banking entity must satisfy the enhanced documentation requirements of § __.5(c) if it engages in
hedging activity utilizing positions, contracts, or holdings that were not identified in its written policies and
procedures.

363

measured. To address this, the final rule requires that the exempt hedging activity be
designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate, and demonstrably reduces or
otherwise significantly mitigates, risk at the inception of the hedge. As explained more
fully below, because risks and the effectiveness of a hedging strategy may change over
time, the final rule also requires the banking entity to implement a program to review,
monitor, and manage its hedging activity over the period of time the hedging activity
occurs in a manner designed to reduce or significantly mitigate and demonstrably reduce
or otherwise significantly mitigate new or changing risks that may develop over time
from both the banking entity’s hedging activities and the underlying positions. Many
commenters expressed concern that the proposed ongoing review, monitoring, and
management requirement would limit a banking entity’s ability to engage in aggregated
position hedging. 1238 One commenter stated that because aggregated position hedging
may result in modification of hedging exposures across a variety of underlying risks,
even as the overall risk profile of a banking entity is reduced, it would become impossible
to subsequently review, monitor, and manage individual hedging transactions for
compliance. 1239 The Agencies note that the final rule, like the statute, requires that the
hedging activity relate to individual or aggregated positions, contracts or other holdings
being hedged, and accordingly, the review, monitoring and management requirement
would not limit the extent of permitted hedging provided for in section 13(d)(1)(C) as
implied by some commenters. Further, the final rule recognizes that the determination of
whether hedging activity demonstrably reduces or otherwise significantly mitigates risks

1238

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Barclays; ICI (Feb. 2012); Morgan Stanley.

1239

See Barclays.

364

that may develop over time should be “based upon the facts and circumstances of the
underlying and hedging positions, contracts and other holdings of the banking entity and
the risks and liquidity thereof.” 1240
A number of other commenters argued that a legitimate risk-reducing hedge may
introduce new risks at inception. 1241 A few commenters contended that a requirement
that no new risks be associated with a hedge would be inconsistent with prudent risk
management and greatly reduce the ability of banking entities to reduce overall risk
through hedging. 1242 A few commenters stated that the proposed requirement does not
recognize that it is not always possible to hedge a new risk exposure arising from a hedge
in a cost-effective manner. 1243 With respect to the timing of the initial hedge and any
additional transactions necessary to reduce significant exposures arising from it, one of
these commenters represented that requiring contemporaneous hedges is impracticable,
would raise transaction costs, and would make hedging uneconomic. 1244 Another
commenter stated that this requirement could have a chilling effect on risk managers’
willingness to engage in otherwise permitted hedging activity. 1245

1240

Final rule § __.5(b)(2)(iv)(B). The Agencies believe this provision addresses some commenters’
concern that the ongoing review, monitoring, and management requirement would limit hedging of
aggregated positions, and that such ongoing review of individual hedge transactions with a variety of
underlying risks would be impossible. See SIFMA (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Barclays; ICI (Feb. 2012);
Morgan Stanley.

1241

See ABA (Keating); BoA; Barclays; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al.
(Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); See also AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

1242

See Credit Suisse (Seidel); Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1243

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Barclays.

1244

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1245

See BoA.

365

Other commenters stated that a position that does not fully offset the risk of an
underlying position is not in fact a hedge. 1246 These commenters believed that the
introduction of new risks at inception of a transaction indicated that the transaction was
impermissible proprietary trading and not a hedge. 1247
The Agencies recognize that prudent risk-reducing hedging activities by banking
entities are important to the efficiency of the financial system. 1248 The Agencies further
recognize that hedges are generally imperfect; consequently, hedging activities can
introduce new and sometimes significant risks, such as credit risk, basis risk, or new
market risk, especially when hedging illiquid positions. 1249 However, the Agencies also
recognize that hedging activities present an opportunity to engage in impermissible
proprietary trading designed to profit from exposure to these types of risks.
To address these competing concerns, the final rule substantially retains the
proposed requirement that, at the inception of the hedging activity, the risk-reducing
hedging activity does not give rise to significant new or additional risk that is not itself
contemporaneously hedged. This approach is designed to allow banking entities to
continue to engage in prudent risk-mitigating activities while ensuring that the hedging
exemption is not used to engage in prohibited proprietary trading by taking on prohibited

1246

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; AFR (Nov. 2012).

1247

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012); AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

1248

See FSOC study (stating that “[p]rudent risk management is at the core of both institution-specific
safety and soundness, as well as macroprudential and financial stability”).

1249

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

366

short-term exposures under the guise of hedging. 1250 As noted in the proposal, however,
the Agencies recognize that exposure to new risks may result from legitimate hedging
transactions; 1251 this provision only prohibits the introduction of additional significant
exposures through the hedging transaction unless those additional exposures are
contemporaneously hedged.
As noted above, the final rule recognizes that whether hedging activity will
demonstrably reduce risk must be based upon the facts and circumstances of the
individual or aggregated underlying and hedging positions, contracts, or other holdings of
the banking entity and the risks and liquidity thereof. 1252 The Agencies believe this
approach balances commenters’ request that the Agencies clarify that a banking entity
may use its discretion to choose any hedging strategy that meets the requirements of the
proposed exemption 1253 with concerns that allowing banking entities to rely on the
cheapest satisfactory hedge will lead to additional hedging transactions. 1254 The
Agencies expect that hedging strategies and techniques, as well as assessments of risk,

1250

Some commenters stated that it is not always possible to hedge a new risk exposure arising from a
hedge in a cost-effective manner, and requiring contemporaneous hedges would raise transaction costs and
the potential for hedges to become uneconomical. See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Barclays.
As noted in the proposal, the Agencies believe that requiring a contemporaneous hedge of any significant
new risk that arises at the inception of a hedge is appropriate because a transaction that creates significant
new risk exposure that is not itself hedged at the same time would appear to be indicative of prohibited
proprietary trading. See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,876. Thus, the Agencies believe this requirement is
necessary to prevent evasion of the general prohibition on proprietary trading. In response to commenters’
concerns about transaction costs and uneconomical hedging, the Agencies note that this provision only
requires additional hedging of “significant” new or additional risk and does not apply to any risk exposure
arising from a hedge.

1251

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,876.

1252

See final rule § __.5(b)(2)(ii).

1253

See SIFMA (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading);
BoA.

1254

See Occupy.

367

will vary across positions, markets, activities and banking entities, and that a “one-sizefits-all” approach would not accommodate all types of appropriate hedging activity. 1255
By its terms, section 13(d)(1)(C) of the BHC Act permits a banking entity to
engage in risk-mitigating hedging activity “in connection with and related to individual or
aggregated positions . . . .” 1256 The preamble to the proposed rule made clear that,
consistent with the statutory reference to mitigating risks of individual or aggregated
positions, this criterion permits hedging of risks associated with aggregated positions. 1257
This approach is consistent with prudent risk-management and safe and sound banking
practice. 1258
The proposed rule explained that, to be exempt under this provision, hedging
activities must reduce risk with respect to “positions, contracts, or other holdings of the
banking entity.” The proposal also required that a banking entity relying on the
exemption be prepared to identify the specific position or risks associated with
aggregated positions being hedged and demonstrate that the hedging transaction was riskreducing in the aggregate, as measured by appropriate risk management tools.
Some commenters were of the view that the hedging exemption applied to
aggregated positions or portfolio hedging and was consistent with prudent riskmanagement practices. These commenters argued that permitting a banking entity to
1255

See Barclays.

1256

12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(C).

1257

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,875.

1258

See, e.g., Australian Bankers’ Ass’n. (Feb. 2012); BoA; Barclays; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Goldman
(Prop. Trading); HSBC; ICI (Feb. 2012); Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; JPMC; Morgan Stanley; Wells Fargo
(Prop. Trading); Rep. Bachus et al.; RBC; SIFMA (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

368

hedge aggregate positions and risks arising from a portfolio of assets would be more
efficient from both a procedural and business standpoint. 1259
By contrast, other commenters argued that portfolio-based hedging could be used
to mask prohibited proprietary trading. 1260 One commenter contended that the statute
provides no basis for portfolio hedging, and another commenter similarly suggested that
portfolio hedging should be prohibited. 1261 Another commenter suggested adopting
limits that would prevent the use of the hedging exemption to conduct proprietary activity
at one desk as a theoretical “hedge for proprietary trading at another desk.” 1262 Among
the limits suggested by these commenters were a requirement that a banking entity have a
well-defined compliance program, the formation of central “risk management” groups to
perform and monitor hedges of aggregated positions, and a requirement that the banking
entity demonstrate the capacity to measure aggregate risk across the institution with
precision using proven models. 1263 A few commenters suggested that the presence of
portfolio hedging should be viewed as an indicator of imperfections in hedging at the

1259

See, e.g. ABA (Keating); Ass’n. of Institutional Investors (Sept. 2012); BoA; See also Barclays
(expressing concern that the proposed rule could result in regulatory review of individual hedging trades for
compliance on a post hoc basis); HSBC; ISDA (Apr. 2012); ICI (Feb. 2012); PNC; MetLife; RBC; SIFMA
(Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).
1260

See, e.g., AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen;
Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz.

1261

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012) (commenting that the use of the term “aggregate” positions
was intended to note that firms do not have to hedge on a trade-by-trade basis but could not hedge on a
portfolio basis); Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz.
1262

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) (citing 156 Cong. Rec. S5898 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen.
Merkley)).

1263

See, e.g., Occupy; Public Citizen.

369

desk level and be a flag used by examiners to identify and review the integrity of specific
hedges. 1264
The final rule, like the proposed rule, implements the statutory language
providing for risk-mitigating hedging activities related to individual or aggregated
positions. For example, activity permitted under the hedging exemption would include
the hedging of one or more specific risks arising from identified positions, contracts, or
other holdings, such as the hedging of the aggregate risk of identified positions of one or
more trading desks. Further, the final rule requires that these hedging activities be riskreducing with respect to the identified positions, contracts, or other holdings being
hedged and that the risk reduction be demonstrable. Specifically, the final rule requires,
among other things: that the banking entity has a robust compliance program reasonably
designed to ensure compliance with the exemption; that each hedge is subject to
continuing review, monitoring and management designed to demonstrably reduce or
otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risks that develop over time
related to the hedging activity and the underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings
of the banking entity; and that the banking entity meet a documentation requirement for
hedges not established by the trading desk responsible for the underlying position or for
hedges effected through a financial instrument, technique or strategy that is not
specifically identified in the trading desk’s written policies and procedures. The
Agencies believe this approach addresses concerns that a banking entity could use the
hedging exemption to conduct proprietary activity at one desk as a theoretical hedge for

1264

See Public Citizen; Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

370

proprietary trading at another desk in a manner consistent with the statute. 1265 Further,
the Agencies believe the adopted exemption allows banking entities to engage in hedging
of aggregated positions 1266 while helping to ensure that such hedging activities are truly
risk-mitigating. 1267
As noted above, several commenters questioned whether the hedging exemption
should apply to “portfolio” hedging and whether portfolio hedging may create the
potential for abuse of the hedging exemption. The term “portfolio hedging” is not used in
the statute. The language of section 13(d)(1)(C) of the BHC Act permits a banking entity
to engage in risk-mitigating hedging activity “in connection with and related to individual
or aggregated positions . . . .” 1268 After consideration of the comments regarding
portfolio hedging, and in light of the statutory language, the Agencies are of the view that
the statutory language is clear on its face that a banking entity may engage in riskmitigating hedging in connection with aggregated positions of the banking entity. The
permitted hedging activity, when involving more than one position, contract, or other
holding, must be in connection with or related to aggregated positions of the banking
entity.

1265

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) (citing 156 Cong. Rec. S5898 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen.
Merkley)).

1266

See MetLife; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Morgan Stanley; Barclays; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); BoA; ABA (Keating); HSBC; Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; ICI (Feb. 2012); ISDA
(Feb. 2012).

1267

The Agencies believe certain limits suggested by commenters, such as the formation of central “risk
management” groups to monitor hedges of aggregated positions, are unnecessary given the aforementioned
limits in the final rule. See Occupy; Public Citizen.

1268

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(C).

371

Moreover, hedging of aggregated positions under this exemption must be related
to identifiable risks related to specific positions, contracts, or other holdings of the
banking entity. Hedging activity must mitigate one or more specific risks arising from an
identified position or aggregation of positions. The risks in this context are not intended
to be more generalized risks that a trading desk or combination of desks, or the banking
entity as a whole, believe exists based on non-position-specific modeling or other
considerations. For example, the hedging activity cannot be designed to: reduce risks
associated with the banking entity’s assets and/or liabilities generally, general market
movements or broad economic conditions; profit in the case of a general economic
downturn; counterbalance revenue declines generally; or otherwise arbitrage market
imbalances unrelated to the risks resulting from the positions lawfully held by the
banking entity. 1269 Rather, the hedging exemption permits the banking entity to engage
in trading activity designed to reduce or otherwise mitigate specific, identifiable risks
related to identified individual or aggregated positions that the banking entity it otherwise
lawfully permitted to have.
When undertaking a hedge to mitigate the risk of an aggregation of positions, the
banking entity must be able to specifically identify the risk factors arising from this set of
positions. In identifying the aggregate set of positions that is being hedged for purposes
of § __.5(b)(2)(ii) and, where applicable, § __.5(c)(2)(i), the banking entity needs to
identify the positions being hedged with sufficient specificity so that at any point in time,

1269

The Agencies believe that it would be inconsistent with Congressional intent to permit some or all of
these activities under the hedging exemption, regardless of whether certain metrics could be useful for
monitoring such activity. See JPMC.

372

the specific financial instrument positions or components of financial instrument
positions held by the banking entity that comprise the set of positions being hedged can
be clearly identified.
The proposal would have permitted a series of hedging transactions designed to
rebalance hedging position(s) based on changes resulting from permissible activities or
from a change in the price or other characteristic of the individual or aggregated
positions, contracts, or other holdings being hedged. 1270 The Agencies recognized that, in
such dynamic hedging, material changes in risk may require a corresponding
modification to the banking entity’s current hedge positions.1271
Some commenters questioned the risk-mitigating nature of a hedge if, at
inception, that hedge contained component risks that must be dynamically managed
throughout the life of the hedge. These commenters stated that hedges that do not
continuously match the risk of underlying positions are not in fact risk-mitigating hedges
in the first place. 1272
On the other hand, other commenters argued that banking entities must be
permitted to engage in dynamic hedging activity, such as in response to market

1270

See proposed rule § __.5(b)(2)(ii) (requiring that the hedging transaction “hedges or otherwise
mitigates one or more specific risks… arising in connection with and related to individual or aggregated
positions, contracts, or other holdings of [the] banking entity”). The proposal noted that this requirement
would include, for example, dynamic hedging. See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,875.
1271

The proposal noted that this corresponding modification to the hedge should also be reasonably
correlated to the material changes in risk that are intended to be hedged or otherwise mitigated, as required
by § __.5(b)(2)(iii) of the proposed rule.

1272

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; See also Better Markets (Feb. 2012), Sens. Merkley &
Levin (Feb. 2012).

373

conditions which are unforeseeable or out of the control of the banking entity, 1273 and
expressed concern that the limitations of the proposed rule, especially the requirement
that hedging transactions “maintain a reasonable level of correlation,” might impede truly
risk-reducing hedging activity. 1274
A number of commenters asserted that there could be confusion over the meaning
of “reasonable correlation,” which was used in the proposal as part of explaining what
type of activity would qualify for the hedging exemption. Some commenters urged
requiring that there be a “high” or “strong” correlation between the hedge and the risk of
the underlying asset. 1275
Other commenters indicated that uncertainty about the meaning of reasonable
correlation could limit valid risk-mitigating hedging activities because the level of
correlation between a hedge and the risk of the position or aggregated positions being
hedged changes over time as a result of changes in market factors and conditions. 1276
Some commenters represented that the proposed provision would cause certain
administrative burdens 1277 or may result in a reduction in market-making activities in

1273

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.

1274

See, e.g., BoA; Barclays; ISDA (Apr. 2012); PNC; PNC et al.; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012).

1275

See, e.g., Occupy; Public Citizen; AFR et. al. (Feb. 2012); AFR (June 2013); Better Markets (Feb.
2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).
1276

See BoA; Barclays; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; Credit Suisse (Seidel); FTN; Goldman
(Prop. Trading); ICI (Feb. 2012); Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; JPMC; Morgan Stanley; SIFMA et al. (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012); STANY; See also Chamber (Feb. 2012).
1277

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA.

374

certain asset classes. 1278 A few commenters expressed concern that the reasonable
correlation requirement could render a banking entity’s hedges impermissible if they do
not succeed in being reasonably correlated to the relevant risk or risks based on an afterthe-fact analysis that incorporates market developments that could not have been foreseen
at the time the hedge was placed. These commenters tended to favor a different approach
or a type of safe harbor based on an initial determination of correlation. 1279 Some
commenters argued the focus of the hedging exemption should be on risk reduction and
not on reasonable correlation. 1280 One commenter suggested that risk management
metrics such as VaR and risk factor sensitivities could be the focus for permitted hedging
instead of requirements like reasonable correlation under the proposal. 1281
In consideration of commenter concerns about the proposed reasonable
correlation requirement, the final rule modifies the proposal in the following key respects.
First, the final rule modifies the requirement of “reasonable correlation” by providing that
the hedge demonstrably reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate specific identifiable

1278

See BoA; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012). As discussed above, market-maker hedging at the
trading desk level is no longer subject to the hedging exemption and is instead subject to the requirements
of the market-making exemption, which is designed to permit banking entities to continue providing
legitimate market-making services, including managing the risk of market-making activity. See also supra
Part IV.A.3.c.4. of this Supplementary Information.
1279

See Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); Chamber (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012); See also FTN; BoA.

1280

See, e.g., FTN; Goldman (Prop. Trading); ISDA (Apr. 2012); See also Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb.
2012); Occupy.
1281

See Goldman (Prop. Trading). Consistent with the FSOC study and the proposal, the Agencies
continue to believe that quantitative measurements can be useful to banking entities and the Agencies to
help assess the profile of a trading desk’s trading activity and to help identify trading activity that may
warrant a more in-depth review. See infra Part IV.C.3.; final rule Appendix A. The Agencies do not intend
to use quantitative measurements as a dispositive tool for differentiating between permitted hedging
activities and prohibited proprietary trading.

375

risks. 1282 This change is designed to reinforce that hedging activity should be
demonstrably risk reducing or mitigating rather than simply correlated to risk. This
change acknowledges that hedges need not simply be correlated to underlying positions,
and that hedging activities should be consciously designed to reduce or mitigate
identifiable risks, not simply the result of pairing correlated positions, as some
commenters suggested. 1283 As discussed above, the Agencies do, however, recognize
that correlation is often a critical element of demonstrating that a hedging activity reduces
the risks it is designed to address. Accordingly, the final rule requires that banking
entities conduct correlation analysis as part of the required compliance program in order
to utilize the hedging exemption. 1284 The Agencies believe this change better allows
consideration of the facts and circumstances of the particular hedging activity as part of
the correlation analysis and therefore addresses commenters’ concerns that the proposed
reasonable correlation requirement could cause administrative burdens, impede legitimate
hedging activity, 1285 and require an after-the-fact analysis. 1286

1282

Some commenters stated that the hedging exemption should focus on risk reduction, not reasonable
correlation. See, e.g., FTN; Goldman (Prop. Trading); ISDA (Apr. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb.
2012); Occupy. One of these commenters noted that demonstrated risk reduction should be a key
requirement. See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1283

1284

See FTN; Goldman (Prop. Trading); ISDA (Apr. 2012); See also Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012);
Occupy.
See final rule § __.5(b)(1)(iii).

1285

Some commenters expressed concern that the proposed “reasonable correlation” requirement might
impede truly risk-reducing activity. See, e.g., BoA; Barclays; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation;
Credit Suisse (Seidel); FTN; Goldman (Prop. Trading); ICI (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Apr. 2012); Japanese
Bankers Ass’n.; JPMC; Morgan Stanley; PNC; PNC et al.; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012);
STANY. Some of these commenters stated that the proposed requirement would cause administrative
burdens. See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA.
1286

See Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); Chamber (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012; See also FTN.

376

Second, the final rule provides that the determination of whether an activity or
strategy is risk-reducing or mitigating must, in the first instance, be made at the inception
of the hedging activity. A trade that is not risk-reducing at its inception is not viewed as
a hedge for purposes of the exemption in §__.5. 1287
Third, the final rule requires that the banking entity conduct analysis and
independent testing designed to ensure that the positions, techniques, and strategies used
for hedging are reasonably designed to reduce or otherwise mitigate the risk being
hedged. As noted above, such analysis and testing must include correlation analysis.
Evidence of negative correlation may be a strong indicator that a given hedging position
or strategy is risk-reducing. Moreover, positive correlation, in some instances, may be an
indicator that a hedging position or strategy is not designed to be risk-mitigating. The
type of analysis and factors considered in the analysis should take account of the facts
and circumstances, including type of position being hedged, market conditions, depth and
liquidity of the market for the underlying and hedging position, and type of risk being
hedged.
The Agencies recognize that markets and risks are dynamic and that the risks
from a permissible position or aggregated positions may change over time, new risks may
emerge in the positions underlying the hedge and in the hedging position, new risks may
emerge from the hedging strategy over time, and hedges may become less effective over

1287

By contrast, the proposed requirement did not specify that the hedging activity reduce risk “at the
inception of the hedge.” See proposed rule § __.5(b)(2)(ii).

377

time in addressing the related risk. 1288 The final rule, like the proposal, continues to
allow dynamic hedging. Additionally, the final rule requires the banking entity to engage
in ongoing review, monitoring, and management of its positions and related hedging
activity to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the risks that develop over time.
This ongoing hedging activity must be designed to reduce or otherwise significantly
mitigate, and must demonstrably reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate, the material
changes in risk that develop over time from the positions, contracts, or other holdings
intended to be hedged or otherwise mitigated in the same way, as required for the initial
hedging activity. Moreover, the banking entity is required under the final rule to support
its decisions regarding appropriate hedging positions, strategies and techniques for its
ongoing hedging activity in the same manner as for its initial hedging activities. In this
manner, the final rule permits a banking entity to engage in effective management of its
risks throughout changing market conditions 1289 while also seeking to prohibit the
banking entity from taking large proprietary positions through action or inaction related
to an otherwise permissible hedge. 1290
As explained above, the final rule requires a banking entity relying on the hedging
exemption to be able to demonstrate that the banking entity is exposed to the specific

1288

Some commenters noted that hedging activities must address constantly changing positions and market
conditions and expressed concern about requiring a banking entity to identify the particular risk being
hedged. See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Barclays.

1289

A few commenters expressed concern that the proposed “reasonable correlation” requirement would
render hedges impermissible if not reasonably correlated to the relevant risk(s) based on a post hoc
analysis. See, e.g., Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); Chamber (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012).
1290

Some commenters questioned the risk-mitigating nature of a hedge if, at inception, it contained risks
that must be dynamically managed throughout the life of the hedge. See, e.g., AFR et al. (Feb. 2012);
Public Citizen.

378

risks being hedged at the inception of the hedge and any adjustments thereto. However,
in the proposal, the Agencies requested comment on whether the hedging exemption
should be available in certain cases where hedging activity begins before the banking
entity becomes exposed to the underlying risk. The Agencies proposed that the hedging
exemption would be available in certain cases where the hedge is established “slightly”
before the banking entity becomes exposed to the underlying risk if such anticipatory
hedging activity: (i) was consistent with appropriate risk management practices; (ii)
otherwise met the terms of the hedging exemption; and (iii) did not involve the potential
for speculative profit. For example, a banking entity that was contractually obligated or
otherwise highly likely to become exposed to a particular risk could engage in hedging
that risk in advance of actual exposure. 1291
A number of commenters argued that anticipatory hedging is a necessary and
prudent activity and that the final rule should permit anticipatory hedging more broadly
than did the proposed rule. 1292 In particular, commenters were concerned that permitting
hedging activity only if it occurs “slightly” before a risk is taken could limit hedging
activities that are crucial to risk management. 1293 Commenters expressed concern that
the proposed approach would, among other things, make it difficult for banking entities
to accommodate customer requests for transactions with specific price or size

1291

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,875.

1292

See, e.g., Barclays; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading); Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Credit Suisse (Seidel);
BoA; PNC et al.; ISDA (Feb. 2012).
1293

See BoA; Credit Suisse (Seidel); ISDA (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Morgan Stanley; PNC et al.; SIFMA et al.
(Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

379

executions 1294 and limit dynamic hedging activities that are important to sound risk
management. 1295 In addition, a number of commenters requested that the rule permit
banking entities to engage in scenario hedging, a form of anticipatory hedging that
addresses potential exposures to “tail risks.” 1296
Some commenters expressed concern about the proposed criterion that the
hedging activity not involve the potential for speculative profit. 1297 These commenters
argued that the proper focus of the hedging exemption should be on the purpose of the
transaction, and whether the hedge is correlated to the underlying risks being hedged (in
other words, whether the hedge is effective in mitigating risk). 1298 By contrast, another
commenter urged the Agencies to adopt a specific metric to track realized profits on
hedging activities as an indicator of prohibited arbitrage trading. 1299

1294

See Credit Suisse (Seidel); BoA.

1295

See PNC et al.

1296

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA; Comm. on
Capital Market Regulation. As discussed above, hedging activity relying on this exemption cannot be
designed to: reduce risks associated with the banking entity’s assets and/or liabilities generally, general
market movements or broad economic conditions; profit in the case of a general economic downturn;
counterbalance revenue declines generally; or otherwise arbitrage market imbalances unrelated to the risks
resulting from the positions lawfully held by the banking entity.
1297

See ABA (Keating); CH/ABASA; See also Credit Suisse (Seidel); PNC; PNC et al.; SIFMA et al.
(Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). One commenter argued that anticipatory hedging should not be permitted
because it represents illegal front running. See Occupy. The Agencies note that not all anticipatory
hedging would constitute illegal front running. Any activity that is illegal under another provision of law,
such as front running under section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, remains illegal; and section 13 of the BHC
Act and any implementing rules thereunder do not represent a grant of authority to engage in any such
activity. See 15 U.S.C. 78j.
1298

As discussed above, the final hedging exemption replaces the “reasonable correlation” concept with
the requirement that hedging activity “demonstrably reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate” specific,
identifiable risks.

1299

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); See also Part IV.C.3.d., infra.

380

Like the proposal, the final rule does not prohibit anticipatory hedging. However,
in response to commenter concerns that the proposal would limit a banking entity’s
ability to respond to customer requests and engage in prudent risk management, the final
rule does not retain the proposed requirement discussed above that an anticipatory hedge
be established “slightly” before the banking entity becomes exposed to the underlying
risk and meet certain conditions. To address commenter concerns with the statutory
mandate, several parts of the final rule are designed to ensure that all hedging activities,
including anticipatory hedging activities, are designed to be risk reducing and not
impermissible proprietary trading activities. For example, the final rule retains the
proposed requirement that a banking entity have reasonably designed policies and
procedures indicating the positions, techniques and strategies that each trading desk may
use for hedging. These policies and procedures should specifically address when
anticipatory hedging is appropriate and what policies and procedures apply to
anticipatory hedging.
The final rule also requires that a banking entity relying on the hedging exemption
be able to demonstrate that the hedging activity is designed to reduce or significantly
mitigate, and does demonstrably reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate, specific,
identifiable risks in connection with individual or aggregated positions of the banking
entity. 1300 Importantly, to use the hedging exemption, the final rule requires that the
banking entity subject its hedging activity to continuing review, monitoring, and

1300

This requirement modifies proposed rule §§ __.5(b)(2)(ii) and (iii). As discussed above, the addition
of “demonstrably reduces or significantly mitigates” language replaces the proposed “reasonable
correlation” requirement.

381

management that is designed to reduce or significantly mitigate specific, identifiable
risks, and that demonstrably reduces or otherwise significantly mitigates identifiable
risks, in connection with individual or aggregated positions of the banking entity. 1301 The
final rule also requires ongoing recalibration of the hedging activity by the banking entity
to ensure that the hedging activity satisfies the requirements set out in § __.5(b)(2) and is
not prohibited proprietary trading. If an anticipated risk does not materialize within a
limited time period contemplated when the hedge is entered into, under these provisions,
the banking entity would be required to extinguish the anticipatory hedge or otherwise
demonstrably reduce the risk associated with that position as soon as reasonably
practicable after it is determined that the anticipated risk will not materialize. This
requirement focuses on the purpose of the hedge as a trade designed to reduce anticipated
risk and not for other purposes. The Agencies will (and expect that banking entities also
will) monitor the activities of banking entities to identify prohibited trading activity that
is disguised as anticipatory hedging.
As noted above, one commenter suggested the Agencies adopt a metric to monitor
the profitability of a banking entity’s hedging activity. 1302 We are not adopting such a
metric because we do not believe it would be useful to monitor the profit and loss
associated with hedging activity in isolation without considering the profit and loss

1301

The proposed rule contained a similar provision, except that the proposed provision also required that
the continuing review maintain a reasonable level of correlation between the hedge transaction and the risk
being hedged. See proposed rule § __.5(b)(2)(v). As discussed above, the proposed “reasonable
correlation” requirement was removed from that provision and instead a requirement has been added to the
compliance program provision that correlation analysis be undertaken when analyzing hedging positions,
techniques, and strategies before they are implemented.

1302

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

382

associated with the individual or aggregated positions being hedged. For example, the
commenter’s suggested metric would not appear to provide information about whether
the gains arising from hedging positions offset or mitigate losses from individual or
aggregated positions being hedged.
3.

Compensation
The proposed rule required that the compensation arrangements of persons

performing risk-mitigating hedging activities be designed not to reward proprietary risktaking. 1303 In the proposal, the Agencies stated that hedging activities for which a
banking entity has established a compensation incentive structure that rewards
speculation in, and appreciation of, the market value of a covered financial position,
rather than success in reducing risk, are inconsistent with permitted risk-mitigating
hedging activities. 1304
Commenters generally supported this requirement and indicated that its inclusion
was very important and valuable. 1305 Some commenters argued that the final rule should
limit compensation based on profits derived from hedging transactions, even if those
hedging transactions were in fact risk-mitigating hedges, and urged that employees be
compensated instead based on success in risk mitigation at the end of the life of the
hedge. 1306 In contrast, other commenters argued that the compensation requirement

1303

See proposed rule § __.5(b)(2)(vi).

1304

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,868.

1305

See, e.g., AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.

1306

See AFR et al.(Feb. 2012); AFR (June 2013).

383

should restrict only compensation arrangements that incentivize employees to engage in
prohibited proprietary risk-taking. 1307
After considering comments received on the compensation requirements of the
proposed hedging exemption, the final rule substantially retains the proposed requirement
that the compensation arrangements of persons performing risk-mitigating hedging
activities be designed not to reward prohibited proprietary trading. The final rule is also
modified to make clear that rewarding or incentivizing profit making from prohibited
proprietary trading is not permitted. 1308
The Agencies recognize that compensation, especially incentive compensation,
may be both an important motivator for employees as well as a useful indicator of the
type of activity that an employee or trading desk is engaged in. For instance, an incentive
compensation plan that rewards an employee engaged in activities under the hedging
exemption based primarily on whether that employee’s positions appreciate in value
instead of whether such positions reduce or mitigate risk would appear to be designed to
reward prohibited proprietary trading rather than risk-reducing hedging activities. 1309
Similarly, a compensation arrangement that is designed to incentivize an employee to
exceed the potential losses associated with the risks of the underlying position rather than

1307

See Morgan Stanley.

1308

One commenter stated that the compensation requirement should restrict only compensation
arrangements that incentivize employees to engage in prohibited proprietary risk-taking, rather than apply
to hedging activities. See Morgan Stanley.
1309

Thus, the Agencies agree with one commenter who stated that compensation for hedging should not be
based purely on profits derived from hedging. However, the final rule does not require compensation
vesting, as suggested by this commenter, because the Agencies believe the final hedging exemption
includes sufficient requirements to ensure that only risk-mitigating hedging is permitted under the
exemption without a compensation vesting provision. See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); AFR (June 2013).

384

reduce risks of underlying positions would appear to reward prohibited proprietary
trading rather than risk-mitigating hedging activities. The banking entity should review
its compensation arrangements in light of the guidance and rules imposed by the
appropriate Federal supervisor for the entity regarding compensation. 1310
4.

Documentation requirement
Section __.5(c) of the proposed rule would have imposed a documentation

requirement on certain types of hedging transactions. Specifically, for any transaction
that a banking entity conducts in reliance on the hedging exemption that involved a hedge
established at a level of organization different than the level of organization establishing
or responsible for the positions, contracts, or other holdings the risks of which the
hedging transaction is designed to reduce, the banking entity was required, at a minimum,
to document: the risk-mitigating purpose of the transaction; the risks of the individual or
aggregated positions, contracts, or other holdings of a banking entity that the transaction
is designed to reduce; and the level of organization that is establishing the hedge. 1311
Such documentation was required to be established at the time the hedging transaction is
effected. The Agencies expressed concern in the proposal that hedging transactions
established at a different level of organization than the positions being hedged may
present or reflect heightened potential for prohibited proprietary trading, either at the
trading desk level or at the level instituting the hedging transaction. In other words, the
1310

See 12 U.S.C. 5641.

1311

For example, as explained under the proposal, a hedge would be established at a different level of
organization of the banking entity if multiple market-making desks were exposed to similar risks and, to
hedge such risks, a hedge was established at the direction of a supervisor or risk manager responsible for
more than one desk rather than at each of the market-making desks that established the initial positions,
contracts, or other holdings. See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,876 n.161.

385

further removed hedging activities are from the specific positions, contracts, or other
holdings the banking entity intends to hedge, the greater the danger that such activity is
not limited to hedging specific risks of individual or aggregated positions, contracts, or
other holdings of the banking entity, as required by the rule.
Some commenters argued that the final rule should require comprehensive
documentation for all activity conducted pursuant to the hedging exemption, regardless of
where it occurs in an organization. 1312 One of these commenters stated that such
documentation can be easily and quickly produced by traders and noted that traders
already record execution details of every trade. 1313 Several commenters argued that the
rule should impose a requirement that banks label all hedges at their inception and
provide information regarding the specific risk being offset, the expected duration of the
hedge, how it will be monitored, how it will be wound down, and the names of the trader,
manager, and supervisor approving the hedge. 1314
Some commenters requested that the documentation requirement be applied at a
higher level of organization, 1315 and some commenters noted that policies and procedures
alone would be sufficient to address hedging activity, wherever conducted within the
organization. 1316 Two commenters indicated that making the documentation requirement
narrower is necessary to avoid impacts or delays in daily trading operations that could

1312

See AFR (June 2013); Occupy.

1313

See Occupy.

1314

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Occupy; AFR (June 2013).

1315

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Barclays; See also Japanese Bankers Ass’n.

1316

See JPMC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

386

lead to a banking entity being exposed to greater risks. 1317 A number of commenters
stated that any enhanced documentation requirement would be burdensome and costly,
and would impede rapid and effective risk mitigation, whether done at a trading desk or
elsewhere in the banking entity. 1318
At least one commenter also argued that a banking entity should be permitted to
consolidate some or all of its hedging activity into a trading desk that is not responsible
for the underlying positions without triggering a requirement that all hedges undertaken
by a trading desk be documented solely because the hedges are not undertaken by the
trading desk that originated the underlying position. 1319
The final rule substantially retains the proposed requirement for enhanced
documentation for hedging activity conducted under the hedging exemption if the
hedging is not conducted by the specific trading desk establishing or responsible for the
underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings, the risks of which the hedging activity
is designed to reduce. The final rule clarifies that a banking entity must prepare enhanced
documentation if a trading desk establishes a hedging position and is not the trading desk
that established the underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings. The final rule also
requires enhanced documentation for hedges established to hedge aggregated positions
across two or more desks. This change in the final rule clarifies that the level of the
organization at which the trading desk exists is important for determining whether the

1317

See JPMC; Barclays.

1318

See Barclays; JPMC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); See also Japanese Bankers Ass’n.

1319

See JPMC.

387

trading desk established or is responsible for the underlying positions, contracts, or other
holdings. The final rule recognizes that a trading desk may be responsible for hedging
aggregated positions of that desk and other desks, business units, or affiliates. In that
case, the trading desk putting on the hedge is at least one step removed from some of the
positions being hedged. Accordingly, the final rule provides that the documentation
requirements in § __.5 apply if a trading desk is hedging aggregated positions that
include positions from more than one trading desk.
The final rule adds to the proposal by requiring enhanced documentation for
hedges established by the specific trading desk establishing or directly responsible for the
underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings, the risks of which the purchases or
sales are designed to reduce, if the hedge is effected through a financial instrument,
technique, or strategy that is not specifically identified in the trading desk’s written
policies and procedures as a product, instrument, exposure, technique, or strategy that the
trading desk may use for hedging. 1320 The Agencies note that this documentation
requirement does not apply to hedging activity conducted by a trading desk in connection
with the market making-related activities of that desk or by a trading desk that conducts
hedging activities related to the other permissible trading activities of that desk so long as

1320

One commenter suggested that the rule require documentation when a banking entity needs to engage
in new types of hedging transactions that are not covered by its hedging policies, although this
commenter’s suggested approach would only apply when a hedge is conducted two levels above the level
at which the risk arose. See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). The Agencies agree that
documentation is needed when a trading desk is acting outside of its hedging policies and procedures.
However, the final rule does not limit this documentation requirement to circumstances when the hedge is
conducted two organizational levels above the trading desk. Such an approach would be less effective than
the adopted approach at addressing evasion concerns.

388

the hedging activity is conducted in accordance with the compliance program for that
trading desk.
The Agencies continue to believe that, for the reasons stated in the proposal, it is
appropriate to retain documentation of hedging transactions conducted by those other
than the traders responsible for the underlying position in order to permit evaluation of
the activity. In order to reduce the burden of the documentation requirement while still
giving effect to the rule’s purpose, the final rule requires limited documentation for
hedging activity that is subject to a documentation requirement, consisting of: (1) the
specific, identifiable risk(s) of the identified positions, contracts, or other holdings that
the purchase or sale is designed to reduce; (2) the specific risk-mitigating strategy that the
purchase or sale is designed to fulfill; and (3) the trading desk or other business unit that
is establishing and responsible for the hedge transaction. As in the proposal, this
documentation must be established contemporaneously with the hedging transaction.
Documentation would be contemporaneous if it is completed reasonably promptly after a
trade is executed. The banking entity is required to retain records for no less than 5 years
(or such longer period as may be required under other law) in a form that allows the
banking entity to promptly produce such records to the Agency on request. 1321 While the
Agencies recognize this documentation requirement may result in certain costs, the
Agencies believe this requirement is necessary to prevent evasion of the statute and final
rule.

1321

See final rule § __5(c)(3).

389

5.

Section __.6(a)-(b): Permitted Trading in Certain Government and Municipal
Obligations
Section __.6 of the proposed rule permitted a banking entity to engage in trading

activities that were authorized by section 13(d)(1) of the BHC Act, 1322 including trading
in certain government obligations, trading on behalf of customers, trading by insurance
companies, and trading outside of the United States by certain foreign banking
entities. 1323 Section __.6 of the final rule generally incorporates these same statutory
exemptions. However, the final rule has been modified in some ways in response to
comments received on the proposal.
a.

Permitted Trading in U.S. Government Obligations
Section 13(d)(1)(A) permits trading in various U.S. government, U.S. agency and

municipal securities. 1324 Section __.6(a) of the proposed rule, which implemented
section 13(d)(1)(A) of the BHC Act, permitted the purchase or sale of a financial
instrument that is an obligation of the United States or any agency thereof or an
obligation, participation, or other instrument of or issued by the Government National
Mortgage Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation, a Federal Home Loan Bank, the Federal Agricultural
Mortgage Corporation or a Farm Credit System institution chartered under and subject to

1322

See proposed rule § __.6.

1323

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(A), (C), (F), and (H).

1324

12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(A).

390

the provisions of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.). 1325 The proposal
did not contain an exemption for trading in derivatives referencing exempt U.S.
government and agency securities, but requested comment on whether the final rule
should contain an exemption for proprietary trading in options or other derivatives
referencing an exempt government obligation. 1326
Commenters were generally supportive of the manner in which the proposal
implemented the exemption for permitted trading in U.S. government and U.S. agency
obligations. 1327 Many commenters argued that the exemption for permissible proprietary
trading in government obligations should be expanded, however, to include trading in
derivatives on government obligations. 1328 These commenters asserted that failure to
provide an exemption would adversely impact liquidity in the underlying government
obligations themselves and increase borrowing costs to governments. 1329 Several
commenters asserted that U.S. government and agency obligations and derivatives on
those instruments are substitutes and pose the same investment risks and

1325

The Agencies proposed that United States “agencies” for this purpose would include those agencies
described in section 201.108(b) of the Board’s Regulation A. See 12 CFR 201.108(b). The Agencies also
noted that the terms of the exemption would encompass the purchase or sale of enumerated government
obligations on a forward basis (e.g., in a to-be-announced market). In addition, this would include passthrough or participation certificates that are issued and guaranteed by a government-sponsored entity (e.g.,
the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation) in
connection with its securitization activities.
1326

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,878.

1327

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1328

See BoA; CalPERS; Credit Suisse (Seidel); CME Group; Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable;
FIA; JPMC; Morgan Stanley; PNC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop.
Trading).

1329

See BoA; FIA; HSBC; JPMC; Morgan Stanley; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

391

opportunities. 1330 According to some commenters, the significant connections between
these markets and the interchangeable nature of these instruments significantly contribute
to price discovery, in particular, in the cash market for U.S. Treasury obligations. 1331
Commenters also argued that trading in Treasury futures and options improves liquidity
in Treasury securities markets by providing an outlet to relieve any supply and demand
imbalances in spot obligations. Many commenters argued that the authority to engage in
trading in derivatives on U.S. government, agency, and municipal obligations is inherent
in the statutory exceptions granted by section 13(d)(1)(A) to trade in the underlying
obligation. 1332 To the extent there is any doubt about the scope of those exemptions,
commenters urged the Agencies to use the exemptive authority under section 13(d)(1)(J)
if necessary to permit proprietary trading in derivatives on government obligations. 1333
Two commenters opposed providing an exemption for proprietary trading in derivatives
on exempt government obligations. 1334
The final rule has not been modified to permit a banking entity to engage in
proprietary trading of derivatives on U.S. government and agency obligations.
The Agencies note that the cash market for exempt government obligations is
already one of the most liquid markets in the world, and the final rule will permit banking
entities to participate fully in these cash markets. In addition, the final rule permits
1330

See Barclays; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; FIA.

1331

See Barclays; CME Group; Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; See also UBS.

1332

See CME Group; See also Morgan Stanley; PNC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Wells
Fargo (Prop. Trading).
1333

See Barclays; CME Group; JPMC.

1334

See Occupy; Alfred Brock.

392

banking entities to make a market in U.S. government securities and in derivatives on
those securities. Moreover, the final rule allows banking entities to continue to use U.S.
government obligations and derivatives on those obligations in risk-mitigating hedging
activities permitted by the rule. Further, proprietary trading in derivatives on such
obligations will continue by entities other than banking entities.
Proprietary trading of derivatives on U.S. government obligations is not necessary
to promote and protect the safety and soundness of a banking entity or the financial
stability of the United States. Commenters offered no compelling reasons why
derivatives on exempt government obligations pose little or no risk to the financial
system as compared to derivatives on other financial products for which proprietary
trading is generally prohibited and did not indicate how proprietary trading in derivatives
of U.S. government and agency obligations by banking entities would promote the safety
and soundness of those entities or the financial stability of the United States. For these
reasons, the Agencies have not determined to provide an exemption for proprietary
trading in derivatives on exempt government obligations.
The Agencies believe banking entities will continue to provide significant support
and liquidity to the U.S. government and agency security markets through permitted
trading in the cash exempt government obligations markets, making markets in
government obligation derivatives and through derivatives trading for hedging purposes.
The final rule adopts the same approach as the proposed rule for the exemption for
permitted trading in U.S. government and U.S. agency obligations. In response to
commenters, the Agencies are clarifying how banking entities would be permitted to use
Treasury derivatives on Treasury securities when relying on the exemptions for market393

making related activities and risk-mitigating hedging activities. The Agencies agree with
commenters that some Treasury derivatives are close economic substitutes for Treasury
securities and provide many of the same economic exposures. 1335 The Agencies also
understand that the markets for Treasury securities and Treasury futures are fully
integrated, and that trading in these derivative instruments is essential to ensuring the
continued smooth functioning of market-making related activities in Treasury securities.
Treasury derivatives are frequently used by market makers to hedge their market-making
related positions across many different types of fixed-income securities. Under the final
rule, market makers will generally be able to continue their practice of using Treasury
futures to hedge their activities as block positioners off exchanges. Additionally, when
engaging in permitted market-making related or risk-mitigating hedging activities in
accordance with the requirements in §§___.4(b) or ___.(5), the final rule permits banking
entities to acquire a short or long position in Treasury futures through manual trading or
automated processes. For example, a banking entity would be permitted to use Treasury
futures to hedge the duration risk (i.e., the measure of a bond’s price sensitivity to interest
rates movements) associated with the banking entity’s market-making in Treasury
securities or other fixed-income products, provided that the banking entity complies with
the market-making requirements in § __.4(b). In their market making, banking entities
also frequently trade Treasury futures (and acquire a corresponding long or short
position) in reasonable anticipation of the near-term demands of their clients, customers,
and counterparties. For example, banking entities may acquire a long or short position in
Treasury futures to hedge anticipated market risk when they reasonably expect clients,
1335

See infra note 1330.

394

customers, or counterparties will seek to establish long or short positions in on- or offthe-run Treasury securities. Similarly, banking entities could acquire a long or short
position in the “Treasury basis” to hedge the anticipated basis risk associated with
making markets for clients, customers, or counterparties that are reasonably expected to
engage in basis trading of the price spread between Treasury futures and Treasury
securities. A banking entity can also use Treasury futures (or other derivatives on exempt
government obligations) to hedge other risks such as the aggregated interest rate risk for
specifically identified loans as well as other financial instruments such as asset-backed
securities, corporate bonds, and interest rate swaps. Therefore, depending on the relevant
facts and circumstances, banking entities would be permitted to acquire a very large long
or short position in Treasury derivatives provided that they comply with the requirements
in §§___.4(b) or ___.(5). The Agencies also understand that banking entities that have
been designated as “primary dealers” by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York are
required to underwrite issuances of Treasury securities. This necessitates the banking
entities to frequently establish very large short positions in Treasury futures to order to
hedge the duration risk associated with potentially owning a large volume of Treasury
securities. As described below, 1336 the Agencies note that, with respect to a banking
entity that acts as a primary dealer for Treasury securities, the U.S. government will be
considered a client, customer, or counterparty of the banking entity for purposes of the
market-making exemption. 1337 We believe this interpretation appropriately captures the
unique relationship between a primary dealer and the government. Moreover, this

1336

See infra Part IV.A.3.c.2.c.i.

1337

See supra note 905 (explaining the functions of primary dealers).

395

interpretation clarifies that a banking entity may rely on the market-making exemption
for its activities as primary dealer to the extent those activities are outside the scope of the
underwriting exemption. 1338
The final rule also includes an exemption for obligations of or guaranteed by the
United States or an agency of the United States. An obligation guaranteed by the U.S. or
an agency of the U.S. is, in effect, an obligation of the U.S. or that agency.
The final rule also includes an exemption for an obligation of the FDIC, or any
entity formed by or on behalf of the FDIC for the purpose of facilitating the disposal of
assets acquired or held by the FDIC in its corporate capacity or as conservator or receiver
under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDI Act”) or Title II of the Dodd-Frank
Act. 1339 These FDIC receivership and conservatorship operations are authorized under
the FDI Act and Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act and are designed to lower the FDIC’s
resolution costs. The Agencies believe that an exemption for these types of obligations
would promote and protect the safety and soundness of banking entities and the financial
stability of the United States because they facilitate the FDIC’s ability to conduct
receivership and conservatorship operations in an orderly manner, thereby limiting risks
to the financial system generally that might otherwise occur if the FDIC was restricted in
its ability to conduct these operations.
b.

Permitted Trading in Foreign Government Obligations

1338

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.2.b.ix. (discussing commenters’ concerns regarding primary dealer activity, as
well as one commenter’s request for such an interpretation).
1339

See final rule § __.6(a)(4).

396

The proposed rule did not contain an exemption for trading in obligations of
foreign sovereign entities. As part of the proposal, however, the Agencies specifically
requested comment on whether proprietary trading in the obligations of foreign
governments would promote and protect the safety and soundness of banking entities and
the financial stability of the United States under section 13(d)(1)(J) of the BHC Act. 1340
The treatment of proprietary trading in foreign sovereign obligations prompted a
significant number of comments. Many commenters, including foreign governments,
foreign and domestic banking entities, and various trade groups, argued that the final rule
should permit trading in foreign sovereign debt, including obligations issued by political
subdivisions of foreign governments. 1341 Representatives from foreign governments such
as Canada, Germany, Luxembourg, Japan, Australia, and Mexico specifically requested
an exemption for trading in obligations of their governments and argued that an
exemption was necessary and appropriate to maintain and promote financial stability in
their markets. 1342 Some commenters also requested an exemption for trading in

1340

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,878.

1341

See, e.g., Allen & Overy (Gov’t Obligations); Allen & Overy (Canadian Banks); BoA; Australian
Bankers Ass’n. (Feb. 2012); AFMA; Banco de México; Bank of Canada; Ass’n of German Banks;
BAROC; Barclays; BEC (citing the National Institute of Banking and Finance); British Bankers’ Ass’n.;
BaFin/Deutsche Bundesbank; Chamber (Feb. 2012); Mexican Banking Comm’n.; French Treasury et al.;
EFAMA; ECOFIN; EBF; French Banking Fed’n.; FSA (Apr. 2012); FIA; Goldman (Prop. Trading);
HSBC; Hong Kong Inv. Funds Association; IIB/EBF; ICFR; ICSA; IRSG; Japanese Bankers Ass’n.;
Ass’n. of Banks in Malaysia; OSFI; British Columbia; Québec; Sumitomo Trust; TMA Hong Kong; UBS;
Union Asset.
1342

See, e.g., Allen & Overy (Gov’t Obligations); Bank of Canada; British Columbia; Ontario; IIAC;
Quebec; IRSG; IIB/EBF; Mitsubishi; Gov’t of Japan/Bank of Japan; Australian Bankers Ass’n (Feb. 2012);
AFMA; Banco de México; Ass’n. of German Banks; ALFI; Embassy of Switzerland.

397

obligations of multinational central banks, such as Eurobonds issued or guaranteed by the
European Central Bank. 1343
Many commenters argued that the same rationale for the statutory exemption for
proprietary trading in U.S. government obligations supported exempting proprietary
trading in foreign sovereign debt and related obligations. 1344 Commenters contended that
lack of an express exemption for trading in foreign sovereign obligations could critically
impact the functioning of money market operations of foreign central banks and limit the
ability of foreign sovereign governments to conduct monetary policy or finance their
operations. 1345 These commenters also contended that an exemption for proprietary
trading in foreign sovereign debt would promote and protect the safety and soundness
and the financial stability of the United States by avoiding the possible negative effects of
a contraction of government bond market liquidity. 1346
Commenters also contended that in some foreign markets, local regulations or
market practice require U.S. banking entities operating in those jurisdictions to hold,
trade or support government issuance of local sovereign securities. They also indicated

1343

See Ass’n. of German Banks; Goldman (Prop. Trading); IIB/EBF; ICFR; FIA; Mitsubishi; Sumitomo
Trust; Allen & Overy (Gov’t Obligations).

1344

See Allen & Overy (Gov’t. Obligations); Banco de México; Barclays; BaFIN/Deutsche Bundesbank;
EFAMA; Union Asset; TMA Hong Kong; ICI (Feb. 2012) (arguing that such an exemption would be
consistent with Congressional intent to limit the extra-territorial application of U.S. law).

1345

See Banco de México; Barclays; BoA; Gov’t of Japan/Bank of Japan; IIAC; OSFI.

1346

See, e.g., Allen & Overy (Gov’t. Obligations); AFMA; Banco de México; Ass’n. of German Banks;
Barclays; Mexican Banking Comm’n.; EFAMA; EBF; French Banking Fed’n.; Goldman (Prop. Trading);
HSBC; IIB/EBF; HSBC; ICSA; T. Rowe Price; UBS; Union Asset; IRSG; EBF; Mitsubishi (citing
Japanese Bankers Ass’n. and IIB); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); ICI Global.

398

that these instruments are traded in the United States or on U.S. markets. 1347 In addition,
a number of commenters contended that U.S. and foreign banking entities often perform
functions for foreign governments similar to those provided in the United States by U.S.
primary dealers and alleged that restricting these trading activities would have a
significant negative impact on the ability of foreign governments to implement their
monetary policy and on liquidity for such securities in many foreign markets. 1348 A few
commenters further argued that banking entities use foreign sovereign debt, particularly
debt of their home country and of the country in which they are operating, to manage
their risk by posting sovereign securities as collateral in foreign jurisdictions, to manage
international rate and foreign exchange risk (particularly in local operations), and for
liquidity and asset-liability management purposes in different countries. 1349 Similarly,
commenters expressed concern that the lack of an exemption for trading in foreign
government obligations could adversely interact with other banking regulations, such as
liquidity requirements under the Basel III capital rules that encourage financial
institutions to hold large concentrations of sovereign bonds to match foreign currency

1347

See Allen & Overy (Gov’t. Obligations) (contending that “even if not primary dealers, banking entities
or their branches or agencies acting in certain foreign jurisdictions, such as Singapore and India, are still
required to hold or transact in local sovereign debt under local law”); BoA; Barclays; Citigroup; SIFMA et
al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1348

See Allen & Overy (Gov’t. Obligations); Australian Bankers Ass’n. (Feb. 2012); BoA; Banco de
México; Barclays; Citigroup; Goldman (Prop. Trading); IIB/EBF; See also JPMC (suggesting that, at a
minimum, the Agencies should make clear that all of a firm's activities that are necessary or reasonably
incidental to its acting as a primary dealer in a foreign government's debt securities are protected by the
market-making-related permitted activity); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). As discussed in
Parts IV.A.2.c.2.c. and IV.A.2.c.2.b.ix of this Supplementary Information, the Agencies believe primary
dealing activities would generally qualify under the scope of the market-making or underwriting
exemption.
1349

See Citigroup; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

399

denominated obligations. 1350 Commenters also expressed particular concern that the
limitations and obligations of section 13 of the BHC Act would likely be problematic and
unduly burdensome if banking entities were able to trade in foreign sovereign obligations
only under the market making or other proposed exemptions from the proprietary trading
prohibition. 1351 One commenter expressed the view that lack of an exemption for
proprietary trading in foreign government obligations together with the proposed
exemption for trading that occurs solely outside the U.S. may cause foreign banks to
close their U.S. branches to avoid being subject to section 13 of the BHC Act and any
final rule thereunder. 1352
According to some commenters, providing an exemption only for proprietary
trading in U.S. government obligations, without a similar exemption for foreign
government obligations, would be discriminatory and inconsistent with longstanding
principles of national treatment and with U.S. treaty obligations, such as obligations
under the World Trade Organization framework or bilateral trade agreements. 1353 In
addition, several commenters argued that not exempting proprietary trading of foreign
sovereign debt may encourage foreign regulators to enact similar regulations to the
detriment of U.S. financial institutions operating abroad. 1354 However, another

1350

See Allen & Overy (Gov’t. Obligations); BoA.

1351

See Barclays; IIAC; UBS; Ass’n. of Banks in Malaysia; IIB/EBF.

1352

See Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation.

1353

See Allen & Overy (Gov’t. Obligations); Banco de México; IIB/EBF; Ass’n. of Banks in Malaysia.

1354

See Sumitomo Trust; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Allen & Overy (Govt. Obligations);
BoA; ICI Global; RBC; ICFR; ICI (Feb. 2012); Bank of Canada; Cadwalader (on behalf of Singapore
Banks); Ass'n. of Banks in Malaysia; Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai Banks); Chamber (Feb. 2012);
BAROC. See also IIB/EBF.

400

commenter disagreed that the failure to exempt trading in foreign government obligations
would violate trade agreements or that the proposal discriminated in any way against
foreign banking entities’ ability to compete with U.S. banking entities in the U.S. 1355
Based on these concerns, some commenters suggested that the Agencies exempt
proprietary trading by foreign banking entities in obligations of their home or host
country. 1356 Other commenters suggested allowing trading in foreign government
obligations that meet some condition on quality (e.g., OECD-member country
obligations, government bonds eligible as collateral for Federal Reserve advances,
sovereign bonds issued by G-20 countries, or other highly liquid or rated instruments). 1357
One commenter indicated that in their view, provided appropriate risk-management
procedures are followed, investing in non-U.S. government securities is as low risk as
investing in U.S. government securities despite current price volatility in certain types of
sovereign debt. 1358 Some commenters also suggested the final rule give deference to
home country regulation and permit foreign banking entities to engage in proprietary
trading in any government obligation to the extent that such trading is permitted by the
entity’s primary regulator. 1359

1355

See Sens. Merkley &Levin (Feb. 2012).

1356

See Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai Banks); IIB/EBF; Ass’n. of Banks in Malaysia; UBS; See also
BAROC.
1357

See BoA; Cadwalader (on behalf of Singapore Banks); IIB/EBF; Norinchukin; OSFI; Cadwalader (on
behalf of Thai Banks); Ass’n. of Banks in Malaysia; UBS; See also BAROC; ICFR; Japanese Bankers
Ass’n.; JPMC; Québec.
1358

See, e.g., Allen & Overy (Gov’t Obligations).

1359

See Allen & Overy (Gov’t. Obligations); HSBC.

401

By contrast, other commenters argued that proprietary trading in foreign
sovereign obligations represents a risky activity and that there is no effective way to draw
the line between safe and unsafe foreign debt. 1360 Two of these commenters pointed to
several publicly reported instances where proprietary trading in foreign sovereign
obligations resulted in significant losses to certain firms. These commenters argued that
restricting proprietary trading in foreign sovereign debt would not cause reduced liquidity
in government bond markets since banking entities would still be permitted to make a
market in and underwrite foreign government obligations. 1361 A few commenters
suggested that, if the final rule exempted proprietary trading in foreign sovereign debt,
foreign governments should commit to pay for any damage to the U.S. financial system
related to proprietary trading in their obligations pursuant to such exemption. 1362
The Agencies carefully considered all the comments related to proprietary trading
in foreign sovereign debt in light of the language, purpose and standards for exempting
activity contained in section 13 of the BHC Act. Under section 13(d)(1)(J), the Agencies
may grant an exemption from the prohibitions of the section for any activity that the
Agencies determine would promote and protect the safety and soundness of the banking
entity and the financial stability of the United States.
The Agencies note as an initial matter that section 13 permits banking entities –
both inside the United States and outside the United States – to make markets in and to

1360

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Prof. Johnson; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1361

See Prof. Johnson; Better Markets (Feb. 2012).

1362

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012); See also Prof. Johnson.

402

underwrite all types of securities, including all types of foreign sovereign debt. The final
rule implements the statutory market-making and underwriting exemptions, and thus, the
key role of banking entities in facilitating trading and liquidity in foreign government
debt through market-making and underwriting is maintained. This includes underwriting
and marketmaking as a primary dealer in foreign sovereign obligations. Banking entities
may also hold foreign sovereign debt in their long-term investment book. In addition, the
final rule does not prevent foreign banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading
outside of the United States in any type of sovereign debt. 1363 Moreover, the Agencies
continue to believe that positions, including positions in foreign government obligations,
acquired or taken for the bona fide purpose of liquidity management and in accordance
with a documented liquidity management plan that is consistent with the relevant
Agency’s supervisory requirements, guidance and expectations regarding liquidity
management are not covered by the prohibitions in section 13. 1364 The final rule
continues to incorporate this view. 1365
The issue raised by commenters, therefore, is the extent to which proprietary
trading in foreign sovereign obligations by U.S. banking entities anywhere in the world
and by foreign banking entities in the United States is consistent with promoting and
protecting the safety and soundness of the banking entity and the financial stability of the
United States. Taking into account the information provided by commenters, the
Agencies’ understanding of market operations, and the purpose and language of section

1363

See final rule § __.6(e).

1364

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,862.

1365

See final rule § __.3(d)(3).

403

13, the Agencies have determined to grant a limited exemption to the prohibition on
proprietary trading for trading in foreign sovereign obligations under certain
circumstances.
This exemption, which is contained in § __.6(b) of the final rule, permits the U.S.
operations of foreign banking entities to engage in proprietary trading in the United
States in the foreign sovereign debt of the foreign sovereign under whose laws the
banking entity – or the banking entity that controls it – is organized (hereinafter, the
“home country”), and any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a
member so long as the purchase or sale as principal is not made by an insured depository
institution.1366 Similar to the exemption for proprietary trading in U.S. government
obligations, the permitted trading activity in the U.S. by the eligible U.S. operations of a
foreign banking entity would extend to obligations of political subdivisions of the foreign
banking entity’s home country. 1367
Permitting the eligible U.S. operations of a foreign banking entity to engage in
proprietary trading in the United States in the foreign sovereign obligations of the foreign
1366

See final rule § __.6(b). Some commenters requested an exemption for trading in obligations of
multinational central banks. See Ass’n. of German Banks; Goldman (Prop. Trading); IIB/EBF; ICFR; FIA;
Mitsubishi; Sumitomo Trust; Allen & Overy (Gov’t. Obligations). In the case of a foreign banking entity
that is owned or controlled by a second foreign banking entity domiciled in a country other than the home
country of the first foreign banking entity, the final rule would permit the eligible U.S. operations of the
first foreign banking entity to engage in proprietary trading only in the sovereign debt of the first foreign
banking entity’s home country, and would permit the U.S. operations of the second foreign banking entity
to engage in proprietary trading only in the sovereign debt of the home country of the second foreign
banking entity. As noted earlier, other provisions of the final rule make clear that the rule does not restrict
the proprietary trading outside of the United States of either foreign banking organization in debt of any
foreign sovereign.
1367

See Part IV.A.5.c., infra. Many commenters requested an exemption for trading in foreign sovereign
debt, including obligations issued by political subdivisions of foreign governments. See, e.g., Allen &
Overy (Gov’t. Obligations); BoA; Australian Bankers Ass’n. (Feb. 2012); Banco de México; Bank of
Canada; Ass’n. of German Banks; BAROC; Barclays.

404

entity’s home country allows these U.S. operations of foreign banking entities to continue
to support the smooth functioning of markets in foreign sovereign obligations in the same
manner as U.S. banking entities are permitted to support the smooth functioning of
markets in U.S. government and agency obligations. 1368 At the same time, the risk of
these trading activities is largely determined by the foreign sovereign that charters the
foreign bank. By not permitting proprietary trading in foreign sovereign debt in insured
depository institutions (other than in accordance with the limitations in other
exemptions), the exemption limits the direct risks of these activities to insured depository
institutions in keeping with the statute. 1369 Thus, the Agencies have determined that this
limited exemption for proprietary trading in foreign sovereign obligations promotes and
protects the safety and soundness of banking entities and also promotes and protects the
financial stability of the United States.
The Agencies have also determined to permit a foreign bank or foreign brokerdealer regulated as a securities dealer and controlled by a U.S. banking entity to engage
in proprietary trading in the obligations of the foreign sovereign under whose laws the
foreign entity is organized (hereinafter, the “home country”), including obligations of an

1368

As part of this exemption, for example, the U.S. operations of a European bank would be able to trade
in obligations issued by the European Central Bank. Many commenters represented that the same rationale
for exempting trading in U.S. government obligations supports exempting trading in foreign sovereign
debt. See, e.g., Allen & Overy (Gov’t. Obligations); Banco de México; Barclays; EFAMA; ICI (Feb.
2012).

1369

The Agencies believe this approach appropriately balances commenter concerns that proprietary
trading in foreign sovereign obligations represents a risky activity and the interest in preserving the ability
of U.S. operations of foreign banking entities to continue to support the smooth functioning of markets in
foreign sovereign obligations in the same manner as U.S. banking entities are permitted to support the
smooth functioning of markets in U.S. government and agency obligations. See Better Markets (Feb.
2012); Occupy; Prof. Johnson; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

405

agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign. 1370 This limited exemption is
necessary to allow U.S. banking organizations to continue to own and acquire foreign
banking organizations and broker-dealers without requiring those foreign banking
organizations and broker-dealers to discontinue proprietary trading in the sovereign debt
of the foreign banking entity’s home country. 1371 The Agencies have determined that this
limited exemption will promote the safety and soundness of banking entities and the
financial stability of the United States by allowing U.S. banking entities to continue to be
affiliated with and operate foreign banking entities and benefit from international
diversification and participation in global financial markets. 1372 However, the Agencies
intend to monitor activity of banking entities under this exemption to ensure that U.S.
banking entities are not seeking to evade the restrictions of section 13 by using an
affiliated foreign bank or broker-dealer to engage in proprietary trading in foreign
sovereign debt on behalf of or for the benefit of other parts of the U.S. banking entity.
Apart from this limited exemption, the Agencies have not extended this
exemption to proprietary trading in foreign sovereign debt by U.S. banking entities for
several reasons. First, section 13 was primarily concerned with the risks posed to the

1370

See final rule § __.6(c). Many commenters requested an exemption for trading in foreign sovereign
debt, and some commenters suggested exempting proprietary trading by foreign banking entities in
obligations of their home country. See, e.g., Allen & Overy (Gov’t. Obligations); BoA; FSA (Apr. 2012);
Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai Banks); IIB/EBF; Ass’n. of Banks in Malaysia; UBS.

1371

Commenters argued that in some foreign markets, U.S. banks operating in those jurisdictions are
required by local regulation or market practice to trade in local sovereign securities. See, e.g., Allen &
Overy (Gov’t. Obligations); AFMA; Ass’n. of German Banks; Barclays; EBF; Goldman (Prop. Trading);
UBS.

1372

Some commenters represented that the limitations and obligations of section 13 would be problematic
and unduly burdensome on banking entities because they would only be able to trade in foreign sovereign
obligations under existing exemptions, such as the market-making exemption. See Barclays; IIAC; UBS;
Ass’n. of Banks in Malaysia; IIB/EBF.

406

U.S. financial system by proprietary trading activities. This risk is most directly
transmitted by U.S. banking entities, and while commenters alleged that prohibiting U.S.
banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading in debt of foreign sovereigns would
harm liquidity in those markets, the evidence provided by commenters did not
sufficiently indicate that permitting U.S. banking entities to engage in proprietary trading
(as opposed to market-making or underwriting) in debt of foreign sovereigns contributed
in any significant degree to the liquidity of markets in foreign sovereign instruments. 1373
Thus, expanding the exemption to permit U.S. banking entities to engage in proprietary
trading in debt of foreign sovereigns would likely increase the risks to these entities and
the U.S. financial system without a significant concomitant and offsetting benefit. As
explained above, these U.S. entities are permitted by the final rule to continue to engage
fully in market-making in and underwriting of debt of foreign sovereigns anywhere in the
world. The only restriction placed on these entities is on the otherwise impermissible
proprietary trading in these instruments for the purpose of selling in the near term or
otherwise with the intent to resell in order to profit from short-term price movements.
The Agencies recognize that, depending on the extent to which banking entities
subject to the rule have contributed to the liquidity of trading markets for foreign
sovereign debt, the lack of an exemption for proprietary trading in foreign sovereign debt
could result in certain negative impacts on the markets for such debt. In general, the
Agencies believe these concerns should be mitigated somewhat by the refined
1373

See, e.g., BoA; Citigroup; Goldman (Prop. Trading); IIB/EBF; Allen & Overy (Gov’t. Obligations);
Australian Bankers Ass’n. (Feb. 2012).; Banco de México; Barclays. The Agencies recognize some
commenters’ representation that restricting trading in foreign sovereign debt would not necessarily cause
reduced liquidity in government bond markets because banking entities would still be able to make a
market in and underwrite foreign government obligations. See Prof. Johnson; Better Markets (Feb. 2012).

407

exemptions for market making, underwriting and permitted trading activity of foreign
banking entities; however, those exemptions do not address certain of the collateral,
capital, and other operational issues identified by commenters. 1374 Foreign sovereign
debt of home and host countries generally serves these purposes. Due to the relationships
among global financial markets, permitting trading that supports these essential functions
promotes the financial stability and the safety and soundness of banking entities. 1375 In
contrast, a broad exemption for proprietary trading in all foreign sovereign debt without
the limitations contained in the underwriting, market making and hedging exemptions
could lead to more complicated risk profiles and significant unhedged risk exposures that
section 13 of the BHC Act is designed to address. Thus, the Agencies believe use of

1374

Representatives from foreign governments stated that an exemption allowing trading in obligations of
their governments is necessary to maintain financial stability in their markets. See, e.g., Allen & Overy
(Gov’t. Obligations); Bank of Canada; IRSG; IIB/EBF; Gov’t of Japan/Bank of Japan; Australian Bankers
Ass’n. (Feb. 2012); Banco de México; Ass’n. of German Banks; ALFI. Commenters argued that
exempting trading in foreign sovereign debt would avoid the possible negative impacts of a contraction of
government bond market liquidity. See, e.g., BoA; Citigroup; Goldman (Feb. 2012); IIB/EBF.
Additionally, commenters suggested that failing to provide an exemption for this activity would impact
money market operations of foreign central banks and limit the ability of foreign sovereign governments to
conduct monetary policy or finance their operations. See, e.g., Barclays; BoA; Gov’t of Japan/Bank of
Japan; OSFI. A number of commenters also argued that, since U.S. and foreign banking entities often
perform functions for foreign governments similar to those provided in the U.S. by U.S. primary dealers,
the lack of an exemption would have a significant, negative impact on the ability of foreign governments to
implement monetary policy and on liquidity in many foreign markets. See, e.g., Allen & Overy (Gov’t.
Obligations); Australian Bankers Ass’n. (Feb. 2012); BoA; Banco de México; Barclays; Citigroup (Feb.
2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); IIB/EBF. Some commenters argued that banking entities and their
customers use foreign sovereign debt to manage their risk by posting collateral in foreign jurisdictions and
to manage international rate and foreign exchange risk. See Citigroup (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1375

The Agencies generally concur with commenters’ concerns that because the lack of an exemption
could result in negative consequences – such as harming liquidity in foreign sovereign debt markets,
making it more difficult and more costly for foreign governments to fund themselves, or subjecting banking
entities to increased concentration risk – systemic risk could increase or there could be spillover effects that
would harm global markets, including U.S. markets. See IIF; EBF; ICI Global; HSBC; Barclays; ICI (Feb.
2012); IIB/EBF; Union Asset. Additionally, in consideration of one commenter’s statements, the Agencies
believe that failing to provide this exemption may cause foreign banks to close their U.S. branches, which
could harm U.S. markets. See Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation.

408

section 13(d)(1)(J) exemptive authority to permit proprietary trading in foreign
government obligations in certain limited circumstances is appropriate.
The Agencies decline to follow commenters’ suggested alternative of allowing
trading in foreign government obligations if the obligations meet a particular condition on
quality, such as obligations of OECD member countries. 1376 The Agencies do not believe
such an approach responds to the statutory purpose of limiting risks posed to the U.S.
financial system by proprietary trading activities as directly as our current approach,
which is structured to limit the exposure of banking entities, including insured depository
institutions, to the risks of foreign sovereign debt. Additionally, the Agencies decline to
permit proprietary trading in any obligation permitted under the laws of the foreign
banking entity’s home country, 1377 because such an approach could result in unintended
competitive impacts since banking entities would not be subject to one uniform standard
inside the United States. Further, unlike some commenters, the Agencies do not believe
it is appropriate to require foreign governments to commit to paying for any damage to
the U.S. financial system resulting from the foreign sovereign debt exemption. 1378
The proposal also did not contain an exemption for trading in derivatives on
foreign government obligations. Many commenters who recommended providing an
exemption for proprietary trading in foreign government obligations also requested that

1376

See, e.g., BoA; Cadwalader (on behalf of Singapore Banks).; IIB/EBF; OSFI; UBS; BAROC; Japanese
Bankers Ass’n.; JPMC.
1377

Some commenters suggested permitting non-U.S. banking entities to trade in any government
obligation to the extent that such trading is permitted by the entity’s primary regulator. See Allen & Overy
(Gov’t. Obligations); HSBC.
1378

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012); See also Prof. Johnson.

409

the exemption be extended to derivatives on foreign government obligations. 1379 Two of
these commenters urged that trading in derivatives on foreign sovereign obligations
should be exempt for the same reason that trading in derivatives on U.S. government
obligations is exempt because such trading supports liquidity and price stability in the
market for the underlying government obligations. 1380 One commenter recommended
that the Agencies use the authority in section 13(d)(1)(J) to grant an exemption for
proprietary trading in derivatives on foreign government obligations. 1381
The final rule has not been modified in § __.6(b) to permit a banking entity to
engage in proprietary trading in derivatives on foreign government obligations. As noted
above, the Agencies have determined not to permit proprietary trading in derivatives on
U.S. exempt government obligations under section 13(d) and, for the same reasons, have
determined not to extend the permitted activities to include proprietary trading in
derivatives on foreign government obligations.
c.

Permitted Trading in Municipal Securities
Section __.6(a) of the proposed rule implemented an exemption to the prohibition
against proprietary trading under section 13(d)(1)(A) of the BHC Act, which permits
trading in certain governmental obligations. This exemption permits the purchase or sale
of obligations issued by any State or any political subdivision thereof (the “municipal
securities trading exemption”). The proposed rule included both general obligation bonds
1379

See Barclays; Credit Suisse (Seidel); IIB/EBF; Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Norinchukin; RBC;
Sumitomo Trust; UBS.

1380

See Barclays; FIA.

1381

See Barclays.

410

and limited obligation bonds, such as revenue bonds, within the scope of this municipal
securities trading exemption. The proposed rule, however, did not extend to obligations
of “agencies” of States or political subdivisions thereof. 1382
Many commenters, including industry participants, trade groups, and Federal and
state governmental representatives, argued that the municipal securities trading
exemption should be interpreted to permit banking entities to engage in proprietary
trading in a broader range of municipal securities, including the following: obligations
issued directly by States and political subdivisions thereof; obligations issued by
agencies, constituted authorities, and similar governmental entities acting as
instrumentalities on behalf of States and political subdivisions thereof; and obligations
issued by such governmental entities that are treated as political subdivisions under
various more expansive definitions of political subdivisions under Federal and state
laws. 1383 These commenters argued that States and municipalities often issue obligations
through agencies and instrumentalities and that these obligations generally have the same
level of risk as direct obligations of States and political subdivisions. 1384 Commenters
asserted that permitting trading in a broader group of municipal securities would be
consistent with the terms and purposes of section 13 and would not adversely affect the
1382

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,878 n.165.

1383

See, e.g., ABA (Keating); Ashurst; Ass’n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); BoA; BDA (Feb.
2012); Capital Group; Chamber (Feb. 2012); Citigroup (Jan. 2012); CHFA; Eaton Vance; Fidelity; Fixed
Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; HSBC; MEFA; Nuveen Asset Mgmt.; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb.
2012); Am. Pub. Power et al.; MSRB; Fidelity; State of New York; STANY; SIFMA (Municipal
Securities) (Feb. 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012); North Carolina; T. Rowe Price; Sumitomo Trust; UBS;
Washington State Treasurer; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).
1384

See, e.g., CHFA; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Am. Pub. Power et al.; North Carolina;
Washington State Treasurer; See also NABL; Ashurst; BDA (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012); Eaton
Vance; Fidelity; MEFA; MSRB; Am. Pub. Power et al.; Nuveen Asset Mgmt.; PNC; SIFMA (Municipal
Securities) (Feb. 2012); UBS.

411

safety and soundness of banking entities involved in these transactions or create
additional risk to the financial stability of the United States. 1385
Commenters expressed concerns that the proposed rule would result in a
bifurcation of the municipal securities market that would achieve no meaningful benefits
to the safety and soundness of banking entities, create administrative burdens for
determining whether or not a municipal security qualifies for the exemption, result in
inconsistent applications across different States, increase costs, and decrease liquidity in
the diverse municipal securities market. 1386 Commenters also argued that the market for
securities issued by agencies and instrumentalities of States and political subdivisions
thereof would be especially disrupted, and would affect about 40 percent of the municipal
securities market. 1387
Commenters recommended that the final rule provide a broad exemption to the
prohibition on proprietary trading for municipal securities, based on the definition of
“municipal securities” used in section 3(a)(29) of the Exchange Act, 1388 which is

1385

See Ashurst; Citigroup (Jan. 2012); Eaton Vance; Am. Pub. Power et al.; SIFMA (Municipal
Securities) (Feb. 2012); North Carolina; T. Rowe Price; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); See also Capital
Group (arguing that municipal securities are not generally used as a profit making strategy and thus,
including all municipal securities in the exemption by itself should not adversely affect the safety and
soundness of banking entities); PNC (arguing that the safe and sound nature of trading in State and
municipal agency obligations was “a fact recognized by Congress in 1999 when it authorized well
capitalized national banks to underwrite and deal in, without limit, general obligation, limited obligation
and revenue bonds issued by or on behalf of any State, or any public agency or authority of any State or
political subdivision of a State”); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).
1386

See, e.g., MSRB; City of New York; Am. Pub. Power et al.; Wells Fargo; State of New York;
Washington State Treasurer; ABA (Keating); Capital Group; North Carolina; Eaton Vance; Port Authority;
Connecticut; Citigroup (Jan. 2012); Ashurst; Nuveen Asset Mgmt.; SIFMA (Municipal Securities) (Feb.
2012).
1387

See, e.g., MSRB (stating that, based on data from Thomson Reuters, 41.4 percent of the municipal
securities issued in FY 2011 were issued by agencies and authorities).

1388

See 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(29).

412

understood by market participants and by Congress, and has a well-settled meaning and
an established body of law. 1389 Other commenters contended that adopting the same
definition of municipal securities as used in the Federal securities laws would reduce
regulatory burden, remove uncertainty, and lead to consistent treatment of these securities
under the banking and securities laws. 1390 According to some commenters, the terms
“agency” and “political subdivision” are used differently under some State laws, and
some State laws identify certain agencies as political subdivisions or define political
subdivision to include agencies. 1391 Commenters also noted that a number of Federal
statutes and regulations define the term “political subdivision” to include municipal
agencies and instrumentalities. 1392 Commenters suggested that the Agencies interpret the
term “political subdivision” in section 13 more broadly than in the proposal to include a
wider range of State and municipal governmental obligations issued by agencies and
instrumentalities or, alternatively, that the Agencies use the exemptive authority in
1389

See ABA (Keating); Ashurst; BoA; Capital Group; Chamber (Feb. 2012); Comm. on Capital Markets
Regulation; Citigroup (Jan. 2012); Eaton Vance; Fidelity; MEFA; MTA-NY; MSRB; Am. Pub. Power et
al.; NABL; NCSL; State of New York; Nuveen Asset Mgmt.; Port Authority; PNC; SIFMA (Municipal
Securities) (Feb. 2012); North Carolina; T. Rowe Price; UBS; Washington State Treasurer; Wells Fargo
(Prop. Trading).
1390

See Ashurst; Citigroup (Jan. 2012) (noting that the National Bank Act explicitly lists State agencies
and authorities as examples of political subdivisions); MSRB.

1391

See, e.g., Citigroup (Jan. 2012).

1392

See, e.g., MSRB; Citigroup (Jan. 2012). In addition to the Federal securities laws, the National Bank
Act explicitly includes agencies and authorities as examples of political subdivisions. See 12 U.S.C.
24(seventh) (permitting investments in securities “issued by or on behalf of any State or political
subdivision of a State, including any municipal corporate instrumentality of 1 or more States, or any public
agency or authority of any State or political subdivision of a State . . . .”). In addition, a number of banking
regulations also include agencies as examples of political subdivisions or define political subdivision to
include municipal agencies, authorities, districts, municipal corporations and similar entities. See, e.g., 12
CFR 1.2; 12 CFR 160.30; 12 CFR 161.38; 12 CFR 330.15. Further, for purposes of the tax-exempt bond
provisions in the Internal Revenue Code, Treasury regulations treat obligations issued by or “on behalf of”
States or political subdivisions by “constituted authorities” as obligations of such States or political
subdivisions, and the Treasury regulations define the term “political subdivision” to mean “any division of
any State or local governmental unit which is a municipal corporation or which has been delegated the right
to exercise part of the sovereign power of the unit. . . .” See 26 CFR 1.103-1(b).

413

section 13(d)(1)(J) if necessary to permit proprietary trading of a broader array of State
and municipal obligations. 1393
On the other hand, one commenter contended that bonds issued by agencies and
instrumentalities of States or municipalities pose risks to the banking system because the
commenter believed the market for these bonds has not been properly regulated or
controlled. 1394 A few commenters also recommended tightening the proposed municipal
securities trading exemption to exclude conduit obligations that benefit private businesses
and private organizations. 1395 One commenter suggested that the proposed municipal
securities trading exemption should not apply to tax-exempt municipal bonds that benefit
private businesses (referred to as “private activity bonds” in the Internal Revenue
Code 1396) and that allow private businesses to finance private projects at lower interest
rates as a result of the exemption from Federal income taxation for the interest received
by investors. 1397

1393

See ABA (Keating); Ashurst; Ass’n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); Citigroup (Jan. 2012);
Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); MSRB; Wells Fargo (Prop.
Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).
1394

See Occupy.

1395

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy.

1396

See 26 U.S.C. 141. In general, the rules applicable to the issuance of tax-exempt private activity bonds
under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) are more restrictive than those
applicable to traditional governmental bonds issued by States or political subdivisions thereof. Section 146
of the Code imposes an annual State bond volume cap on most tax-exempt private activity bonds that is
tied to measures of State populations. Sections 141-150 of the Code impose other additional restrictions on
tax-exempt private activity bonds, including, among others, eligible project and use restrictions, bond
maturity restrictions, land and existing property financing restrictions, an advance refunding prohibition,
and a public approval requirement.

1397

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

414

The final rule includes the statutory exemption for proprietary trading of
obligations of any State or political subdivision thereof. 1398 In response to the public
comments and for the reasons discussed below, this exemption uses the definition of the
term “municipal security” modeled after the definition of “municipal securities” under
section 3(a)(29) of the Exchange Act, 1399 but with simplifications. 1400 The final rule
defines the term “municipal security” to mean “a security which is a direct obligation of
or issued by, or an obligation guaranteed as to principal or interest by, a State or any
political subdivision thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of a State or any political
subdivision thereof, or any municipal corporate instrumentality of one or more States or
political subdivisions thereof.”

1398

See final rule § __.6(a)(3).

1399

Many commenters requested that the final rule use the definition of “municipal securities” used in the
federal securities laws because, among other reasons, the industry is familiar with that definition and such
an approach would promote consistent treatment of these securities under banking and securities laws. See,
e.g., ABA (Keating); Ashurst; BoA; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; Citigroup (Jan. 2012); NCSL;
Port Authority; SIFMA (Municipal Securities) (Feb. 2012); MSRB. Section 3(a)(29) of the Exchange Act
defines the term “municipal securities” to mean “securities which are direct obligations of, or obligations
guaranteed as to principal or interest by, a State or any political subdivision thereof, or any agency or
instrumentality of a State or any political subdivision thereof, or any municipal corporate instrumentality of
one or more States, or any security which is an industrial development bond (as defined in section
103(c)(2) of Title 26) the interest on which is excludable from gross income under section 103(a)(1) of
Title 26 if, by reason of the application of paragraph (4) or (6) of section 103(c) of Title 26 (determined as
if paragraphs (4)(A), (5), and (7) were not included in such section 103(c)), paragraph (1) of such section
103(c) does not apply to such security.” See 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(29).

1400

The definition of municipal securities in section 3(a)(29) of the Exchange Act has outdated tax
references to the prior law under the former Internal Revenue Code of 1954, including particularly
references to certain provisions involving the concept of “industrial development bonds.” The successor
current Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, replaces the prior definition of “industrial
development bonds” with a revised, more restrictive successor definition of “private activity bonds” and
related definitions of “exempt facility bonds” and “small issue bonds.” In recognition of the numerous tax
law changes since the last statutory revision of section 3(a)(29) of the Exchange Act in 1970 and the
potential attendant confusion, the Agencies determined to use a simpler, streamlined, independent
definition of municipal securities for purposes of the municipal securities trading exception. This revised
definition is intended to encompass, among others, any securities that are covered by the definition of the
term “municipal securities” under section 3(a)(29) of the Exchange Act.

415

The final rule modifies the proposal to permit proprietary trading in obligations
issued by agencies and instrumentalities acting on behalf of States and municipalities
(e.g., port authority bonds and bonds issued by municipal agencies or corporations). 1401
As noted by commenters, many States and municipalities rely on securities issued by
agencies and instrumentalities to fund essential activities, including utility systems,
infrastructure projects, affordable housing, hospitals, universities, and other nonprofit
institutions.1402 Both obligations issued directly by States and political subdivisions
thereof and obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of such a State or local
governmental entity are ultimately obligations of the State or local governmental entity
on whose behalf they act. Moreover, exempting obligations issued by State and
municipal agencies and instrumentalities in the same manner as the direct obligations of
States and municipalities lessens potential inconsistent treatment of government
obligations across States and municipalities that use different funding methods for
government projects. 1403

1401

Many commenters requested that the municipal securities trading exemption be interpreted to include a
broader range of State and municipal obligations issued by agencies and instrumentalities. See, e.g., ABA
(Keating); Ashurst; BoA; BDA (Feb. 2012); Fixed Income Forum/Credit Roundtable; Sens. Merkley &
Levin (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Municipal Securities) (Feb. 2012); Citigroup (Jan. 2012); Comm. on Capital
Markets Regulation.

1402

See, e.g., Citigroup (Jan. 2012); Ashurst; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA
(Municipal Securities) (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Dec. 2011); BlackRock; Fixed Income Forum/Credit
Roundtable.
1403

Commenters represented that the proposed rule would result in inconsistent applications of the
exemption across States and political subdivisions. The Agencies also recognize, as noted by commenters,
that the proposed rule would likely have resulted in a bifurcation of the municipal securities market and
associated administrative burdens and disruptions. See, e.g., MSRB; Am. Pub. Power et al.; Port
Authority; Citigroup (Jan. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Municipal Securities)
(Feb. 2012).

416

The Agencies believe that interpreting the language of section 13(d)(1)(A) of the
BHC Act to provide an exemption to the prohibition on proprietary trading for
obligations issued by States and municipal agencies and instrumentalities as described
above is consistent with the terms and purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act. 1404 The
Agencies recognize that state and political subdivision agency obligations generally
present the same level of risk as direct obligations of States and political subdivisions.1405
Moreover, the Agencies recognize that other federal laws and regulations define the term
“political subdivision” to include municipal agencies and instrumentalities. 1406 The
Agencies decline to exclude from this exemption conduit obligations that benefit private
entities, as suggested by some commenters. 1407
The proposal did not exempt proprietary trading of derivatives on obligations of
States and political subdivisions. The proposal solicited comment on whether exempting
proprietary trading in options or other derivatives referencing an obligation of a State or
1404

Commenters asserted that permitting trading in a broader group of municipal securities would be
consistent with the terms and purposes of section 13. See, e.g., Ashurst; Citigroup (Jan. 2012); Eaton
Vance; Am. Pub. Power et al.; SIFMA (Municipal Securities) (Feb. 2012).

1405

Commenters argued that obligations issued by agencies and instrumentalities generally have the same
level of risk as direct obligations of States and political subdivisions. See, e.g., CHFA; Sens. Merkley &
Levin (Feb. 2012); Am. Pub. Power et al.; North Carolina. In response to one commenter’s concern that
the markets for bonds issued by agencies and instrumentalities are not properly regulated, the Agencies
note that all types of municipal securities, as defined under the securities laws to include, among others,
State direct obligation bonds and agency or instrumentality bonds, are generally subject to the same
regulations under the securities laws. Thus, the Agencies do not believe that obligations of agencies and
instrumentalities are subject to less effective regulation than obligations of States and political subdivisions.
See Occupy.

1406

Commenters noted that a number of federal statutes and regulations define “political subdivision” to
include municipal agencies and instrumentalities. See, e.g., MSRB; Citigroup (Jan. 2012).

1407

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy. The Agencies do not believe it is appropriate to exclude conduit
obligations, which are tax-exempt municipal bonds, from this exemption because such obligations are used
to finance important projects related to, for example, multi-family housing, healthcare (hospitals and
nursing homes), colleges and universities, power and energy companies and resource recovery facilities.
See U.S. Securities & Exchange Comm’n., Report on the Municipal Securities Market 7 (2012), available
at http://www.sec.gov/news/studies/2012/munireport073112.pdf.

417

political subdivision thereof was consistent with the terms and purpose of the statute. 1408
The Agencies did not receive persuasive information on this topic and, for the same
reasons discussed above related to derivatives on U.S. government securities, the
Agencies have determined not to provide an exemption for proprietary trading in
municipal securities, beyond the underwriting, market-making, hedging and other
exemptions provided generally in the rule. The Agencies note that banking entities may
trade derivatives on municipal securities under any other available exemption to the
prohibition on proprietary trading, providing the requirements of the relevant exemption
are met.
d.

Determination to Not Exempt Proprietary Trading in Multilateral Development Bank
Obligations
The proposal did not exempt proprietary trading in obligations of multilateral
banks or derivatives on multilateral development bank obligations but requested
comment on this issue. 1409 A number of commenters argued that the final rule should
include an exemption for obligations of multilateral development banks. 1410

1408

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,878.

1409

See id.

1410

Commenters argued that including obligations of multilateral developments banks in a foreign
sovereign debt exemption is necessary to avoid endangering international cooperation in financial
regulation and potential retaliatory prohibitions against U.S. government obligations. See Ass’n. of
German Banks; Sumitomo; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). Additionally, some commenters
represented that an exemption for obligations of international and multilateral development banks is
appropriate for many of the same reasons provided for exempting U.S. government obligations and foreign
sovereign debt generally. See Ass’n. of German Banks; Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); IIB/EBF;
ICFR; ICI Global; FIA; Sumitomo Trust; Allen & Overy (Gov’t. Obligations); SIFMA et al. (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012).

418

The Agencies have not included an exemption to permit banking entities to
engage in proprietary trading in obligations of multilateral development banks at this
time. The Agencies do not believe that providing an exemption for trading obligations of
multilateral development banks will help enhance the markets for these obligations and
therefore promote and protect the safety and soundness of banking entities and U.S.
financial stability.
6.

Section __.6(c): Permitted Trading on Behalf of Customers
Section 13(d)(1)(D) of the BHC Act provides an exemption from the prohibition

on proprietary trading for the purchase, sale, acquisition, or disposition of financial
instruments on behalf of customers. 1411 The statute does not define when a transaction or
activity is conducted “on behalf of customers.”
a.

Proposed Exemption for Trading on Behalf of Customers
Section __.6(b) of the proposed rule implemented the exemption for trading on
behalf of customers by exempting three types of trading activity. Section __.6(b)(i) of
the proposed rule provided that a purchase or sale of a financial instrument occurred on
behalf of customers if the transaction (i) was conducted by a banking entity acting as
investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, trustee, or in a similar fiduciary capacity
for the account of that customer, and (ii) involved solely financial instruments for which
the banking entity’s customer, and not the banking entity or any affiliate of the banking
entity, was the beneficial owner. This exemption was intended to permit trading activity
that a banking entity conducts in the context of providing investment advisory, trust, or

1411

12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(D).

419

fiduciary services to customers provided that the banking entity structures the activity so
that the customer, and not the banking entity, benefits from any gains and suffers any
losses on the traded positions.
Section __.6(b)(ii) of the proposed rule exempted the purchase or sale of a
covered financial position if the banking entity was acting as riskless principal. 1412 Under
the proposed rule, a banking entity qualified as a riskless principal if the banking entity,
after having received an order to purchase or sell a covered financial position from a
customer, purchased or sold the covered financial position for its own account to offset a
contemporaneous sale to or purchase from the customer. 1413
Section __.6(b)(iii) of the proposed rule permitted trading by a banking entity that
was an insurance company for the separate account of insurance policyholders. Under
the proposed rule, only a banking entity that is an insurance company directly engaged in
the business of insurance and subject to regulation by a State insurance regulator or
foreign insurance regulator was eligible for this prong of the exemption for trading on
behalf of customers. Additionally, the purchase or sale of the covered financial position
was exempt only if it was solely for a separate account established by the insurance
company in connection with one or more insurance policies issued by that insurance
company under which all profits and losses arising from the purchase or sale of the
financial instrument were allocated to the separate account and inured to the benefit or
detriment of the owners of the insurance policies supported by the separate account, and

1412

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,879.

1413

This language generally mirrors that used in the Board’s Regulation Y, OCC interpretive letters, and
the SEC’s Rule 3a5-1 under the Exchange Act. See 12 CFR 225.28(b)(7)(ii); 17 CFR 240.3a5-1(b); OCC
Interpretive Letter 626 (July 7, 1993).

420

not the banking entity. These types of transactions are customer-driven and do not
expose the banking entity to gains or losses on the value of separate account assets even
though the banking entity is treated as the owner of those assets for certain purposes.
b.

Comments on the Proposed Rule
Several commenters contended that the Agencies construed the statutory
exemption too narrowly by limiting permissible proprietary trading on behalf of
customers to only three categories of transactions. 1414 Some of these commenters argued
the exemption in the proposal was not consistent with the statutory language or
Congressional intent to permit all transactions that are “on behalf of customers.” 1415 One
of these commenters expressed concern that the proposed exemption for trading on behalf
of customers may be construed to permit only customer-driven transactions involving
securities and not other financial instruments such as foreign exchange forwards and
other derivatives. 1416
Several commenters urged the Agencies to expand the exemption for trading on
behalf of customers to permit other categories of customer-driven transactions in which
the banking entity may be acting as principal but that serve legitimate customer needs
including capital formation. For example, one commenter urged the Agencies to permit
customer-driven transactions in which the banking entity has no ready counterparty but
that are undertaken at the instruction or request of a customer or client or in anticipation

1414

See, e.g., Am. Express; BoA; ISDA (Apr. 2012); RBC; SIMFA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012);
Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

1415

See, e.g., Am. Express; SIMFA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1416

See Am. Express.

421

of such an instruction or request, such as facilitating customer liquidity needs or block
positioning transactions. 1417 Other commenters urged the Agencies to exempt
transactions where the banking entity acts as principal to accommodate a customer and
substantially and promptly hedges the risks of the transaction. 1418 Commenters argued
that these kinds of transactions are similar in purpose and level of risk to riskless
principal transactions. 1419 Commenters also argued that these transactions could be
viewed as market-making related activities, but indicated that the potential uncertainty
and costs of making that determination would discourage banking entities from taking
principal risks to accommodate customer needs. 1420 Commenters also requested that the
Agencies expressly permit transactions on behalf of customers to create structured
products, as well as for client funding needs, customer clearing, and prime brokerage, if
these transactions are included within the trading account. 1421
In contrast, some commenters supported the proposed approach for implementing
the exemption for trading on behalf of customers or urged narrowing the exemption. 1422
One commenter expressed general support for the requirement that all profits (or losses)
from the transaction flow to the customer and not the banking entity providing the service
for a transaction to be exempt. 1423 One commenter contended that the statute did not

1417

See RBC. The Agencies note that acting as a block positioner is expressly contemplated and included
as part of the exemption for market making-related activities under the final rule.

1418

See BoA; SIMFA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1419

See SIMFA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1420

See SIMFA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1421

See SIMFA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1422

See, e.g., Alfred Brock; ICBA; Occupy.

1423

See ICBA.

422

permit transactions on behalf of customers to be performed by an investment adviser. 1424
Another commenter argued that the final rule should permit a banking entity to engage in
a riskless principal transaction only where the banking entity has already arranged for
another customer to be on the other side of the transaction. 1425 Other commenters urged
the Agencies to ensure that both parties to the transaction agree beforehand to the time
and price of any relevant trade to ensure that the banking entity solely stands in the
middle of the transaction and in fact passes on all gains (or losses) from the transaction to
the customers. 1426 Commenters also urged the Agencies to define other key terms used in
the exemption. For instance, some commenters requested that the final rule define which
entities may qualify as a “customer” for purposes of the exemption. 1427
Some commenters urged the Agencies to provide uniform guidance on how the
Agencies will interpret the riskless principal exemption. 1428 One commenter urged the
Agencies to clarify how the riskless principal exemption would be implemented with
respect to transactions in derivatives, including a hedged derivative transaction executed
at the request of a customer. 1429

1424

See Occupy.

1425

See Public Citizen.

1426

See Occupy; Alfred Brock.

1427

See Occupy; Public Citizen. Conversely, other commenters supported the approach taken in the
proposed rule without requesting such a definition. See Alfred Brock.

1428

See, e.g., Am. Express; SIMFA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1429

See Am. Express.

423

Several commenters generally expressed support for the exemption for trading for
the separate account of insurance policyholders under the proposed rule. 1430 One
commenter requested that the final rule more clearly articulate who may qualify as a
permissible owner of an insurance policy to whom the profits and losses arising from the
purchase or sale of a financial instrument allocated to the separate account may inure. 1431
Several commenters argued that certain types of separate account activities,
including the allocation of seed money by an insurance company to a separate account or
the offering of certain non-variable separate account contracts by the insurance company,
would not appear to be permitted under the proposal. 1432 Commenters also expressed
concern that these separate account activities might not satisfy the proposed requirement
that all profits and losses arising from the purchase or sale of the financial position inure
to the benefit or detriment of the owners of the insurance policies supported by the
separate account, and not the insurance company. 1433 In addition, commenters argued
that under the proposed rule, these activities would appear to fall outside of the
exemption for activities in the general account of an insurance company because the
proposed rule defined a general account as excluding a separate account. 1434
Commenters urged the Agencies to more closely align the exemptions for trading by an

1430

See ACLI; Chris Barnard; NAMIC; Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012).

1431

See Chris Barnard.

1432

See ACLI; Sutherland (on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers); Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3,
2012); NAMIC.
1433

See ACLI; Sutherland (on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers); Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3,
2012); NAMIC.
1434

See ACLI; Sutherland (on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers); Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3,
2012); NAMIC.

424

insurance company for the general account and separate account. 1435 According to these
commenters, this change would permit insurance companies to continue to engage in the
business of insurance by offering the full suite of insurance products to their
customers. 1436
c.

Final Exemption for Trading on Behalf of Customers
The Agencies have carefully considered the comments and are adopting the
exemption for trading on behalf of customers with several modifications. The Agencies
believe that the final rule implements the exemption in section 13(d)(1)(D) in a manner
consistent with the legislative intent to allow banking entities to use their own funds to
purchase or sell financial instruments when acting on behalf of their customers. 1437 At
the same time, the limited activities permitted under the final rule limit the potential for
abuse. 1438
The final rule slightly modifies the proposed rule by providing that a banking
entity is not prohibited from trading on behalf of customers when that activity is
conducted by the banking entity as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity for a
customer and so long as the transaction is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of

1435

See ACLI; Sutherland (on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers); Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3,
2012); NAMIC.
1436

See ACLI; Sutherland (on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers); Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3,
2012); NAMIC.
1437

See 156 Cong. Rec. S5896 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley) (arguing that “this
permitted activity is intended to allow financial firms to use firm funds to purchase assets on behalf of their
clients, rather than on behalf of themselves.”).

1438

Some commenters urged narrowing the exemption. See, e.g., Alfred Brock; ICBA; Occupy. The
Agencies believe the final rule is appropriately narrow to limit potential abuse.

425

the customer and the banking entity does not have or retain a beneficial ownership of the
financial instruments. The final rule removes the proposal’s express exemption for
investment advisers. After further consideration, the Agencies do not believe an express
reference to investment advisers is necessary because investment advisers generally act in
a fiduciary capacity on behalf of clients in a manner that is separately covered by other
exclusions and exemptions in the final rule. Additionally, the final rule deletes the
proposal’s express exemption for commodity trading advisors because the legal
relationship between a commodity trading advisor and its client depends on the facts and
circumstances of each relationship. Therefore, the Agencies determined that it was
appropriate to limit the discussion to fiduciary obligations generally and to omit any
specific discussion of commodity trading advisors. In order to ensure that a banking
entity utilizes this exemption to engage only in transactions for customers and not to
conduct its own trading activity, the final rule (consistent with the proposed rule) requires
that the purchase or sale of financial instruments be conducted for the account of the
customer and that it involve solely financial instruments of which the customer, and not
the banking entity, is beneficial owner. 1439 The final rule, like the proposed rule, permits
transactions in any financial instrument, including derivatives such as foreign exchange
forwards, so long as those transactions are on behalf of customers. 1440

1439

See final rule § __.6(c)(1)(ii) – (iii). See also proposed rule § __.6(b)(2)(i)(B) – (C).

1440

Some commenters expressed concern that the proposed exemption for trading on behalf of customers
may be construed to not permit transactions in foreign exchange forwards and other derivatives. See Am.
Express; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

426

While some commenters requested that the final rule define “customer” for
purposes of this exemption, 1441 the Agencies believe the requirements of this exemption
address commenters’ underlying concerns about what constitutes a “customer.”
Specifically, the Agencies believe that requiring a transaction relying on this exemption
to be conducted in a fiduciary capacity for a customer, to be conducted for the account of
the customer, and to involve solely financial instruments of which the customer is
beneficial owner address the underlying concerns that a transaction could qualify for this
exemption if done on behalf of an indirect customer or on behalf of a customer not served
by the banking entity.
The final rule also provides that a banking entity may act as riskless principal in a
transaction in which the banking entity, after receiving an order to purchase (or sell) a
financial instrument from a customer, purchases (or sells) the financial instrument for its
own account to offset the contemporaneous sale of the financial instrument to (purchase
from) the customer. 1442 Any transaction conducted pursuant to the exemption for riskless
principal activity must be customer-driven and may not expose the banking entity to
gains (or losses) on the value of the traded instruments as principal. 1443 Importantly, the
final rule does not permit a banking entity to purchase (or sell) a financial instrument
without first having a customer order to buy (sell) the instrument. While some
commenters requested that the Agencies modify the final rule to permit activity without a

1441

See Occupy; Public Citizen.

1442

See final rule § __.6(c)(2).

1443

Some commenters urged the Agencies to ensure that the banking entity passes on all gains (or losses)
from the transaction to the customers. See Occupy; Public Citizen.

427

customer order, 1444 the Agencies are concerned that broadening the exemption in this
manner would enable banking entities to evade the requirements of section 13 and engage
in prohibited proprietary trading under the guise of trading on behalf of customers.
Several commenters requested that the final rule explain how a banking entity
may determine when it is acting as riskless principal. 1445 The Agencies note that riskless
principal transactions typically are undertaken as an alternative method of executing
orders by customers to buy or sell financial instruments on an agency basis. Acting as
riskless principal does not include acting as underwriter or market maker in the particular
financial instrument and is generally understood to be equivalent to agency or brokerage
transactions in which all of the risks associated with ownership of financial instruments
are borne by customers. The Agencies have generally equivalent standards for
determining when a banking entity acts as riskless principal and require that the banking
entity, after receiving an order to buy (or sell) a financial instrument from a customer,
buys (or sells) the instrument for its own account to offset a contemporaneous sale to (or
purchase from) the customer. 1446 The Agencies intend to determine whether a banking
entity acts as riskless principal in accordance with and subject to the requirements of
these standards.
Some commenters requested that the final rule permit a greater variety of
transactions to be conducted on behalf of customers. Many of these transactions, such as
1444

See RBC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). .

1445

See, e.g., Am. Express; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). .

1446

See, e.g., 12 CFR 225.28(b)(7)(ii); 17 CFR 240.3a5-1(b); OCC Interpretive Letter 626 (July 7, 1993).
One commenter stated that a banking entity should only be allowed to engage in a riskless principal
transaction where the banking entity has already arranged for another customer to be on the other side of
the transaction. See Public Citizen. The Agencies believe that the contemporaneous requirement in the
final rule addresses this comment.

428

transactions that facilitate customer liquidity needs or block positioning transactions 1447
or transactions in which the banking entity acts as principal to accommodate a customer
and substantially and promptly hedges the risks of the transaction, 1448 may be permissible
under the market-making exemption. To the extent these transactions are conducted by a
market maker, the Agencies believe that the restrictions and limits required in connection
with market making-related activities are important for limiting the risks to the banking
entity from these transactions. 1449 While some commenters requested that clearing and
settlement activities and prime brokerage activities be viewed as permitted proprietary
trading on behalf of customers, 1450 these transactions are not considered proprietary
trading as an initial matter under the final rule. 1451
Finally, the Agencies have decided to move the exemption for trading activity
conducted by an insurance company for a separate account into the provision exempting
trading activity in an insurance company’s general account in order to better align the two
exemptions.1452 As discussed below in Part IV.A.7., the final rule provides exemptions

1447

One commenter requested an exemption for transactions at the instruction or request of a customer or
client or in anticipation of such an instruction or request, such as facilitating customer liquidity needs or
block positioning transactions. See RBC.

1448

Some commenters requested an exemption for these types of transactions. See BoA; SIFMA et al.
(Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1449

Some commenters stated that the potential uncertainty and costs of determining whether an activity
qualifies for the market-making exemption would discourage banking entities from taking principal risks to
accommodate customer needs. See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012). The Agencies believe
that adjustments made to the market-making exemption in the final rule help address this concern.
Specifically, the final market-making exemption better accounts for the varying characteristics of marketmaking across markets and assets classes.

1450

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1451

See final rule § __.3(d)(4)-(6). See also infra Part IV.A.1.d.3-4.

1452

Some commenters requested that the Agencies more closely align the exemptions for trading by an
insurance company for the general account and separate account. See ACLI; Sutherland (on behalf of
Comm. of Annuity Insurers); Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012); NAMIC.

429

for trading activity conducted by an insurance company that is a banking entity either in
the general account or in a separate account of customers in § __.6(d). As explained
below, the statute specifically exempts trading activity that is conducted by a regulated
insurance company engaged in the business of insurance for the general account of the
company if conducted in accordance with applicable state law and if not prohibited by the
appropriate Federal banking agencies. 1453 Unlike activity for the general account of an
insurance company, investments made by regulated insurance companies in separate
accounts in accordance with applicable state law are made on behalf of and for the
benefit of customers of the insurance company. 1454 Also unlike general accounts (which
are supported by all of the assets of the insurance company), a separate account is
supported only by the assets in that account and does not have call on the other assets of
the company. The customer benefits (or loses) based solely on the performance of the
assets in the separate account. These arrangements are the equivalent for insurance
companies of fiduciary accounts at banks. For these reasons, the final rule recognizes
that separate accounts at regulated insurance companies maintained in accordance with

1453

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(F).

1454

One commenter requested clarification on who may qualify as a permissible owner of an insurance
policy to whom the profits and losses arising from the purchase or sale of a financial instrument allocated
to the separate account may inure. See Chris Barnard. The Agencies note that the proposed requirement
that all profits and losses arising from the purchase or sale of a financial instrument inure to the benefit or
detriment of the “owners of the insurance policies supported by the separate account” has been removed.
See proposed rule § __.6(b)(2)(iii)(C). Instead, the final rule requires that the income, gains, and losses
from assets allocated to a separate account be credited to or charged against the account without regard to
other income, gains or losses of the insurance company. See final rule § __.2(z) (definition of “separate
account”). Thus, the final rule no longer references “owners of the insurance policies supported by the
separate account.” The Agencies note, however, that the final rule requires exempted separate account
transactions to be “conducted in compliance with, and subject to, the insurance company investment laws,
regulations, and written guidance of the State or jurisdiction in which such insurance company is
domiciled.” See final rule § __.6(d)(3).

430

applicable state insurance laws are exempt from the prohibitions in section 13 as
acquisitions on behalf of customers.
7.

Section __.6(d): Permitted Trading by a Regulated Insurance Company
Section 13(d)(1)(F) permits a banking entity that is a regulated insurance

company acting for its general account, or an affiliate of an insurance company acting for
the insurance company’s general account, to purchase or sell a financial instrument
subject to certain conditions (the “general account exemption”). 1455 Section 13(d)(1)(D)
permits a banking entity to purchase or sell a financial instrument on behalf of customers.
1456

In the proposed rule, the Agencies viewed Section 13(d)(1)(D) as permitting an

insurance company to purchase or sell a financial instrument for certain separate accounts
(the “separate account exemption”). The proposal implemented both these exemptions
with respect to activities of insurance companies, in each case subject to the restrictions
discussed below. 1457
Section __.6(c) of the proposed rule implemented the general account exemption
by generally restating the statutory requirements of the exemption that:
•

The insurance company directly engage in the business of insurance and

be subject to regulation by a State insurance regulator or foreign insurance regulator;

1455

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(F).

1456

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(D).

1457

See proposed rule §§ __.6(b)(2)(iii), __.6(c).

431

•

The insurance company or its affiliate purchase or sell the financial

instrument solely for the general account of the insurance company;
•

The purchase or sale be conducted in compliance with, and subject to, the

insurance company investment laws, regulations, and written guidance of the State or
jurisdiction in which such insurance company is domiciled; and
•

The appropriate Federal banking agencies, after consultation with the

Council and the relevant insurance commissioners of the States, must not have jointly
determined, after notice and comment, that a particular law, regulation, or written
guidance described above is insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the
banking entity or of the financial stability of the United States.
The proposed rule defined the term “general account” to include all of the assets
of the insurance company that are not legally segregated and allocated to separate
accounts under applicable State law. 1458
As noted above in Part IV.A.6.a., §__.6(b)(iii) of the proposed rule provided an
exemption for a banking entity that is an insurance company when it acted through a
separate account for the benefit of insurance policyholders. The proposed rule defined a
“separate account” as an account established or maintained by a regulated insurance
company subject to regulation by a State insurance regulator or foreign insurance
regulator under which income, gains, and losses, whether or not realized, from assets
allocated to such account, are, in accordance with the applicable contract, credited to or
1458

See proposed rule § __.3(c)(6).

432

charged against such account without regard to other income, gains, or losses of the
insurance company. 1459
To limit the potential for abuse of the separate account exemption, the proposed
rule included requirements designed to ensure that the separate account trading activity is
subject to appropriate regulation and supervision under insurance laws and not structured
so as to allow gains or losses from trading activity to inure to the benefit or detriment of
the banking entity. 1460 In particular, the proposed rule provided that a purchase or sale of
a financial instrument qualified for the separate account exemption only if:
•

The banking entity is an insurance company directly engaged in the

business of insurance and subject to regulation by a State insurance regulator or foreign
insurance regulator; 1461
•

The banking entity purchases or sells the financial instrument solely for a

separate account established by the insurance company in connection with one or more
insurance policies issued by that insurance company;
•

All profits and losses arising from the purchase or sale of the financial

instrument are allocated to the separate account and inure to the benefit or detriment of

1459

See proposed rule § __.2(z).

1460

The Agencies noted in the proposal they would not consider profits to inure to the benefit of the
banking entity if the banking entity were solely to receive payment, out of separate account profits, of fees
unrelated to the investment performance of the separate account.

1461

The proposed rule provided definitions of the terms “State insurance regulator” and “foreign insurance
regulator.” See proposed rule §§ __.3(c)(4), (13).

433

the owners of the insurance policies supported by the separate account, and not the
banking entity; and
•

The purchase or sale is conducted in compliance with, and subject to, the

insurance company investment and other laws, regulations, and written guidance of the
State or jurisdiction in which such insurance company is domiciled.
The proposal explained that the proposed separate account exception represented
transactions on behalf of customers because the insurance-related transactions are
generally customer-driven and do not expose the banking entity to gains or losses on the
value of separate account assets, even though the banking entity may be treated as the
owner of those assets for certain purposes.
Commenters generally supported the general account exemption and the separate
account exemption for regulated insurance companies as consistent with both the statute
and Congressional intent to accommodate the business of insurance. 1462 For instance,
commenters argued that the statute was designed to appropriately accommodate the
business of insurance, subject to regulation in accordance with relevant insurance
company investment laws, in recognition that insurance company investment activities
are already subject to comprehensive regulation and oversight. 1463

1462

See, e.g., Alfred Brock; Chris Barnard; Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012); Sutherland (on behalf
of Comm. of Annuity Insurers); TIAA-CREF; NAMIC.
1463

See, e.g., ACLI (Jan. 2012); Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012); Country Fin. et al.; Sutherland
(on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers).

434

A few commenters expressed concerns about the definition of “general account”
and “separate account.” 1464 One commenter argued the definition of general account was
unclear. 1465 A few commenters expressed concern that the proposed definition of
separate account inappropriately excluded some separate accounts, such as certain
insurance company investment activities such as guaranteed investment contracts, which
would also not fall within the proposed definition of general account. 1466 Several
commenters argued that the final rule should be modified so that all insurance company
investment activity permitted under applicable insurance laws would qualify for either
the general account exemption or the separate account exemption. 1467
Some commenters argued that the prohibition in the proposed definition of
separate account against any profits or losses from activity in the account inuring to the
benefit (or detriment) of the insurance company would exclude some activity permitted
by insurance regulation in separate accounts. 1468 For example, commenters contended
that an insurer may allocate its own funds to a separate account as “seed money” and the
profits and losses on those funds inure to the benefit or detriment of the insurance
company. 1469

1464

See, e.g., Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012); ACLI (Jan. 2012); Sutherland (on behalf of Comm.
of Annuity Insurers).
1465

See Sutherland (on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers).

1466

See ACLI (Jan. 2012); NAMIC.

1467

See Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012); ACLI (Jan. 2012); NAMIC; See also Nationwide.

1468

See Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012); ACLI (Jan. 2012); NAMIC; Sutherland (on behalf of
Comm. of Annuity Insurers); See also Nationwide.
1469

See Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012); ACLI (Jan. 2012).

435

Some commenters expressed specific concerns about the scope or requirements
of the proposal. For instance, one commenter argued that the final rule should provide
that a trade is exempt if the trade is made by an affiliate of the insurance company in
accordance with state insurance law. 1470 Another commenter urged that the Agencies
consult with the foreign insurance supervisor of an insurance company regulated outside
of the United States before finding that an insurance activity conducted by the foreign
insurance company was inconsistent with the safety and soundness or financial
stability. 1471
One commenter suggested that insurance company affiliates of banking entities
should expressly be made subject to data collection and reporting requirements to prevent
possible evasion of the restrictions of section 13 and the final rule using their insurance
affiliates. 1472 By contrast, other commenters argued that the reporting and recordkeeping
and compliance requirements of the rule should not apply to permitted insurance
company investment activities. 1473 These commenters argued that insurance companies
are already subject to comprehensive regulation of the kinds and amounts of investments
they can make under insurance laws and regulations and that additional recordkeeping
obligations would impose unnecessary compliance burdens on these entities without
producing significant offsetting benefits.

1470

See USAA.

1471

See HSBC Life.

1472

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1473

See ACLI (Jan. 2012); Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012); Mutual of Omaha; NAMIC.

436

After considering the comments received and the language and purpose of the
statute, the final rule has been modified to better account for the language of the statute
and more appropriately accommodate the business of insurance.
As explained in the proposal, section 13(d)(1)(F) of the BHC Act specifically and
broadly exempts the purchase, sale, acquisition or disposition of securities and other
instruments by a regulated insurance company engaged in the business of insurance for
the general account of the company (and by an affiliate solely for the general account of
the regulated insurance company). Section 13(d)(1)(D) of the statute also specifically
exempts the same activity when done on behalf of customers. As explained in the
proposal, separate accounts managed and maintained by insurance companies as part of
the business of insurance are generally customer-driven and do not expose the banking
entity to gains or losses on the value of assets held in the separate account, even though
the banking entity may be treated as the owner of the assets for certain purposes. Unlike
the general account of the insurance company, separate accounts are managed on behalf
of specific customers, much as a bank would manage a trust or fiduciary account.
For these reasons, the final rule retains both the general account exemption and
the separate account exemption. The final rule removes any gap between the definition
of general account and the definition of separate account by defining the general account
to be all of the assets of an insurance company except those allocated to one or more
separate accounts. 1474

1474

See final rule §§ __.2(p), (bb). Some commenters expressed concerns about the proposed definitions
of “general account” and “separate account,” including that the proposed definition of “separate account”
excluded some legitimate separate account activities that do not fall within the proposed general account
definition. See, e.g., ACLI (Jan. 2012); NAMIC; Sutherland (on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers).
See also proposed rule §§ __.2(z), __.3(c)(5).

437

The final rule also combines the general account exemption and the separate account
exemption into a single section. This makes clear that both exemptions are available
only:
•

If the insurance company or its affiliate purchases or sells the financial

instruments solely for the general account of the insurance company or a separate
account of the insurance company;
•

The purchases or sales of financial instruments are conducted in

compliance with, and subject to, the insurance company investment laws, regulations,
and written guidance of the State or jurisdiction in which such insurance company is
domiciled; and
•

The appropriate Federal banking agencies, after consultation with the

Financial Stability Oversight Council and the relevant insurance commissioners of the
States and relevant foreign jurisdictions, as appropriate, have not jointly determined, after
notice and comment, that a particular law, regulation, or written guidance regarding
insurance is insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity, or the
financial stability of the United States. 1475

1475

The Federal banking agencies have not at this time determined, as part of the final rule, that the
insurance company investment laws, regulations, and written guidance of any particular State or
jurisdiction are insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity, or of the financial
stability of the United States. The Federal banking agencies expect to monitor, in conjunction with the
FSOC, the insurance company investment laws, regulations, and written guidance of States or jurisdictions
to which exempt transactions are subject and make such determinations in the future, where appropriate.
The Agencies believe the final approach addresses one commenter’s request that the Agencies consult with
the foreign insurance supervisor of an insurance company regulated outside of the United States before
finding that an insurance activity conducted by the foreign company was inconsistent with the safety and
soundness or financial stability. See HSBC Life.

438

Like section 13(d)(1)(F) of the BHC Act, the final rule permits an affiliate of an
insurance company to purchase and sell financial instruments in reliance on the general
account exemption, so long as that activity is for the general account of the insurance
company. Similarly, the final rule implements section 13(d)(1)(D) and permits an
affiliate of an insurance company to purchase and sell financial instruments for a separate
account of the insurance company, so long as the separate account is established and
maintained at the insurance company.
Importantly, the final rule applies only to covered trading activity in a general or
separate account of a licensed insurance company engaged in the business of insurance
under the supervision of a State or foreign insurance regulator. As in the statute, an
affiliate of an insurance company may not rely on this exemption for activity in any
account of the affiliate (unless it, too, meets the definition of an insurance company). An
affiliate may rely on the exemption to the limited extent that the affiliate is acting solely
for the account of the insurance company. 1476
As noted above, one commenter requested that the final rule impose special data
and reporting obligations on insurance companies. Other commenters argued that
insurance companies are already subject to comprehensive regulation under insurance
laws and regulations and that additional recordkeeping obligations would impose
unnecessary compliance burdens on these entities without producing significant

1476

Although one commenter requested that the final rule exempt a trade as long as the trade is made by an
affiliate of the insurance company in accordance with state insurance law, the Agencies believe the final
approach properly implements the statute. See USAA.

439

offsetting benefits. In accordance with the statute, 1477 the Agencies expect insurance
companies to have appropriate compliance programs in place for any activity subject to
section 13 of the BHC Act.
The final rule contains a number of other related definitions that are intended to
help make clear the limitations of the insurance company exemption, including
definitions of foreign insurance regulator and State insurance regulator.
8.

Section __.6(e): Permitted Trading Activities of a Foreign Banking Entity
Section 13(d)(1)(H) of the BHC Act 1478 permits certain foreign banking entities to

engage in proprietary trading that occurs solely outside of the United States (the “foreign
trading exemption”). 1479 The statute does not define when a foreign banking entity’s
trading occurs solely outside of the United States.
The proposed rule defined both the type of foreign banking entity that is eligible
for the exemption and activity that constitutes trading solely outside of the United States.
The proposed rule effectively precluded a foreign banking entity from engaging in
proprietary trading through a transaction that had any connection with the United States,
including: trading with any party located in the United States; allowing U.S. personnel of
1477

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(e)(1) (requiring that the Agencies issue regulations regarding “internal controls
and recordkeeping, in order to insure compliance with this section”).

1478

Section 13(d)(1)(H) of the BHC Act provides an exemption to the prohibition on proprietary trading
for trading conducted by a foreign banking entity pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the
BHC Act, if the trading occurs solely outside of the United States, and the banking entity is not directly or
indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of one or
more States. See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(H).

1479

This section’s discussion of the concept “solely outside of the United States” is provided solely for
purposes of the rule’s implementation of section 13(d)(1)(H) of the BHC Act, and does not affect a banking
entity’s obligation to comply with additional or different requirements under applicable securities, banking,
or other laws.

440

the foreign banking entity to be involved in the purchase or sale; or executing any
transaction in the United States (on an exchange or otherwise). 1480
In general, commenters emphasized the importance of and supported an
exemption for foreign trading activities of foreign banking entities. However, a number
of commenters expressed concerns that the proposed foreign trading exemption was too
narrow and would not be effective in permitting foreign banking entities to engage in
foreign trading activities. 1481 For instance, many commenters stated that the proposal’s
prohibition on trading activities that have any connection to the U.S. was not consistent
with the purpose of section 13 of the BHC Act where the risk of the trading activity is
taken or held outside of the United States and does not implicate the U.S. safety net. 1482
These commenters argued that, since one of the principal purposes of section 13 of the
BHC Act is to limit the risk posed by prohibited proprietary trading to the federal safety
net, the safety and soundness of U.S. banking entities, and the financial stability of the
United States, the exemption for foreign trading activity should similarly focus on
whether the trading activity involves principal risk being taken or held by the foreign
banking entity inside the United States. 1483
Many commenters argued that the proposal’s transaction-based approach to
implementing the foreign trading exemption would harm U.S. markets and U.S. market

1480

See proposed rule § __.6(d).

1481

See, e.g., IIB/EBF; ICI Global; ICI (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); BoA.

1482

See IIB/EBF; Ass’n. of Banks in Malaysia; EBF; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai
Banks).

1483

See BaFin/Deutsche Bundesbank; ICSA; IIB/EBF; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks);
Credit Suisse (Seidel); George Osbourne.

441

participants. For example, some commenters argued that the proposed exemption would
cause foreign banks to exit U.S. markets or shrink their U.S.-based operations, thereby
resulting in less liquidity and greater fragmentation in markets without producing any
significant offsetting benefit. 1484 Commenters also asserted that the proposal would
impose significant compliance costs on the foreign operations of foreign banking entities
and would lead to foreign firms refusing to trade with U.S. counterparties, including the
foreign operations of U.S. entities, to avoid compliance costs associated with relying on
another exemption under the proposed rule. 1485 Additionally, commenters argued that the
proposal represented an improper extraterritorial application of U.S. law that could be
found to violate international treaty obligations of the United States, such as those under
the North American Free Trade Agreement, and might result in retaliation by foreign
countries in their treatment of U.S. banking entities abroad. 1486
a.

Foreign Banking Entities Eligible for the Exemption
The statutory language of section 13(d)(1)(H) provides that, in order to be eligible
for the foreign trading exemption, the banking entity must not be directly or indirectly
controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of
one or more States. The proposed rule limited the scope of the exemption to banking

1484

See ICE; ICI Global; BoA; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); British Bankers’ Ass’n.; IIB/EBF.

1485

See BaFin/Deutsche Bundesbank; Norinchukin; IIF; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks);
ICFR; BoA; Citigroup (Feb. 2012). As discussed below in Part IV.C. of this Supplementary
Information, other parts of the final rule address commenters’ concerns regarding the compliance burden
on foreign banking entities.
1486

See Norinchukin; Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai Banks); Barclays; EBF; Commissioner Barnier;
Ass’n. of German Banks; Société Générale; Chamber (Dec. 2012).

442

entities that are organized under foreign law and, as applicable, controlled only by
entities organized under foreign law.
Commenters generally supported this aspect of the proposal. 1487 However, some
commenters requested that the final rule be modified to allow U.S. banking entities’
affiliates or branches that are physically located outside of the United States (“foreign
operations of U.S. banking entities”) to engage in proprietary trading outside of the
United States pursuant to this exemption.1488 These commenters argued that, unless
foreign operations of U.S. banking entities are provided similar authority to engage in
proprietary trading outside of the United States, foreign operations of U.S. banking
entities would be at a competitive disadvantage abroad with respect to foreign banking
entities. One commenter also asserted that, unless foreign operations of U.S. banking
entities were able to effectively access foreign markets, they could be shut out of those
markets and would be unable to effectively manage their risks in a safe and sound
manner. 1489
As noted above, section 13(d)(1)(H) of the BHC Act specifically provides that its
exemption is available only to a banking entity that is not “directly or indirectly”
controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of

1487

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012) (arguing that the final rule’s foreign trading exemption should
not exempt foreign affiliates of U.S. banking entities when they engage in trading activity abroad); See also
Occupy; Alfred Brock.

1488

See Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Sen. Carper; IIF; ABA (Keating); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); Abbot
Labs. et al. (Feb. 14, 2012).

1489

See Citigroup (Feb. 2012).

443

one or more States. 1490 Because of this express statutory threshold requirement, a foreign
subsidiary controlled, directly or indirectly, by a banking entity organized under the laws
of the United States or one of its States, and a foreign branch office of a banking entity
organized under the laws of the United States or one of the States, may not take
advantage of this exemption.
Like the proposal, the final rule incorporates the statutory requirement that the
banking entity conduct its trading activities pursuant to sections 4(c)(9) or 4(c)(13) of the
BHC Act. 1491 The final rule retains the tests in the proposed rule for determining when a
banking entity would meet that requirement. The final rule provides qualifying criteria
for both a banking entity that is a qualifying foreign banking organization under the
Board’s Regulation K and a banking entity that is not a foreign banking organization for
purposes of Regulation K. 1492
Section 4(c)(9) of the BHC Act applies to any company organized under the laws
of a foreign country the greater part of whose business is conducted outside the United
States, if the Board by regulation or order determines that, under the circumstances and
subject to the conditions set forth in the regulation or order, the exemption would not be
substantially at variance with the purposes of the BHC Act and would be in the public

1490

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(H).

1491

See final rule § __.6(e)(1)(ii).

1492

Section __.6(e)(2) addresses only when a transaction will be considered to have been conducted
pursuant to section 4(c)(9) of the BHC Act. Although the statute also references section 4(c)(13) of the
BHC Act, the Board has to date applied the general authority contained in that section solely to the foreign
activities of U.S. banking organizations which, by the express terms of section 13(d)(1)(H) of the BHC Act,
are unable to rely on the foreign trading exemption.

444

interest. 1493 The Board has implemented section 4(c)(9) as part of subpart B of the
Board’s Regulation K, 1494 which specifies a number of conditions and requirements that a
foreign banking organization must meet in order to act pursuant to that authority. 1495 The
qualifying conditions and requirements include, for example, that the foreign banking
organization demonstrate that more than half of its worldwide business is banking and
that more than half of its banking business is outside the United States. 1496 Under the
final rule a banking entity that is a qualifying foreign banking organization for purposes
of the Board’s Regulation K, other than a foreign bank as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the
International Banking Act of 1978 that is organized under the laws of any
commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, will qualify for the
exemption for proprietary trading activity of a foreign banking entity. 1497

1493

See 12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(9).

1494

See 12 CFR 211.20 et seq.

1495

Commenters noted that the Board’s Regulation K contains a number of limitations that may not be
appropriate to include as part of the requirements of the foreign trading exemption. See Allen & Overy (on
behalf of Foreign Bank Group); HSBC Life. Accordingly, the final rule does not retain the proposal’s
requirement that the activity be conducted in compliance with subpart B of the Board’s Regulation K (12
CFR 211.20 through 211.30). However, the exemption in section 13(d)(1)(H) of the BHC Act and the final
rule operates as an exemption and is not a separate grant of authority to engage in an otherwise
impermissible activity. To the extent a banking entity is a foreign banking organization, it remains subject
to the Board’s Regulation K and must, as a separate matter, comply with any and all applicable rules and
requirements of that regulation.

1496

See 12 CFR 211.23(a), (c), and (e). The proposed rule referenced only the qualifying test under
section 211.23(a) of the Board’s Regulation K; however, because there are two other methods by which a
foreign banking organization may meet the requirements to be considered a qualified foreign banking
organization, the final rule incorporates a reference to those provisions as well.

1497

This modification to the definition of foreign banking organization is necessary because, under the
International Banking Act and the Board’s Regulation K, depository institutions that are located in, or
organized under the laws of a commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, are foreign
banking organizations. However, for purposes of the Federal securities laws and certain banking statutes,
such as section 2(c)(1) of the BHC Act and section 3 of the FDI Act, these same entities are defined to be
and treated as domestic entities. For instance, these entities act as domestic broker-dealers under U.S.
securities laws and their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Because one of the purposes of section 13 is to
protect insured depository institutions and the U.S. financial system from the perceived risks of proprietary

445

Section 13 of the BHC Act also applies to foreign companies that control a U.S.
insured depository institution but that are not currently subject to the BHC Act generally
or to the Board’s Regulation K – for example, because the foreign company controls a
savings association or an FDIC-insured industrial loan company. Accordingly, the final
rule also provides that a foreign banking entity that is not a foreign banking organization
would be considered to be conducting activities “pursuant to section 4(c)(9)” for purposes
of this exemption 1498 if the entity, on a fully-consolidated basis, meets at least two of
three requirements that evaluate the extent to which the foreign banking entity’s business
is conducted outside the United States, as measured by assets, revenues, and income. 1499
This test largely mirrors the qualifying foreign banking organization test that is made
applicable under section 4(c)(9) of the BHC Act and section 211.23(a), (c), or (e) of the
Board’s Regulation K, except that the test does not require the foreign entity to
demonstrate that more than half of its banking business is outside the United States. 1500
This difference reflects the fact that foreign entities subject to section 13 of the BHC Act,
but not the BHC Act generally, are likely to be, in many cases, predominantly
commercial firms. A requirement that such firms also demonstrate that more than half of

trading and covered fund activities, the Agencies believe that these entities should be considered to be
located within the United States for purposes of section 13. The final rule includes within the definition of
State a commonwealth, territory or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa,
Guam, or the United States Virgin Islands.
1498

This clarification would be applicable solely in the context of section 13(d)(1) of the BHC Act. The
application of section 4(c)(9) to foreign companies in other contexts is likely to involve different legal and
policy issues and may therefore merit different approaches.
1499

See final rule § __.6(e)(2)(ii)(B). For purposes of determining whether, on a fully consolidated basis, it
meets the requirements under § __.6(e)(2)(ii)(B), a foreign banking entity that is not a foreign banking
organization should base its calculation on the consolidated global assets, revenues, and income of the toptier affiliate within the foreign banking entity’s structure.

1500

See 12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(9); 12 CFR 211.23(a), (c), and (e); final rule § __.6(e)(2)(ii)(B).

446

their banking business is outside the United States would likely make the exemption
unavailable to such firms and subject their global activities to the prohibition on
proprietary trading.
b.

Permitted Trading Activities of a Foreign Banking Entity
As noted above, the proposed rule laid out a transaction-based approach to
implementing the foreign trading exemption and provided that a transaction would be
considered to qualify for the exemption only if (i) the transaction was conducted by a
banking entity not organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more States;
(ii) no party to the transaction was a resident of the United States; (iii) no personnel of the
banking entity that was directly involved in the transaction was physically located in the
United States; and (iv) the transaction was executed wholly outside the United States. 1501
Many commenters objected to the proposed exemption, arguing that it was
unworkable and would have unintended consequences. For example, commenters argued
that prohibiting a foreign banking entity from conducting a proprietary trade with a
resident of the United States, including a subsidiary or branch of a U.S. banking entity,
wherever located, would likely cause foreign banking entities to be unwilling to enter into
permitted trading transactions with foreign subsidiaries or branches of U.S. firms. 1502 In
addition, some commenters represented that it would be difficult to determine and track
whether a party is a resident of the United States or that this requirement would require
non-U.S. banking entities to inefficiently bifurcate their activities into U.S.-facing and

1501

See proposed rule § __.6(d).

1502

See BoA; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); British Bankers’ Ass’n.; Credit Suisse (Seidel); George Osbourne; IIB/EBF.

447

non-U.S.-facing trading desks. 1503 For example, one commenter noted that trading on
many exchanges and platforms is anonymous (i.e., each party to the trade is unaware of
the identity of the other party to the trade), so a foreign banking entity would likely have
to avoid U.S. trading platforms and exchanges entirely to avoid transactions with any
resident of the United States. 1504 Further, commenters stated that the proposed rule could
deter foreign banking entities from conducting business with U.S. parties outside of the
United States, which could also incentivize foreign market centers to limit participation
by U.S. parties on their markets. 1505
Commenters also expressed concern about the requirement that transactions be
executed wholly outside of the United States in order to qualify for the proposed foreign
trading exemption. Commenters represented that foreign banking entities currently use
U.S. trading platforms to trade in certain products (such as U.S.-listed securities or a
variety of derivatives contracts), to take advantage of robust U.S. infrastructure, and for
time zone reasons. 1506 Commenters indicated that the proposed requirement could harm
the competitiveness of U.S. trading platforms and the liquidity available on such
facilities. 1507 Some commenters stated that this requirement would effectively result in

1503

See Cadwalader (on behalf of Singapore Banks); Ass’n. of Banks in Malaysia; Cadwalader (on behalf
of Thai Banks); IIF; ICE; Banco de México; ICFR; Australian Bankers Ass’n. (Feb. 2012); BAROC.

1504

See ICE.

1505

See, e.g., RBC.

1506

See, e.g., IIF; ICE; Société Générale; Mexican Banking Comm’n.; Australian Bankers Ass’n. (Feb.
2012); Banco de México; OSFI. In addition, a few commenters argued that Canadian and Mexican
financial firms frequently use U.S. infrastructure to conduct their trading activities in Canada or Mexico.
See, e.g., OSFI; Banco de México; Mexican Banking Comm’n.
1507

See, e.g., ICE; Société Générale (arguing that the requirement would impair capital raising efforts of
many U.S. companies); Australian Bankers Ass’n. (Feb. 2012); Canadian Minister of Fin.; Ass’n. of
German Banks.

448

most foreign banking entities moving their trading operations and personnel outside of
the United States and executing transactions on exchanges outside of the United
States. 1508 These commenters stated that the relocation of these activities would reduce
trading activity in the United States that supports the financial stability and efficiency of
U.S. markets. Moreover, these commenters argued that, if foreign banking entities
relocate their personnel from the United States to overseas, this would diminish U.S. jobs
with no concomitant benefit. They also contended that the proposal was at cross
purposes with other parts of the Dodd-Frank Act and would hinder growth of market
infrastructure being developed under the requirements of Title VII of that Act, including
use of swap execution facilities and security-based swap execution facilities to enhance
transparency in the swaps markets and use of central clearinghouses to reduce
counterparty risk for the parties to a swap transaction. 1509 For example, one commenter
represented that the proposed exemption could make it difficult for non-U.S. swap
entities to comply with potential mandatory execution requirements under Title VII of the
Dodd-Frank Act and could cause market fragmentation across borders through the
creation of parallel execution facilities outside of the United States, which would result in
less transparency and greater systemic risk. 1510 In addition, another commenter stated
that the proposed requirement would force issuers to dually list their securities to permit
trading on non-U.S. exchanges and, further, clearing and settlement systems would have
to be set up outside of the United States, which would create inefficiencies, operational

1508

See IIB/EBF.

1509

See Bank of Canada; Banco de México; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks).

1510

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Candian Banks).

449

risks, and potentially systemic risk by adding needless complexity to the financial
system. 1511
Instead of the proposal’s transaction-based approach to implementing the foreign
trading exemption, many commenters suggested the final rule adopt a risk-based
approach. 1512 These commenters noted that a risk-based approach would prohibit or
significantly limit the amount of financial risk from such activities that could be
transferred to the United States by the foreign trading activity of foreign banking
entities. 1513 Commenters also noted that foreign trading activities of most foreign
banking entities are already subject to activities limitations, capital requirements, and
other prudential requirements of their home-country supervisor(s). 1514
The Agencies have carefully considered these comments and have determined to
modify the approach in the final rule. The Agencies believe that the revisions mitigate
the potential adverse impacts of the proposed approach while still remaining faithful to
the overall purpose of section 13(d)(1)(H). Also, the Agencies believe that section
13(d)(1)(J) of the BHC Act, which authorizes the Agencies to provide an exemption from
the prohibition on proprietary trading for any activity the Agencies determine by rule
“would promote and protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity and the
financial stability of the United States,” 1515 supports allowing foreign banking entities to

1511

See IIF.

1512

See BaFin/Deutsche Bundesbank; ICSA; IIB/EBF; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks);
Credit Suisse (Seidel); George Osbourne.

1513

See IIB/EBF.

1514

See IIB/EBF.

1515

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(J).

450

use U.S. infrastructure and trade with certain U.S. counterparties in certain
circumstances, which will promote and protect the safety and soundness of banking
entities and U.S. financial stability.
Overall, the comments illustrated that both the mechanical steps of the specified
transactions to purchase or sell various instruments (e.g., execution, clearing), and the
identity of the entity for whose trading account the specified trading is conducted are
important. 1516 Consistent with the comments described above, the Agencies believe that
the application of section 13(d)(1)(H) and their exemptive authority under section
13(d)(1)(J) should focus on both how the transaction occurs and which entity will bear
the risk of those transactions. Although the statute does not define expressly what it
means to act “as a principal” (acting as principal ordinarily means acting for one’s own
account), the combination of references to engaging as principal and to a trading account
focuses on an entity’s incurring risks of profit and loss through taking ownership of
securities and other instruments. Thus, the final rule provides an exemption for trading
activities of foreign banking entities that addresses both the location of the facilities that
effect the acquisition, holding, and disposition of such positions, and the location of the
banking entity that incurs such risks through acquisition, holding, and disposition of such
positions.
The Agencies believe this approach is consistent with one of the principal
purposes of section 13, which is to limit risks that proprietary trading poses to the U.S.

451

financial system. 1517 Further, the purpose of section 13(d)(1)(H) is to limit the
extraterritorial application of section 13 as it applies to foreign banking entities. 1518
In addition, prohibiting foreign banking entities from using U.S. infrastructure or
trading with all U.S. counterparties could cause certain trading activities to move
offshore, with corresponding negative impacts on U.S. market participants, including
U.S. banking entities. For example, movement of trading activities offshore, particularly
in U.S. financial instruments, could result in bifurcated markets for these instruments that
are less efficient and less liquid and could reduce transparency for oversight of trading in
these instruments. In addition, reducing access to foreign counterparties for U.S.
instruments could concentrate risks in the United States and to its financial system.
Moreover, the statute provides separate exemptions for U.S. banking entities to engage in
underwriting and market making-related activities, subject to certain requirements, and
there is no evidence that limiting the range of potential customers for these entities would
further the purposes of the statute. In fact, it is possible that limiting the customer bases
of U.S. banking entities, as well as other U.S. firms that are not banking entities, could
reduce their ability to effectively manage their inventories and risks and could also result
in concentration risk.

1517

See, e.g., 12 U.S.C. 1851(b)(1) (directing the FSOC to study and make recommendations on
implementing section 13 so as to, among other things, protect taxpayers and consumers and enhance
financial stability by minimizing the risk that insured depository institutions and the affiliates of insured
depository institutions will engage in unsafe and unsound activities).

1518

See, e.g., 156 Cong. Rec. S5897 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley) (stating that the
foreign trading exemption “recognize[s] rules of international comity by permitting foreign banks,
regulated and backed by foreign taxpayers, in the course of operating outside of the United States to engage
in activities permitted under relevant foreign law.”).

452

These potential effects of the approach taken in the proposal appear to be
inconsistent with the statute’s goals, including the promotion and protection of the safety
and soundness of banking entities and U.S. financial stability. To the contrary, the
exemptive approach taken in the final rule appears to be more consistent with the goals of
the statute and would promote and protect the safety and soundness of banking entities
and U.S. financial stability by limiting the risks of foreign banking entities’ proprietary
trading activities to the U.S. financial system, while also allowing U.S. markets to
continue to operate efficiently in conjunction with foreign markets (rather than creating
incentives to establish barriers between U.S. and foreign markets). 1519
Thus, in response to commenter concerns, the final rule has been modified to
better reflect the text and achieve the overall purposes of the statute (by ensuring that the
principal risks of proprietary trading by foreign banking entities allowed under the
foreign trading exemption remain solely outside of the United States) while mitigating
potentially adverse effects on competition. 1520 In order to ensure these risks remain
largely outside of the United States, and to limit potential risk that could flow to the U.S.
financial system through trades by foreign banking entities with or through U.S. entities,
the final rule includes several conditions on the availability of the exemption.
Specifically, in addition to limiting the exemption to foreign banking entities, the final

1519

12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(J).

1520

The proposed rule also contained a definition of “resident of the United States” that was designed to
capture the scope of U.S. counterparties that, if involved in the transaction, would preclude that transaction
from being considered to have occurred solely outside the United States. The final rule addresses this point
by including a definition, for purposes of §__.6(e) only, of the term “U.S. entity.”

453

rule provides that the exemption for the proprietary trading activity of a foreign banking
entity is available only if:
(i) The banking entity engaging as principal in the purchase or sale
(including any personnel of the banking entity or its affiliate that arrange,
negotiate or execute such purchase or sale) is not located in the United
States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State; 1521
(ii) The banking entity (including relevant personnel) that makes the decision
to purchase or sell as principal is not located in the United States or
organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(iii) The purchase or sale, including any transaction arising from riskmitigating hedging related to the instruments purchased or sold, is not
accounted for as principal directly or on a consolidated basis by any
branch or affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under
the laws of the United States or of any State;
(iv) No financing for the banking entity’s purchase or sale is provided,
directly or indirectly, by any branch or affiliate that is located in the
United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any
State; 1522

1521

Personnel that arrange, negotiate, or execute a purchase or sale conducted under the exemption for
trading activity of a foreign banking entity must be located outside of the United States. Thus, for example,
personnel in the United States cannot solicit or sell to or arrange for trades conducted under this exemption.
Personnel in the United States also cannot serve as decision makers in transactions conducted under this
exemption. Personnel that engage in back-office functions, such as clearing and settlement of trades,
would not be considered to arrange, negotiate, or execute a purchase or sale for purposes of this provision.

1522

This provision is not intended to restrict the ability of a U.S. branch or affiliate of a foreign banking
entity to provide funds collected in the United States to its foreign parent for general purposes.

454

(v) The purchase or sale is not conducted with or through any U.S. entity, 1523
other than:
(A) A purchase or sale with the foreign operations of a U.S. entity, if no
personnel of such U.S. entity that are located in the United States are
involved in the arrangement, negotiation or execution of such purchase or
sale.
The Agencies believe it is appropriate to exercise their exemptive authority under
section 13(d)(1)(J) to also allow, under clause (vi) of the final rule, the following types of
purchases or sales conducted with a U.S. entity:
(B) A purchase or sale with an unaffiliated market intermediary acting as
principal, 1524 provided the purchase or sale is promptly cleared and settled
through a clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization acting as a
central counterparty; or
(C) A purchase or sale through an unaffiliated market intermediary, provided
the purchase or sale is conducted anonymously (i.e. each party to the
purchase or sale is unaware of the identity of the other party(ies) to the
purchase or sale) on an exchange or similar trading facility and promptly
cleared and settled through a clearing agency or derivatives clearing
organization acting as a central counterparty.
The requirements are designed to ensure that any foreign banking entity engaging
in trading activity under this exemption does so in a manner that ensures the risk,
decision-making, arrangement, negotiation, execution and financing of the activity

1523

“U.S. entity” is defined for purposes of this provision as any entity that is, or is controlled by, or is
acting on behalf of, or at the direction of, any other entity that is, located in the United States or organized
under the laws of the United States or of any State. See final rule § __.6(e)(4).

1524

This provision would generally allow market intermediaries to engage in market-making, underwriting
or similar market intermediation functions.

455

resides solely outside the United States and limits the risk to the U.S. financial system
from trades by foreign banking entities with or through U.S. entities.
The final rule specifically recognizes that, for purposes of the exemption for
trading activity of a foreign banking entity, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a
foreign bank, or any subsidiary thereof, is located in the United States; however, a
foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered
to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operation of the U.S. branch, agency,
or subsidiary. 1525 This provision helps give effect to the statutory language limiting the
foreign trading exemption to activities of foreign banking entities that occur solely
outside of the United States by clarifying that the U.S. operations of foreign banking
entities may not conduct proprietary trading based on this exemption.
The Agencies have considered whether the concerns raised by commenters that
the foreign operations of U.S. banking entities would be disadvantaged in competing
outside the United States warrant an exemption under section 13(d)(1)(J) of the BHC Act
that extends to foreign operations of U.S. banking entities. The competitiveness of U.S.
banking entities outside the United States often improves the potential for the operations
of U.S. firms outside the United States to succeed and be profitable, and thereby, often
improves the safety and soundness of the entity and financial stability in the United
States.
However, Congress has determined to generally prohibit U.S. banking entities
(including foreign branches and subsidiaries thereof) from engaging in proprietary
1525

See final rule § __.6(e)(5).

456

trading because of the perceived risks of those activities to banking entities and the U.S.
economy. 1526 Allowing U.S. banking entities to conduct, through branches or
subsidiaries that are physically located outside the United States, the same proprietary
trading activities those U.S. firms are expressly prohibited from conducting directly
through their operations located within the United States would subject U.S. banking
entities and the U.S. economy to the very risks section 13 is designed to avoid. The risks
of proprietary trading would continue to be borne by the U.S. banking entity whether the
activity is conducted by the U.S. banking entity through units physically located inside or
outside of the United States. Moreover, the robust trading markets that exist overseas
could allow U.S. banking entities to shift their prohibited proprietary trading activities to
branches or subsidiaries that are physically located outside the United States under such
an exemption, without achieving a meaningful elimination of risk. Accordingly, the
Agencies have not exercised their authority under section 13(d)(1)(J) at this time to allow
U.S. banking entities to conduct otherwise prohibited proprietary trading activities
through operations located outside the United States. As a consequence, and consistent
with the statutory language and purpose of section 13(d)(1)(H) of the BHC Act, the final
rule provides that the exemption is available only if the banking entity is not organized
under, or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under, the
laws of the United States or of one or more States. 1527

1526

See, e.g., 156 Cong. Rec. S5897 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley) (“However,
these subparagraphs are not intended to permit a U.S. banking entity to avoid the restrictions on proprietary
trading simply by setting up an offshore subsidiary or reincorporating offshore, and regulators should
enforce them accordingly.”).

1527

See final rule § __.6(e)(1)(i).

457

As discussed above, many commenters requested that the final rule permit a
foreign banking entity to engage in proprietary trading transactions with a greater variety
of counterparties, including counterparties that are located in or organized and
incorporated under the laws of the United States or of one or more States. 1528 These
commenters also requested that the final rule not require that any purchase or sale under
the exemption be executed wholly outside of the United States.
As described above and in response to commenters’ concerns, the final rule
provides that a foreign banking entity generally may engage in trading activity under the
exemption with U.S. entities, provided the transaction is with the foreign operations of an
unaffiliated U.S. firm (whether or not the U.S. firm is a banking entity subject to section
13 of the BHC Act) and does not involve any personnel of the U.S. entity that are in the
United States and involved in the arrangement, negotiation, or execution of the
transaction. The Agencies have also exercised their exemptive authority under section
13(d)(1)(J) to allow foreign banking entities to engage in a transaction that is either
through an unaffiliated market intermediary and executed anonymously on an exchange
or similar trading facility (regardless of whether the ultimate counterparty is a U.S. entity
or not) or is executed with a U.S. entity that is an unaffiliated market intermediary acting
as principal, provided in either case that the transaction is promptly cleared and settled
through a clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization acting as a central
counterparty.

1528

A number of commenters also requested that the foreign trading exemption permit proprietary trading
of foreign sovereign debt or similar obligations of foreign governments. As discussed in Part IV.A.5.b. of
this Supplementary Information, the final rule addresses banking entities’ ability to engage in transaction
in these types of instruments in § __.6(b).

458

For purposes of the final rule, market intermediary is defined as an unaffiliated
entity, acting as an intermediary, that is: (i) a broker or dealer registered with the SEC
under section 15 of the Exchange Act or exempt from registration or excluded from
regulation as such; (ii) a swap dealer registered with the CFTC under section 4s of the
Commodity Exchange Act or exempt from registration or excluded from regulation as
such; (iii) a security-based swap dealer registered with the SEC under section 15F of the
Exchange Act or exempt from registration or excluded from regulation as such; or (iv) a
futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC under section 4f of the
Commodity Exchange Act or exempt from registration or excluded from regulation as
such. 1529
These provisions of the final rule, viewed as a whole, prevent the exemption for
trading of foreign banking entities from weakening U.S. trading markets and U.S. firms
that are either not subject to the provisions of section 13 or that conduct activities in
compliance with other parts of section 13. For instance, the final rule permits a foreign
banking entity to trade under the exemption with the foreign operations of a U.S. firm, so
long as the purchase or sale does not involve any personnel of the U.S. firm who are
located in the United States and involved in arranging, negotiating or executing the
trade. 1530 Transactions that occur outside of the United States between foreign operations
of U.S. entities and foreign banking entities improve access to and functioning of liquid
markets without raising the concerns for increased risk to banking entities in the U.S. that
1529

See final rule § __.6(e)(5). For example, under this definition, a bank that is exempt from registration
as a swap dealer under the de minimis exception to swap dealer registration requirements could be a market
intermediary for transactions in swaps. See 17 CFR 1.3(ggg)(4).

1530

See final rule § __.6(e)(3)(v)(A).

459

motivated enactment of section 13 of the BHC Act. The final rule permits a foreign
banking entity to engage in transactions with the foreign operations of both U.S. nonbanking and U.S. banking entities. Among other things, this approach will ensure that
the foreign operations of U.S. banking entities continue to be able to access foreign
markets. 1531 The language of the exemption expressly requires that trading with the
foreign operations of a U.S. entity may not involve the use of personnel of the U.S. entity
who are located in the United States for purposes of arranging, negotiating, or executing
transactions.
Under the final rule, the exemption in no way exempts the U.S. or foreign
operations of the U.S. banking entities from having to comply with the restrictions and
limitations of section 13. Thus, the U.S. and foreign operations of a U.S. banking entity
that is engaged in permissible market making-related activities or other permitted
activities may engage in those transactions with a foreign banking entity that is engaged
in proprietary trading in accordance with the exemption under § __.6(e) of the final rule.
Importantly, the final rule does not impose a duty on the foreign banking entity or the
U.S. banking entity to ensure that its counterparty is conducting its activity in
conformance with section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule. Rather, that burden is at
all times on each party subject to section 13 to ensure that it is conducting its activities in
accordance with section 13 and this implementing rule.

1531

The Agencies believe that this provision should address commenters’ concerns that the proposed rule
could cause foreign banking entities to avoid conducting business with U.S. firms outside the United States
or could incentivize foreign market places to restrict access to U.S. firms. See, e.g., RBC.

460

The final rule also permits, pursuant to section 13(d)(1)(J), a foreign banking
entity to trade through an unaffiliated market intermediary if the trade is conducted
anonymously on an exchange or similar trading facility and is promptly cleared and
settled through a clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization. 1532 Allowing
foreign banking entities to generally conduct anonymous proprietary trades on U.S.
exchanges and similar anonymous trading facilities allows these exchanges and facilities
– which are generally not subject to section 13 and do not take the risks section 13 is
designed to address – to serve the widest possible range of counterparties. This prevents
the potential adverse impacts from possible reductions in competitiveness of or liquidity
available on these regulated exchanges and facilities, which could also harm other U.S.
market participants who trade on these exchanges and facilities. In addition, the
Agencies recognize that anonymous trading on exchanges and similar anonymous trading
facilities promotes transparency and that prohibiting foreign banking entities from trading
on U.S. exchanges and similar anonymous trading facilities under this exemption would
likely reduce transparency for trading in U.S. financial instruments. All of these
considerations support the Agencies’ exercise of their exemptive authority under section
13(d)(1)(J) to allow such trading by foreign banking entities.
The final rule requires that foreign banking entities trade through an unaffiliated
market intermediary to access a U.S. exchange or trading facility in recognition that

1532

Under the final rule, “anonymous” means that each party to a purchase or sale is unaware of the
identity of the other party(ies) to the purchase or sale. See final rule § __.3(e)(1).

461

existing laws and regulations generally require this structure. 1533 For purposes of this
exemption, an exchange would include, unless the context otherwise requires, any
designated contract market, swap execution facility, or foreign board of trade registered
with the CFTC, and any exchange or security-based swap execution facility, as such
terms are defined under the Exchange Act. 1534
This provision of the final rule requires that foreign banking entities trade
anonymously and that the trade be centrally cleared and settled. The Agencies
understand that in these circumstances, the foreign banking entity would not have any
prior information regarding its counterparty to the trade. Requiring that the trade be
executed anonymously preserves the benefits of allowing U.S. entities to participate in
such trades, while reducing the potential for evasion of section 13 that could occur if
foreign banking entities directly arranged purchases and sales with U.S. entities. 1535 The
final rule specifies that a trade is anonymous if each party to the purchase or sale is
unaware of the identity of the other party(ies) to the purchase or sale. That is, it is lack of
knowledge of the identity of the counteryparty(ies) to the trade that is relevant. The final
rule does not prohibit foreign banking entities from accessing a trading facility through
an unaffiliated U.S. market intermediary (which the foreign banking entity would

1533

See, e.g., 15 U.S.C. 78f(c)(1) (providing that a national securities exchange shall deny membership to
(A) any person, other than a natural person, which is not a registered broker or dealer or (B) any natural
person who is not, or is not associated with, a registered broker or dealer).

1534

See final rule § __.3(e)(6) (defining the term “exchange”). The rule refers to an “exchange or similar
trading facility.” A similar trading facility for these purposes may include, for example, an alternative
trading system.

1535

In addition, allowing a foreign banking entity to trade directly with a U.S. end user customer under the
foreign trading exemption could give the foreign banking entity a competitive advantage over U.S. banking
entities with respect to trading in the United States.

462

necessarily know), so long as the foreign banking entity is not aware of the identity of the
counterparty to the transaction.
Similarly, also pursuant to section 13(d)(1)(J), the final rule allows a foreign
banking entity to trade with an unaffiliated market intermediary acting in a principal
capacity and effecting a market intermediation function, in a transaction that is not
conducted on an exchange or similar anonymous trading facility, as long as the trade is
promptly cleared and settled through a clearing agency or derivatives clearing
organization. This provision recognizes that not all financial instruments are traded on an
exchange or similar anonymous trading facility and, thus, allows foreign banking entities
to trade and contribute to market liquidity in all types of U.S. financial instruments
without requiring separate market infrastructure to be developed outside the U.S. for such
trading activity, which could result in inefficiencies and reduce U.S. market liquidity.
Market intermediaries can serve the same general purpose as exchanges or similar trading
facilities in intermediating between buyers and sellers, particularly in asset classes that do
not generally trade on these exchanges or facilities, although this intermediation function
may not be as immediate in the case of market intermediaries.
In either case (i.e., for either an anonymous trade or a trade with an unaffiliated
market intermediary), if the U.S. counterparty to the transaction is a banking entity
subject to section 13 and these rules, it must comply with an exemption to the prohibition
on proprietary trading, such as the market-making exemption or the exemption for
riskless principal transactions. Allowing foreign banking entities to trade with
unaffiliated U.S. market intermediaries, including banking entities engaged in permitted
market making-related activities, expands the range of potential buyers and sellers for

463

which the U.S. entities can trade and may result in more efficient and timely matching of
trades, reducing inventory risks to the U.S. market intermediary. At the same time, this
exemption does not permit a U.S. market intermediary that is subject to section 13 of the
BHC Act to conduct trading activities other than in compliance with the provisions of
section 13. Thus, the Agencies believe it is appropriate to allow foreign banking entities
to conduct such trading under the exemption in section 13(d)(1)(J).
To reduce risks to U.S. entities and the potential for evasion, the provisions
allowing trading with U.S. entities include two additional protections. First, the final rule
does not allow a foreign banking entity to trade through an affiliated U.S. entity under the
exemption out of concern that it could increase the risk of evasion. 1536 Second, a foreign
banking entity’s trades conducted through an unaffiliated market intermediary on an
exchange or conducted directly with an unaffiliated market intermediary must be
promptly cleared and settled through a clearing agency or derivatives clearing
organization acting as central counterparty. Consistent with the goals of section 13 to
reduce risk to banking entities and the U.S. financial system, this requirement is designed
to reduce risk to U.S. entities arising from foreign banking entities’ proprietary trading
activity, particularly counterparty risk, and preclude foreign banking entities from relying
on the exemption for trading that creates exposure of U.S. counterparties pursuant to

1536

In addition, allowing a foreign banking entity to trade through or with a U.S. affiliate under the
exemption for trading activity of a foreign banking entity could give the foreign banking entity a
competitive advantage over U.S. banking entities that are subject to limitations on their trading activities.
Thus, the Agencies are not permitting a foreign banking entity to trade through a U.S. affiliate as agent, as
requested by some commenters. See, e.g., IIB/EBF. However, the Agencies recognize that, with respect to
trading anonymously, there is no way to know the identity of the counterparty to the trade. Thus, a foreign
banking entity would not be in violation of this rule if it traded through an unaffiliated market intermediary
on an exchange, in accordance with the exemption for trading activity of a foreign banking entity, and the
counterparty to its trade happened to be an affiliated entity.

464

bilateral, uncleared transactions, which poses heightened counterparty credit risks. 1537
This condition is also consistent with the systemic risk benefits of central clearing and
may incentivize the use of central clearing for trading by foreign banking entities and
foreign affiliates of U.S. banking entities. The Agencies believe this approach is
consistent with and reinforces the goals of the central clearing framework of Title VIII of
the Dodd-Frank Act.
The final rule does not allow a foreign banking entity to trade with a broader
range of U.S. entities under the exemption because the Agencies are concerned such an
approach may result in adverse competitive impacts between U.S. banking entities and
foreign banking entities with respect to their trading in the United States, which could
harm the safety and soundness of banking entities and U.S. financial stability. For
example, such an approach could allow foreign banking entities to act as market makers
for U.S. customers under the exemption in § __.6(e) of the final rule so long as the
foreign banking entity held the risk of its market-making trades outside the United States.
In turn, this could give foreign banking entities a competitive advantage over U.S.
banking entities with respect to U.S. market-making activities because foreign banking
entities could trade directly with U.S. non-banking entities without incurring the
additional costs, or being subject to the limitations, associated with the market-making or
other exemptions under the rule. This competitive disparity in turn could create a
significant potential for regulatory arbitrage. The Agencies do not believe this result was

1537

As discussed above, centralized clearing redistributes counterparty risk among members of a clearing
agency or derivatives clearing organization through mutualization of losses, reducing the likelihood of
sequential counterparty failure and contagion. See supra note 266 and accompanying text.

465

intended by the statute. Instead, the final rule seeks to alleviate the concern that an overly
broad approach to the exemption (e.g., permitting trading with all U.S. counterparties)
may result in competitive impacts and increased risks to the U.S. financial system, while
mitigating the concern that an overly narrow approach to the exemption (e.g., prohibiting
trading with any U.S. counterparty) may cause market bifurcations, reduce the efficiency
and liquidity of markets, and harm U.S. market participants.
9.

Section __.7: Limitations on Permitted Trading Activities
Section __.8 of the proposed rule implemented section 13(d)(2) of the BHC

Act, 1538 which provides that a banking entity may not engage in certain exempt activities
(e.g., permitted market making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging, etc.) if the
activity would involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking
entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties; result, directly or indirectly, in a
material exposure by the banking entity to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading
strategy; or pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or U.S.
financial stability. 1539 The Agencies sought comment on proposed definitions of the
terms “material conflict of interest,” “high-risk asset,” and “high-risk trading strategy”
for these purposes.
With respect to general comments regarding the proposed rule, commenters
generally agreed on the need to limit banking entities’ proprietary trading activities so as

1538

Section __.8 of the proposed rule regarding limitations on permitted trading activities is consistent with
§ __.17 of the proposed rule regarding other limitations on permitted covered funds activities.
Accordingly, the discussion regarding proposed rule §__.8 and final rule §__.7 in this part also pertain to
§__.17 of the proposed rule and § __.16 of the final rule. See also Part IV.B.6., infra.
1539

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(2).

466

to avoid material conflicts of interest and material exposures to high-risk trading
strategies and high-risk assets. 1540 One commenter expressed support for the Agencies’
proposed approach, stating that the proposed rule was clear and structured in such a
manner so that it should remain effective even as financial markets evolve and
change. 1541 As discussed in greater detail below, most commenters suggested
amendments, clarification, or alternative approaches. For example, some commenters
expressed concern regarding the application of the prudential backstops to the activities
of foreign banking entities. 1542 The Agencies did not receive any comments on the
prohibition against transactions or activities that pose a threat to the safety or soundness
of the banking entity or the financial stability of the United States.
As explained in detail below, the Agencies have carefully reviewed comments on
the proposed rule’s implementation of the prudential backstops under section 13(d)(2) of
the BHC Act, including commenters’ suggestions for expanding, contracting, or revising
the proposed rule. After carefully considering these comments, the Agencies continue to
believe the expansive scope of section 13 of the BHC Act supports a similarly inclusive
approach focusing on the facts and circumstances of each potential conflict or high-risk
activity. Therefore, and in consideration of all issues discussed below, the Agencies are
adopting the final rule substantially as proposed. 1543 The Agencies intend to develop
additional guidance regarding best practices for addressing potential material conflicts of

1540

See, e.g., Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Paul Volcker.

1541

See Alfred Brock.

1542

See IIB/EBF; Ass’n. of German Banks.

1543

The Agencies note that proposed Appendix C, which required banking entities to describe how they
comply with these provisions, will be adopted as Appendix B with similar requirements regarding
compliance with the limitations on permitted activities.

467

interest, high-risk assets and trading strategies and practices that pose significant risks to
safety and soundness and to the U.S. financial system as the Agencies and banking
entities gain experience with implementation of the requirements and limitations in
section 13 of the BHC Act and this rule, which are all generally designed to limit risky
behavior in trading and investment activities.
a.

Scope of “Material Conflict of Interest”
1.

Proposed rule
Section __.8(b) of the proposed rule defined the scope of material conflicts of

interest which, if arising in connection with a permitted trading activity, were prohibited
under the proposal. 1544 As noted in the proposal, conflicts of interest may arise in a
variety of circumstances related to permitted trading activities. For example, a banking
entity may acquire substantial amounts of nonpublic information about the financial
condition of a particular company or issuer through its lending, underwriting, investment
advisory or other activities which, if improperly transmitted to and used in trading
operations, would permit the banking entity to use such information to its customers’,
clients’ or counterparties’ disadvantage. Similarly, a banking entity may conduct a
transaction that places the banking entity’s own interests ahead of its obligations to its
customers, clients or counterparties, or it may seek to gain by treating one customer
involved in a transaction more favorably than another customer involved in that
transaction. Concerns regarding conflicts of interest are likely to be elevated when a
transaction is complex, highly structured or opaque, involves illiquid or hard-to-value
1544

Section __.17(b) of the proposed rule defined the scope of material conflicts of interest which, if
arising in connection with permitted covered fund activities, are prohibited.

468

instruments or assets, requires the coordination of multiple internal groups (such as
multiple trading desks or affiliated entities), or involves a significant asymmetry of
information or transactional data among participants. 1545 In all cases, the existence of a
material conflict of interest depends on the specific facts and circumstances. 1546
To address these types of material conflicts of interest, § __.8(b) of the proposed
rule specified that a material conflict of interest between a banking entity and its clients,
customers, or counterparties exists if the banking entity engages in any transaction, class
of transactions, or activity that would involve or result in the banking entity’s interests
being materially adverse to the interests of its client, customer, or counterparty with
respect to such transaction, class of transactions, or activity, unless the banking entity has
appropriately addressed and mitigated the conflict of interest, and subject to specific
requirements provided in the proposal, through either (i) timely and effective disclosure,
or (ii) information barriers. 1547 Unless the conflict of interest is addressed and mitigated
in one of the two ways specified in the proposal, the related transaction, class of
transactions or activity would be prohibited under the proposed rule, notwithstanding the
fact that it may be otherwise permitted under §§ __.4 through __.6 of the proposed rule.
1548

1545

See, e.g., U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, WALL STREET AND THE FINANCIAL
CRISIS: ANATOMY OF A FINANCIAL COLLAPSE (Apr. 13, 2011), available at
http://hsgac.senate.gov/public/_files/Financial_Crisis/FinancialCrisisReport.pdf.
1546

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,893.

1547

See proposed rule § __.8(b)(1).

1548

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,893.

469

However, the Agencies determined that while these conflicts may be material for
purposes of the proposed rule, the mere fact that the buyer and seller are on opposite
sides of a transaction and have differing economic interests would not be deemed a
“material” conflict of interest with respect to transactions related to bona fide
underwriting, market making, risk-mitigating hedging or other permitted activities,
assuming the activities are conducted in a manner that is consistent with the proposed
rule and securities, derivatives, and banking laws and regulations.
Section __.8(b)(1) of the proposed rule described the two requirements that must
be met in cases where a banking entity addresses and mitigates a material conflict of
interest through timely and effective disclosure. First, § __.8(b)(1)(A)(i) of the proposed
rule required that the banking entity, prior to effecting the specific transaction or class or
type of transactions, or engaging in the specific activity, for which a conflict may arise,
make clear, timely and effective disclosure of the conflict or potential conflict of interest,
together with any other necessary information. This would also require such disclosure
to be provided in reasonable detail and in a manner sufficient to permit a reasonable
client, customer, or counterparty to meaningfully understand the conflict of interest. 1549
Disclosure that is only general or generic, rather than specific to the individual, class, or
type of transaction or activity, or that omits details or other information that would be
necessary to a reasonable client’s, customer’s, or counterparty’s understanding of the
conflict of interest, would not meet this standard. Second, § __.8(b)(1)(ii) of the
proposed rule required that the disclosure be made explicitly and effectively, and in a

1549

See id.

470

manner that provides the client, customer, or counterparty the opportunity to negate, or
substantially mitigate, any materially adverse effect on the client, customer, or
counterparty that was created or would be created by the conflict or potential conflict. 1550
The Agencies noted that, in order to provide the requisite opportunity for the
client, customer or counterparty to negate or substantially mitigate the disadvantage
created by the conflict, the disclosure would need to be provided sufficiently close in
time to the client’s, customer’s, or counterparty’s decision to engage in the transaction or
activity to give the client, customer, or counterparty an opportunity to meaningfully
evaluate and, if necessary, take steps that would negate or substantially mitigate the
conflict. Disclosure provided far in advance of a particular transaction, such that the
client, customer, or counterparty is unlikely to take that disclosure into account when
evaluating the transaction, would not suffice. Conversely, disclosure provided without a
sufficient period of time for the client, customer, or counterparty to evaluate and act on
the information it receives, or disclosure provided after the fact, would also not suffice
under the proposal. The Agencies note that the proposed definition would not prevent or
require disclosure with respect to transactions or activities that align the interests of the
banking entity with its clients, customers, or counterparties or that otherwise do not
involve “material” conflicts of interest as discussed above.
The proposed disclosure standard reflected the fact that some types of conflicts
may be appropriately resolved through the disclosure of clear and meaningful
information to the client, customer, or counterparty that provides such party with an
1550

See proposed rule § __.8(b)(1)(B).

471

informed opportunity to consider and negate or substantially mitigate the conflict.
However, in the case of a conflict in which a client, customer, or counterparty does not
have sufficient information and opportunity to negate or mitigate the materially adverse
effect on the client, customer, or counterparty created by the conflict, the existence of that
conflict of interest would prevent the banking entity from availing itself of any exemption
(e.g., the underwriting or market-making exemptions) with respect to the relevant
transaction, class of transactions, or activity. The Agencies note that the proposed
disclosure provisions were provided solely for purposes of the proposed rule’s definition
of material conflict of interest, and did not affect a banking entity’s obligation to comply
with additional or different disclosure or other requirements with respect to a conflict
under applicable securities, banking, or other laws (e.g., section 27B of the Securities
Act, which governs conflicts of interest relating to certain securitizations; section 206 of
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, which governs conflicts of interest between
investment advisers and their clients; or 12 CFR 9.12, which applies to conflicts of
interest in the context of a national bank’s fiduciary activities).
Section __.8(b)(2) of the proposed rule described the requirements that must be
met in cases where a banking entity uses information barriers that are reasonably
designed to prevent a material conflict of interest from having a materially adverse effect
on a client, customer or counterparty. Information barriers can be used to restrict the
dissemination of information within a complex organization and to prevent material
conflicts by limiting knowledge and coordination of specific business activities among
units of the entity. Examples of information barriers include, but are not limited to,
restrictions on information sharing, limits on types of trading, and greater separation

472

between various functions of the firm. Information barriers may also require that banking
entity units or affiliates have no common officers or employees. Such information
barriers have been recognized in Federal securities laws and rules as a means to address
or mitigate potential conflicts of interest or other inappropriate activities. 1551
In order to address and mitigate a conflict of interest through the use of the
information barriers pursuant to § __.8(b)(2) of the proposed rule, a banking entity would
be required to establish, maintain, and enforce information barriers that are memorialized
in written policies and procedures, including physical separation of personnel, functions,
or limitations on types of activity, that are reasonably designed, taking into consideration
the nature of the banking entity’s business, to prevent the conflict of interest from
involving or resulting in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty.
Importantly, the proposed rule also provided that, notwithstanding a banking entity’s
establishment of such information barriers if the banking entity knows or should
reasonably know that a material conflict of interest arising out of a specific transaction,
class or type of transactions, or activity may involve or result in a materially adverse
1551

See, e.g., 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)(B)(i)(I) – (IV) (finding that disclosure and physical separation of
personnel and activities addresses the potential that consumers might be misled by the broker-dealer
activities of banks). 15 U.S.C. 80b-6(3) (“It shall be unlawful for any investment adviser, by use of the
mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, directly or indirectly . . . acting as principal
for his own account, knowingly to sell any security to or purchase any security from a client, or acting as
broker for a person other than such client, knowingly to effect any sale or purchase of any security for the
account of such client, without disclosing to such client in writing before the completion of such transaction
the capacity in which he is acting and obtaining the consent of the client to such transaction.”). See also
Form ADV, the form used by investment advisers to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission
and state securities authorities, and, in particular, Form ADV Part 2: Uniform Requirements for the
Investment Adviser Brochure and Brochure Supplements. A registered investment adviser generally must
deliver the Form ADV brochure, which contains disclosure about conflicts of interest, to its prospective and
existing clients. See 17 CFR 275.204-3; Amendments to Form ADV, Investment Advisers Act Release No.
3060 (July 28, 2010), 75 FR 49234 (Aug. 12, 2010) (“We are adopting a requirement that investment
advisers registered with us provide prospective and existing clients with a narrative brochure written in
plain English . . . We believe these amendments will greatly improve the ability of clients and prospective
clients to evaluate firms offering advisory services and the firms' personnel, and to understand relevant
conflicts of interest that the firms and their personnel face and their potential effect on the firms' services.”).

473

effect on a client, customer, or counterparty, the banking entity may not rely on those
information barriers to address and mitigate any conflict of interest. In such cases, the
transaction or activity would be prohibited, unless the banking entity otherwise complied
with the requirements of proposed § __.8(b)(1). 1552 This aspect of the proposal was
intended to make clear that, in specific cases in which a banking entity has established an
information barrier but knows or should reasonably know that it has failed or will fail to
prevent a conflict of interest arising from a specific transactions or activity that
disadvantages a client, customer, or counterparty, the information barrier is insufficient to
address that conflict and the transaction would be prohibited, unless the banking entity is
otherwise able to address and mitigate the conflict through timely and effective disclosure
under the proposal. 1553

The proposed definition of material conflict of interest did not address instances
in which a banking entity has made a material misrepresentation to its client, customer, or
counterparty in connection with a transaction, class of transactions, or activity, as such
transactions or activity appears to involve fraud rather than a conflict of interest. This is
because such misrepresentations are generally illegal under a variety of Federal and State
regulatory schemes (e.g., the Federal securities laws). 1554 In addition, the Agencies noted
that any activity involving a material misrepresentation to, or other fraudulent conduct
with respect to, a client, customer, or counterparty would not be permitted under the
proposed rule in the first instance.

1552

See proposed rule § __.8(b)(2).

1553

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,894.

1554

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(g)(3).

474

2.

Comments on the proposed limitation on material conflicts of interest
Commenters expressed a variety of views regarding the treatment of material

conflicts of interest under the proposal, including the manner in which conflicts may be
mitigated or eliminated. One commenter believed that the proposed material conflict of
interest provisions would be effective. 1555 Another commenter stated that conflicts of
interest were unavoidable but that the final rule should ensure that institutional investors
have confidence that the banking entities they are dealing with are not operating at a
conflict with investors’ goals. 1556
Other commenters expressed differing views on whether the proposed rule’s
provisions for addressing conflicts of interest through disclosure or information barriers
were appropriate. A few commenters stated there is no statutory basis for allowing
conflicts of interest in connection with exempted activities even if banking entities
provide disclosure or establish information barriers, and the rule should prohibit banking
entities from engaging in permitted activities if material conflicts of interest exist. 1557
One commenter believed the definition did not appear to address issues of customer
favoritism, in which a bank is financially incentivized to treat one customer more
favorably than another (typically less sophisticated) customer. 1558 Some commenters
believed that the proposed definition of material conflict of interest was too vague or
narrow and suggested it should be strengthened by either expanding the types of

1555

See Alfred Brock.

1556

See Paul Volcker.

1557

See Public Citizen; Sens. Merkley & Levin; Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

1558

See Public Citizen.

475

transactions that may result in a material conflict of interest or by imposing additional
limitations or restrictions on transactions. 1559 For instance, one commenter suggested the
final rule consider depositors of a banking entity to be “customers” for the purpose of this
provision, impose a fiduciary duty on any banking entity conducting an exempt activity
pursuant to section 13(d)(1) of the BHC Act, and impose size restrictions on any banking
entity engaging in proprietary trading under an exemption. This commenter also stated
that a banking entity inherently has a material conflict of interest with its customer when
it takes the opposite side of a transaction and, therefore, that the final rule should require
a banking entity to disgorge all principal gains from transactions conducted pursuant to
any exemption under section 13(d)(1) of the BHC Act, including market-making, trading
in U.S. government obligations, insurance company activities and other exempt
activities. 1560 In addition, a few commenters stated that, if disclosure or information
barriers were permitted to mitigates conflicts under the final rule, clients of the banking
entity must be required to acknowledge in writing that they understand the potential
conflicts of interest present in order for any disclosure to be effective in mitigating a
conflict of interest. 1561
Some commenters believed that the Agencies should consider issuing additional
guidance regarding the definition of material conflicts of interest, high-risk assets, and
high-risk trading strategies. 1562 One commenter stated that the final rule should limit the

1559

See, e.g., Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1560

See Occupy.

1561

See, e.g., Lynda Aiman-Smith; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1562

See Rep. Blumenauer et al.; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

476

extraterritorial impact of section 13 by only applying the restrictions of section 13(d)(2)
of the BHC Act to the U.S. operations or activities of foreign banking entities and that the
regulation of safety and soundness of the foreign operations and activities of foreign
banking entities should be left to the home country regulator or supervisor of a foreign
banking entity. 1563
Some commenters provided general suggestions on enhancing compliance with
the prohibition on material conflicts of interest. A common suggestion among industry
participants was to implement the prohibition on material conflicts of interest under these
rules in a manner consistent with the implementation of section 621 of Dodd-Frank. 1564
One commenter suggested that trading in government obligations should not be subject to
the material conflict of interest provision because government obligations are broadly
traded and do not present the types of conflicts addressed by the proposed rule. 1565 In
contrast, one commenter stated banking entities should be required to receive pre-trade
clearance from the Federal Reserve for trading in certain government obligations like
municipal bonds and mortgage-backed securities, due to their role in the 2008 financial
crisis. 1566
a.

Disclosure
Some commenters expressed concern about potential difficulties associated with

the proposed disclosure provision and provided suggestions to address these difficulties.

1563

See IIB/EBF; EBF.

1564

See ASF (Conflicts) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Securitization)
(Feb. 2012); LSTA (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1565

See BDA (Feb. 2012).

1566

See Occupy.

477

For example, a few commenters noted the difficulty in determining what constitutes
effective disclosure, 1567 especially in relation to the volume of disclosure or the impact of
information asymmetry in illiquid markets. 1568 One commenter stated that unless the rule
requires full disclosure of a banking entity’s trading strategy and the rationale behind it,
allowing disclosure will permit the banking entity to protect itself without adequately
mitigating the harm of the conflict. This commenter also noted the practical difficulties
associated with disclosing anticipated future conflicts and conflicts in the context of
block trading. 1569 Another commenter stated market participants understand inherent
conflicts of interest and believed disclosure in such situations would be burdensome and
unnecessary. 1570 One commenter stated that the rule should require a banking entity to
negate, not just permit the client, customer, or counterparty to substantially mitigate, the
materially adverse effect of the conflict. 1571
A few commenters disagreed with the disclosure provision, noting that Congress
specifically considered and rejected disclosure as a mitigation method for purposes of
section 621 of the Dodd-Frank Act and that this indicates the Agencies should not permit
a material conflict of interest to be mitigated through disclosure for purposes of section
13 of the BHC Act. 1572

1567

See Occupy; ISDA (Apr. 2012); Better Markets (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012); ICFR.

1568

See Occupy.

1569

See Public Citizen; See also AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

1570

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012)

1571

See Occupy.

1572

See, e.g, Occupy.

478

Commenters were in disagreement as to the extent and timing of disclosure that
should be required under the rule. Some commenters stated the disclosure provisions
would slow trading, and suggested the rule require only one-time disclosure at the
inception of the business relationship 1573 or periodic disclosures to address ongoing
conflicts. 1574 One of these commenters noted that extensive trade-by-trade disclosure
requirements create the risk of unintended breaches of confidentiality. 1575 Other
commenters requested the Agencies provide additional guidance, such as when
transaction-specific disclosure is necessary, 1576 whether disclosure should be written, 1577
and what constitutes “reasonable detail.” 1578
In addition, some commenters provided suggestions on whether parties should be
required to acknowledge receipt of disclosures 1579 or affirmatively consent to the
conflict. 1580 One commenter proposed allowing a majority of a committee of
independent board members to approve consent to waivers of conflicts of interest. 1581
One commenter believed disclosure and consent by a sophisticated investor ought to be
sufficient to serve as a waiver to most types of conflict of interest. 1582 In contrast,

1573

See ISDA (Apr. 2012); Arnold & Porter.

1574

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Apr. 2012).

1575

See ISDA (Apr. 2012).

1576

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012);

1577

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); ICFR (questioning the effectiveness of enforcement
mechanisms if oral disclosure permitted under the rule); Occupy.

1578

See ICFR.

1579

See, e.g., Arnold & Porter; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Public
Citizen; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Lynda Aiman-Smith.

1580

See Public Citizen; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Better Markets (Feb. 2012).

1581

See Arnold & Porter.

1582

See Arnold & Porter.

479

another commenter asserted general disclosure or waivers of conflicts should never be
allowed, and the Agencies should not provide any additional guidance as to the extent,
timing, frequency, or scope of disclosure appropriate in any given situation. 1583
Similarly, one commenter asserted the Agencies should not provide guidance on what
issues can be addressed by disclosure, as such guidance would be “dangerously
prescriptive and would introduce moral hazards.” 1584
b.

Information barriers
A few commenters addressed the information barriers provision of the proposed

rule. One commenter expressed support for the proposed approach, 1585 while three
commenters stated this provision was ineffective. 1586 A few commenters opposed the
information barriers provision because they believed information barriers would make
conflict mitigation more difficult 1587 or would effectively mandate that no single officer
be aware of a banking entity’s collective operations. 1588
A few commenters also requested the Agencies provide guidance regarding the
use of information barriers. One commenter requested the Agencies specify the type and
nature of information barriers and where they are practical to implement. 1589 Another
commenter believed that the Agencies should view information barriers favorably. This

1583

See Alfred Brock (stating there is no such thing as a “sophisticated party”).

1584

See ICFR.

1585

See Alfred Brock.

1586

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen.

1587

See Occupy.

1588

See Public Citizen (contending that this would undermine the Dodd-Frank Act’s requirement to
promote sound management, ensure financial stability, and reduce systemic risk).

1589

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

480

commenter stated that information barriers should be permitted for addressing conflicts
of interest unless the banking entity knows, or should reasonably know, that the
information barrier would not be effective in restricting the spread of information that
could lead to the conflict. 1590 To provide greater clarity, another commenter
recommended the Agencies provide guidance on certain elements that may be used to
determine the reasonableness of information barriers, such as memorialization of
procedures and documentation of actions taken pursuant to such procedures. 1591
3.

Final rule
After considering carefully comments received on the proposal as well as the

purpose and language of section 13 of the BHC Act, the Agencies have adopted the final
rule largely as proposed. Under the final rule, a banking entity that engages in any
transaction, class of transactions, or activity that would involve or result in the banking
entity’s interests being materially adverse to the interests of its client, customer, or
counterparty with respect to the transaction, class of transactions, or activity, must
address and mitigate the conflict of interest, where possible, through either timely and
effective disclosure or informational barriers. 1592 This requirement is in addition to, and
does not supplant, any limitations or prohibitions contained in other laws. For example, a
1590

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1591

See ISDA (Apr. 2012) (arguing that its suggested guidance was derived from prior SEC and selfregulatory organization guidance on information barriers).
1592

The Agencies note that the definition of material conflict of interest and the disclosure provisions
related to that definition apply solely for purposes of the rule’s definition of material conflict of interest,
and does not affect the scope of that term in other contexts or a banking entity’s obligation to comply with
additional or different requirements with respect to a conflict under applicable securities, banking, or other
laws (e.g., section 27B of the Securities Act, which governs conflicts of interest relating to certain
securitizations; section 206 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, which applies to conflicts of interest
between investment advisers and their clients; or 12 CFR 9.12, which applies to conflicts of interest in the
context of a national bank’s fiduciary activities).

481

material misrepresentation by a banking entity to its client, customer, or counterparty in
connection with market-making activities may involve fraud and is generally illegal
under a variety of Federal and State regulatory schemes (e.g., the Federal securities
laws) 1593 as well as being prohibited under section 13 of the BHC Act.
The Agencies believe that certain of commenters’ suggested modifications to the
proposed rule are outside the scope of the Agencies’ statutory authority. For example,
the Agencies do not believe section 13 of the BHC Act provides statutory authority to
directly impose limits on the size of banking entities 1594 or to implement specific
fiduciary standards on banking entities. 1595 In addition, the Agencies do not believe it is
appropriate to expand the definition of “customer” to include individuals and entities that
solely make use of the bank’s traditional banking services because section 13 is focused
on the trading activities and investment in which banking entities may be involved. 1596
The final rule recognizes that a banking entity may address or substantially
mitigate a potential conflict of interest by making adequate disclosures or creating and
enforcing informational barriers. Some commenters argued that the legislative history of
the Dodd-Frank Act suggests that disclosure or informational barriers are not adequate to
address a material conflict of interest. 1597 However, section 13 of the BHC Act directs
the Agencies to define “material conflict of interest” and gives the Agencies discretion to
determine how to define this term for purposes of the rule. Under the final rule, a

1593

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(g)(3).

1594

See Occupy.

1595

See Occupy.

1596

See Occupy.

1597

See Public Citizen; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

482

material conflict of interest exists when the banking entity engages in transactions or
activities that cause its interests to be materially adverse to the interests of its client,
customer, or counterparty. At the same time, the final rule provides banking entities the
opportunity to take certain actions to address the conflict, such that the conflict does not
have a materially adverse effect on that client, customer, or counterparty. Under the final
rule, a banking entity may address a conflict by establishing, maintaining, and enforcing
information barriers reasonably designed to avoid a conflict’s materially adverse effect,
or by disclosing the conflict in a manner that allows the client, customer, or counterparty
to substantially mitigate or negate any materially adverse effect created by the conflict of
interest. The Agencies believe that, to the extent the materially adverse effect of a
conflict has been substantially mitigated, negated, or avoided, it is appropriate to allow
the transaction, class of transaction, or activity under the final rule. Continuing to view
the conflict as a material conflict of interest under these circumstances would not appear
to benefit the banking entity’s client, customer, or counterparty. The disclosure standard
under the final rule requires clear and meaningful information be provided to the client,
customer, or counterparty in a manner that provides such party the opportunity to negate
or substantially mitigate, any materially adverse effects on such party created by the
conflict.
Some commenters suggested that obtaining consent to or waiver of disclosed
conflicts should be sufficient to comply with the rule. 1598 The Agencies do not believe
that consent or waivers alone are sufficient to address material conflicts of interest, and
continue to believe that any banking entity using disclosure to address a conflict of
1598

See, e.g., Arnold & Porter.

483

interest should be required to provide any client, customer, or counterparty with whom
the banking entity has a conflict with the opportunity to negate or substantially mitigate
the materially adverse effect of the conflict on the client, customer, or counterparty. The
Agencies believe this approach, which applies equally to all types of clients, customers,
or counterparties, will reduce the potential for unintended or differing impacts on certain
types of clients, customers, or counterparties. In response to one commenter’s suggestion
that the final rules require full negation of the materially adverse effect on the client,
customer, or counterparty, the Agencies continue to believe it is appropriate to allow a
transaction or activity to continue if the client, customer, or counterparty is provided an
opportunity to substantially mitigate the materially adverse effect. 1599 The Agencies are
concerned that requiring the conflict’s impact to be fully negated under all circumstances
could prevent a banking entity from providing a service to a particular customer despite
that customer’s knowledge of the conflict and ability to substantially reduce the effect of
the conflict on that customer.
With regards to commenters’ statements that information barriers and disclosure
will not work to address the harm caused by conflicts, the Agencies emphasize that under
the final rule, like the proposed rule, a banking entity may use disclosure or information
barriers to address a conflict only in those instances where the disclosure provides the
client, customer, or counterparty with the opportunity to negate or substantially mitigate
any materially adverse effect of the conflict on that entity or the information barriers are
reasonably designed to prevent the conflict of interest from involving or resulting in a
materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty. If the banking entity is
1599

See Occupy.

484

unable to effectively use disclosure or information barriers in a way that meets the rule’s
requirements, then the banking entity is prohibited from engaging in the conflicted
transaction, class of transaction, or activity. Additionally, the Agencies note that the
material conflict of interest provisions in the final rule do not preempt any duties owed to
parties outside the transaction, including any duty of confidentiality. 1600
In response to commenters’ statements that the volume of information included in
a disclosure or the manner in which the disclosure is presented may make it difficult for a
customer to identify and understand the relevant information regarding the conflict, 1601
the Agencies note that the final rule requires disclosure of the conflict or potential
conflict be clear, timely, and effective and that the disclosure includes any other
necessary information. Disclosure is also required to be provided in reasonable detail and
in a manner sufficient to permit a reasonable client, customer, or counterparty to
meaningfully understand the conflict of interest. 1602 Thus, disclosure that is only general
or generic, that omits details or other information that would be necessary to a reasonable
client’s, customer’s, or counterparty’s understanding of the conflict of interest, or that is
hidden in a large volume of needless information would not meet this standard. The
Agencies believe these provisions of the final rule are designed to ensure that customers
receive sufficient information about the conflict of interest so that they are well informed

1600

See ISDA (Apr. 2012).

1601

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012) (suggesting that a disclosure regime can facilitate abuse by enabling
market participants to point to obscure and meaningless disclosure as a shield against liability); Occupy
(arguing that a large volume of disclosed information can be difficult to understand or can serve to hide
relevant information).
1602

See final rule § __.7(b)(1)(i) and final rule § __.16(b)(1)(i).

485

and, as required by the rule, able to negate or substantially mitigate any materially
adverse effect of the conflict.
In addition to requiring that customers are provided with detailed information
about the conflict, the final rule, like the proposal, requires that disclosure is made prior
to effecting the specific transaction or class or type of transactions, or engaging in the
specific activity, for which a conflict may arise and is otherwise timely. As a result,
under § __.7(b)(2)(i), disclosure must be provided sufficiently close in time to the
client’s, customer’s, or counterparty’s decision to engage in the transaction or activity to
give the client, customer, or counterparty an opportunity to meaningfully evaluate and
take steps that would negate or substantially mitigate the conflict. This approach is
similar to the approach permitted by a variety of consumer protection statutes and
regulations for addressing potential conflicts of interest in consumer transactions. 1603
Some commenters requested that the final rule permit a conflict to be negated or
substantially mitigated through generic or periodic disclosures, such as at the beginning
of a trading relationship or on an annual basis. Other commenters stated that some
1603

See, e.g., 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)(B)(i)(I) – (IV) (finding that disclosure and physical separation of
personnel and activities addresses the potential that consumers might be misled by the broker-dealer
activities of banks); 15 U.S.C. 80b-6(3) (“It shall be unlawful for any investment adviser, by use of the
mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, directly or indirectly . . . acting as principal
for his own account, knowingly to sell any security to or purchase any security from a client, or acting as
broker for a person other than such client, knowingly to effect any sale or purchase of any security for the
account of such client, without disclosing to such client in writing before the completion of such transaction
the capacity in which he is acting and obtaining the consent of the client to such transaction.”). See also
Form ADV, the form used by investment advisers to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission
and state securities authorities, and, in particular, Form ADV Part 2: Uniform Requirements for the
Investment Adviser Brochure and Brochure Supplements. A registered investment adviser generally must
deliver the Form ADV brochure, which contains disclosure about conflicts of interest, to its prospective and
existing clients. See 17 CFR 275.204-3; Amendments to Form ADV, Investment Advisers Act Release No.
3060 (July 28, 2010), 75 FR 49234 (Aug. 12, 2010) (“We are adopting a requirement that investment
advisers registered with us provide prospective and existing clients with a narrative brochure written in
plain English . . . We believe these amendments will greatly improve the ability of clients and prospective
clients to evaluate firms offering advisory services and the firms' personnel, and to understand relevant
conflicts of interest that the firms and their personnel face and their potential effect on the firms' services.”).

486

conflicts, such as anticipated future conflicts or those that arise in the context of block
trading, may require the banking entity to provide disclosure in advance of the actual
conflict in order to allow the client, customer, or counterparty the opportunity to mitigate
the materially adverse effect. 1604 The Agencies emphasize, however, that disclosure
provided far in advance of a particular transaction, such that the client, customer, or
counterparty is unlikely to take that disclosure into account when evaluating the
transaction, would not suffice. At the same time, disclosure provided without a sufficient
period of time for the client, customer, or counterparty to evaluate and act on the
information it receives, or disclosure provided after the fact, would also not be
permissible disclosure under the final rules. The Agencies believe that, in considering
the effectiveness of disclosures, the type, timing and frequency of disclosures depends
significantly on the customer relationship, the type of transaction, and the matter that
creates the potential conflict. Therefore, while written disclosures may be appropriate in
certain circumstances, the Agencies are not requiring banking entities to provide written
disclosure, 1605 or obtain documentation showing that disclosure was received, 1606 because
the Agencies believe it is more important that disclosure is timely than documented. For
example, if disclosure were required to be in writing, this might slow a banking entity’s
ability to provide the disclosure to the relevant customer, which could impede the
customer’s ability to consider the disclosed information and take steps to negate or
substantially mitigate the conflict’s effect on the customer. The Agencies further note

1604

See Public Citizen; See also AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

1605

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); ICFR; Occupy; Alfred Brock.

1606

See, e.g., Arnold & Porter; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Public
Citizen; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Lynda Aiman-Smith.

487

that the final rule does not prevent or require disclosure with respect to transactions or
activities that align the interests of the banking entity with its clients, customers, or
counterparties.
As noted above, one commenter expressed concern about the burdens of
disclosing inherent conflicts and stated such disclosure is unnecessary because market
participants understand inherent conflicts of interest. 1607 As noted in the proposal, certain
inherent conflicts, such as the mere fact that the buyer and seller are on opposite sides of
a transaction and have differing economic interests, would not be deemed a “material”
conflict of interest with respect to permitted activities. 1608
The Agencies continue to believe that information barriers can be an effective
means of addressing conflicts of interest that may arise through, for example, the spread
of information among trading desks engaged in different trading activities that may result
in potentially inappropriate informational advantage. The Agencies are not adopting one
commenter’s suggestion that the final rule specify the particular types of scenarios where
information barriers may be effective 1609 because, as discussed below, the Agencies
believe banking entities are better positioned to determine when information barriers may
be effective given their trading activities and business structure. 1610 In response to one

1607

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); but See Occupy.

1608

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,893. Thus, the Agencies are not adopting one commenter’s suggestion
that the final rule consider all transactions by a banking entity to involve a material conflict of interest
because the banking entity is necessarily on the opposite side of a transaction with its client, customer, or
counterparty. See Occupy.
1609

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1610

The Agencies note examples of information barriers that may address or substantially mitigate a
material conflict of interest include restrictions on information sharing, limits on types of trading,
prohibitions on common officers or employees between functions. Such information barriers have been
recognized in Federal securities laws as a means to address or mitigate potential conflicts of interest or
other inappropriate activities. See, e.g., 17 U.S.C. 78o(g).

488

commenter’s concern that information barriers may result in the banking entity’s
management not being aware of the firm’s collective operations, 1611 the Agencies note
that information barriers do not require this result. Rather, information barriers would be
established between relevant personnel or functions while other personnel, including
senior managers, internal auditors, and compliance personnel, would have access to each
group separated by the barrier.

The final rule continues to recognize that a banking entity may address or
substantially mitigate a conflict of interest through use of information barriers. In order
to address and mitigate a conflict of interest through the use of the information barriers, a
banking entity is required to establish, maintain, and enforce information barriers that are
memorialized in written policies and procedures, including physical separation of
personnel, functions, or limitations on types of activity, that are reasonably designed,
taking into consideration the nature of the banking entity’s business, to prevent the
conflict of interest from involving or resulting in a materially adverse effect on a client,
customer or counterparty. 1612 Importantly, the final rule also provides that,

1611

See Public Citizen.

1612

The Agencies note that a banking entity subject to Appendix B of the final rule must implement a
compliance program that includes, among other things, policies and procedures that explain how the
banking entity monitors and prohibits conflicts of interest with clients, customers, and counterparties. As
part of maintaining and enforcing information barriers, a banking entity should have processes to review,
test, and modify information barriers on a continuing basis. In addition, banking entities should have
ongoing monitoring to maintain and to enforce information barriers, for example by identifying whether
such barriers have not prevented unauthorized information sharing and addressing instances in which the
barriers were not effective. This may require both remediating any identified breach as well as updating
the information barriers to prevent further breaches, as necessary. Periodic assessment of the effectiveness
of information barriers and periodic review of the written policies and procedures are also important to the
maintenance and enforcement of effective information barriers and reasonably designed policies and
procedures. Such assessments can be done either (i) internally by a qualified employee or (ii) externally by
a qualified independent party. See Part IV.C.2.e., infra.

489

notwithstanding a banking entity’s establishment of such information barriers, if the
banking entity knows or should reasonably know that a material conflict of interest
arising out of a specific transaction, class or type of transactions, or activity may involve
or result in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty, the banking
entity may not rely on those information barriers to address and mitigate any conflict of
interest. In such cases, the transaction or activity would be prohibited, unless the banking
entity otherwise complied with the requirements of § __.7(b)(2)(i). 1613
While some commenters requested that the final rule include additional
limitations as part of implementing the material conflict of interest provisions in section
13(d)(2), the Agencies do not believe additional restrictions are appropriate at this time.
Concerns regarding conflicts of interest are likely to be elevated when a transaction is
complex, highly structured or opaque, involves illiquid or hard-to-value instruments or
assets, requires the coordination of multiple internal groups (such as multiple trading
desks or affiliated entities), or involves a significant asymmetry of information or
transactional data among participants. 1614 In all cases, the question of whether a material
conflict of interest exists will depend on an evaluation of the specific facts and
circumstances. For example, certain simple transactions may implicate conflicts of
interest that cannot be mitigated by disclosure or restricted by information barriers. On

1613

If a conflict occurs to the detriment of a client, customer, or counterparty despite an information
barrier, the Agencies would also expect the banking entity to review the effectiveness of its information
barrier and make adjustments, as necessary, to avoid future occurrences, or review whether such
information barrier is appropriate for that type of conflict.

1614

See, e.g., U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, WALL STREET AND THE FINANCIAL
CRISIS: ANATOMY OF A FINANCIAL COLLAPSE (Apr. 13, 2011), available at
http://hsgac.senate.gov/public/_files/Financial_Crisis/FinancialCrisisReport.pdf.

490

the other hand, certain highly structured and complex transactions may involve conflicts
of interest that can be mitigated by disclosure or restricted by information barriers.
The Agencies believe that conflicts of interest must be determined and addressed
in accordance with the specific facts and circumstances presented. One commenter
suggested that the proposed rule be modified so that a banking entity could conclusively
rely on information barriers unless it knows or has reason to know that policies,
procedures, and controls establishing barriers would not be effective in restricting the
spread of information. 1615 By focusing on whether a banking entity knows or has reason
to know that its policies and procedures would not be effective, rather than on what the
banking entity knows or should reasonably know about a conflict of interest that may
involve or result in a material adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty, the
commenter’s suggestion has the potential to allow a banking entity to engage in
transactions that involve a material conflict of interest. Therefore, the Agencies have
determined not to adopt the commenter’s suggested approach. Similarly, the Agencies
are rejecting some commenters’ suggestions that the final rule prescribe the method,
scope, or specific content of disclosures. 1616 The Agencies believe that specific guidance
on disclosure may provide an incentive for banking entities to consider the form of
disclosure provided, rather than whether disclosure can address the substance of the
conflict as determined by the specific facts and circumstances at hand. Moreover, the
Agencies believe banking entities are in the best position to identify and evaluate the

1615

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

1616

See Occupy; ISDA (Apr. 2012); Better Markets (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012); ICFR; Alfred Brock; Public Citizen; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Arnold & Porter; Sens. Merkley &
Levin (Feb. 2012).

491

conflicts present in their business as well as the most effective method of disclosing such
conflicts. Banking entities must tailor their compliance programs to identify, monitor,
and evaluate potential conflicts based on their business structure and specific activities
and customer relationships. 1617

Finally, some commenters requested that the final rule specifically address the
conflict of interest provisions related to asset-backed securitizations contained in section
621 of the Dodd-Frank Act. As explained below in Part IV.B.1., some securitizations are
subject to the final rule, and others such as securitizations of loans are not subject to
section 13 of the BHC Act. For any securitization that meets the definition of covered
fund under the final rule, relationships with and transactions by a banking entity
involving those securitizations remain subject to the requirements of section 13, including
the requirements of section 13(d)(2). In addition, the banking entity would be subject to
the limitations contained in section 621 of the Dodd-Frank Act and any rules regarding
conflicts of interest relating to securitizations implemented under that section. The final
rule in no way limits the application of section 621 of that Act with respect to an assetbacked security that is subject to that section.
b.

Definition of “High-Risk Asset” and “High-Risk Trading Strategy”

1617

For a full discussion of the final rule’s compliance requirements, including a discussion of the specific
compliance requirements applicable to different banking entities, See Part IV.C. of this Supplementary
Information, infra.

492

1.

Proposed rule
Section __.8(c) of the proposed rule defined “high-risk asset” and “high-risk

trading strategy” for purposes of the proposed limitations on permitted trading activities.
Proposed § __.8(c)(1) defined a “high-risk asset” as an asset or group of assets that
would, if held by the banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking
entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would fail. Proposed § __.8(c)(2)
defined a “high-risk trading strategy” as a trading strategy that would, if engaged in by
the banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would
incur a substantial financial loss or would fail. 1618
2.

Comments on proposed limitations on high-risk assets and trading strategies
With respect to the prohibition on transactions or activities that expose banking

entities to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies, one commenter stated the
provisions were effective, 1619 while other commenters stated the proposed rule was too
vague 1620 and implied that banking entities may be required to exit positions in periods of
market stress, further reducing liquidity. 1621 A few commenters suggested the Agencies
identify and prohibit certain types of high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies under

1618

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,894. The Agencies noted that a banking entity subject to proposed
Appendix C must implement a compliance program that includes, among other things, policies and
procedures that explain how the banking entity monitors and prohibits exposure to high-risk assets and
high-risk trading strategies, and identifies a variety of assets and strategies (e.g., assets or strategies with
significant embedded leverage). See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,894 n.215.
1619

See Alfred Brock.

1620

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Investure; AllianceBernstein; Comm. on Capital
Markets Regulation.
1621

See Obaid Syed.

493

the rule. 1622 In contrast, one commenter asserted the Agencies should not specify certain
classes of assets or trading strategies as “high risk.” 1623 A few commenters requested
greater clarity on the proposed definitions and suggested the Agencies provide additional
guidance. 1624 One of these commenters suggested the Agencies simplify compliance by
establishing safe harbors, setting pre-determined risk limits within risk-based approaches,
or allowing individual banking entities to set practical risk-based standards that the
Agencies can review. 1625
One commenter suggested integrating the ban on high-risk activities throughout
the rule and stated that, given the evolving nature of financial markets, regulators should
have the flexibility to update criteria for identifying high-risk assets or high-risk trading
strategies. 1626 This commenter stated the definition of high-risk trading strategies was
appropriately broad and flexible, but suggested improving the rule by encompassing
trading strategies that are so complex the risk or value thereof cannot be reliably and
objectively determined. 1627 The commenter also suggested that the quantitative
measurements collected under proposed Appendix A could be utilized to help inform
whether a high-risk asset or trading strategy exists.1628
One commenter stated that in large concentrations, all assets can be high risk.
This commenter suggested evaluating transactions on a case-by-case basis and believed
1622

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Johnson & Prof. Stiglitz; Occupy.

1623

See Alfred Brock.

1624

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen.

1625

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.

1626

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1627

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1628

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

494

all activity exempted under section 13(d)(1) of the BHC Act should be viewed as “highrisk” absent prior regulatory approval. This commenter further suggested that high-risk
assets or trading strategies be defined to include any asset or trading strategy that would
have forced a banking entity to exit the market during the 2008 financial crisis, and that
leverage, rehypothecation, concentration limits, and high frequency trading should be
viewed as indicia of high-risk trading strategies. Finally, this commenter suggested the
Agencies require banking entity CEOs to certify that their institution’s activities do not
result in a material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies. 1629
3.

Final rule
After considering carefully the comments received, the Agencies have modified

the final rule to provide that a high-risk asset means an asset or group of assets that
would, if held by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking
entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial
stability of the United States. Similarly, the final rule defines high-risk trading strategy to
include any strategy that would, if engaged in by a banking entity, significantly increase
the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would
pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
Importantly, under the final rule, banking entities that engage in activities
pursuant to an exemption must have a reasonably designed compliance program in place
to monitor and understand whether it is exposed to high-risk assets or trading strategies.
For instance, any banking entity engaged in activity pursuant to the market-making
1629

See Occupy.

495

exemption in § __.4(b) must, as part of its compliance program, have reasonably
designed written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis and independent
testing regarding the limits for each trading desk, including limits on the level of
exposures to relevant risk factors that the trading desk may incur. These policies and
procedure and any activity conducted pursuant to the final rule will be evaluated by the
Agencies, as appropriate, as part of ensuring the safety and soundness of banking entities
and monitoring for exposures to high-risk activities or assets.
While some commenters stated that the definition of high risk asset or trading
strategy should be more clearly defined, the Agencies believe that it is appropriate to
include a broad definition of these terms that accounts for different facts and
circumstances that may impact whether a particular asset or trading strategy is high-risk
with respect to a banking entity. As stated by commenters, this framework is effective
and flexible enough to be utilized by the Agencies in a variety of contexts. For instance,
a trading strategy or asset may be high-risk to one banking entity but not another, or may
be high-risk to a banking entity under some market conditions but not others. As part of
evaluating whether a banking entity is exposed to a high-risk asset or trading strategy, the
Agencies expect that a variety of factors will be considered, such as the presence of
excess leverage, rehypothecation or excessively high concentration of assets, or unsafe
and unsound trading strategies.
We believe an approach limiting this provision’s applicability to certain permitted
activities or creating a safe harbor for certain assets or trading strategies would be
inconsistent with the statutory language, which prohibits any permitted activity that
involves or results in a material exposure to a high-risk asset or high-risk trading
496

strategy. 1630 In addition, the Agencies decline to identify any particular assets or trading
strategies as per se high-risk because a determination of the specific risk posed to a
banking entity depends on the facts and circumstances. 1631 Certain facts and
circumstances may include, but are not limited to, the amount of capital at risk in a
transaction, whether or not the transaction can be hedged, the amount of leverage present
in the transaction, and the general financial condition of the banking entity engaging in
the transaction. In response to one commenter’s recommendation that the Agencies
adopt a CEO certification requirement specific to the high-risk provisions, 1632 the
Agencies believe such a requirement is unnecessary in light of the required management
framework in the compliance program provision of § __.20 of the final rule, as well as
the CEO certification requirement included in the final rule. 1633
c.

Limitations on Permitted Activities that Pose a Threat to Safety and Soundness of the
Banking Entity or the Financial Stability of the United States
Finally, as the Agencies did not receive any comments on the proposed rule’s
limitations on permitted activities that pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the
banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States and the proposed approach
mirrored the statutory language, the Agencies have determined no changes to final rule
are necessary.
B.

Subpart C – Covered Fund Activities and Investments

1630

See BDA (Feb. 2012); Japanese Bankers Ass’n.

1631

See Occupy.

1632

See Occupy.

1633

See § __.20 and Appendix B of the final rule, also discussed in Part IV.C., infra.

497

As noted above and except as otherwise permitted, section 13(a)(1)(B) of the
BHC Act generally prohibits a banking entity from acquiring or retaining any ownership
in, or acting as sponsor to, a covered fund. 1634 Section 13(d) of the BHC Act contains
certain exemptions to this prohibition. Subpart C of the final rule implements these and
other provisions of section 13 related to covered funds. Additionally, subpart C contains
a discussion of the internal controls, reporting and recordkeeping requirements applicable
to covered fund activities and investments, and incorporates by reference the minimum
compliance standards for banking entities contained in subpart D of the final rule, as well
as Appendix B, to the extent applicable.
1.
Section __.10: Prohibition on Acquisition or Retention of Ownership Interests in,
and Certain Relationships with, a Covered Fund
Section __.10 of the final rule defines the scope of the prohibition on the
acquisition and retention of ownership interests in, and certain relationships with, a
covered fund. It also defines a number of key terms, including the definition of covered
fund.
The term “covered fund” specifies the types of entities to which the prohibition
contained in § __.10(a) applies, unless the activity is specifically permitted under an
available exemption contained in subpart C of the final rule. 1635 The final rule modifies
the proposed definition of covered fund in a number of key aspects. The Agencies have
defined the term “covered fund” with reference to sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) with some additions and

1634

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(a)(1)(B).

1635

See final rule §§ __.10(b)-(c). The term banking entity is defined in final rule § __.2(c).

498

subject to a number of exclusions, several of which have been modified from permitted
activity exemptions included in the proposal.
The Agencies have tailored the final definition to include entities of the type that
the Agencies believe Congress intended to capture in its definition of private equity fund
and hedge fund in section 13(h)(2) of the BHC Act by reference to section 3(c)(1) and
3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. Thus, the final definition focuses on the types of
entities formed for the purpose of investing in securities or derivatives for resale or
otherwise trading in securities or derivatives, and that are offered and sold in offerings
that do not involve a public offering, but typically involve offerings to institutional
investors and high-net worth individuals (rather than to retail investors). These types of
funds are not subject to all of the securities law protections applicable with respect to
funds that are registered with the SEC as investment companies, and the Agencies
therefore believe that these types of entities may be more likely to engage in risky
investment strategies. At the same time, the Agencies have tailored the definition to
exclude entities that have more general corporate purposes and do not present the same
risks for banking entities as those associated with the funds described above, as well as
certain other entities as further discussed below.
The final rule also contains a revised version of the proposal’s treatment of certain
foreign funds as covered funds, which has been modified from the proposal and tailored
to include only the types of foreign funds that the Agencies believe are intended to be the
focus of the statute, such as certain foreign funds that are established by U.S. banking
entities and not otherwise subject to the Investment Company Act.

499

The Agencies have not included all commodity pools within the definition of
covered fund as proposed. Instead, and as discussed in more detail below, the Agencies
have included only commodity pools for which the commodity pool operator has claimed
exempt pool status under section 4.7 of the CFTC’s regulations or that could qualify as
exempt pools and which have not been publicly offered 1636 to persons who are not
qualified eligible persons under section 4.7 of the CFTC’s regulations. 1637 Qualified
eligible persons are typically institutional investors, banking entities and high net worth
individuals (rather than retail investors). This more tailored approach, together with the
various exclusions from the covered fund definition in the final rule, is designed to
include as covered funds those commodity pools that are similar to funds that rely on
section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) while not also including as covered funds entities, like
commercial end-users or registered investment companies, whose activities do not
implicate the concerns that section 13 was designed to address.
Finally, other related terms, including “ownership interest,” “resident of the
United States,” “sponsor,” and “trustee,” are also defined in § __.10(d) of the final
rule. 1638 As explained below, these terms are largely defined in the same manner as in
the proposal although with certain changes, including changes to help clarify the scope of
these definitions as requested by commenters. Some of these terms and related
provisions also have been reorganized to improve clarity. As explained in more detail
below, the Agencies received a number of comments relating to some of the terms

1636

See infra note 1721 and accompanying text regarding the meaning of the term “offer” as used in the
final rule’s inclusion of certain commodity pools as covered funds.

1637

See final rule § __.10(b)(1)(ii).

1638

See final rule § __.10(d)(6), (8), (9), and (10).

500

defined in § __.10. Some comments directly relate to the scope of the proposed rule and
the economic effects associated with the prohibitions on covered funds activities and
investments, some of which commenters argued did not further the purposes of section
13. 1639 The Agencies have carefully considered these and other comments when defining
the key terms used in the statute and in providing certain exclusions to the definition of
the term covered fund. The Agencies also have sought to provide guidance below, where
appropriate, on how these key terms would operate in order to better enable banking
entities to understand their obligations under section 13 and the final rule.
a.

Prohibition Regarding Covered Fund Activities and Investments
Section __.10(a) of the final rule implements section 13(a)(1)(B) of the BHC Act

and prohibits a banking entity from, directly or indirectly, acquiring or retaining as
principal an equity, partnership, or other ownership interest in, or acting as sponsor to, a
covered fund, unless otherwise permitted under subpart C of the final rule. 1640 This
provision of the rule reflects the statutory prohibition.
The general prohibition in § __.10(a) of the proposed rule applied solely to the
acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in, or acting as sponsor to, a covered
fund, “as principal.” 1641 Commenters generally supported this approach, arguing that
applying the prohibition related to covered fund activities and investments by a banking
entity only to instances where the banking entity acts as principal is consistent with the

1639

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); BoA; Goldman (Covered Funds); Rep. Himes;
SVB; Scale.

1640

See final rule § __.10(a).

1641

See proposed rule § __.10(a); See also Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,896.

501

statutory focus on principal activity. 1642 The final rule takes this approach as discussed
below.
The proposed rule and preamble accompanying it described potential exemptions
from the definition of ownership interest for a variety of interests, including interests
related to employee benefit plans, interests held in the ordinary course of collecting a
debt previously contracted, positions as trustee, or interests acquired as agent, broker or
custodian. Commenters provided information on each of these types of ownership
interests, and generally supported excluding each of these from the section’s prohibition
on acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in a covered fund.
A significant number of commenters focused on employee benefit plans.
Commenters generally argued that the prohibition in section 13(a) of the BHC Act did
not encompass interests held on behalf of employees through an employee benefit plan.
While the proposed rule did not explicitly cover certain “qualified plans” under the
Internal Revenue Code, a number of commenters argued that the prohibition should not
cover activity or investments related to other types of employee benefit plans that are not
a “qualified plan” under the Internal Revenue Code. 1643 A significant number of
commenters urged exclusion of interests in and relationships with foreign employee
benefit plans. 1644 Commenters argued that the risks of investments made through
employee benefit plans are borne by the employee beneficiaries of these plans, and any
decision to cover employee benefit plans or investments made by these plans under the

1642

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Mar. 2012).

1643

See Credit Suisse (Williams); Arnold & Porter; UBS; Hong Kong Inv. Funds Ass'n.

1644

See, e.g., Credit Suisse (Williams); Arnold & Porter; UBS; NAB; Hong Kong Inv. Funds Ass'n;
Australian Bankers Ass'n. (Feb. 2012).

502

prohibitions in section 13 of the BHC Act would eliminate or severely restrict the
availability of employee programs that are widely offered, regulated and endorsed under
a system of Federal, state and foreign laws. 1645
Commenters also supported the exemption under the proposed rule for holdings in
satisfaction of a debt previously contracted in good faith. 1646 This provision of the
proposal recognized that banking entities may acquire an ownership interest in or
relationship with a covered fund as a result of a counterparty’s failure to repay a bona
fide debt and without an intent to engage in those activities as principal. 1647
Several commenters urged revision to the proposal to add a specific exclusion for
investments held by a banking entity in the capacity of trustee (including as trustee for a
charitable trust). 1648 These commenters argued that failing to recognize and exempt these
types of activities in the final rule would prevent banking entities that act as trustees from
effectively meeting their trust and fiduciary obligations and from providing these services
to customers. Commenters also argued that the exemption for trust activities should not
be dependent on the duration of the trust because the law governing the duration of trusts
is changing and varies across jurisdictions. 1649
As with the proposed rule, the prohibition in § __.10(a) of the final rule applies
only to the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in, or sponsorship of, a
covered fund as principal. The Agencies continue to believe section 13 of the BHC Act

1645

See, e.g., Arnold & Porter.

1646

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); LSTA (Feb. 2012).

1647

See proposed rule § __.14(b).

1648

See, e.g., ABA (Keating).

1649

See, e.g., ABA (Keating); Arnold & Porter; NAB.

503

was designed to address the risks attendant to principal activity and not those that are
borne by customers of the banking entity or for which the banking entity lacks design or
intent to take a proprietary interest as principal.
In order to address commenter concerns regarding the types of activity that are
subject to the prohibition, the Agencies have modified and reorganized the final rule to
make the scope of acting “as principal” clear and more consistent with the proprietary
trading restrictions under the final rule. 1650 The final rule provides that the prohibition
does not include acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in a covered fund by a
banking entity: (1) acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian, so long as the activity is
conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, a customer, and the banking entity and its
affiliates do not have or retain beneficial ownership of the ownership interest 1651; (2)
through a deferred compensation, stock-bonus, profit-sharing, or pension plan of the
banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) that is established and administered in accordance
with the law of the United States or a foreign sovereign, if the ownership interest is held
or controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity as trustee for the benefit of people
who are or were employees of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) 1652; (3) in the
ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith, provided that the
1650

See final rule § __.3(d)(7)-(9).

1651

A banking entity acting as agent, broker, or custodian is not acting “as principal” under the final rule so
long as the activity is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, a customer and the banking entity does
not have or retain beneficial ownership of such ownership interest, as noted above. This provision is
consistent with the final rule’s treatment of banking entities acting on behalf of customers as trustee or in a
fiduciary capacity.

1652

The Agencies note that this provision does not permit joint investments between the banking entity and
its employees. Rather, this provision is intended to enable banking entities to maintain deferred
compensation and other similar plans formed for the benefit of employees. The Agencies recognize that,
since it is possible an employee may forfeit its interest in such a plan, the banking entity may have a
residual or reversionary interest in the assets referenced under the plan. However, other than such residual
or reversionary interests, a banking entity may not rely on this provision to invest in a covered fund.

504

banking entity divests the ownership interest as soon as practicable, and in no event may
the banking entity retain such instrument for longer than such period permitted by the
appropriate agency; or (4) on behalf of customers as trustee or in a similar fiduciary
capacity for a customer that is not a covered fund, so long as the activity is conducted for
the account of, or on behalf of, the customer, and the banking entity and its affiliates do
not have or retain beneficial ownership of such ownership interest. 1653
Because these activities do not involve the banking entity engaging in an activity
intended or designed to take ownership interests in a covered fund as principal, they do
not appear to be the types of activities that section 13 of the BHC Act was designed to
address. However, the Agencies note that in order to prevent a banking entity from
evading the requirements of section 13 and the final rule, the exclusions for these
activities do not permit a banking entity to engage in establishing, organizing and
offering, or acting as sponsor to a covered fund in a manner other than as permitted
elsewhere in the final rule. The Agencies intend to monitor these activities and
investments for efforts to evade the restrictions in section 13 of the BHC Act and the final
rule on banking entities’ investments in and relationships with covered funds.
b.

“Covered Fund” Definition
Section 13(h)(2) of the BHC Act defines hedge fund and private equity fund to
mean an issuer that would be an investment company, but for section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of
the Investment Company Act, or “such similar funds” as the Agencies determine by
1653

See final rule § __.10(a)(2). For instance, as part of engaging in its traditional trust company functions,
a bank or savings association typically may act through an entity that is excluded from the definition of
investment company under section 3(c)(3) or 3(c)(11). This would be included within the scope of acting
on behalf of customers as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity, provided that it meets the applicable
requirements of the exclusion under the final rule.

505

rule. 1654 Given that the statute defines “hedge fund” and “private equity fund” without
differentiation, the proposed rule and the final rule combine the terms into the definition
of a “covered fund.” Sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act are
exclusions commonly relied on by a wide variety of entities that would otherwise be
covered by the broad definition of “investment company” contained in that Act. 1655 The
proposal included as a covered fund any entity that would be an investment company but
for the exclusion from that definition contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the
Investment Company Act, any foreign entity that would also be an investment company
but for those same exclusions were the foreign entity to be organized or offered in the
United States, and a commodity pool as defined in section 1a(10) of the Commodity
Exchange Act. 1656 The preamble to the proposal recognized that this definition was
broad and specifically requested comment on whether and how the definition of covered
fund should be modified for purposes of the final rule.
Commenters contended that the definition of covered fund should not focus
exclusively on whether an entity relies on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment
Company Act. Commenters argued that sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment
Company Act are exclusions commonly relied on by a wide variety of entities that would
otherwise be covered by the broad definition of “investment company” contained in that

1654

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(2).

1655

12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(2). Sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, in relevant part,
provide two exclusions from the definition of “investment company” for: (1) any issuer whose outstanding
securities are beneficially owned by not more than one hundred persons and which is not making and does
not presently propose to make a public offering of its securities (other than short-term paper); or (2) any
issuer, the outstanding securities of which are owned exclusively by persons who, at the time of acquisition
of such securities, are qualified purchasers, and which is not making and does not at that time propose to
make a public offering of such securities. See 15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) and (c)(7).
1656

See proposed rule § __.10(b)(1).

506

Act. Under the Investment Company Act, any entity that holds investment securities
(i.e., generally all securities other than U.S. government securities) representing at least
40 percent of the entity’s total assets would be an investment company. 1657 According to
commenters, this definition and the accompanying exclusions are part of a securities law
and regulatory framework designed for purposes different than the prudential purpose
that underlies section 13 of the BHC Act. 1658
A number of comments received on the proposal argued that the proposed
definition of covered fund was overly broad and would lead to anomalous results
inconsistent with the words, structure, and purpose of section 13. 1659 For instance, many
commenters asserted that the proposed rule’s definition of covered fund would cause a
number of commonly used corporate entities that are not traditionally thought of as hedge
funds or private equity funds, such as wholly-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, and
acquisition vehicles, to be subject to the covered fund restrictions of section 13. These
commenters argued that this interpretation of section 13 would cause a disruption to the
operations of banking entities and their closely related affiliates that does not relate to the
intent of section 13 and therefore cause an unnecessary burden on banking entities.
Commenters argued that the words, structure and purpose of section 13 allow the

1657

15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1)(A) & (C). The definition of securities is very broad under the Investment
Company Act and has been interpreted to include instruments such as loans, that would not be regarded as
securities under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In addition, the
determination of what constitutes an “investment security” under the Investment Company Act requires
complex analysis and consideration of a broad set of facts and circumstances.

1658

See, e.g., NVCA.

1659

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); BlackRock; AHIC; Sen. Carper et al.; Rep.
Garrett et al.

507

Agencies to adopt a more tailored definition of covered fund that focuses on vehicles
used for investment purposes that were the target of section 13’s restrictions.
In particular, commenters requested that the final rule exclude at least the
following from the definition of covered fund: U.S. registered investment companies
(including mutual funds); the foreign equivalent of U.S. registered investment companies;
business development companies; wholly-owned subsidiaries; joint ventures; acquisition
vehicles; financial market utilities; foreign pension or retirement funds; insurance
company separate accounts; loan securitizations, including asset-backed commercial
paper conduits; cash management vehicles or cash collateral pools; credit funds; real
estate investment trusts; various securitization vehicles; tender option bond programs;
and venture capital funds. 1660 Commenters requested some of these exclusions in order
to mitigate the impact of the proposal’s inclusion of commodity pools as part of the
definition of covered fund. 1661
Some commenters argued that the proposal failed to distinguish between different
types of investment funds. 1662 These commenters expressed the view that the statute
provides the Agencies with the discretion to distinguish between investment funds
generally and a subset of funds -- hedge funds and private equity funds -- that may

1660

See ABA (Keating); ABA (Abernathy); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Allen & Overy
(on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); Deutsche Bank
(Repackaging Transactions); ICI (Feb. 2012); Putnam; JPMC; GE (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012); Rep.
Himes; BOK; Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Covered Funds); BoA; NAIB et
al.; PNC; SunTrust; Nationwide; STANY; BNY Mellon et al.; RMA; Goldman (Covered Funds); Japanese
Bankers Ass'n; IRSG; ISDA (Feb. 2012); IIB/EBF; Citigroup (Jan. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012); State Street
(Feb. 2012); Eaton Vance; Fidelity; SBIA; River Cities; Ashurst; Sen. Hagan; Sen. Bennet.
1661

As discussed below, the Agencies have modified the final rule to include only certain commodity pools
within the definition of covered fund.

1662

See NVCA; See also SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); ABA (Keating).

508

engage in particularly risky trading and investment activities. For example, several
commenters argued that the proposed rule’s restrictions on covered fund investments
should not cover venture capital funds that provide investment capital to new
businesses. 1663 Others argued for an exclusion for securitization vehicles such as
securitizations that are backed, in whole or in part, by assets that are not loans, including
corporate debt repackagings, 1664 CLOs, 1665 ABCP conduits, 1666 insurance-linked
securities, 1667 and synthetic securitizations backed by derivatives. 1668
As a potential solution to some of these concerns, a number of commenters
argued that the Agencies should define covered fund by reference to characteristics that
are designed to distinguish hedge funds and private equity funds from other types of
entities that rely on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. 1669
Commenters believed this approach would help exclude some of the corporate vehicles
and funds mentioned above that they did not believe were intended by Congress to be

1663

See, e.g., ABA (Keating); ABA (Abernathy); Canaan (Young); Canaan (Ahrens); Canaan (Kamra);
Growth Managers; River Cities; SVB; EVCA.
1664

See AFME et al.; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); Cleary
Gottlieb; Deutsche Bank (Repackaging Transactions); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).
1665

See SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF
(Feb. 2012); Cleary Gottlieb; Credit Suisse (Williams); JPMC; LSTA (Feb. 2012).

1666

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams);
Eaton Vance; Fidelity; GE (Feb. 2012); GE (Aug. 2012); ICI (Feb. 2012); IIB/EBF; JPMC; PNC; RBC;
SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012); AFME et al.

1667

See AFME et al.; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

1668

See AFME et al.; ASF (Feb. 2012); Cleary Gottlieb; Credit Suisse (Williams); SIFMA (Securitization)
(Feb. 2012); ABA (Keating).

1669

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); BlackRock; Credit Suisse (Williams); SSgA
(Feb. 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012); Deutsche Bank (Repackaging Transactions); Allen & Overy (on
behalf of Foreign Bank Group).

509

included as hedge funds and private equity funds and therefore reduce costs that, in the
commenters’ view, did not further the purposes of section 13. 1670
These commenters proposed a number of different potential types of
characteristics for defining hedge fund and private equity fund. Some commenters
focused on certain structural or investment characteristics found in traditional private
equity funds and hedge funds, such as investor redemption rights, performance
compensation fees, leverage and the use of short-selling. 1671 Another commenter argued
that the characteristics used to define a covered fund should focus on the types of
speculative behavior that the statute was intended to address, citing characteristics such
as volatility of asset performance and high leverage. 1672
In contrast to the majority of the commenters, one commenter urged that
characteristics be used to expand the proposed definition to include any issuer that
exhibits characteristics of proprietary trading that the statute prohibits to be done by a
banking entity. 1673 According to this commenter, any fund engaging in more than
minimal proprietary trading should be a covered fund and subject to the requirements of
section 13.

1670

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); AFME et al.; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign
Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); Ashurst; Barclays; BDA (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams);
Commercial Real Estate Fin. Council; Fidelity; ICI (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Nuveen Asset
Mgmt.; PNC; RBC; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Municipal Securities) (Feb.
2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012); Vanguard; Wells Fargo (Covered Funds).
1671

See Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); Barclays; JPMC; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb.
2012); See also FSOC study at 62-63 (suggesting a characteristics-based approach considering
compensation structure; trading/investment strategy; use of leverage; investor composition); ABA
(Keating); BNY Mellon et al.; Northern Trust, SSgA (Feb. 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012); Deutsche Bank
(Repackaging Transactions); T. Rowe Price; RMA (suggesting use of characteristics derived from the
SEC’s Form PF for registration of investment advisers of private funds).
1672

See RBC (citing FSOC study).

1673

See Occupy.

510

However, not all commenters supported a characteristics-based definition. One
commenter opposed a characteristics-based definition, suggesting that the final rule rely
only on the statutory reference to the Investment Company Act, and arguing that using
characteristics to define a covered fund (e.g., leverage) could create opportunities for
circumvention of the rule. 1674 Commenters that generally supported the proposed
definition argued that its broad scope prevented circumvention. 1675
One commenter argued in favor of broadening the definition of covered fund to
include entities that rely on an exclusion from the definition of investment company other
than those contained in section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7), such as section 3(c)(2) (which
provides an exclusion for underwriters and brokers) or 3(c)(6) (which provides an
exclusion for entities engaged in a business other than investing in securities). 1676 By
contrast, other commenters argued that an entity should not be considered a covered fund
if the entity relies on an exclusion or exemption contained in the Investment Company
Act other than an exclusion contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) under that Act, such as
the exclusion contained in section 3(c)(3) for bank collective investment funds. 1677
The Agencies have carefully considered all of the comments related to the
definition of covered fund. While the Agencies believe that the proposal reflected a
reasonable interpretation of the statutory provision, on further review and in light of the

1674

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

1675

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Alfred Brock.

1676

See Occupy (also arguing in favor of including entities that rely on rule 3a-1 (which provides an
exemption for issuers that hold less than 45% of their assets in securities excluding government securities)
or 3a-6 (which provides an exemption for foreign banks and insurance companies) to avoid being regulated
as investment companies under the Investment Company Act).

1677

See, e.g., ABA (Keating).

511

comments the Agencies have determined to adopt a different approach. The Agencies
have revised the final rule to address many of the concerns raised by commenters
regarding the scope of the original proposal in a manner the Agencies believe is a better
reading of the statutory provision because it is both consistent with the language, purpose
and structure of section 13 and avoids unintended consequences of the less precise
definitional approach of the proposal.
In the final rule, the Agencies have joined the definitions of “hedge fund” and
“private equity fund” into a single definition “covered fund” (as in the statute) and have
defined this term as any issuer that would be an investment company as defined in the
Investment Company Act but for section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act with a number of
express exclusions and additions (explained below) as determined by the Agencies.
Thus, for example, an entity that invests in securities and relies on any exclusion or
exemption from the definition of “investment company” under the Investment Company
Act other than the exclusion contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act would not
be considered a covered fund so long as it satisfies the conditions of another Investment
Company Act exclusion or exemption. 1678 Such an entity would not be an investment
company but for section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7), and the Agencies have modified the final rule
to explicitly exclude such an entity. 1679

1678

For instance, bank common trust and collective funds that qualify for the exclusion from the definition
of investment company pursuant to section 3(c)(3) or 3(c)(11) of the Investment Company Act are not
covered funds. See 15 U.S.C. 78a-3(c)(3) and (c)(11). These funds are subject to supervision and
regulation by a Federal banking agency, thus helping to distinguish them from traditional hedge funds and
private equity funds which are generally not themselves subject to such supervision or regulation.

1679

See final rule § __.10(c)(12).

512

The Agencies believe this definition is consistent with the words, structure,
purpose and legislative history of section 13 of the BHC Act. As noted above, section
13(h)(2) provides that:
the terms “hedge fund” and “private equity fund” mean an issuer that
would be an investment company as defined in the [Investment
Company Act] (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.), but for section 3(c)(1) or
3(c)(7) of that Act, or such similar funds as the [Agencies] may, by rule,
as provided in subsection (b)(2), determine. 1680
The statutory provision contains two parts: a first part that refers to any issuer that is “an
investment company, as defined in the Investment Company Act, but for section 3(c)(1)
and 3(c)(7) of the Act”; and a second part that covers “such similar funds as the
[Agencies] may, by rule . . . determine.” The proposed rule offered a reading of this
provision as a simple concurrent definition with two self-contained, supplementary parts.
Under this approach, all entities covered by part one of the definition would be included
in the definitions of “hedge fund” and “private equity fund,” and the role of the Agencies
under the second part was limited to considering whether and how to augment the scope
of the primary statutory definition.
As noted above, commenters argued that this interpretation led to unintended
consequences that were not consistent with other provisions of section 13 or the purposes
of section 13, and that other interpretations of the definition of covered fund were
consistent with both the words and the purpose of the statute. Also as explained above,

1680

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(2) (emphasis added).

513

commenters offered multiple alternative interpretations of the definition of, the scope of
the prohibition on ownership interests in, and relationships with, a covered fund. 1681
The Agencies believe that the language of section 13(h)(2) can best be interpreted
to provide two alternative definitions of the entities to be covered by the statutory terms
“hedge fund” and “private equity fund.” Under this reading, the first part of section
13(h)(2) contains a base definition that references the noted exclusions under the
Investment Company Act (the “default definition”), while the second part grants the
Agencies the authority to adopt an alternate definition that is triggered by agency action
(the “tailored definition”). Thus, if the Agencies do not act by rule, the definition is set
by reference to the Investment Company Act and the relevant exclusions alone; if the
Agencies act by rule, the definitions are set by the Agencies under that rule. As noted
above, the Agencies have determined to exercise the authority under the second part of
the statute to define “hedge fund” and “private equity fund” in the final rule.
Relying on the Agencies’ authority to adopt an alternative, tailored definition of
“hedge fund” and “private equity fund,” the final rule references funds that are similar to
the funds in the base alternative provided in the first alternative definition – that is, an
issuer that would be an investment company under the Investment Company Act but for
section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act. The additions and exclusions from that definition
represent further determinations by the Agencies regarding the scope of that definition

1681

In addition to the readings described above, one commenter argued that the section could be read to
provide that both the reference to issuers covered by section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company
Act in the first part of section 13(h)(2) and the reference to similar funds in the second part of the section
should be read as qualified by the clause “as the Agencies may by rule… determine.” Under this reading,
Congress granted the Agencies authority to determine by rule whether an entity described by the first part
would be covered and whether an issuer would be deemed to be a similar fund under the second part. See
SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

514

that were made in the course of a rulemaking conducted in accordance with section
13(b)(2) of the BHC Act.
The Agencies believe that this reading of the statutory provision is consistent with
the purpose of section 13. That purpose appears to be to limit the involvement of
banking entities in high-risk proprietary trading, as well as their investment in,
sponsorship of, and other connections with, entities that engage in investment activities
for the benefit of banking entities, institutional investors and high-net worth
individuals. 1682 Further, the Agencies believe that the provision permits them to tailor the
scope of the definition to funds that engage in the investment activities contemplated by
section 13 (as opposed, for example, to vehicles that merely serve to facilitate corporate
structures); doing so allows the Agencies to avoid the unintended results, some of which
commenters identified, that might follow from a definition that is inappropriately
imprecise. 1683
The Agencies also note that nothing in the structure or history of the Dodd-Frank
Act suggests that the definition of hedge fund and private equity fund was intended to
necessitate a fundamental restructuring of banking entities by disallowing investments in

1682

See 156 Cong. Reg. S.5894-5895 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley).

1683

The Agencies believe that the choice of the tailored definition is supported by the legislative history
that suggests that Congress may have foreSeen that its base definition could lead to unintended results and
might be overly broad, too narrow, or otherwise off the mark. Part two of the statutory definition was not
originally included in the bill reported by the Senate Committee on April 30, 2010. While the addition of
part two did not receive specific comment, Rep. Frank, a co-sponsor and principal architect of the DoddFrank Act, noted that the default definition “could technically apply to lots of corporate structures, and not
just the hedge funds and private equity funds” and confirmed that “[w]e do not want these overdone.” See
156 Cong. Rec. H5226 (daily ed. June 30, 2010) (statement of Reps. Himes and Frank) (noting intent that
subsidiaries or joint ventures not be included within the definition of covered fund); 156 Cong. Rec. S590405 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sens. Boxer and Dodd) (noting broad definition of hedge fund
and private equity fund and recommending that the Agencies take steps to ensure definition is reasonably
tailored).

515

common corporate vehicles such as intermediate holding companies, joint operating
companies, acquisition vehicles and similar entities that do not engage in the types of
investment activities contemplated by section 13. Moreover, other provisions of the
Dodd-Frank Act and existing banking laws and regulations would be undermined or
vitiated by a reading that restricts investments in these types of corporate vehicles and
structures. 1684
Based on the interpretive and policy considerations raised by commenters, the
language of section 13(h)(2), and the language, structure, and purpose of the Dodd-Frank
Act, the Agencies have adopted a tailored definition of covered fund in the final rule that
covers issuers of the type that would be investment companies but for section 3(c)(1) or
3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act with exclusions for certain specific types of
issuers in order to focus the covered fund definition on vehicles used for the investment
purposes that were the target of section 13. The definition of covered fund under the
final rule also includes certain funds organized and offered outside of the United States in
order to address foreign fund structures and certain commodity pools that might
otherwise allow circumvention of the restrictions of section 13. The Agencies also

1684

For example, the Dodd-Frank Act requires banking entities to serve as a source of financial strength to
their insured depository institutions and requires certain banking entities to form intermediate holding
companies to separate their financial and non-financial activities. See Sections 167, 616(d) & 626 of the
Dodd-Frank Act. These provisions would be severely undermined if the prohibitions on investments and
activities contained in section 13 were applied to ownership of intermediate holding companies. For
instance, a bank holding company would not be able to serve as a source of strength to an intermediate
holding company (or any subsidiary thereof) that is a covered fund due to the transaction restrictions
contained in section 13(f). See 12 U.S.C. 1851(f). As another example, the Agencies have made certain
modifications to the final rule to make clear that it will not affect the resolution authority of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, including by excluding from the covered fund definition issuers formed by
or on behalf of the Corporation for the purpose of facilitating the disposal of assets acquired in the
Corporation’s capacity as conservator or receiver. See § __.10(c)(13).

516

expect to exercise the statutory anti-evasion authority provided in section 13(e) of the
BHC Act and other prudential authorities in order to address instances of evasion. 1685
As discussed above, an alternative approach to defining a covered fund would be
to reference fund characteristics. Commenters arguing for a characteristics-based
approach stated that it would more precisely tailor the final rule to the intent of section 13
and limit the potential for undue burden on banking entities. A characteristics-based
definition, however, could be less effective than the approach taken in the final rule as a
means to prohibit banking entities, either directly or indirectly, from engaging in the
covered fund activities limited or proscribed by section 13. A characteristics-based
approach also could require more analysis by banking entities to apply those
characteristics to every potential covered fund on a case-by-case basis, and create greater
opportunity for evasion. As discussed below, the Agencies have sought to address some
of the concerns raised by commenters suggesting a characteristics-based approach by
tailoring the definition of covered fund to provide exclusions for certain entities that rely
on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act and otherwise would be
treated as covered funds.
Some commenters discussed the potential cost to banking entities to analyze the
covered fund status of certain entities if the Agencies were to define the term covered
fund by reference to sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7), arguing that this analysis would be

1685

As discussed in Part IV.C.1 of this Supplementary Information regarding the compliance program
requirements of the final rule, the Agencies will consider information maintained and provided by banking
entities under the compliance program mandate to help monitor potential evasions of the prohibitions and
restrictions of section 13. Additionally and consistent with the statute, the final rule permits the Agencies
to jointly determine to include within the definition of covered fund any fund excluded from that definition.
The Agencies expect that this authority may be used to help address situations of evasion.

517

costly. 1686 A characteristics-based approach could mitigate the costs associated with an
investment company analysis but, depending on the characteristics, could result in
additional compliance costs in some cases to the extent banking entities would be
required to implement policies and procedures to prevent potential covered funds from
having characteristics that would bring them within the covered fund definition.
Furthermore, banking entities may currently rely on section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the
Investment Company Act to avoid registering various entities under the Investment
Company Act, and the costs to analyze the status of these entities under a statutory-based
definition of covered fund are generally already included as part of the fund formation
process and the costs of determining covered fund status may thus be mitigated,
especially given the exclusions provided in the final rule.
The entities excluded from the definition of covered fund are described in detail
in section (c) below.
1.

Foreign covered funds
In order to prevent evasion of the prohibition and purposes of section 13, the

proposal included within the definition of covered fund any issuer organized or offered
outside of the United States (“foreign covered fund”) that would be a covered fund were
it organized or offered in the United States. 1687
Commenters expressed concern that the proposed treatment of foreign covered
funds was overly broad, exceeded the Agencies’ statutory authority, was not consistent

1686

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

1687

See proposed rule § __.10(b)(1)(iii).

518

with principles of national treatment, and violated international treaties. 1688 Commenters
expressed concern about the difficulties of applying Investment Company Act concepts
to foreign funds that are structured to comply with regulatory schemes under local laws
outside the United States. They also argued that it would be burdensome and costly to
require foreign banking entities to interpret and apply U.S. securities laws to foreign
structures that are designed primarily to be offered and sold outside the United States. 1689
Commenters also contended that foreign mutual fund equivalents, such as retail
Undertakings for Collective Investments in Transferable Securities (“UCITS”), 1690 would
be treated as covered funds under the proposal even though they generally are similar to
U.S. registered investment companies, which are not covered funds, meaning that under
the proposal the scope of foreign funds captured was broader than the scope of domestic
funds. 1691 These commenters argued that a foreign fund organized and offered outside of

1688

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); BNY Mellon et al.; BlackRock; ABA (Keating);
AFTI; AFG; ICI Global; Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); ICI (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012);
State Street (Feb. 2012); JPMC; BoA; Goldman (Covered Funds); Bank of Montreal et al. (Jan. 2012);
AGC; Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai Banks); ALFI; BVI; EBF; British Bankers Ass'n.; French ACP;
AFME et al.; F&C; IIF; ICSA; IMA; EFAMA; UKRCBC; AIMA; AFMA; Australian Bankers Ass'n. (Feb.
2012); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); IFIC; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian
Banks); RBC; French Treasury et al.; Hong Kong Inv. Funds Ass'n.; TCW; Govt. of Japan/Bank of Japan.
1689

See JPMC; See also Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai Banks); Cadwalader (on behalf of Singapore
Banks); Ass'n. of Banks in Malaysia; Govt. of Japan/Bank of Japan.

1690

UCITS are public limited companies that, under a series of directives issued by the EU Commission,
coordinate distribution and management of unit trusts or collective investment schemes in financial
instruments on a cross-border basis throughout the European Union on the basis of the authorization of a
single member state.

1691

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ABA (Keating); AFG; AFTI; BoA; French
Banking Fed'n.; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); See also BNY Mellon et al.; BlackRock; ICI
Global; Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); ICI (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012); State Street (Feb.
2012); JPMC; BoA; Goldman (Covered Funds); Bank of Montreal et al. (Jan. 2012); AGC; Cadwalader (on
behalf of Thai Banks); ALFI; BVI; EBF; British Bankers Ass'n.; French ACP; AFME et al.; F&C; IIF;
ICSA; IMA; EFAMA; UKRCBC; AIMA; AFMA; Australian Bankers Ass'n. (Feb. 2012); Allen & Overy
(on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); IFIC; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); RBC; French
Treasury et al.; Hong Kong Inv. Funds Ass'n.; HSBC Life; ICSA Ass'n. of Banks in Malaysia (arguing that
foreign banking organization would have to determine how a fund would be regulated under U.S. law
before making investments in funds in their home markets).

519

the United States should not be treated as a covered fund simply because the foreign fund
may (or could) rely on the exclusion under section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment
Company Act were it to be offered in the United States. 1692
Some commenters argued that the proposal did not clearly identify which foreign
funds would be covered, thereby creating uncertainty about the scope of funds to which
section 13 would apply. 1693 Several commenters argued that the proposal’s foreign
covered fund definition could be read to include a foreign fund, even if its securities were
never offered and sold to U.S. persons, because the fund could theoretically be offered in
the United States in reliance on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7). 1694 Commenters argued that
the definition of foreign covered fund should be tailored. 1695 Some commenters argued
that foreign funds that are not made available for sale in the U.S. or actively marketed to
U.S. investors should be specifically excluded from the definition of covered fund. 1696
Several other commenters supported narrowing the definition of foreign covered fund to
those foreign funds with characteristics similar to domestic hedge funds or private equity
funds. 1697

1692

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ABA (Keating); SSgA (Feb. 2012); BoA;
Goldman (Covered Funds).

1693

See Australian Bankers Ass'n. (Feb. 2012); BlackRock.

1694

See BlackRock; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; ABA (Keating); IIB/EBF. These
commenters argued that the proposed definition of a covered fund could result in virtually every foreign
fund being considered a covered fund, regardless of whether the fund is similar to a hedge fund or private
equity fund.

1695

See, e.g., AGC; Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); ABA (Keating); Goldman (Covered
Funds); BoA; GE (Feb. 2012); Japanese Bankers Ass'n.; EBF.

1696

See Australian Bankers Ass'n. (Feb. 2012); AFG; BNY Mellon et al.; BlackRock; Goldman (Covered
Funds); IIB/EBF.
1697

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Goldman (Covered Funds); Credit Suisse
(Williams); ABA (Keating); IIB/EBF; Barclays; BoA; GE (Feb. 2012) (discussing the uncertainty with

520

After considering the comments in light of the statutory provisions and purpose of
section 13, the Agencies have modified the final rule to more effectively tailor the scope
of foreign funds that would be covered funds under the rule and better implement the
language and purpose of section 13. As noted above, section 13 of the BHC Act applies
to the global operations of U.S. banking entities, and one of the purposes of section 13 is
to reduce the risk to the U.S. financial system of activities with and investments in
covered funds. The Agencies proposed to include foreign funds within the definition of
covered fund in order to more effectively accomplish the purpose of section 13. In
particular, the Agencies were concerned that a definition of covered fund that did not
include foreign funds would allow U.S. banking entities to be exposed to risks and
engage in covered fund activities outside the United States that are specifically prohibited
in the United States. This result would undermine section 13 and pose risks to U.S.
banking entities and the stability of the U.S. financial system that section 13 was
designed to prevent.
At the same time, section 13 includes other provisions that explicitly limit its
extra-territorial application to the activities of foreign banks outside the United States.
As explained below, section 13 specifically exempts certain activities in covered funds
conducted by foreign banking entities solely outside of the United States.
Based on these considerations and the information provided by commenters, the
Agencies have revised the definition of covered fund in the final rule to include certain
foreign funds under certain circumstances. The final rule provides that a foreign fund is

respect to foreign-based loan and securitization programs and whether they would be deemed covered
funds).

521

included within the definition of covered fund only for any banking entity that is, or is
controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized or
established under the laws of the United States or of any State. Under this definition a
foreign fund becomes a covered fund only with respect to the U.S. banking entity (or
foreign affiliate of a U.S. banking entity) that acts as a sponsor to the foreign fund or has
an ownership interest in the foreign fund. Under the rule, a foreign fund is any entity
that: (i) is organized or established outside the United States and the ownership interests
of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States; (ii) is, or holds itself out as
being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the
purpose of investing in securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in
securities; and (iii) has as its sponsor the U.S. banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) or
has issued an ownership interest that is owned directly or indirectly by the U.S. banking
entity (or an affiliate thereof). 1698 A foreign fund therefore may be a covered fund with
respect to the U.S. banking entity that sponsors the fund, but not be a covered fund with
respect to a foreign bank that invests in the fund solely outside the United States.
This approach is designed to include within the definition of covered fund only
foreign entities that would pose risks to U.S. banking entities of the type section 13 was
designed to address. The Agencies note that any foreign fund, including a foreign fund
sponsored or owned by a foreign banking entity, that is offered or sold in the United
States in reliance on the exclusions in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment
Company Act would be included in the definition of covered fund under § __.10(b)(1)(i)
of the final rule unless it meets the requirements of an exclusion from that definition as
1698

See final rule §__.10(b)(1)(iii).

522

discussed below. 1699 Thus, the rule is designed to provide parity -- and no competitive
advantages or disadvantages -- between U.S. and non-U.S. funds sold within the United
States.
To further ensure that this approach to foreign funds is consistent with the scope
of coverage applied within the United States, the final rule excludes from the definition
of covered fund any foreign issuer that, were it subject to U.S. securities laws, would be
able to rely on an exclusion or exemption from the definition of investment company
other than the exclusions contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment
Company Act. 1700
As explained below, the final rule also contains an exclusion for foreign public
funds. 1701 This is designed to prevent the extension of the definition of covered fund
from including foreign funds that are similar to U.S. registered investment companies,
which are by statute not covered by section 13.
2.

Commodity pools
Under the proposal, the Agencies proposed to use their authority to expand the

definition of covered fund to include a commodity pool as defined in section 1a(10) of
the Commodity Exchange Act. 1702 A commodity pool is defined in the Commodity
Exchange Act to mean any investment trust, syndicate, or similar form of enterprise

1699

See also Goodwin, Procter & Hoar LLP, SEC Staff No-Action Letter (Feb. 28, 1997); Touche
Remnant & Co., SEC Staff No-Action Letter (Aug. 27, 1984).

1700

See final rule §__.10(b)(2). Because any issuer that offers its securities under the U.S. securities laws
that may rely on an exclusion or exemption from the definition of investment company other than the
exclusions contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act would not be a covered
fund, this exclusion is designed to provide equivalent treatment for foreign covered funds.

1701

See §__.10(c)(1).

1702

See proposal rule §__.10(b)(1)(ii).

523

operated for the purpose of trading in commodity interests. 1703 The Agencies proposed to
include commodity pools in the definition of covered fund because some commodity
pools are managed and structured in a manner similar to a covered fund.
Some commenters objected to this expansion of the definition of covered fund as
beyond the scope of section 13. Commenters argued that covering commodity pools
would extend section 13 of the BHC Act to any entity that engages in a single
commodity, futures or swap transaction, including entities that share few, if any, of the
characteristics or risk associated with private equity funds or hedge funds. 1704 For
example, some commenters argued that many non-bank businesses that are not
investment companies but that hedge risks using commodity interests would be treated as
covered funds if all commodity pools were covered. 1705 In addition, registered mutual
funds, pension funds, and many investment companies that rely on exclusions or
exceptions other than section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act would be
covered as commodity pools. Commenters argued that the CFTC has ample authority to
regulate the activities of commodity pools and commodity pool operators, and nothing in
section 13 indicates that Congress intended section 13 to govern commodity pool

1703

Commodity interests include: (i) commodity for future delivery, security futures product, or swap; (ii)
agreement, contract, or transaction described in section 2(c)(2)(C)(i) or 2(c)(2)(D)(i) of the Commodity
Exchange Act; (iii) commodity option authorized under section 4c of the Commodity Exchange Act; or (iv)
leveraged transaction authorized under section 23 of the Commodity Exchange Act. See Joint Proposal, 76
FR at 68,897 n.224 and accompanying text.

1704

See, e.g., ABA (Keating) (citing See, e.g., CFTC Interpretative Letter No. 86-22, Comm. Fut. L. Rep.
(CCH) ¶ 23,280 (Sept. 19, 1986)); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); ICI (Feb. 2012);
BlackRock; Goldman (Covered Funds); Wells Fargo (Covered Funds); BoA; EFAMA; TCW; ISDA (Feb.
2012); Arnold & Porter; BNY Mellon et al.; SSgA (Feb. 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse
(Williams); RMA; IIB/EBF.
1705

See Goldman (Covered Funds); TCW; IIB/EBF.

524

activities or investments in commodity pools. 1706 Commenters also argued that
expanding the definition of covered fund to include commodity pools would have the
unintended consequence of limiting all covered transactions between a banking entity
sponsor or investor in a commodity pool and the commodity pool itself. 1707 If a
commercial end user is a commodity pool for example, this restriction could limit access
to credit for that entity.
Commenters that opposed the proposal’s inclusion of commodity pools generally
asserted that, if commodity pools were nonetheless included as covered funds under the
final rule, the definition of commodity pool should be modified so that it would include
only those pools that engage “primarily” or “principally” in commodities trading and
exhibit characteristics similar to those of conventional hedge funds and private equity
funds. 1708 Other commenters urged the Agencies to incorporate the exemptions from the
commodity pool operator registration requirements under the Commodity Exchange Act
(such as rule 4.13(a)(4)). 1709
Some commenters supported including commodity pools within the definition of
covered fund, 1710 with some suggesting that this approach would be consistent with the
goals of the statute. 1711 One commenter asserted that including commodity pools would
be necessary to prevent banking entities from indirectly engaging in prohibited
1706

See, e.g.¸ SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); ICI (Feb. 2012); BlackRock.

1707

See, e.g., BoA.

1708

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Covered Funds); BlackRock; Wells
Fargo (Covered Funds); BNY Mellon, et al.; SSgA (Feb. 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse
(Williams); ABA (Keating); FIA; IIB/EBF; BoA.
1709

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

1710

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Alfred Brock; Occupy; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1711

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Alfred Brock.

525

proprietary trading through commodity pools. 1712 Another commenter asserted that the
inclusion of commodity pools was advisable because the CFTC has in the past viewed
many commodity pools as similar to hedge funds. 1713
After carefully considering these comments, the Agencies have determined not to
include all commodity pools as covered funds as proposed. Instead, and taking into
account commenters’ concerns, the Agencies have taken a more tailored approach that is
designed to more accurately identify those commodity pools that are similar to issuers
that would be investment companies as defined the Investment Company Act of 1940 but
for section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act, consistent with section 13(h)(2) of the BHC Act.
Under the final rule, as a threshold matter, a collective investment vehicle must
determine whether it is a “commodity pool” as that term is defined in section 1a(10) of
the Commodity Exchange Act. 1714 The Agencies note that collective investment vehicles
need to make this determination for purposes of complying with the Commodity
Exchange Act regardless of whether commodity pools are covered funds. Under section
1a(10), a commodity pool is “any investment trust, syndicate, or similar form of
enterprise operated for the purpose of trading commodity interests.” 1715 If a collective
investment vehicle meets that definition, the commodity pool would be considered a
1712

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

1713

See Occupy.

1714

See 7 U.S.C. 1a(10).

1715

Id. The CFTC and its divisions have provided interpretative guidance with respect to the meaning of
the definition of commodity pool. See, e.g., 46 FR 26004, 26005 (May 8, 1981) (adopting the CFTC’s
regulatory definition of commodity pool in 17 CFR 4.10(d), which is substantively identical to the
definition in section 1a(10) of the Commodity Exchange Act); 77 FR 11252, 11258 (Feb. 24, 2012)
(explaining the need for swaps to be included in the de minimis exclusion and exemption in 17 CFR 4.5
and 4.13); CFTC Staff Letter 12-13 (Oct. 11, 2012) (providing interpretative guidance to equity real estate
investment trusts); and CFTC Staff Letters Nos. 12-14 (Oct. 11, 2012) and 12-45 (Dec. 7, 2012) (providing
interpretative relief that certain securitization vehicles are not commodity pools).

526

covered fund provided it meets one of two alternative tests and does not also qualify for
an exclusion from the covered fund definition (e.g., the exclusion for registered
investment companies).
First, a commodity pool will be a covered fund if it is an “exempt pool” under
section 4.7(a)(1)(iii) of the CFTC’s regulations, 1716 meaning that it is a commodity pool
for which a registered commodity pool operator has elected to claim the exemption
provided by section 4.7 of the CFTC’s regulations. The Agencies believe that such
commodity pools are appropriately considered covered funds because, like funds that rely
on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7), these commodity pools sell their participation units in
restricted offerings that are not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and are
offered only to investors who meet certain heightened qualification standards, as
discussed above. 1717 The Agencies therefore have determined that they properly are
considered “such similar funds” as specified in section 13(h)(2) of the BHC Act.
Alternatively, a commodity pool for which exempt pool status under section 4.7
of the CFTC’s regulations has not been elected may also be a covered fund if the pool
features certain elements that make the pool substantively similar to exempt pools under
section 4.7. The Agencies are including the alternative definition of commodity pools
that are covered funds because, if the Agencies had included only pools for which exempt
pool status had been elected, covered fund status for pools in which banking entities are

1716

17 CFR 4.7(a)(1)(iii).

1717

Although section 3(c)(1) itself does not limit the types of investors who may invest in a fund relying on
that exclusion, section 3(c)(1) provides that the fund may not conduct a public offering. A fund relying on
section 3(c)(1) therefore must offer and sell its interests in offerings that are not registered under the
Securities Act of 1933, which offerings generally are limited to persons who meet certain qualification
standards.

527

invested could easily be avoided merely by not electing exempt pool status under section
4.7. The following is a description of the elements of a pool that would cause a pool that
is not an exempt pool under section 4.7 to be a covered fund.
The first element is that a commodity pool operator for the pool is registered
pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act in connection with the operation of that
commodity pool. This element is present for all pools that are exempt pools under
section 4.7 because exempt pool status can only be elected by registered commodity pool
operators. This element excludes from the definition of covered fund an entity that is a
commodity pool, but for which the pool operator has been either exempted from
registration as a commodity pool operator or excluded from the definition of commodity
pool operator under the CFTC’s regulations or pursuant to a no-action letter issued by
CFTC staff. 1718
The second element under the alternative definition is that substantially all of the
commodity pool’s participation units are owned only by qualified eligible persons under
section 4.7(a)(2) and (a)(3). 1719 This element is consistent with the requirement under
section 4.7 that exempt pool status can only be claimed if the participation units in the
pool are only offered or sold to qualified eligible persons. 1720 Moreover, the inclusion of

1718

See, e.g., CFTC regulations 3.10(c) and 4.13 and CFTC Staff Letters Nos. 12-37 (Nov. 29, 2012) (relief
from registration for operators of certain types of family office pools), 12-40 (Dec. 4, 2012) (relief from
registration for operators of business development companies that meet certain conditions) and 12-44 (Dec.
7, 2012) (relief from registration for operators of mortgage real estate investment trusts that meet certain
conditions). See also supra note 1715.

1719

17 CFR 4.7(a)(2) and (a)(3).

1720

Although section 4.7 requires that all participation units be owned by qualified eligible persons, this
element of the final rule has been modified to include pools for which “substantially all” participation units
are owned by qualified eligible persons to prevent avoidance of covered fund status by distributing a small
number of participation units to persons who are not qualified eligible persons.

528

this element aligns the elements of the alternative test with features that define funds that
rely on sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
The assessment as to whether the commodity pool in question satisfies this
condition must be made at the time that the banking entity is required to make the
following determinations: whether it can obtain new participation units in the commodity
pool, whether it can retain previously purchased participation units in the commodity
pool, and whether it can act as the commodity pool’s sponsor. The Agencies believe this
to be appropriate because it would require the banking entity to consider current
information regarding the commodity pool and its participants rather than assess the
composition of the pool’s participants over time even though its investments in or
relationships with the pool do not change, which could be difficult depending upon the
length of time that the pool has been in operation and the records available at the time of
determination.
Finally, the third element under the alternative definition is that the commodity
pool participation units have not been publicly offered to persons other than qualified
eligible persons. Consistent with CFTC regulations addressing the meaning of “offer” in
the context of the CFTC’s regulations, the term “offer” as used in § __.10(b)(1)(ii)(B)
“has the same meaning as in contract law, such that, if accepted the terms of the offer
would form a binding contract.” 1721 This aspect of the alternative definition is intended
to limit the ability for commodity pools to avoid classification as covered funds through

1721

See 77 FR 9734, 9741 (Feb. 17, 2012) (describing the meaning of the term “offer” in the context of the
business conduct standards for swap dealers and major swap participants with counterparties adopted by
the CFTC). The term “offered” as used in this section of the final rule is not intended to denote an “offer”
for purposes of the Securities Act of 1933.

529

an offer, either in the past or currently ongoing, to non-qualified eligible persons “in
name only” where there is no actual offer to non-qualified eligible persons.
Accordingly, unless the pool operator can show that the pool’s participation units
have been actively and publicly offered to non-affiliated parties that are not qualified
eligible persons whereby such non-qualified eligible persons could in fact purchase a
participation unit in the commodity pool, a pool that features the other elements listed in
the alternative definition would be a covered fund. Such a showing will not turn solely
on whether the commodity pool has filed a registration statement to offer its participation
units under the Securities Act of 1933 or whether the commodity pool operator has
prepared a disclosure document consistent with the provisions of section 4.24 of the
CFTC’s regulations. 1722 Rather, the pool operator would need to show that a reasonably
active effort, based on the facts and circumstances, has been undertaken by brokers and
other sales personnel to publicly offer the pool’s participation units to non-affiliated
parties that are not qualified eligible persons.
In taking this more tailored approach to commodity pools that will be covered
funds, the Agencies are more closely aligning the types of commodity pools that will be
covered funds under the final rule with section 13’s definition of a hedge fund and private
equity fund by reference to section 3(c)(1) or section 3(c)(7), and addressing concerns of
commenters that the proposal was overly broad and would lead to outcomes inconsistent
with the words, structure, and purpose of section 13. 1723 The Agencies believe that the
types of commodity pools described above generally are similar to funds that rely on
1722

17 CFR 4.24 (2013).

1723

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); BlackRock; AHIC; Sen. Carper et al.; Rep.
Garrett et al.

530

section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) in that, like funds that rely on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7), these
commodity pools may be owned only by investors who meet certain heightened
qualification standards, as discussed above. 1724 Further, the Agencies believe that the
final rule’s identification of the elements of a commodity pool that is a covered fund are
clearly established and readily ascertainable such that once it is determined whether an
entity is a commodity pool, an assessment that is already necessary to comply with the
Commodity Exchange Act, then the further determination of whether an entity that is a
commodity pool is also a covered fund can be made based on readily ascertainable
information.
In adopting this approach, the Agencies also are utilizing the current regulatory
structure promulgated by the CFTC under the CEA. As the CFTC regulates commodity
pools, commodity pool operators, and commodity trading advisors that advise commodity
pools, the Agencies believe that it is beneficial to utilize an already established set of
rules, regulations, and guidance. The Agencies considered alternative approaches
provided by the commenters, but have adopted the approach taken in the final rule for the
reasons discussed above and because the Agencies believe that the final rule, by
incorporating concepts with which commodity pools and their operators are familiar,
more clearly delineates the commodity pools that are covered funds. 1725

1724

Funds relying on section 3(c)(7) must be owned exclusively by qualified purchasers, as defined in the
Investment Company Act. The Agencies note in this regard that section 4.7 of the CFTC’s regulations use
substantially the same definition of a qualified purchaser in defining the term qualified eligible person.

1725

Operators of commodity pools currently must consider whether they are required to register with the
CFTC as commodity pool operators, and whether the pools have the characteristics that would make it
possible for the operator to claim an exemption under section 4.7. These concepts thus should be familiar
to commodity pools and their operators, and including these concepts in the final rule should allow banking
entities more easily to determine if a particular commodity pools is a covered fund than if the Agencies
were to develop new concepts solely for purposes of the final rule.

531

The Agencies believe that the final rule’s tailored approach to commodity pools
includes in the definition of covered fund commodity pools that are similar to funds that
rely on section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7). The Agencies also note in this regard that a
commodity pool that would be a covered fund even under this tailored approach will not
be a covered fund if the pool also qualifies for an exclusion from the covered fund
definition, including the exclusion for registered investments companies. Accordingly,
this approach excludes from covered funds entities like commercial end users and
registered investment companies, whose activities do not implicate the concerns section
13 was designed to address. Rather, the final rule limits the commodity pools that will be
included as covered funds to those that are similar to other covered funds except that they
are not generally subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940 due to the instruments
in which they invest. For all of these reasons, the Agencies believe that the final rule’s
approach to commodity pools addresses both the Agencies’ concerns about the potential
for evasion and commenters’ concerns about the breadth of the proposed rule, and
provides that the commodity pools captured as covered funds are “such similar funds,”
consistent with section 13(h)(2) of the BHC Act.
The Agencies acknowledge that as a result of including certain commodity pools
in the definition of covered fund, the prohibitions under section 13(f) and §__.14 may
result in certain structural changes in the industry. The Agencies note that these changes
(e.g., bank-affiliated FCMs may not be able to lend money in certain clearing transactions
to affiliated commodity pools that are covered funds) may result in certain changes in the
way related entities do business with each other. However, the Agencies believe that
because the industry is competitive with a significant number of alternative non-affiliate

532

competitors, the changes would not result in a less competitive landscape for investors in
commodity pools.
3.

Entities regulated under the Investment Company Act
The proposed rule did not specifically include registered investment companies

(including mutual funds) or business development companies within the definition of
covered fund. 1726 As explained above, the statute references funds that rely on section
3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. Registered investment companies and
business development companies do not rely on either section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the
Investment Company Act and are instead registered or regulated in accordance with the
Investment Company Act.
Many commenters argued that registered investment companies and business
development companies would be treated as covered funds under the proposed definition
if commodity pools are treated as covered funds. 1727 A few commenters argued that the
final rule should specifically provide that all SEC-registered funds are excluded from the
definition of covered fund (and the definition of banking entity) to avoid any uncertainty
about whether section 13 applies to these types of funds. 1728
Commenters also requested that the final rule exclude from the definition of
covered fund entities formed to establish registered investment companies during the

1726

See proposed rule § __.10(b)(1).

1727

See, e.g., Arnold & Porter; BoA; Goldman (Covered Funds); ICI (Feb. 2012); Putnam; TCW;
Vanguard. According to these commenters, a registered investment company may use security or
commodity futures, swaps, or other commodity interests in various ways to manage its investment portfolio
and be swept into the broad definition of “commodity pool” contained in the Commodity Exchange Act.

1728

See Arnold & Porter; Goldman (Covered Funds); See also SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012);
SIFMA et al. (Mar. 2012); ABA (Keating); BoA; ICI (Feb. 2012); JPMC; (requesting clarification that
registered investment companies are not banking entities); TCW.

533

seeding period. These commenters contended that, during the early stages of forming
and seeding a registered investment company, an entity relying on section 3(c)(1) or
(3)(c)(7) may be created to facilitate the development of a track record for the registered
investment company so that it may be marketed to unaffiliated investors. 1729
The Agencies did not intend to include registered investment companies and
business development companies as covered funds under the proposal. Section 13’s
definition of private equity fund and hedge fund by reference to section 3(c)(1) and
3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act appears to reflect Congress’ concerns about
banking entities’ exposure to and relationships with investment funds that explicitly are
excluded from SEC regulation as investment companies. The Agencies do not believe it
would be appropriate to treat as a covered fund registered investment companies and
business development companies, which are regulated by the SEC as investment
companies. The Agencies believe that the proposed rule’s inclusion of commodity pools
would have resulted in some registered investment companies and business development
companies being covered funds, a result the Agencies did not intend. The Agencies, in
addition to narrowing the commodity pools that will be included as covered funds as
discussed above, have also modified the final rule to exclude SEC-registered investment
companies and business development companies from the definition of covered fund. 1730
The Agencies also recognize that an entity that becomes a registered investment
company or business development company might, during its seeding period, rely on
section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7). The Agencies have determined to exclude these seeding

1729

See ICI (Feb. 2012); TCW.

1730

See final rule § __.10(c)(12).

534

vehicles from the covered fund definition for the same reasons the Agencies determined
to exclude entities that are operating as registered investment companies or business
development companies as discussed in more detail below in Part IV.B.1.c.12 of this
Supplementary Information.
The Agencies also understand that registered investment companies may establish
and hold subsidiary entities that rely on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) in order to trade in
various financial instruments for the registered investment company parent. If a
registered investment company were itself a banking entity, section 13 and the final rule
would prohibit the registered investment company from sponsoring or investing in such
an investment subsidiary. But a registered investment company would only itself be a
banking entity if it is an affiliate of an insured depository institution. As explained in the
proposal, a registered investment company, such as a mutual fund or exchange traded
fund, or an entity that has made an effective election to be regulated as a business
development company, would not be an affiliate of a banking entity for purposes of
section 13 of that Act solely by virtue of being advised, or organized, sponsored and
managed by a banking entity in accordance with the BHC Act (including section 13) and
the Board’s Regulation Y. 1731
Under the BHC Act, an entity (including a registered investment company) would
generally be considered an affiliate of a banking entity, and therefore a banking entity
itself, if it controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with an insured
depository institution. 1732

Pursuant to the BHC Act, a company controls another

1731

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,856.

1732

See final rule § __.2(a) (defining “affiliate” for purposes of the final rule).

535

company if: (i) the company directly or indirectly or acting through one or more other
persons owns, controls, or has power to vote 25 per cent or more of any class of voting
securities of the company; (ii) the company controls in any manner the election of a
majority of the directors of trustees of the other company; or (iii) the Board determines,
after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the company directly or indirectly exercises
a controlling influence over the management or policies of the company. 1733
The Board’s regulations and orders have long recognized that a bank holding
company may organize, sponsor, and manage a mutual fund such as a registered
investment company, including by serving as investment adviser to registered investment
company, without controlling the registered investment company for purposes of the
BHC Act. 1734 For example, the Board has permitted a bank holding company to own up
to 5 percent of the voting shares of a registered investment company for which the bank
holding company provides investment advisory, administrative, and other services, and
has a number of director and officer interlocks, without finding that the bank holding
company controls the fund. 1735 The Board has also permitted a bank holding company to
own less than 25 percent of the voting shares of a registered investment company and
provide similar services without finding that the bank holding company controls the fund,

1733

See 12 U.S.C. 1841(a)(2); 12 CFR 225.2(e).

1734

See, e.g., 12 CFR 211.10(a)(11); 225.28(b)(6)(i); 225.86(b)(3); Unicredito, 86 FED. RES. BULL. 825
(2000); Societe Generale, 84 FED. RES. BULL. 680 (1998); Commerzbank AG, 83 FED. RES. BULL. 678
(1997); The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland, 82 FED. RES. BULL. 1129 (1996); Mellon Bank
Corp., 79 FED. RES. BULL. 626 (1993); Bayerische Vereinsbank AG, 73 FED. RES. BULL. 155 (1987).
1735

See, e.g., Societe Generale, 84 FED. RES. BULL. 680 (1998) (finding that a bank holding company does
not control a mutual fund for which it holds up to 5 percent of the voting shares and also provides
investment advisory, administrative and other services, has directors or employees who comprise less than
25 percent of the board of directors of the fund (including the chairman of the board), and has three senior
officer interlocks and a number of junior officer interlocks).

536

so long as the fund limits its investments to those permissible for the holding company to
make itself. 1736
The BHC Act, as amended by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and the Board’s
Regulation Y authorize a bank holding company that qualifies as a financial holding
company to engage in a broader set of activities, and to have a broader range of
relationships or investments with entities, than bank holding companies. 1737 For instance,
a financial holding company may engage in, or acquire shares of any company engaged
in, any activity that is financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity, including
any activity that a bank holding company is permitted to engage in or acquire by
regulation or order. 1738 In light of the foregoing, for purposes of section 13 of the BHC
Act a financial holding company may own more than 5 percent (and less than 25 percent)
of the voting shares of a registered investment company for which the holding company
provides investment advisory, administrative, and other services and has a number of
director and officer interlocks, without controlling the fund for purposes of the BHC
Act. 1739

1736

See letter dated June 24, 1999, to H. Rodgin Cohen, Esq., Sullivan & Cromwell (First Union Corp.),
from Jennifer J. Johnson, Secretary of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (finding that
a bank holding company does not control a mutual fund for which it provides investment advisory and
other services and that complies with the limitations of section 4(c)(7) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C.
1843(c)(7)), so long as (i) the bank holding company reduces its interest in the fund to less than 25 percent
of the fund’s voting shares after a six-month period, and (ii) a majority of the fund’s directors are
independent of the bank holding company and the bank holding company cannot select a majority of the
board) (“First Union Letter”); H.R. Rep. No. 106-434 at 153 (1999) (Conf. Rep.) (noting that the Act
permits a financial holding company to sponsor and distribute all types of mutual funds and investment
companies); See also 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(1), (6).

1737

See, e.g., H.R. Rep. No. 106-434 at 153 (1999) (Conf. Rep.) (noting that the Act permits a financial
holding company to sponsor and distribute all types of mutual funds and investment companies).

1738

See 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(1); 12 CFR 225.86.

1739

See First Union Letter (June 24, 1999); See also 12 CFR 225.86(b)(3) (authorizing a financial holding
company to organize, sponsor, and manage a mutual fund so long as (i) the fund does not exercise

537

So long as a bank holding company or financial holding company complies with
these limitations, it would not, absent other facts and circumstances, control a registered
investment company and the registered investment company for purposes of section 13
(and any subsidiary thereof) would not itself be a banking entity subject to the restrictions
of section 13 of the BHC Act and any final implementing rules (unless the registered
investment company itself otherwise controls an insured depository institution). Also
consistent with the Board’s precedent regarding bank holding company control of and
relationships with funds, a seeding vehicle that will become a registered investment
company or SEC-regulated business development company would not itself be viewed as
violating the requirements of section 13 during the seeding period so long as the banking
entity that establishes the seeding vehicle operates the vehicle pursuant to a written plan,
developed in accordance with the banking entity’s compliance program, that reflects the
banking entity’s determination that the vehicle will become a registered investment
company or SEC-regulated business development company within the time period
provided by section 13(d)(4) and §__.12 for seeding a covered fund. 1740
c.

Entities Excluded from Definition of Covered Fund
As noted above, the final rule excludes a number of entities from the definition of
covered fund. 1741 As discussed in more detail below, these exclusions more effectively
tailor the definition of covered fund to those types of entities that section 13 was designed
managerial control over the entities in which the fund invests, and (ii) the financial holding company
reduces its ownership in the fund, if any, to less than 25 percent of the equity of the fund within one year of
sponsoring the fund or such additional period as the Board permits).
1740

See final rule §§ __.10(c)(12) and __.20(e). Under the final rule, these Seeding vehicles also must
comply with the limitations on leverage under the Investment Company Act that apply to registered
investment companies and SEC-regulated business development companies. See final rule § __.10(c)(12).

1741

See final rule §__.10(c).

538

to focus on. The exclusions thus are designed to provide certainty, mitigate compliance
costs and other burdens, and address the potential over-breadth of the covered fund
definition and related requirements without such exclusions by permitting banking
entities to invest in and have other relationships with entities that do not relate to the
statutory purpose of section 13. These exclusions, described in more detail below, take
account of information provided by many commenters regarding entities that would
likely be included within the proposed definition of a covered fund, but that are not
traditionally thought of as hedge funds or private equity funds. 1742 Finally, the Agencies
note that providing exclusions from the covered fund definition, rather than providing
permitted activity exemptions as proposed in some cases, aligns the final rule with the
statute in applying the restrictions imposed by section 13(f) on transactions with covered
funds only to transactions with issuers that are defined as covered funds and thus raise the
concerns section 13 was designed to address.
The Agencies recognize, however, that the final rule’s definition of covered fund
does not include certain pooled investment vehicles. For example, the definition of
covered fund excludes business development companies, entities that rely on section
3(c)(5)(C), 3(c)(3), or 3(c)(11) of the Investment Company Act, and certain foreign
public funds that are subject to home-country regulation. The Agencies expect that the
types of pooled investment vehicles sponsored by the financial services industry will
continue to evolve, including in response to the final rule, and the Agencies will be

1742

See 156 Cong. Rec. H5226 (daily ed. June 30, 2010) (statement of Reps. Himes and Frank) (noting
intent that subsidiaries or joint ventures not be included within the definition of covered fund); 156 Cong.
Rec. S5904-05 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sens. Boxer and Dodd) (noting broad definition of
hedge fund and private equity fund and recommending that the Agencies take steps to ensure definition is
reasonably tailored); See also FSOC study at 61 – 63.

539

monitoring this evolution to determine whether excluding these and other types of entities
remains appropriate. The Agencies will also monitor use of the exclusions for attempts
to evade the requirements of section 13 and intend to use their authority where
appropriate to prevent evasions of the rule.
1.

Foreign public funds
As discussed above, under the proposal a covered fund was defined to include the

foreign equivalent of any covered fund in order to address the potential for
circumvention. Many commenters argued that the proposed definition could capture nonU.S. public retail funds, such as UCITS. 1743 These commenters contended that non-U.S.
public retail funds should be excluded from the definition of covered fund because they
are regulated in their home jurisdiction; commenters noted that similar funds registered in
the United States, such as mutual funds, are not covered funds. 1744
Some commenters were concerned that the proposed definition could
inadvertently capture exchange-traded funds trading in foreign jurisdictions, 1745 separate
accounts set up to fund foreign pension plans, 1746 non-U.S. issuers of asset-backed

1743

As discussed above, the proposed rule generally included in the covered fund definition a foreign fund
that, were it organized or offered under the laws of the United States or offered to U.S. residents, would
meet the definition of a domestic covered fund (i.e., would need to rely section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the
Investment Company Act). Many commenters argued that this definition is too broad and could include as
covered funds various types of foreign funds, like UCITS, that commenters argued should not be included.
See, e.g., JPMC; BlackRock.
1744

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Hong Kong Inv. Funds Ass'n.; UBS; ICI Global;
BlackRock; TCW; State Street (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012); IAA; JPMC; Goldman (Covered Funds);
BoA; Credit Suisse (Williams); BNY Mellon, et al.; Union Asset; EFAMA; BVI; IRSG, SEB; IIB/EBF;
GE (Feb. 2012) (commenting on the overbreadth of the definition because of the effect on foreign issuers
of asset-backed securities); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group).
1745

See BlackRock; Vanguard.

1746

See BlackRock.

540

securities, 1747 and non-U.S. regulated funds specifically designed for institutional
investors. 1748 Commenters also provided several potential effects of capturing foreign
public funds under the covered fund definition: U.S. banking entities would incur
unnecessary and substantial costs to rebrand and restructure their non-U.S. regulated
funds, 1749 banking entities could be eliminated from the potential pool of counterparties,
thereby affecting pricing and efficiency, 1750 U.S. banking entities may exit the UCITS
market and lose competitiveness, 1751 the growth of mutual fund formation in foreign
countries could be limited, 1752 and market liquidity in foreign jurisdictions could be
impaired. 1753
Some commenters supported excluding any foreign public fund that is organized
or formed under non-U.S. law, authorized for public sale in the jurisdiction in which it is
organized or formed, and regulated as a public investment company in that
jurisdiction. 1754 In light of the proposal’s broad definition of covered fund, some
commenters recommended explicitly excluding non-U.S. regulated funds based on

1747

See ASF (Feb. 2012).

1748

See Union Asset; EFAMA; BVI.

1749

See Goldman (Covered Funds).

1750

See AFMA.

1751

See BoA.

1752

See BVI.

1753

See Goldman (Covered Funds).

1753

See AFMA.

1753

See BoA.

1754

See ICI Global; ICI (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012); BNY Mellon et al.

541

characteristics to distinguish the foreign funds that should be treated as covered funds. 1755
Several commenters recommended excluding non-U.S. funds based upon whether the
funds are subject to a regulatory framework comparable to that which is imposed on
SEC-registered funds; 1756 one commenter specifically identified European UCITS,
Canadian mutual funds, Australian unit trusts, and Japanese investment trusts as
examples of regulated funds to be excluded. 1757
To address these concerns, the final rule generally excludes from the definition of
covered fund any issuer that is organized or established outside of the United States and
the ownership interests of which are authorized to be offered and sold to retail investors
in the issuer’s home jurisdiction and are sold predominantly through one or more public
offerings outside of the United States. 1758 Foreign funds that meet these requirements
will not be covered funds, except that an additional condition applies to U.S. banking
entities 1759 with respect to the foreign public funds they sponsor. The foreign public fund
exclusion is only available to a U.S. banking entity with respect to a foreign fund
sponsored by the U.S. banking entity if, in addition to the requirements discussed above,
the fund’s ownership interests are sold predominantly to persons other than the

1755

See UBS; ICI Global; ICI (Feb. 2012); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); T. Rowe
Price; HSBC Life; Union Asset; EFAMA; BVI; EBF; Hong Kong Inv. Funds Ass'n.; IMA; Ass'n. of
Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); Katten (on behalf of Int'l Clients); Credit Suisse (Williams).

1756

See T. Rowe Price; Credit Suisse (Williams); SSgA (Feb. 2012); BNY Mellon et al.

1757

See T. Rowe Price.

1758

See final rule §__.10(c)(1).

1759

Although the discussion of this condition generally refers to U.S. banking entities for ease of reading,
the condition also applies to foreign affiliates of a U.S. banking entity. See final rule § __.10(c)(1)(ii)
(applying this limitation “[w]ith respect to a banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by
a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and any
issuer for which such banking entity acts as sponsor”).

542

sponsoring banking entity, affiliates of the issuer and the sponsoring banking entity, and
employees and directors of such entities.
For purposes of this exclusion, the Agencies note that the reference to retail
investors, while not defined, should be construed to refer to members of the general
public who do not possess the level of sophistication and investment experience typically
found among institutional investors, professional investors or high net worth investors
who may be permitted to invest in complex investments or private placements in various
jurisdictions. Retail investors would therefore be expected to be entitled to the full
protection of securities laws in the home jurisdiction of the fund, and the Agencies would
expect a fund authorized to sell ownership interests to such retail investors to be of a type
that is more similar to a U.S. registered investment company rather than to a U.S. covered
fund.
In order to help maintain this distinction and to avoid circumstances that could
result in an evasion of section 13 and the final rule, the ownership interests of the fund
must be sold predominantly in one or more public offerings outside of the United States
to qualify for the exclusion. Given this restriction, a U.S. banking entity therefore could
not rely on this exclusion to set up a foreign public fund for the purpose of selling a
significant amount of ownership interests in the fund through one or more offerings
conducted on an unregistered basis (whether in a foreign jurisdiction or in the United
States). The Agencies generally expect that an offering is made predominantly outside of
the United States if 85 percent or more of the fund’s interests are sold to investors that are
not residents of the United States.

543

The requirements that a foreign public fund both be authorized for sale to retail
investors and sold predominantly in public offerings outside of the United States are
based in part on the Agencies’ view that foreign funds that meet these requirements
generally will be sufficiently similar to U.S. registered investment companies such that it
is appropriate to exclude these foreign funds from the covered fund definition. A foreign
fund authorized for sale to retail investors that is also publicly offered may, for example,
provide greater information than funds that are sold through private offerings like funds
that rely on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7). Such foreign funds also may be subject to various
restrictions, as deemed appropriate by foreign regulators in light of local conditions and
practices, that exceed those applicable to privately offered funds. Foreign regulators may
apply these or other enhanced restrictions or other requirements to funds that are offered
on a broad basis to the general public for the protection of investors in those jurisdictions.
A foreign fund that purports to publicly offer its shares but in fact offers them on
a more limited basis, however, may be less likely to resemble a registered investment
company in these and other respects. In order to limit the foreign public fund exclusion
to funds that publicly offer their shares on a sufficiently broad basis, the final rule defines
the term “public offering” for purposes of this exclusion to mean a “distribution” (as
defined in § __.4(a)(3) of subpart B) of securities in any jurisdiction outside the United
States to investors, including retail investors, provided that (i) the distribution complies
with all applicable requirements in the jurisdiction in which such distribution is being
made; (ii) the distribution does not restrict availability to investors having a minimum
level of net worth or net investment assets; and (iii) the issuer has filed or submitted, with

544

the appropriate regulatory authority in such jurisdiction, offering disclosure documents
that are publicly available. 1760
Under the final rule, therefore, a foreign fund’s distribution would not be a public
offering for purposes of the foreign public fund exclusion if the distribution imposes
investor restrictions based on a required minimum level of net worth or net investment
assets. This would not be affected by any suitability requirements that may be imposed
under applicable local law. In addition, the final rule requires that, in connection with a
public offering by a foreign public fund, the offering disclosure documents must be
“publicly available.” This requirement will provide assurance regarding the transparency
for such an offering and will generally be satisfied where the documents are made
accessible to all persons in such jurisdiction. Disclosure documents may be made
publicly available in a variety of means, such as through a public filing with a regulatory
agency or through a website that provides broad accessibility to persons in such
jurisdiction.
In addition and as discussed above, the final rule also places an additional
condition on a U.S. banking entity’s ability to rely on the foreign public fund exclusion
with respect to the foreign public funds it sponsors. For a U.S. banking entity to rely on
the foreign public fund exclusion with respect to a foreign public fund it sponsors, the
ownership interests in the fund must be sold predominantly to persons other than the
sponsoring U.S. banking entity and certain persons connected to that banking entity.
Consistent with the Agencies’ view concerning whether a foreign public fund has been
sold predominantly outside of the United States, the Agencies generally expect that a
1760

See final rule § __.10(c)(1)(iii).

545

foreign public fund will satisfy this additional condition if 85 percent or more of the
fund’s interests are sold to persons other than the sponsoring U.S. banking entity and
certain persons connected to that banking entity.
This additional condition reflects the Agencies’ view that the foreign public fund
exclusion is designed to treat foreign public funds consistently with similar U.S. funds
and to limit the extraterritorial application of section 13 of the BHC Act, including by
permitting U.S. banking entities and their foreign affiliates to carry on traditional asset
management businesses outside of the United States. The exclusion is not intended to
permit a U.S. banking entity to establish a foreign fund for the purpose of investing in the
fund as a means of avoiding the restrictions imposed by section 13. Permitting a U.S.
banking entity to invest in a foreign public fund under this exclusion only when that fund
is sold predominantly to persons other than the sponsoring U.S. banking entity and
certain persons connected to that banking entity permits U.S. banking entities to continue
their asset management businesses outside of the United States while also limiting the
opportunity for evasion of section 13 as discussed below.
This additional condition only applies to U.S. banking entities with respect to the
foreign public funds they sponsor because the Agencies believe that a foreign public fund
sponsored by a U.S. banking entity may present heightened risks of evasion. Absent the
additional condition, a U.S. banking entity could establish a foreign public fund for the
purpose of itself investing substantially in that fund and, through the fund, making
investments that the banking entity could not make directly under section 13. The
Agencies believe it is less likely that a U.S. banking entity effectively could evade section
13 by investing in third-party foreign public funds that the banking entity does not

546

sponsor. In those cases it is less likely that the U.S. banking entity would be able to
control the investments of the fund, and the fund thus likely would be a less effective
means for the banking entity to engage in proprietary trading through the fund. The
Agencies therefore have declined to apply this additional condition with respect to any
foreign public fund in which a U.S. banking entity invests but does not act as sponsor.
The Agencies note that the foreign public fund exclusion is not intended to permit
a banking entity to sponsor a foreign fund for the purpose of selling ownership interests
to any banking entity (affiliated or unaffiliated) that is, or is controlled directly or
indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United
States or of any State (or to a limited group of such banking entities). The Agencies
intend to monitor banking entities’ investments in foreign public funds to ensure that
banking entities do not use the exclusion for foreign public funds in a manner that
functions as an evasion of section 13 in this or any other way. The Agencies expect that
one area of focus for such monitoring would be significant investments in a foreign
public fund, including a fund that is unaffiliated with any banking entity located in or
organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, where such investments
represent a substantial percentage of the ownership interests in such fund.
In order to conduct this monitoring more effectively, the Agencies also are
adopting certain documentation requirements concerning U.S. banking entities’
investments in foreign public funds, as discussed in more detail below in Part IV.C.1 of
this Supplementary Information. Under the final rule, a U.S. banking entity with more
than $10 billion in total consolidated assets will be required to document its investments
in foreign public funds, broken out by each foreign public fund and each foreign

547

jurisdiction in which any foreign public fund is organized, if the U.S. banking entity and
its affiliates’ ownership interests in foreign public funds exceed $50 million at the end of
two or more consecutive calendar quarters. This requirement thus is tailored to apply
only to U.S. banking entities above a certain size that also have substantial investments in
foreign public funds. 1761 The Agencies believe this approach appropriately balances the
Agencies’ evasion concerns and the burdens that documentation requirements impose.
For all of the reasons discussed above, the Agencies believe that the final rule’s
approach to foreign public funds is consistent with the final rule’s exclusion of registered
or otherwise exempt (without reliance on the exemptions in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7))
funds in the United States. It also limits the extraterritorial application of section 13 of
the BHC Act and reduces the potential economic and other burdens commenters argued
would result for banking entities. The Agencies believe that this exclusion represents an
appropriate balancing of considerations that should not significantly increase the risks to
the U.S. financial system that section 13 was designed to limit.
2.

Wholly-owned subsidiaries
Under the proposed rule, a banking entity would have been permitted to invest in

or sponsor a wholly-owned subsidiary that relies on the exclusion contained in section
3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act to avoid being an investment company
under that Act if the subsidiary was carried on the balance sheet of its parent and was
engaged principally in performing bona fide liquidity management activities. 1762

1761

See final rule § __.20(e).

1762

See proposed rule § __.14(a)(2)(iv); Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,913.

548

Commenters argued that, instead of providing a permitted activity exemption for
banking entities to invest in or sponsor certain wholly-owned subsidiaries as proposed, all
wholly-owned subsidiaries should be excluded from the definition of covered fund under
the final rule because wholly-owned subsidiaries are typically used for organizational
convenience and generally do not have the characteristics, risks, or purpose of a hedge
fund or private equity fund, which involves unaffiliated investors owning interests in the
structure for the purpose of sharing in the profits and losses from investment
activities. 1763 Commenters explained that publicly traded companies often establish
wholly-owned intermediate companies for the purpose of holding securities of operating
entities or other corporate vehicles necessary to the business of the entity. Because these
intermediate companies invest entirely (or substantially) in the securities of other entities,
these intermediate companies may be investment companies for purposes of the
Investment Company Act but for the exclusion provided by section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of
the Investment Company Act. 1764
Commenters contended that requiring banking entities to divest their interests in
wholly-owned subsidiaries and cease certain intercompany transactions would have a
material adverse effect on the safety, soundness, efficiency and stability of the U.S. and
global financial systems, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on the wider
economy in terms of reduced credit, increased unemployment and reduced output. 1765
Commenters also argued that an exclusion for wholly-owned subsidiaries is necessary in
1763

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012), JPMC; Goldman (Covered Funds), NAIB et al.;
GE (Feb. 2012); BoA; Chamber (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Covered Funds); ABA (Keating); Ass'n. of
Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams); Rep. Himes; BOK.

1764

See 15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1)(A) & (C).

1765

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

549

order to avoid a conflict with other important requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act. For
example, commenters alleged that including wholly-owned subsidiaries within the
definition of covered fund for purposes of section 13 would create a conflict with the
requirement that a banking entity that is a bank holding company serve as a source of
strength to its subsidiaries because the prohibition in section 13(f) on transactions
between a banking entity and covered funds owned or sponsored by the banking entity
would effectively prohibit the banking entity from providing financial resources to
wholly-owned intermediate holding companies and their subsidiaries. 1766 Other
commenters argued that banking entities would bear extensive compliance costs and
operational burdens and likely would be restricted from structuring themselves
effectively. 1767
Commenters proposed several alternatives to address these concerns. For
instance, commenters recommended that the final rule exclude all wholly-owned
subsidiaries from the definition of covered fund. 1768 Commenters also urged that the
final rule include ownership interests held by employees of a banking entity with any
ownership interests held directly by the banking entity for purposes of qualifying for any
exclusion granted by the rule for wholly-owned subsidiaries. 1769 Another commenter

1766

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); BoA; Rep. Himes.

1767

See, e.g., Goldman (Covered Funds); BoA.

1768

See Rep. Himes; Fin. Services Roundtable (June 14, 2011); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb.
2012); BOK; Chamber (Feb. 2012); ABA (Keating); GE (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Covered Funds);
Goldman (Covered Funds); Ass'n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); BoA; NAIB et al.
1769

See Wells Fargo (Covered Funds); Credit Suisse (Williams).

550

recommended the exclusion of subsidiaries, wholly owned or not, that engage in bona
fide liquidity management. 1770
In light of these comments and consistent with the purposes of section 13 and the
terms of the Dodd-Frank Act as discussed in more detail above, the Agencies have
revised the final rule to exclude wholly-owned subsidiaries from the definition of covered
fund, including those not engaged in liquidity management. 1771 A wholly-owned
subsidiary, as defined in the final rule, is an entity, all of the outstanding ownership
interests of which are owned directly or indirectly by the banking entity (or an affiliate
thereof), except that (i) up to five percent of the entity’s ownership interests may be
owned by directors, employees, and certain former directors and employees of the
banking entity (or an affiliate thereof); and (ii) within the five percent ownership interests
described in clause (i), up to 0.5 percent of the entity’s outstanding ownership interests
may be held by a third party if the ownership interest is held by the third party for the
purpose of establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or
similar concerns. 1772
Although the final rule includes ownership interests held by certain former
directors and employees for purposes of qualifying for the exclusion, the exclusion
requires that an interest held by a former (or current) director or employee must actually
be held by that person (or by the banking entity) and must have been acquired while
1770

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

1771

Although not a condition of the exclusion, banking entities may use wholly-owned subsidiaries to
engage in bona fide liquidity management. As discussed below, however, a wholly-owned subsidiary is
itself a banking entity, and thus is subject to all of the requirements that apply to banking entities, including
the requirements applicable to a banking entity’s liquidity management activities under § __.3(d)(3).
1772

See final rule § __ .10(c)(2).

551

employed by or in the service of the banking entity. For example, if a former employee
subsequently transfers his/her interest to a third party (other than to immediate family
members of the employee or through intestacy of the employee), then the ownership
interest would no longer be held by the banking entity or persons whose ownership
interests may be aggregated with interests held by the banking entity for purposes of the
exclusion for wholly-owned subsidiaries under the final rule.
The final rule also permits up to 0.5 percent of the ownership interest of a whollyowned subsidiary to be held by a third party if the interest is held by the third party for
the purpose of establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency,
or similar concerns, and the ownership interest is included when calculating the five
percent cap on employee and director ownership. The Agencies understand that it is
often important, or in certain circumstances required, under the laws of various
jurisdictions for a parent company to establish corporate separation of a subsidiary
through the issuance of a small amount of ownership interest to a third party.
The Agencies believe that permitting limited employee and director ownership of
a vehicle and accommodating the foreign law requirements discussed above is consistent
with a vehicle’s treatment as a wholly-owned subsidiary. Under the final rule, the
banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) will control the vehicle because it must, as
principal, own at least 95% of the vehicle. 1773 These conditions are designed to exclude
from the covered fund definition vehicles that are formed for corporate and

1773

Cf. Section 2(a)(43) of the Investment Company Act (defining a “wholly-owned subsidiary” of a
person to mean “a company 95 per centum or more of the outstanding voting securities of which are owned
by such person, or by a company which, within the meaning of this paragraph, is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of such person”).

552

organizational convenience, as discussed above, and that thus do not engage in the
investment activities prohibited by section 13. The exclusion also should reduce the
disruption to the operations of banking entities that commenters asserted would result
from the proposed rule. 1774
Importantly, the Agencies note that a wholly-owned subsidiary of a banking
entity—although excluded from the definition of covered fund—still would itself be a
banking entity, and therefore remain subject to the prohibitions and other provisions of
section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule. 1775 Accordingly, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of a banking entity would remain subject to the restrictions of section 13 and
the final rule (including the ban on proprietary trading) and may not engage in activity in
violation of the prohibitions of section 13 and the final rule.
3.

Joint ventures
The proposed rule would have permitted a banking entity to invest in or manage a

joint venture between the banking entity and any other person, provided that the joint
venture was an operating company and did not engage in any activity or any investment
not permitted under the proposed rule. As noted in the proposal, many joint ventures rely

1774

The Agencies also note that depositors for asset-backed securities offerings are important to the
process of securitization. See, e.g., ASF (July 2012) (noting that a depositor, as used in a securitization
structure, is an entity that generally acts only as a conduit to transfer the loans from the originating bank to
the issuing entity for the purpose of facilitating a securitization transaction and engages in no discretionary
investment or securities issuance activities). See also, Rule 191 under the Securities Act of 1933 (17 CFR
230.191) (depositor as issuer for registered asset-backed securities offerings). Commenters raised a
question about the treatment of depositors under the Investment Company Act, and therefore, whether they
would technically fall within the definition of covered fund. See ASF (July 2012); GE (Aug. 2012). For
purposes of the covered fund prohibitions, the Agencies note that depositors may fall within the whollyowned subsidiary exclusion from the covered fund definition.
1775

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(1) (defining banking entity to include any affiliate or subsidiary of a banking
entity).

553

on the exclusion contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company
Act. 1776 Joint ventures are a common form of business, especially for firms seeking to
enter new lines of business or new markets, or seeking to share complementary business
expertise.
Commenters supported this aspect of the proposal and argued that joint ventures
do not share the same characteristics as a hedge fund or private equity fund. However,
they expressed concern that joint ventures were defined too narrowly under the proposal
because the exclusion was limited to joint ventures that were operating companies. 1777
Some commenters criticized the lack of guidance regarding the meaning of operating
company. 1778 One commenter proposed defining operating company as any company
engaged in activities that are permissible for a financial holding company under sections
3 or 4 of the BHC Act, other than a company engaged exclusively in investing in
securities of other companies for resale or other disposition. 1779
Another commenter argued that joint ventures are often used to share risk from
non-performing loans, credit card receivables, consumer loans, commercial real estate
loans or automobile loans. 1780 According to this commenter, these joint ventures, while
not generally viewed as operating companies, promote safety and soundness by allowing

1776

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,913.

1777

See, , e.g., ABA (Keating); Chamber (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); GE
(Aug. 2012); Goldman (Covered Funds); NAIB et al.; Rep Himes; Sen. Bennet; See also 156 Cong Rec.
H5226 (daily ed. June 30, 2010) (statement of Rep. Himes).
1778

See, e.g., ABA (Keating); NAIB et al.; GE (Aug. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al.
(Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Covered Funds); Credit Suisse (Williams); Goldman (Covered
Funds).

1779

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

1780

See Goldman (Covered Funds).

554

a banking entity to limit the size of its exposure to permissible investments or to more
efficiently transfer the risk of existing assets to a small number of partners. Commenters
stated that banking entities often employ similar types of non-operating company joint
ventures to engage in merchant banking activities or other permissible banking activities,
and that the final rule should not prevent a banking entity from sharing the risk of a
portfolio company investment with third parties. 1781 A number of commenters argued
that treating joint ventures as covered funds would create the same inconsistencies with
other provisions and principles embodied in the Dodd-Frank Act noted for wholly-owned
subsidiaries, were they to be treated as covered funds. 1782 Several commenters argued
that the proposed exemption, as drafted, was unworkable because it did not appear to
provide an exception to the intercompany limitations on transactions under section 13(f),
which prohibits transactions between a banking entity and a related covered fund. 1783
Commenters proposed several alternatives to address these issues. Several
commenters recommended that the final rule eliminate the operating company condition
under the proposed exemption. 1784 Other commenters recommended excluding joint
ventures that have an unspecified but limited number of partners (such as five or fewer
joint venture partners). 1785 One commenter recommended excluding all “controlled joint

1781

See ABA (Keating); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

1782

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Covered Funds); ABA (Keating); Chamber
(Feb. 2012).

1783

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Covered Funds); ABA (Keating); GE
(Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012).

1784

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); ABA (Keating); Credit Suisse (Williams).

1785

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams); GE (Feb. 2012).

555

ventures” but did not provide an explanation of how to define that term. 1786 Another
commenter suggested defining a joint venture in one of the following ways: (1) any
company with a limited number of co-venturers that is managed pursuant to a
shareholders’ agreement, as opposed to managed by a general partner; 1787 or (2) a joint
venture in which: (a) there are a limited number of unaffiliated partners; (b) the parties
operate the venture on a joint basis or in proportion to their relative ownership, including
pursuant to a shareholders’ agreement; (c) material decisions are made by one party (for
example, a general partner); and (d) the joint venture does not engage in any activity or
investment not permitted under section 13, other than activities or investments incidental
to its permissible business. 1788
In response to commenter concerns, the final rule excludes joint ventures from the
definition of covered fund with some modifications from the proposal to more clearly
identify entities that are excluded. Under the final rule, a joint venture is excluded from
the definition of covered fund if the joint venture is between the banking entity or any of
its affiliates and no more than 10 unaffiliated co-venturers, is in the business of engaging
in activities that are permissible for the banking entity other than investing in securities
for resale or other disposition, and is not, and does not hold itself out as being, an entity
or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in
securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities. 1789 Banking

1786

See Goldman (Covered Funds).

1787

See ABA (Keating); Credit Suisse (Williams); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et
al. (Mar. 2012); See also GE (Feb. 2012); NAIB et al.

1788

See Goldman (Covered Funds).

1789

See final rule § __ .10(c)(3).

556

entities, therefore, will continue to be able to share the risk and cost of financing their
banking activities through these types of entities which, as noted by commenters as
discussed above, may allow banking entities to more efficiently manage the risk of their
operations.
The Agencies have specified a limit on the number of joint venture partners at the
request of many commenters that suggested such a limit be added (though typically
without suggesting the specific number of partners). The Agencies believe that a limit of
10 partners allows flexibility in structuring larger business ventures without involving
such a large number of partners as to suggest the venture is in reality a hedge fund or
private equity fund established for investment purposes. The Agencies will monitor joint
ventures – and other excluded entities – to ensure that they are not used by banking
entities to evade the provisions of section 13.
The final rule’s requirement that a joint venture not be an entity or arrangement
that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for
resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities prevents a banking entity
from relying on this exclusion to evade section 13 of the BHC Act by owning or
sponsoring what is or will become a covered fund. Consistent with this restriction and to
prevent evasion of section 13, a banking entity may not use a joint venture to engage in
merchant banking activities because that involves acquiring or retaining shares, assets, or
ownership interests for the purpose of ultimate resale or disposition of the investment. 1790
As with wholly-owned subsidiaries, if a banking entity owns 25 percent or more
of the voting securities of the joint venture or otherwise controls an entity that qualifies
1790

See 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(H).

557

for the joint venture exclusion, the joint venture would then itself be a banking entity and
would remain subject to the restrictions of section 13 and the final rule (including the ban
on proprietary trading).
The Agencies note that the statute defines banking entity to include not only
insured depository institutions and bank holding companies, but also their affiliates. In
the context of a company that owns an insured depository institution but is not a bank
holding company or savings and loan holding company, the insured depository
institution’s affiliates may engage in commercial activities impermissible for banks and
bank holding companies. However, section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule do not
authorize a banking entity to engage in otherwise impermissible activities. Because of
this, the scope of activities in which a joint venture may engage under the final rule will
depend on the status and identity of its co-venturers. For instance, a joint venture
between a bank holding company and unaffiliated companies may not engage in
commercial activities impermissible for a bank holding company.
4.

Acquisition vehicles
Similar to wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint ventures, the proposed rule would

have permitted a banking entity to invest in or sponsor an acquisition vehicle provided
that the sole purpose and effect of the acquisition vehicle was to effectuate a transaction
involving the acquisition or merger of an entity with or into the banking entity or one of
its affiliates. As noted in the proposal, banking entities often form corporate vehicles for
the purpose of accomplishing a corporate merger or asset acquisition. 1791 Because of the

1791

Cf. Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,897.

558

way they are structured, acquisition vehicles may rely on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the
Investment Company Act. 1792
Commenters supported the exclusion of acquisition vehicles from the restrictions
governing covered funds, and argued that acquisition vehicles do not share the same
characteristics as a hedge fund or private equity fund. 1793 However, similar to concerns
articulated above with respect to wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint ventures,
commenters argued that the proposed rule, as drafted, left uncertain how other provisions
of section 13 would apply to these vehicles. 1794
In light of the comments, the final rule has been modified to exclude acquisition
vehicles from the definition of covered fund, rather than provide a permitted activity
exemption for banking entities to invest in or sponsor the vehicles, so long as the vehicle
is formed solely for the purpose of engaging in a bona fide merger or acquisition
transaction and the vehicle exists only for such period as necessary to effectuate the
transaction. 1795 The final rule thus reflects modifications from the exemption for
acquisition vehicles in the proposal, which was available for acquisition vehicles where
the sole purpose and effect of the entity was to effectuate a transaction involving the
acquisition or merger of one entity with or into the banking entity. 1796 The Agencies

1792

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,913; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

1793

See, e.g., JPMC; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); GE (Feb. 2012); Sen. Bennet; Sen.
Carper et al.

1794

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; GE (Feb. 2012).

1795

See final rule § __.10(c)(4).

1796

The proposed rule contained an exemption for investments in acquisition vehicles, provided that the
“the sole purpose and effect of such entity is to effectuate a transaction involving the acquisition or merger
of one entity with or into the covered banking entity or one of its affiliates.” See proposed rule §
__.14(a)(2)(ii). The final rule excludes an acquisition vehicle, which is defined as an issuer that is

559

modified the conditions in the final rule, as discussed above, to more clearly reflect the
limited activities in which an excluded acquisition vehicle may engage and to exclude
acquisition vehicles from the definition of covered fund, rather than only permit banking
entities to invest in or sponsor them pursuant to an exemption.
The Agencies also note that an acquisition vehicle that survives a transaction
would likely be excluded from the definition of covered fund under the separate
exclusion for either joint ventures or wholly-owned subsidiaries described above. An
acquisition vehicle that is controlled by a banking entity would be a banking entity itself
and would be subject to the restrictions of section 13 and the final rule that apply to a
banking entity.
5.

Foreign pension or retirement funds
Under the proposed rule, a foreign pension plan that relied on section 3(c)(1) or

3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act to avoid being an investment company (or that
was a commodity pool), would have been a covered fund. Commenters argued that
including pension funds within the definition of covered fund would produce many
unexpected results for pension plans as well as plan participants. 1797
Commenters generally argued that foreign pension or retirement funds are
established by a foreign company or foreign sovereign for the purpose of providing a

“[f]ormed solely for the purpose of engaging in a bona fide merger or acquisition transaction” and that
“exists only for such period as necessary to effectuate the transaction.” See final rule § __.10(c)(4).
1797

As explained above, commenters also argued that a foreign pension plan should not be considered a
banking entity if the plan is sponsored by a banking entity or is established for the benefit of employees of
the banking entity. If deemed a banking entity, the pension plan could become subject to the limits on
section 13 on investing in covered funds. See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); Arnold &
Porter; Credit Suisse (Williams). The final rule addresses these comments with the exclusions described
above.

560

specific group of foreign persons with income during retirement or when they reach a
certain age or meet certain predetermined criteria and are typically eligible for
preferential tax treatment, and are not formed for the same purposes as hedge funds or
private equity funds. 1798 Commenters argued that the definition of covered fund should
not include certain foreign pension or retirement funds, including managed investment
arrangements and wrap platforms, such as so-called “superannuation funds,” that are
managed by foreign banks as part of providing retirement or pension schemes to foreign
citizens pursuant to foreign law and are generally not available for sale to U.S. citizens.
Commenters asserted that many foreign banking entities act as sponsor to and organize
and offer foreign pension funds abroad as part of a foreign sovereign program to provide
retirement, pension, or similar benefits to its citizens or workforce. 1799 These
commenters contended that a foreign pension plan might itself rely on the exclusion in
section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) in order to avoid being an investment company if it is offered to
citizens of the foreign sovereign present in the United States. 1800
Several commenters argued that foreign pension and retirement plans should be
excluded from the definition of covered fund on the same basis as U.S. pension and
retirement funds that are ERISA-qualified funds that rely on the exclusion from the
definition of investment company provided under section 3(c)(11) of the Investment
Company Act. 1801 Commenters alleged that without an exclusion for foreign pension or

1798

See, e.g., Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks).

1799

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); Arnold & Porter; UBS; Hong Kong Inv. Funds
Ass'n.
1800

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); Arnold & Porter; UBS; Hong Kong Inv. Funds
Ass'n.; Credit Suisse (Williams).
1801

See Arnold & Porter; UBS; Hong Kong Inv. Funds Ass'n.; Credit Suisse (Williams).

561

retirement funds, section 13 of the BHC Act would have an extra-territorial effect on
pension or retirement benefits abroad that would be severe and beyond what was
contemplated by section 13 of the BHC Act.
In light of comments received on the proposal, the final rule excludes from the
definition of covered fund a plan, fund, or program providing pension, retirement, or
similar benefits that is: (i) organized and administered outside of the United States; (ii) a
broad-based plan for employees or citizens that is subject to regulation as a pension,
retirement, or similar plan under the laws of the jurisdiction in which the plan, fund, or
program is organized and administered; and (iii) established for the benefit of citizens or
residents of one or more foreign sovereign or any political subdivision thereof. 1802 This
is similar to the treatment provided to U.S. pension funds by virtue of the exclusion from
the definition of investment company under the Investment Company Act for certain
broad-based employee benefit plans provided by section 3(c)(11) of that Act. The
exclusion from the covered fund definition for foreign plans would be available for bona
fide plans established for the benefit of employees or citizens outside the U.S. even if
some of the beneficiaries of the fund reside in the U.S. or subsequently become U.S.
residents.
The Agencies believe this exclusion is appropriate in order to facilitate parallel
treatment of domestic and foreign pension and retirement funds to the extent possible and

1802

See final rule §__.10(c)(5).

562

to assist in ensuring that section 13 of the BHC Act does not apply to foreign pension,
retirement, or similar benefits programs. 1803
6.

Insurance company separate accounts
Under the proposed rule, insurance company separate accounts would have been

covered funds to the extent that the separate accounts relied on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7).
Such reliance would generally occur in circumstances where policies funded by the
separate account are distributed in an unregistered securities offering solely to qualified
purchasers or on a limited basis to accredited investors. While the proposed rule did not
generally exclude insurance company separate accounts from the definition of covered
fund, the proposed rule did provide a limited exemption for investing in or acting as
sponsor to separate accounts that were used for the purpose of allowing a banking entity
to purchase bank owned life insurance (“BOLI”), subject to certain restrictions. 1804
Various state or foreign laws allow regulated insurance companies to create
separate accounts that are generally not separate legal entities but represent a segregated
pool of assets on the balance sheet of the insurance company that support a specific
policy claim on the insurance company. These accounts have assets and obligations that
are separate from the general account of the insurance company. Insurance companies
often utilize these separate accounts to allow policyholders of variable annuity and
variable life insurance to allocate premium amounts for the purpose of engaging in
1803

Additionally and as discussed above, the prohibitions of section 13 and the final rule do not apply to an
ownership interest that is acquired or retained by a banking entity through a deferred compensation, stockbonus, profit-sharing, or pension plan of the banking entity that is established and administered in
accordance with the law of the United States or a foreign sovereign, if the ownership interest is held or
controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity as trustee for the benefit of persons who are or were
employees of the banking entity.

1804

See proposed rule § __.14(a)(1).

563

various investment strategies that are tailored to the requirements of the individual
policyholder. The policyholder, and not the insurance company, primarily benefits from
the results of investments in the separate account. These separate accounts are generally
investment companies for purposes of the Investment Company Act, unless an exclusion
from that definition is applicable, 1805 and, as noted above, may rely on the exclusion
contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act.
While most commenters supported the proposal’s recognition that interests in
BOLI separate accounts should be permitted, commenters generally argued that the final
rule should also provide a broader exclusion from the definition of covered fund for all
insurance company separate accounts. Commenters argued that covering separate
accounts could lead to unintended consequences and was inconsistent with the statutory
recognition that the business of insurance should continue to be accommodated. 1806
These commenters argued that covering separate accounts within the definition of
covered fund would disrupt a substantial portion of customer-driven insurance or
retirement planning activity and pose a burden on insurance companies and holders of
insurance policies funded by separate accounts, a result commenters alleged Congress did
not intend. 1807
In response to commenter concerns and in order to more appropriately
accommodate the business of insurance in a regulated insurance company, the final rule

1805

See In re The Prudential Ins. Co. of Am., 41 S.E.C. 335, 345 (1963), aff'd, The Prudential Ins. Co. of
Am. v. SEC, 326 F.2d 383 (3d Cir.), cert. denied, 377 U.S. 953 (1964).
1806

See ACLI (Jan. 2012); Nationwide; Sutherland (on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers); See also
STANY.
1807

See ACLI (Jan. 2012); Nationwide; Sutherland (on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers); See also
STANY.

564

excludes an insurance company separate account from the definition of covered fund
under certain circumstances. To prevent this exclusion from being used to evade the
restrictions on investments and sponsorship of covered funds by a banking entity, the
final rule provides that no banking entity other than the insurance company that
establishes the separate account may participate in the account’s profits and losses. 1808 In
this manner, the final rule appropriately accommodates the business of insurance by
permitting an insurance company that is a banking entity to continue to provide its
customers with a variety of insurance products through separate account structures in
accordance with applicable insurance laws while protecting against the use of separate
accounts as a means by which banking entities might take a proprietary or beneficial
interest in an account that engages in prohibited proprietary trading and thereby evade the
requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act. The exclusion of insurance company
separate accounts from the definition of covered fund therefore is designed to reduce the
potential burden of the final rule on insurance companies and holders of insurance
policies funded by separate accounts while also continuing to prohibit banking entities
from taking ownership interests in, and sponsoring or having certain relationships with,
entities that engage in investment and trading activities prohibited by section 13.
7.

Bank owned life insurance separate accounts
As explained above, bank owned life insurance (“BOLI”) is generally offered

through a separate account held by an insurance company. In recognition of the fact that
banking entities have for many years invested in life insurance policies that covered key

1808

See final rule § __.10(c)(6).

565

employees, in accordance with supervisory policies established by the Federal banking
agencies, the proposal contained a provision that would permit banking entities to invest
in and sponsor BOLI separate accounts. 1809
Many commenters supported the exemption in the proposal for BOLI separate
accounts, arguing that permitting this kind of activity was appropriate and consistent with
safety and soundness as well as financial stability. 1810 Conversely, one commenter
objected to the proposed rule’s exemption for investments in BOLI separate accounts,
contending that such an exemption did not promote and protect the safety and soundness
of banking entities or the financial stability of the United States. 1811
After considering comments received on the proposal, the final rule excludes
BOLI separate accounts from the definition of covered fund but maintains the substance
of the conditions from the proposal designed to ensure that BOLI investments are not
conducted in a manner that raises the concerns that section 13 of the BHC Act was
designed to address. In particular, in order for a separate account to qualify for the BOLI
exclusion from the definition of covered fund, the final rule requires that the separate
account be used solely for the purpose of allowing one or more banking entities (which
by definition includes their affiliates) to purchase a life insurance policy for which such
banking entity(ies) is a beneficiary. 1812 Additionally, if the banking entity is relying on
this exclusion, the banking entity that purchases the insurance policy (i) must not control

1809

See proposed rule § __.14(a)(1).

1810

See ACLI (Jan. 2012); Mass. Mutual; Jones of Northwestern; AALU; BBVA; BoA; Chris Barnard;
Clark Consulting (Feb. 7, 2012); Clark Consulting (Feb. 13, 2012); Gagnon of GW Financial.

1811

See Occupy.

1812

See final rule § __ .10(c)(7).

566

the investment decisions regarding the underlying assets or holdings of the separate
account, 1813 and (ii) must participate in the profits and losses of the separate account in
compliance with applicable supervisory guidance regarding BOLI. 1814
When made in the normal course, investments by banking entities in BOLI
separate accounts do not involve the types of speculative risks section 13 of the BHC Act
was designed to address. Rather, these accounts permit the banking entity to effectively
hedge and cover costs of providing benefits to employees through insurance policies
related to key employees. Moreover, applying the prohibitions of section 13 to
investments in these accounts would eliminate an investment that helps banking entities
to efficiently reduce their costs of providing employee benefits, and therefore potentially
introduce a burden to banking entities that would not further the statutory purpose of
section 13. The Agencies expect this exclusion to be used by banking entities in a
manner consistent with safety and soundness.
8.

Exclusion for loan securitizations and definition of loan

a.

Definition of loan
The proposal defined the term “loan” for purposes of the restrictions on

proprietary trading and the covered funds provisions and, as discussed in more detail
below, provided an exemption for loan securitizations in two separate sections of the
proposed rule. As proposed, loan was defined as “any loan, lease, extension of credit, or

1813

This requirement is not intended to preclude a banking entity from purchasing a life insurance policy
from an affiliated insurance company.

1814

See, e.g., Bank Owned Life Insurance, Interagency Statement on the Purchase and Risk Management
of Life Insurance (Dec. 7, 2004).

567

secured or unsecured receivable.” 1815 The definition of loan in the proposed rule was
expansive, and included a broad array of loans and similar credit transactions, but did not
include any asset-backed security issued in connection with a loan securitization or
otherwise backed by loans.
Some commenters requested that the Agencies narrow the proposed definition of
“loan.” 1816 One of these commenters was concerned that the proposed definition could
apply to any banking activity and argued that the definition of loan for purposes of the
final rule should not include securities. 1817 Another commenter, citing a statement made
by Senator Merkley, asserted that Congress did not intend the rule of construction for the
sale and securitization of loans in section 13(g)(2) to include “loans that become financial
instruments traded to capture the change in their market value.” 1818
Other commenters requested that the Agencies expand the proposed definition of
“loan” to capture many traditional extensions of credit that the proposal would otherwise
exclude. 1819 Examples of traditional credit extensions that commenters requested be

1815

See proposed rule § __.2(q).

1816

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen.

1817

See Public Citizen. This commenter argued that the loan definition should be limited to the plain
meaning of the term “loan” and noted that a loan is not a security. Id.

1818

See Occupy (citing 156 Cong. Rec. S5895 (daily ed. July 15, 2010)).

1819

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams);
GE (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Covered Funds); ICI (Feb. 2012); Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; JPMC; LSTA (Feb.
2012); RBC; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012). One
individual commenter supported the proposed definition of loan. See Alfred Brock. For example, one
commenter requested that definition of “loan” be revised to include “(i) any loan, lease (including any
lease residual), extension [of] credit, or secured or unsecured receivables, (ii) any note, bond or security
collateralized and payable from pools of loans, leases (including Lease residuals), extensions of credit or
secured or unsecured receivables, and (iii) any contractual rights arising from, or security interests or liens,
assets, property guarantees, insurance policies, letters of credit, or supporting obligations underlying or
relating to any of the foregoing.” See RBC. Another commenter requested that the definition of “loan” be
revised to include “any type of credit extension (including bonds, other [banking entity-eligible] debt
securities, asset-backed securities [as defined in their letter], variable funding notes and securities lending

568

specifically included within the definition of “loan” included loan participations, 1820
variable funding notes or certificates, 1821 note purchase facilities, 1822 certain forms of
revolving credit lines, 1823 corporate bonds, 1824 municipal securities, 1825 securities lending
agreements and reverse repurchase agreements, 1826 auto lease securitizations, 1827 and any
other type of credit extension that banking entities traditionally have been permitted to
issue under their lending authority. 1828
The definition of “loan” in the final rule applies both in the context of the
proprietary trading restrictions as well as in determining the scope of the exclusion of
loan securitizations and asset-backed commercial paper conduits from the definition of
covered fund. The final rule modifies the proposed definition and defines “loan” as “any
agreements, repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements and other similar extensions of credit)
that a banking entity could hold or deal in.” See SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).
1820

See JPMC.

1821

See ASF (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams); JPMC (arguing that such notes operate in economic
substance as loans); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

1822

See ASF (Feb. 2012). This commenter asserted that a note purchase facility is negotiated by the assetbacked commercial paper conduit and allows the asset-backed commercial paper conduit to purchase assetbacked securities issued by an intermediate special purpose vehicle and backed by loans or asset-backed
securities backed by loans. Id.

1823

See ASF (Feb. 2012).

1824

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams);
JPMC.

1825

See ASF (Feb. 2012). This commenter argued that certain municipal securities may be ABS, including
revenue bonds that involve the issuance of senior and subordinate bonds. Id.

1826

See Credit Suisse (Williams); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

1827

See SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012). This commenter contended that because securitization
transactions have been viewed by the Agencies and courts as ‘legally transparent' (i.e., as simply another
way for banking entities to buy and sell the loans or other assets underlying such securities), auto lease
securitizations supported by a beneficial interest in a titling trust should be treated as securitizations of the
underlying auto leases and should fall within the loan securitization exemption. This commenter also
argued that if the definition of “loan” is not expanded to include securities, then banking entities could not
act as sponsors for auto lease securitizations (including resecuritizations) supported by a beneficial interest
in a titling trust.
1828

See Credit Suisse (Williams); Goldman (Covered Funds); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012);
SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

569

loan, lease, extension of credit, or secured or unsecured receivable that is not a security or
derivative.” 1829 The definition of loan in the final rule specifically excludes loans that are
securities or derivatives because trading in these instruments is expressly included in the
statute’s definition of proprietary trading. 1830 In addition, the Agencies believe these
instruments, if not excluded from the definition of loan, could be used to circumvent the
restrictions on proprietary trading.
The definition of loan in the final rule excludes loans that are securities or
derivatives, including securities or derivatives of or based on such instruments. The
definition of “loan” does not specify the type, nature or structure of loans included within
the definition, other than by excluding securities and derivatives. In addition, the
definition of loan does not limit the scope of parties that may be lenders or borrowers for
purposes of the definition. The Agencies note that the parties’ characterization of an
instrument as a loan is not dispositive of its treatment under the federal securities laws or
federal laws applicable to derivatives. The determination of whether a loan is a security
or a derivative for purposes of the loan definition is based on the federal securities laws
and the Commodity Exchange Act. Whether a loan is a “note” or “evidence of
indebtedness” and therefore a security under the federal securities laws will depend on
the particular facts and circumstances, including the economic terms of the loan. 1831 For
example, loans that are structured to provide payments or returns based on, or tied to, the
1829

See final rule § __.2(s).

1830

12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(4).

1831

See 15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(1) and 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10); Reves v. Ernst & Young, 494 U.S. 56 (1990) ; Trust
Company of Louisiana v. N.N.P. Inc., 104 F.3d 1478 (5th Cir. 1997); Pollack v. Laidlaw Holdings, 27 F.3d
808 (2d Cir. 1994); but See Marine Bank v. Weaver, 455 U.S. 551 (1982) ; Banco Espanol de Credito v.
Security Pacific National Bank, 973 F.2d 51 (2d Cir. 1992); Bass v. Janney Montgomery Scott, Inc., 210
F.3d 577 (6th Cir. 2000); Piaubert v. Sefrioui, 2000 WL 194140 (9th Cir. 2000).

570

performance of an asset, index or commodity or provide synthetic exposure to the credit
of an underlying borrower or an underlying security or index may be securities or
derivatives depending on their terms and the circumstances of their creation, use, and
distribution.1832 Regardless of whether a party characterizes the instrument as a loan,
these kinds of instruments, which may be called “structured loans,” must be evaluated
based on the standards associated with evaluating derivatives and securities in order to
prevent evasion of the restrictions on proprietary trading and ownership interests in
covered funds.
b.

Loan securitizations
An exemption for loan securitizations was contained in two separate sections of

the proposed rule. The first, in section __.13(a), was proposed as part of “other permitted
covered fund activities and investments.” The second, in § __.14(d), was proposed as
part of “covered fund activities determined to be permissible.” These proposed
provisions would have acted in concert to permit a banking entity to acquire and retain an
ownership interest in, or act as sponsor to, a loan securitization regardless of the
relationship that the banking entity had with the securitization. The Agencies have
evaluated all comments received on securitizations. These sections of the proposed rule
were intended to implement the rule of construction contained in section 13(g)(2) of the
BHC Act which provides that nothing in section 13 of the BHC Act shall be construed to
limit or restrict the ability of a banking entity or nonbank financial company supervised

1832

Id.

571

by the Board to sell or securitize loans in a manner that is otherwise permitted by law. 1833
The language of the proposed exemption for loan securitizations would have permitted a
banking entity to acquire and retain an ownership interest in a covered fund that is an
issuer of asset-backed securities, the assets or holdings of which were solely comprised
of: (i) loans (as defined); (ii) rights or assets directly arising from those loans supporting
the asset-backed securities; and (iii) interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives that (A)
materially relate to the terms of such loans or rights or assets and (B) are used for
hedging purposes with respect to the securitization structure. 1834 The proposed rule in §
__.13(d) was further augmented by the proposed rule in § __.14(a)(2) so that a banking
entity would be permitted to purchase loan securitizations and engage in the sale and
securitization of loans. This was accomplished through the authorization in proposed
section __.14(a)(2) of a banking entity’s acquisition or retention of an ownership interest
in such securitization vehicles that the banking entity did not organize and offer, or for
which it did not act as sponsor, provided that the assets or holdings of such vehicles were
solely comprised of the instruments or obligations identified in the proposed exemption.
The proposed rules would have allowed a banking entity to engage in the sale and
securitization of loans by acquiring and retaining an ownership interest in certain
securitization vehicles (which could be a covered fund for purposes of the proposed
rules) that the banking entity organized and offered, or acted as sponsor to, without being
subject to the ownership and sponsor limitations contained in the proposed rule. 1835 As

1833

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(g)(2).

1834

See proposed rule § __.13(d); Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,912.

1835

Id.

572

noted in the proposing release, the Agencies recognized that by defining “covered fund”
broadly, and, in particular, by reference to sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment
Company Act, securitization vehicles may be affected by the restrictions and
requirements of the proposed rule. The Agencies attempted to mitigate the potential
adverse impact on the securitization market by excluding loan securitizations from the
restrictions on sponsoring or acquiring and retaining ownership interests in covered
funds, consistent with the rule of construction contained in section 13(g)(2) of the BHC
Act. 1836 As a result, under the proposal, loan securitizations would not be limited or
restricted because banking entities would be able to find investors or buyers for their
loans or loan securitizations. The proposing release included several requests for
comment on the proposed loan securitization exemption and the application of the
covered fund prohibitions to securitizations.
Some commenters supported a narrow exemption for loan securitizations and in
some cases suggested that the proposed exemption could be narrowed even further. For
example, one commenter argued that the definition of “loan” for purposes of the
exemption could include any extension of credit and any banking activity. 1837 Also, in
response to the proposing release, 1838 some commenters suggested that any exemption for

1836

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,931.

1837

See, e.g., Public Citizen. This commenter argued that any exemption should prevent evasion, should
ensure that each exempted securitization reduces risk and should be designed to only serve client needs. A
different commenter recommended a safe harbor available only to a particular pre-specified, transparent
and standardized securitization structure, where Agencies would need to justify why the specified structure
protects against the systemic risks associated with securitization. See AFR (Nov. 2012).

1838

See Request for Comment No. 231 in the Proposing Release (noting that many issuers of asset-backed
securities have features and structures that resemble some of the features of hedge funds and private equity
funds (e.g., CDOs are managed by an investment adviser that has the discretion to choose investments,
including investments in securities) and requesting comment on how to prevent hedge funds or private

573

securitizations should seek to prevent evasion of the covered fund prohibitions by issuers
with “hedge-fund or private equity fund-like characteristics” or issuers with “hidden
proprietary trading operations.” 1839
On the other hand, many commenters believed that the proposed exemption from
the covered fund prohibitions for loan securitizations should be expanded to cover
securitizations generally and not just loan securitizations. These commenters provided
various arguments for their request to exempt all securitizations from the covered fund
prohibitions, including that the regulation of securitizations was addressed in other areas
of the Dodd-Frank Act, 1840 that securitization is essentially a lending activity,

1841

and

that securitizations have “long been recognized as permissible activities for banking
entities.” 1842
Commenters recommending a broader exclusion for securitizations also provided
a wide variety of specific suggestions or concerns. Some commenters suggested that
permissible assets for a loan securitization include assets other than loans acquired in the
course of collecting a debt previously contracted, restructuring a loan, during a loan work
out or during the disposition of a loan or other similar situation. 1843 Commenters noted

equity funds from structuring around an exemption for asset-backed securities from the covered fund
prohibitions).
1839

See, e.g., AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen. But See Credit Suisse (Williams) (arguing it
would be difficult to use the typical structure and operation of securitizations to avoid the prohibition on
proprietary trading because the structures are not set up to engage in the kind of proprietary trading about
which Congress was concerned).
1840

See AFME et al.; Ass’n. of German Banks; Cleary Glottlieb; Credit Suisse (Williams); GE (Feb.
2012); IIB/EBF; RBC; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

1841

See, e.g., Credit Suisse (Williams).

1842

See Credit Suisse (Williams); JPMC. These commenters cited the sponsoring of asset-backed
commercial paper conduits as an example of permissible bank securitization activity.

1843

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); Credit Suisse (Williams); JPMC.

574

that, for example, rules 2a-7 and 3a-7 under the Investment Company Act define eligible
assets for a securitization as not only including financial assets but also “any rights or
other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to security
holders.” 1844 Commenters requested that various additional rights or assets be added to
the list of permissible assets held by a loan securitization such as cash and cash
accounts, 1845 cash equivalents, 1846 and various other high quality short term investments,
liquidity agreements or credit enhancements, certain beneficial interests in titling trusts
used in lease securitizations or lease residuals. 1847 One commenter suggested that a loan
securitization be permitted to include “any contractual rights arising from or supporting
obligations underlying or relating to the loans.” 1848
Others requested that loan securitizations also be permitted to hold repurchase
agreements or unlimited amounts of various forms of securities, including municipal
securities, asset-backed securities, credit-linked notes, trust certificates and “equity like1844

See GE (Feb. 2012); GE (Aug. 2012); ICI (Feb. 2012).

1845

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); Cleary Gottlieb; Credit
Suisse (Williams) (including cash that did not arise directly from the underlying loans); JPMC; LSTA (Feb.
2012); LSTA (July 2012); RBC; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

1846

See Cleary Gottlieb; Credit Suisse (Williams).

1847

See JPMC (requesting high quality, highly liquid investments, including Treasury securities and highly
rated commercial paper); LSTA (Feb. 2012); LSTA (July 2012) (requesting short-term highly liquid
investments such as obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, deposits insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, various obligations of U.S. financial institutions and
investments in money market funds); ASF (Feb. 2012); Commercial Real Estate Fin. Council; RBC
(requesting short-term, high quality investments); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group)
(requesting short-term eligible investments); Credit Suisse (Williams) (requesting government guaranteed
securities, money market funds and other highly credit-worthy and liquid investments); Cleary Gottlieb
(requesting money-market interests; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012) (requesting associated
investments which are customarily employed in securitization transactions). One commenter further noted
that such investments are required by securitization documents. See Commercial Real Estate Fin. Council.
1848

RBC. This commenter argued that the loan securitization exemptions as proposed would not permit
“traditional securitizations and securitizations with the characteristics of traditional securitizations” and
“would effectively eliminate a substantial portion of the very securitization activities carried on by banks
that the [loan securitization exemptions] are designed to preserve.”

575

rights.” 1849 Some commenters requested that loan securitizations be permitted to hold a
limited amount of certain rights such as securities. 1850 Commenters also had suggestions
about the types of derivatives that an exempted securitization vehicle be permitted to
hold. 1851 For example, one industry association requested that the loan securitization
exemption include securitizations where up to 10 percent of the assets are held in the
form of synthetic risk exposure that references “loans that could otherwise be held
directly” under the proposal in order to achieve risk diversification. 1852 This commenter
stated its belief that the rule of construction requires that synthetic exposures be permitted
because they are used in certain types of loan securitizations.
In addition to requests that specific types of underlying assets be permitted under
the loan securitization exemption, the Agencies also received comments about specific
types of asset classes or structures. Some commenters suggested certain asset classes or
structures should be an excluded securitization from the covered fund prohibitions
including insurance-linked securities, collateralized loan obligations, tender option bonds,
asset-backed commercial paper conduits (ABCP conduits), resecuritizations of asset1849

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams);
GE (Feb. 2012); JPMC; RBC; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb.
2012).

1850

See, e.g., ASF (Feb. 2012); Cleary Gottlieb; LSTA (Feb. 2012). LSTA (Feb. 2012) specifically
requested that entities issuing collateralized loan obligations that are primarily backed by loans or loan
participations also be permitted to hold a limited amount of corporate credit obligations. This commenter
provided recommendations about such limitations—if the amount of such corporate credit obligations
exceeded 10 percent, a CLO would not be able to purchase any assets other than senior, secured syndicated
loans and temporary investments (as defined in the letter). If the amount of such assets exceeded 30
percent, the entity should not be able to purchase any assets other than loans.

1851

See AFME et al.; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); Credit Suisse (Williams);
Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; LSTA (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

1852

See ASF (Feb. 2012). Permissible synthetic exposure would include “credit default swaps, total return
swaps or other agreements referencing corporate loans or corporate bonds pursuant to which the issuer is
the seller of credit protection or otherwise ‘long’ the credit exposure of the reference corporate loan or
bond, and receives a yield derived from the yield on the reference corporate loan or bond.”

576

backed securities, and corporate debt re-packagings. 1853 In some cases, commenters
believed that the Agencies should use their authority under section 13(d)(1)(J) of the
BHC Act to exempt these types of vehicles. Some commenters identified other vehicles
such as credit funds and issuers of covered bonds that they believed should be excluded
from the covered fund prohibitions.1854 On the other hand, the Agencies also received
comment letters that argued that certain securitizations should not be exempted from the
covered fund prohibitions, including resecuritizations, CDO-squared, and CDO-cubed
securitizations because of concern about their complexity and lack of reliable
performance data or ability to value those securities. 1855
Because a loan securitization could still be a covered fund, several commenters
expressed concern that the proposed loan securitization exemption, as drafted, did not
exempt loan securitizations from the prohibitions of section 13(f) of the BHC Act. As a
result, one commenter noted that the proposed loan securitization exemptions would not
have their intended result of excluding loan securitizations from the BHC Act restrictions
applicable to covered funds. 1856

1853

See AFME et al.; ASF (July 2012); GE (Aug. 2012); Capital Group; Goldman (Covered Funds); LSTA
(Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).
1854

See Goldman (Covered Funds) (requesting exclusion for credit funds). AFME et al. (requesting
exclusion for covered bonds); FSA (Apr. 2012) (requesting exclusion for covered bonds); UKRCBC
(requesting exclusion for covered bonds).
1855

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012). These commenters argued that there should be increased
capital charges in line with the complexity of a securitization and using the “high risk asset limitations on
permitted activities to bar any securitization by a bank from using complex structures, re-securitization
techniques, synthetic features, or other elements that may increase risk or make a risk analysis less
reliable.”

1856

See AFME et al.; SIFMA (May 2012) (arguing that because of the narrowness of the proposed
exemption and because it would not exempt securitizations from prohibitions on covered transactions
imposed by section 13(f), the rule as proposed “will effectively prevent banking entities from sponsoring
and owning a large variety of asset-backed securities, in contravention of the rule of construction.”)

577

Certain securitization transactions may involve the issuance of an intermediate
asset-backed security that supports the asset-backed securities that are issued to investors,
such as in auto lease securitizations and ABCP conduits. Commenters suggested that the
Agencies should look through intermediate securitizations to the assets that support the
intermediate asset-backed security to determine if those assets would satisfy the
definition of “loan” for purposes of the loan securitization exemption. If those assets are
loans, these commenters suggested that the entire securitization transaction should be
deemed a loan securitization, even if the assets supporting the asset-backed securities
issued to investors are not loans. 1857 However, some commenters argued that each step in
a multi-step securitization should be viewed separately to ensure compliance with the
specific restrictions in the proposal because otherwise a multi-step securitization could
include impermissible assets. 1858 Some commenters also raised question about whether
depositors would fall within the definition of “investment company” under the
Investment Company Act and, therefore, may fall within the proposed definition of
covered fund. 1859
After considering carefully the comments received on sections of the proposed
rule, the Agencies have determined to adopt a single section in the final provision relating

1857

See AFME et al.; ASF (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

1858

See Occupy; Public Citizen. Occupy contended that the structured security issued in a multi-step
securitization can hide underlying risks under layers of structured complexity. See Occupy. Public Citizen
argued that prohibiting such activity would ensure that securitizations do not become proprietary trading
vehicles for banking entities that are effectively off-balance sheet. See Public Citizen. See infra Part
IV.B.1.c.8.b.iv. of this Supplementary Information.
1859

A depositor, as used in a securitization structure, is an entity that generally acts only as a conduit to
transfer the loans from the originating bank to the issuing entity for the purpose of facilitating a
securitization transaction and engages in no discretionary investment or securities issuance activities. See
ASF (July 2012); GE (Aug. 2012). For purposes of this rule, the Agencies believe the wholly owned
subsidiary exclusion is available for depositors. See supra note 1774.

578

to loan securitizations that would exclude loan securitizations that meet certain criteria
contained in the rule from the definition of covered fund. The rule, as adopted, takes into
account comments received on each of the conditions specified in the two loan
securitization sections of the proposed provisions and has adopted those conditions with
some clarifying changes from the proposed language. In addition, in response to
comments, as discussed more fully below, the Agencies are adopting additional
exclusions from the definition of covered fund for certain types of vehicles if they are
backed by the same types of assets as the assets that are permitted to be held in the loan
securitization exclusion. These additional exclusions are tailored to vehicles that are very
similar to loan securitizations but have particular structural issues, which are described in
more detail below.
In light of the comments received on the proposal, the final rule was revised to
exclude from the definition of covered fund an issuing entity of asset-backed securities,
as defined in Section 3(a)(79) of the Exchange Act, 1860 if the underlying assets or
holdings are comprised solely of: (A) loans, (B) any rights or other assets (i) designed to
assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to security holders or (ii) related or
incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring, and holding the loans, (C) certain interest
rate or foreign exchange derivatives, and (D) certain special units of beneficial interests
and collateral certificates (together, “loan securitizations”). 1861 In addition, as discussed

1860

15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79). This definition was added by Section 941 of the Dodd-Frank Act.

1861

See final rule § __.10(c)(8). Consistent with the proposal, certain securitizations, regardless of asset
composition, would not be considered covered funds because the securitization issuer is deemed not to be
an investment company under Investment Company Act exclusions other than section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of
the Investment Company Act. For example, this would include issuers that meet the requirements of
section 3(c)(5) or rule 3a-7 of the Investment Company Act, and the asset-backed securities of such issuers
may be offered in transactions registered under the Securities Act.

579

below, the Agencies are adopting specific exclusions for certain vehicles that issue short
term asset-backed securities and for pools of assets that are part of covered bond
transactions which pools also meet the conditions delineated above. 1862
Although commenters argued that various types of assets should be included
within the definition of loan or otherwise permitted to be held under the loan
securitization exclusion, the loan securitization exclusion in the final rule has not been
expanded to be a broad exclusion for all securitization vehicles. Although one
commenter suggested that any securitization is essentially a lending activity, 1863 the
Agencies believe such an expansion of the exclusion would not be consistent with the
rule of construction in section 13(g)(2) of the BHC Act, which specifically refers to the
“sale and securitization of loans.” The Agencies believe that a broad definition of loan
and therefore a broad exemption for transactions that are structured as securitizations of
pooled financial assets could undermine the restrictions Congress intended to impose on
banking entities’ covered fund activities, which could enable market participants to use
securitization structures to engage in activities that otherwise are constrained for covered
funds. The Agencies believe the purpose underlying section 13 is not to expand the
scope of assets in an excluded loan securitization beyond loans as defined in the final rule
and the other assets that the Agencies are specifically permitting in a loan securitization.
While not expanding the permitted assets under the loan securitization exclusion,
the Agencies have made modifications in response to commenters to ensure that the
1862

As discussed below, the Agencies are adopting an exclusion from the definition of covered funds for
the pools of assets that are involved in the covered bond financings. Although the cover pools must satisfy
the same criteria as the excluded loan securitizations, a separate exclusion is needed because the securities
involved in the covered bond issuance are not asset-backed securities.
1863

See, e.g., Credit Suisse (Williams).

580

provisions of the final rule appropriately accommodate the need, in administering a loan
securitization transaction on an ongoing basis, to hold various assets other than the loans
that support the asset-backed securities. Moreover, the Agencies do not believe that the
assets permitted under the loan securitization need to be narrowed further to prevent
evasion and hidden proprietary trading as requested by certain commenters because the
Agencies believe that the potential for evasion has been adequately addressed through
modifications to the definition of loan and more specific limitations on the types of
securities and derivatives permitted in an excluded loan securitization. The Agencies
have revised the scope of the loan securitization exclusion to accommodate existing
market practice for securitizations as discussed by commenters while limiting the
availability of the exclusion for these particular types of securitization transactions to
issuers of asset-backed securities supported by loans.
The Agencies are not adopting specific exclusions for other securitization vehicles
identified by commenters, including insurance-linked securities, collateralized loan
obligations, and corporate debt re-packagings. 1864 The Agencies believe that providing
such exclusions would not be consistent with the rule of construction in section
13(g)(2)of the BHC Act, which specifically refers to the “sale and securitization of
loans.” These other types of securitization vehicles referenced by commenters are used
to securitize exposures to instruments which are not included in the definition of loan as
adopted by the final rule. Moreover, the Agencies note in response to commenters that
resecuritizations of asset-backed securities and CDO-squared and CDO-cubed

1864

Commenters’ concerns regarding credit funds are discussed below in Part IV.B.1.d.6. of this
Supplementary Information.

581

securitizations could be used as a means of evading the prohibition on the investment in
the ownership interests of covered funds.
As with the proposed rules, the Agencies are excluding certain loan
securitizations from the definition of covered fund and therefore the prohibitions
applicable to banking entities’ involvement in covered funds in order to implement
Congressional intent expressed in the rule of construction in section 13(g)(2) of the BHC
Act. 1865 The Agencies believe that, as reflected in the rule of construction, the continued
ability of banking entities to participate in loan securitizations is important to enable
banks of all sizes to be able to continue to provide financing to loan borrowers at
competitive prices. Loan securitizations provide an important avenue for banking entities
to obtain investor financing for existing loans, which allows such banks greater capacity
to continuously provide financing and lending to their customers. The Agencies also
believe that loan securitizations that meet the conditions of the rule as adopted do not
raise the same types of concerns as other types of securitization vehicles that could be
used to circumvent the restrictions on proprietary trading and prohibitions in section 13(f)
of the BHC Act.
Under the rule as adopted, loan securitizations that meet the conditions of the rule
as adopted are excluded from the definition of covered fund and, consequently, banking
entities are not restricted as to their ownership of such entities or their ongoing
relationships with such entities by the final rule. As the Agencies stated in the proposal,
permitting banking entities to acquire or retain an ownership interest in these loan
1865

As discussed below, the Agencies are excluding those loan securitizations that hold only loans (and
certain other assets identified in the final rule), consistent with the rule of construction in section 13(g)(2)
of the BHC Act.

582

securitizations will allow for a deeper and richer pool of potential participants and a more
liquid market for the sale of such securitizations, which in turn should result in the
continued availability of funding to individuals and small businesses, as well as provide
an efficient allocation of capital and sharing of risk. The Agencies believe that excluding
these loan securitizations from the definition of covered fund is consistent with the terms
and the purpose of section 13 of the BHC Act, including the rule of construction
regarding loan securitizations. 1866
i.

Loans
The first condition of the loan securitization exclusion from the definition of

covered fund is that the underlying assets or holdings are comprised of loans. In the
proposal, “loan” was a defined term for purposes of the restrictions on proprietary trading
and the covered funds provisions. As proposed, a loan was defined as a loan, lease,
extension of credit, or secured or unsecured receivable. 1867 The definition of loan in the
proposed rule was expansive, and included a broad array of loans and similar credit
transactions, but did not include any asset-backed security that is issued in connection
with a loan securitization or otherwise backed by loans.
As discussed above under “Definition of Loan,” the Agencies received comments
regarding the loan definition in the securitization context. In particular, one commenter,
citing a statement made by Senator Merkley, argued that Congress did not intend the loan

1866

The Agencies note that the loan securitization and other securitization exclusions apply only to the
definition of covered fund, and therefore the covered fund-related provisions of the rule, and not to its
prohibition on proprietary trading. The Agencies recognize that trading in loans is not subject to the
proprietary trading restrictions.
1867

See proposed rule § __.2(q).

583

securitization exemption to include “loans that become financial instruments traded to
capture the change in their market value.” 1868
The Agencies, after considering carefully the comments received, have adopted a
definition of loan that is revised from the proposed definition. The final rule defines
“loan” as “any loan, lease, extension of credit, or secured or unsecured receivable that is
not a security or derivative.” 1869 The definition of loan in the final rule specifically
excludes loans that are securities or derivatives because trading in these instruments is
expressly included in the statute’s definition of proprietary trading. 1870 In addition, the
Agencies believe these instruments, if not excluded from the definition of loan, could be
used to circumvent the restrictions on proprietary trading. Further, for purposes of the
loan securitization exclusion, the loan securitization must own the loan directly; a
synthetic exposure to a loan, such as through holding a derivative, such as a credit default
swap, will not satisfy the conditions for the loan securitization exclusion.1871 As such, a
securitization that owns a tranche of another loan securitization is not itself a loan
securitization, even if the ownership of such tranche by a banking entity would otherwise
be permissible under the final rule.
As discussed above under “Definition of Loan,” the definition of loan in the final
rule has not been expanded as requested by some commenters but has been clarified in
some respects in response to comments. The final rule explicitly excludes securities or

1868

See Occupy (citing 156 Cong. Rec. S5895 (daily ed. July 15, 2010)).

1869

See § __.2(r).

1870

12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(4).

1871

Under the final provision, the issuing entity for the SUBIs and collateral certificate may rely on the
loan securitization exclusion because of the separate provisions allowing such a holding.

584

derivatives. 1872 In addition, the definition of loan has not been modified to include
repurchase agreements or reverse repurchase agreements regardless of the character of
the underlying asset. The Agencies are concerned that parties, under the guise of a
“loan” might instead create instruments that provide the same exposures to securities and
derivatives that otherwise are prohibited by section 13 and might attempt to use the loan
securitization exclusion to acquire ownership interests in covered funds holding those
types of instruments, counter to the terms and the purpose of section 13 of the BHC Act.
As the Agencies have noted previously, the rules relating to covered funds and to
proprietary trading are not intended to interfere with traditional lending practices or with
securitizations of loans generated as a result of such activities. Although the Agencies
have revised the definition of loan in response to commenters’ concerns as discussed
above, the Agencies are not adopting a separate definition of loan for securitization
transactions as requested by commenters. The Agencies believe that the definition of
loan adopted in the final rule appropriately encompasses the financial instruments that
result from lending money to customers.
ii.

Contractual rights or assets
Under the proposed loan securitization definition, a covered fund that is an issuer

of asset-backed securities would have been permitted to hold contractual rights or assets

1872

The determination of whether an instrument falls outside the definition of loan because it is a security
or a derivative is based on the federal securities laws and the Commodity Exchange Act. Whether a loan,
lease, extension of credit, or secured or unsecured receivable is a note or evidence of indebtedness that is
defined as a security under the federal securities laws will depend on the particular facts and circumstances,
including the economic terms of the transaction. See supra note 1831and accompanying text.

585

directly arising from those loans supporting the asset-backed securities. 1873 The proposal
did not identify or describe such contractual rights or assets.
Commenters requested that the Agencies expand the list of contractual rights and
assets that an issuer of asset-backed securities would be permitted to hold under the
proposed loan securitization exemption.1874 Examples of the additional rights and assets
requested by commenters include cash and cash accounts; 1875 cash equivalents; 1876
liquidity agreements, including asset purchase agreements, program support facilities and
support commitments; 1877 credit enhancements: 1878 asset-backed securities; 1879 municipal

1873

See proposed rule § __.13(d).

1874

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); AFME et al.; ASF (Feb. 2012); Cleary
Gottlieb; Credit Suisse (Williams); Commercial Real Estate Fin. Council; GE (Feb. 2012); GE (Aug.
2012); ICI (Feb. 2012); Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; JPMC; LSTA (Feb. 2012); LSTA (July 2012); RBC;
SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012); Vanguard.

1875

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); Cleary Gottlieb; Credit
Suisse (Williams).

1876

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); Cleary Gottlieb; Credit
Suisse (Williams); Commercial Real Estate Fin. Council; JPMC; LSTA (Feb. 2012); LSTA (July 2012);
RBC; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012). Commenters requested inclusion of the following examples of
cash equivalents: government guaranteed securities, money market funds, and “other highly credit-worthy
and liquid investments” (Credit Suisse (Williams)); and high quality, highly liquid investments, including
Treasury securities and highly rated commercial paper (JPMC). In addition, LSTA (Feb. 2012) requested
inclusion of the following: (i) short-term highly liquid investments; (ii) direct obligations of, and
obligations fully guaranteed as to full and timely payment by, the United States (or by any agency thereof
to the extent such obligations are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States); (iii) demand
deposits, time deposits or certificates of deposit that are fully insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation; (iv) corporate, non-extendable commercial paper; (v) notes that are payable on demand or
bankers’ acceptances issued by regulated U.S. financial institutions; (vi) investments in money market
funds or other regulated investment companies; time deposits having maturities of not more than 90 days;
(vii) repurchase obligations with respect to direct obligations and guaranteed obligations of the U.S. entered
into with a regulated U.S. financial institution; and (viii) other investments with a maturity one year or less,
with the requirement that each of the investments listed have, at the time of the securitization’s investment
or contractual commitment to invest therein, a rating of the highest required investment category.

1877

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); GE (Feb. 2012); JPMC;
RBC; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

1878

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); GE (Feb. 2012); JPMC;
RBC; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012). For example, SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012) requested
inclusion of third party credit enhancements such as guarantees and letters of credit. Commenters
requested inclusion of the following examples of credit enhancements: (i) external credit support of
borrower obligations under such loans, including a credit support facilities, third party or parent guarantee,

586

securities; 1880 repurchase agreements; 1881 credit-linked notes; 1882 trust certificates; 1883
lease residuals; 1884 debt securities; 1885 and derivatives. 1886 As an alternative, commenters
requested that an issuer of asset-backed securities be permitted to hold under the

insurance policy, letter of credit or other contractual commitment to make payments or perform other
obligations of the borrower under the loans (ASF (Feb. 2012)); and (ii) property guarantees, insurance
policies, letters of credit, or supporting obligations underlying or relating to any of the loans (RBC).
1879

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); AFME et al.; ASF (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse
(Williams); GE (Feb. 2012); GE (Aug. 2012); ICI (Feb. 2012); JPMC; RBC; SIFMA et al. (Covered
Funds) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012). Commenters requested inclusion of the
following examples of asset-backed securities: (i) SUBI certificates (beneficial interests in titling trusts
typically used in lease securitizations) (AFME et al.; ASF (Feb. 2012); GE (Aug. 2012); SIFMA
(Securitization) (Feb. 2012)); (ii) ownership interests and bonds issued by CLOs (JPMC); a broad array of
receivables that support asset-backed commercial paper (ICI (Feb. 2012)); certain notes, certificates or
other instruments backed by loans or financial assets that are negotiated by the purchasing asset-backed
commercial paper conduit (ASF (Feb. 2012); GE (Feb. 2012)); municipal securities that are technically
ABS, including revenue bonds that involve the issuance of senior and subordinate bonds (ASF (Feb.
2012)); ownership interests in credit funds (as defined in their letter) (SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb.
2012)); any note, bond or security collateralized and payable from pools of loans, leases (including lease
residuals), extensions of credit or secured or unsecured receivables (RBC); asset-backed securities issued
by intermediate vehicles in a securitization collateralized predominantly by loans and financial assets, and
other similar instruments (Credit Suisse (Williams)); and asset-backed securities backed by loans or
receivables that are originated by or owned by the sponsor of such securitization or which are issued by an
entity that is organized under the direction of the same sponsor as the issuer of the covered fund (ASF (Feb.
2012)).
1880

See ICI (Feb. 2012); Vanguard.

1881

See Credit Suisse (Williams); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

1882

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group).

1883

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

1884

See ASF (Feb. 2012); GE (Feb. 2012); GE (Aug. 2012); RBC.

1885

See GE (Aug. 2012).

1886

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); Credit Suisse (Williams); Japanese Bankers
Ass’n.; LSTA (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012). Commenters requested inclusion of the
following examples of derivatives: (i) credit derivatives (without explanation) as a means of diversifying
the portfolio (Japanese Bankers Association); (ii) synthetic securities that reference corporate credits or
other debt (Credit Suisse (Covered Fund)); (iii) credit instruments or other obligations that the banking
entity could originate or invest or deal in directly, including tranched or untranched credit linked notes
exposed to the credit risk of such reference assets through a credit default swap or other credit derivative
entered into by the related ABS Issuer (SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012)); (iv) any derivatives structured
as part of the securitization of loans (without explanation) (Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank
Group)); (v) hedge agreements (Credit Suisse (Williams)); and (vi) any derivative, including a credit
default swap, as and to the extent a banking entity could use such derivative in managing its own
investment portfolio (SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012)).

587

proposed loan securitization exemption certain of such additional rights and/or assets up
to a threshold, such as a specified percentage of the assets of such covered fund. 1887
In response to comments, the final rule modifies the loan securitization exclusion
from the proposal to identify the types of contractual rights or assets directly arising from
those loans supporting the asset-backed securities that a loan securitization relying on
such exclusion may hold. Under the final rule, a loan securitization which is eligible for
the loan securitization exclusion may hold contractual rights or assets (i) designed to
assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to security holders or (ii) related or
incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring, and holding the loans (“servicing
assets”). 1888 The servicing assets are permissible in an excluded loan securitization
transaction only to the extent that they arise from the structure of the loan securitization
or from the loans supporting a loan securitization. If such servicing assets are sold and
securitized in a separate transaction, they will not qualify as permissible holdings for the
loan securitization exclusion. 1889
In adopting this approach, the Agencies considered commenters’ concerns and
determined to revise the condition to be more consistent with the definition and treatment
of servicing assets in other asset-backed securitization regulations, such as the exemption

1887

See ASF (Feb. 2012); Cleary Gottlieb; Credit Suisse (Williams); GE (Feb. 2012); GE (Aug. 2012);
LSTA (Feb. 2012); LSTA (July 2012).

1888

See final rule § __.10(c)(8)(i)(B). The use of the term “servicing assets” is not meant to imply that
servicing assets are limited to those contractual rights or assets related to the servicer and the performance
of the servicer’s obligations.

1889

For example, under the final rule, mortgage insurance policies supporting the mortgages in a loan
securitization are servicing assets permissible for purposes of § __.10(c)(8)(i)(B). However, a separate
securitization of the payments on those mortgage insurance policies would not qualify for the loan
securitization exclusion.

588

from the definition of “investment company” under rule 3a-7 promulgated under the
Investment Company Act. 1890
Although the Agencies have revised the proposal in response to commenters’
concerns, the final rule does not permit a loan securitization to hold as servicing assets a
number of instruments specifically requested by commenters whether in their entirety or
as a percentage of the pool. Under the final rule, servicing assets do not include
securities or derivatives other than as specified in the rule.
Under the final rule, a loan securitization which is eligible for the loan
securitization exclusion may hold securities if those securities fall into one of three
categories. 1891 First, such loan securitizations may hold securities that are cash
equivalents. For purposes of the exclusion for loan securitizations, the Agencies interpret
“cash equivalents” to mean high quality, highly liquid short term investments whose
maturity corresponds to the securitization’s expected or potential need for funds and
whose currency corresponds to either the underlying loans or the asset-backed securities.
1892

Depending on the specific funding needs of a particular securitization, “cash

equivalents” might include deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, certificates of deposit issued by a regulated U.S. financial institution,
obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, investments in

1890

The Agencies believe that for purposes of the final rule, in the context of securitization, such related or
incidental assets in a loan securitization should support or further, and therefore, be secondary to the loans
held by the securitization vehicle.
1891

See final rule § __.10(c)(8)(iii).

1892

If either the loans supporting the loan securitization or the asset-backed securities issued by the loan
securitization are denominated in a foreign currency, for purposes of the exclusion a loan securitization
would be permitted to hold foreign currency, cash equivalents denominated in foreign currency and foreign
exchange derivatives that comply with § __.10(c)(8)(iv).

589

registered money market funds, and commercial paper. 1893 Second, such loan
securitizations may hold securities received in lieu of debts previously contracted with
respect to the loans supporting the asset-backed securities. Finally, such loan
securitizations may hold securities that qualify as SUBIs or collateral certificates subject
to the provisions set forth in the rule for such intermediate asset-backed securities.
The Agencies have specifically limited the types of securities held as eligible
assets in a loan securitization that may be excluded from the definition of covered fund
under the final rule, even in limited amounts, in order to assure that the types of securities
are cash equivalents or otherwise related to the loan securitization and to prevent the
possible misuse of the loan securitization exclusion to circumvent the restrictions on
proprietary trading, investments in covered funds and prohibitions in section 13(f) of the
BHC Act. 1894 The Agencies believe that types of securities other than those specifically
included in the final rule could be misused in such manner, because without limitations
on the types of securities in which an excluded loan securitization may invest, a banking
entity could structure an excluded loan securitization with provisions to engage in
activities that are outside the scope of the definition of loan as adopted and also to engage
in impermissible proprietary trading. Further, the Agencies do not believe that the use of
thresholds with respect to such other types of securities as an alternative is appropriate
because similarly, such a securitization would then involve a securitization of non-loan

1893

Servicing assets should not introduce significant additional risks to the transaction, including foreign
currency risk or maturity risk. For instance, funds on deposit in an account that is swept on a monthly basis
should not be invested in securities that mature in 90 days.

1894

Commenters expressed concerns about the use of securitization vehicles for evasion. See, e.g., AFR et
al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen.

590

assets, outside the scope of what the Agencies believe the rule of construction was
intended to cover. By placing restrictions on the securities permitted to be held by an
excluded loan securitization, the potential for evasion is reduced. Loan securitizations
are intended, as contemplated by the rule of construction, to permit banks to continue to
engage in securitizations of loans. Including all types of securities within the scope of
permitted assets in an excluded loan securitization would expand the exclusion beyond
the scope of the definition of loan in the final rule that is intended to implement the rule
of construction.
iii.

Derivatives
Under the proposed loan securitization definition, an exempted loan securitization

would be permitted to hold interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives that materially
relate to the terms of any loans supporting the asset-backed securities and any contractual
rights or assets directly arising from such loans so long as such derivatives are used for
hedging purposes with respect to the securitization structure. 1895 The Agencies indicated
in the proposing release that the proposed loan securitization definition would not allow
an exempted loan securitization to use credit default swaps. 1896
Commenters criticized the proposed limitations on the use of derivatives included
in the proposed loan securitization definition.1897 In particular, one commenter indicated

1895

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,912.

1896

Id.

1897

See AFME et al.; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012) (requesting that
an excluded loan securitization be permitted to hold up to 10% of its assets in the form of synthetic risk
exposure to loans); Credit Suisse (Williams); Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; LSTA (Feb. 2012) (for CLOs);
SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

591

that the use of credit derivatives such as credit default swaps is important in loan
securitizations to provide diversification of assets. 1898 Another commenter noted the use
of such instruments to manage risks with respect to corporate loan and debt books by
accessing capital from a broad group of capital markets investors and facilitates making
markets. 1899 In contrast, two commenters generally supported the limitations on the use
of derivatives under the proposed loan securitization definition and indicated that
excluding credit default swaps from the loan securitization definition was appropriate. 1900
With respect to the use of derivatives, the Agencies are adopting the loan
securitization exclusion substantially as proposed with certain modifications to reflect a
restructuring of this provision in order to more closely align the permissible uses of
derivatives under the loan securitization exclusion with the loans, the asset-backed
securities, or the contractual rights and other assets that a loan securitization relying on
the loan securitization exclusion may hold. As adopted, for a loan securitization to be
eligible for the loan securitization exclusion, the loan securitization may hold only
interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives that meet the following requirements: (i) the
written terms of the derivatives directly relate to either the loans or the asset-backed
1898

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n. This commenter indicated that credit derivatives are important in
securitizations to provide diversification when the desired mix of assets cannot be achieved.
1899

See ASF (Feb. 2012). This commenter argued that for some loan securitizations, investors may Seek a
broader pool of credit exposures than the bank has available or can obtain to securitize in order to achieve
risk diversification.

1900

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen. One of these commenters stated that the credit default
exclusion was appropriate because “synthetic securitizations and resecuritizations were a key contributor to
financial contagion during the crisis.” See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012). Another commenter argued that the
loan securitization definition should not permit the use of derivatives. See Occupy. This commenter
argued that covered funds should only be permitted to engage in hedging activity in accordance with the
proposed exemption for hedging activity. This commenter also argued that the inclusion of derivatives in
the loan securitization definition exceeded the Agencies’ statutory authority. Id. Two senators indicated
that “complex securitizations” including those with “synthetic features” and “embedded derivatives” should
not be allowed to rely on the exclusion for loan securitizations. See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

592

securities that such loan securitization may hold under the other provisions of the loan
securitization exclusion; and (ii) the derivatives reduce interest rate and/or foreign
exchange risk with respect to risks related to either such loans, the asset-backed securities
or the contractual rights or other assets that a loan securitization may hold. 1901
The first requirement that the written terms of the derivatives “directly relate” to
either the loans or the asset-based securities themselves is intended to quantitatively and
qualitatively limit the use of derivatives permitted under the loan securitization
exclusion. 1902 The Agencies would expect that neither the total notional amount of
directly related interest rate derivatives nor the total notional amount of directly related
foreign exchange derivatives would exceed the greater of either the outstanding principal
balance of the loans supporting the asset-backed securities or the outstanding principal
balance of the asset-backed securities. 1903 Moreover, under the loan securitization
exclusion, the type of derivatives must be related to the types of risks associated with the
underlying assets and may not be derivatives designed to supplement income based on
general economic scenarios, income management or unrelated risks.
The second requirement that derivatives reduce the interest rate and/or foreign
exchange risks related to either such loans, contractual rights or other assets, or such
asset-backed securities is intended to permit the use of derivatives to hedge interest rate

1901

See final rule § __.10(c)(8)(iv).

1902

Under the final rule, the Agencies expect that a loan securitization relying on the loan securitization
exclusion would not have a significant amount of interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives with
respect to risks arising from contractual rights or other assets.

1903

For example, a $100 million securitization cannot be hedged using an interest rate hedge with a
notional amount of $200 million.

593

and/or foreign exchange risks that result from a mismatch between the loans and the
asset-backed securities. 1904
The Agencies believe that the statutory rule of construction should be
implemented in a manner that does not limit or restrict the sale and securitization of
loans. The Agencies further believe that the sale and securitization of credit exposures
other than “loans” as defined in the rule, such as through securities or derivatives, could
be abused. The derivatives that may be held in a loan securitization for purposes of the
exclusion may not be used for speculative purposes. Consistent with the proposal, the
loan securitization exclusion does not permit a loan securitization relying on such
exclusion to hold credit default swaps or other types of derivatives whether or not they
are related either to the underlying loans or the asset-backed securities. 1905 Under the
final rule, a synthetic securitization in which the asset-backed securities are supported by
cash flow from derivatives, such as credit default swaps and total return swaps, would not
be permitted to rely on the loan securitization exclusion because such derivatives are
excluded from the final rule’s definition of loan specifically, as a derivative. Similarly, a
loan securitization that relies on the loan securitization exclusion would not be permitted
to hold a credit default swap or total return swap that references a loan that is held by the
loan securitization. Under the final rule as adopted, an excluded loan securitization

1904

The derivatives permitted in a securitization that may rely on the loan securitization exclusion would
permit a securitization to hedge the risk resulting from differences between the income received by the
issuing entity and the amounts due under the terms of the asset-backed securities. For example, fixed rate
loans could support floating rate asset-backed securities; loans with an interest rate determined by reference
to the Prime Rate could support asset-backed securities with an interest rate determined by reference to
LIBOR; or Euro-denominated loans could support U.S. Dollar-denominated asset-backed securities.
1905

Loan securitizations excluded from the covered fund definition may only hold certain directly related
derivatives as specified in § __.11(c)(8)(iv) and as discussed in this Part.

594

would not be able to hold derivatives that would relate to risks to counterparties or issuers
of the underlying assets referenced by these derivatives because the operation of
derivatives, such as these, that expand potential exposures beyond the loans and other
assets, would not in the Agencies’ view be consistent with the limited exclusion
contained in the rule of construction under section 13(g)(2) of the BHC Act, and could be
used to circumvent the restrictions on proprietary trading and prohibitions in section 13(f)
of the BHC Act. The Agencies believe that the use of derivatives by an issuing entity for
asset-backed securities that is excluded from the definition of covered fund under the
loan securitization exclusion should be narrowly tailored to hedging activities that reduce
the interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks directly related to the asset-backed
securities or the loans supporting the asset-backed securities because the use of
derivatives for purposes other than reducing interest rate risk and foreign exchange risks
would introduce credit risk without necessarily relating to or involving a reduction of
interest rate risk or foreign exchange risk.
On the other hand, while the Agencies are not expanding the types of permitted
derivatives to be held in a loan securitization, the Agencies in the final rule are not
restricting the use of all derivatives under the loan securitization exclusion as requested
by certain commenters. The Agencies believe that a loan securitization that is excluded
from the definition of covered fund should be allowed to engage in activities that reduce
interest rate and foreign exchange risk because the hedging of such risks is consistent
with the prudent risk management of interest rate and currency risk in a loan portfolio
while at the same time avoiding the potential for additional risk arising from other types

595

of derivatives. 1906 The Agencies do not believe that the exemption for hedging activity
applicable to market making and underwriting under the final rule is the appropriate
measure for permitted derivatives in a loan securitization that would be excluded from
definition of covered fund 1907 because the hedging exemptions for market making and
underwriting are not tailored to the hedging requirements of a securitization
transaction. 1908 The Agencies also do not believe that they lack the statutory authority to
permit a loan securitization relying on the loan securitization exclusion to use derivatives,
as suggested by one commenter, 1909 because the Agencies believe that the permitted
derivatives relate directly to loans that are permitted and have limited the quality and
quantity of derivatives that an excluded loan securitization is permitted to hold directly to
the reduction of risks that result from the loans and the loan securitization.
While loan securitizations that include non-loan assets are not excluded from the
definition of covered fund, banking entities are not prohibited from owning interests or
sponsoring these covered funds under the final rule. Under the final rule, these
securitizations would be covered funds, and banking entities engaged with these covered
funds would be subject to the limitations on ownership interests and relationships with
these covered funds imposed by section 13 of the BHC Act.
iv.

1906

SUBIs and collateral certificates

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen.

1907

See Occupy. This commenter argued that covered funds should only be permitted to engage in
hedging activity in accordance with the proposed exemption for hedging activity.
1908

For example, a banking entity may hold an ownership interest in a covered fund in order to hedge
employee compensation risks. Because securitizations do not have employees, such a hedging exemption
would not be applicable to a securitization structure.

1909

See Occupy.

596

Commenters also argued that, under the proposed exemption for loan
securitizations, securitizations that are backed by certain intermediate asset-backed
securities would not satisfy the conditions for the exemption and therefore would be
subject to the covered fund prohibitions. 1910 For example, commenters noted that, in a
securitization of leases with respect to equipment where a titling trust is used to hold
ownership of the equipment, a titling trust will typically own the equipment and the right
to payment on the leases, and then will issue a security or other instrument, often referred
to as a special unit of beneficial interest (SUBI), that represents an ownership interest in
the titling trust to the securitization issuer. 1911 As another example, certain securitizations
frequently use a master trust structure allowing the trust to issue more than one series of
asset-backed security collectively backed by a common revolving pool of assets. In such
a structure, a master trust may hold assets (such as loans) and issue a collateral certificate
supported by those assets to an issuing trust that issues asset-backed securities to
investors. The assets held by the master trust are typically a pool of revolving accounts
that may be paid in full each month (e.g., credit card receivables) or a revolving pool of
short-term loans that are replaced with new loans as they mature (e.g., floor plan
loans). 1912 One commenter opposed the inclusion of securitizations backed by
intermediate asset-backed securities, arguing that each step should be viewed separately

1910

See AFME et al.; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse
(Williams); GE (Aug. 2012); PNC; RBC; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

1911

See SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

1912

See, e.g., ASF (Feb. 2012). UK RMBS master trusts also use a master trust structure. See AFME et
al.; ASF (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

597

to ensure compliance to prevent the inclusion of impermissible assets such as prohibited
derivatives. 1913
In response to comments, the Agencies are modifying the proposal to provide that
a securitization backed by certain intermediate asset-backed securities will qualify for the
loan securitization exclusion. The Agencies recognize that securitization structures that
use these types of intermediate asset-backed securities are essentially loan securitization
transactions, because the intermediate asset-backed securities in the asset pool are created
solely for the purpose of facilitating a securitization 1914 and once created, are issued
directly into a securitization vehicle rather than to any third party investor.
Under the final rule, a loan securitization that is excluded from the definition of
covered fund may include SUBIs or collateral certificates, provided that four conditions
are met. 1915 First, the special purpose vehicle issuing the SUBI or collateral certificate
itself must meet the conditions of the loan securitization exclusion, as adopted in the final
rule. 1916 Under this provision, for example, the special purpose vehicle, in addition to the
issuing entity, may hold an interest rate or foreign exchange derivative or other assets
only if the derivative or asset is permitted to be held in accordance with the requirements
for derivatives in respect of the loan securitization exclusion. Second, the SUBI or
collateral certificate must be used for the sole purpose of transferring economic risks and

1913

See Occupy.

1914

The use of SUBIs, for example, allows the sponsor to avoid administrative expenses in retitling the
physical property underlying the leases.

1915

See final rule § __.10(c)(8)(v).

1916

The provision will allow for the existing practice of a master trust to hold a collateral certificate issued
by a legacy master trust.

598

benefits of the loans (and other permissible assets) 1917 to the issuing entity for the
securitization and may not directly or indirectly transfer any interest in any other
economic or financial exposures. Third, the SUBI or collateral certificate must be
created solely to satisfy legal requirements or otherwise facilitate the structuring of the
loan securitization. Fourth, the special purpose vehicle issuing the SUBI or collateral
certificate and the issuing entity for the excluded loan securitization transaction must be
established under the direction of the same entity that initiated the loan securitization
transaction. The Agencies believe that the fourth condition will ensure that the
resecuritizations of asset-backed securities purchased in the secondary market, which the
Agencies do not believe would constitute a loan securitization, will not be able to use
these special provisions tailored only for transactions utilizing SUBIs and collateral
certificates in order to fall within the loan securitization exclusion.
The Agencies believe that these conditions provide that only securitizations
backed by SUBIs and collateral certificates involving loans—and not other types of
securities or other types of assets—will be able to use the loan securitization exclusion.
These conditions are intended to assure that for purposes of the loan securitization
exclusion that only SUBI and collateral certificates that essentially represent the
underlying loans are included consistent with the terms and the purpose of section 13 of
the BHC Act, while also not adversely affecting securitization of “loans” as defined in

1917

This would include a collateral certificate issued by a legacy master trust that meets the requirements
of the loan securitization exclusion.

599

the final rule. 1918 The Agencies believe that the limitation of the types of asset-backed
securities permitted in an excluded loan securitization (only SUBIs and collateral
certificates) and the restrictions placed on those SUBIs and collateral certificates that are
permitted in an excluded loan securitization will avoid loan securitizations that contain
other types of assets from being excluded from the definition of covered fund.
v.

Impermissible assets
As discussed above, commenters on the loan securitization proposals argued that

various types of assets should be included within the definition of loan or otherwise
permitted to be held by the loan securitization that would be entitled to rely on the
proposed exemptions.
After considering comments, the Agencies have determined to retain the narrower
scope of the permitted assets in a loan securitization that is eligible for the loan
securitization exclusion. The Agencies have revised the language regarding loan
securitizations from the proposal to specify certain types of assets or holdings that a loan
securitization would not be able to hold if it were eligible to rely on the exclusion from
the definition of covered fund for loan securitizations. 1919 The Agencies recognize that
securitization structures vary significantly and, accordingly, the loan securitization
exclusion as adopted in the final rule accommodates a wider range of securitization
practices. The Agencies believe that these limitations provide that only securitizations
backed by loans—and not securities, derivatives or other types of assets—will be able to
1918

See, e.g., rule 190 under the Securities Act. See also, e.g., ASF (Feb. 2012) (noting that certain rules
under the Securities Act and staff interpretations have carved out SUBIs and collateral certificates from
certain disclosure and other requirements).
1919

See final rule § __.10(c)(8)(ii).

600

use the loan securitization exclusion consistent with the terms and the purpose of section
13 of the BHC Act. 1920 The Agencies believe that the limitation of the types of assets
permitted in an excluded loan securitization will avoid loan securitizations that contain
other types of assets from being excluded from the definition of covered fund.
Under the final rule, in order to be excluded from the definition of covered fund, a
loan securitization may not hold (i) a security, including an asset-backed security, or an
interest in an equity or debt security (unless specifically permitted, such as with respect to
a SUBI or collateral certificate as described above), (ii) a derivative other than an interest
rate or foreign exchange derivative that meets the requirements described above, 1921 or
(iii) a commodity forward contract. 1922 The Agencies have determined that a loan
securitization relying on the loan securitization exclusion may not include a commodity
forward contract because a commodity forward contract is not a loan. 1923
9.

Asset-backed commercial paper conduits
Under the proposed rule, certain securitization vehicles, including ABCP

conduits, would not have been covered by the loan securitization exclusion and,
therefore, would have been deemed to be a covered fund. 1924 ABCP is a type of liability
that is typically issued by a special purpose vehicle (commonly referred to as a “conduit”)
1920

The Agencies discuss earlier in this Part the permissible assets an excluded loan securitization may
hold and the Agencies’ belief that excluding loan securitizations as defined in the final rule is consistent
with the terms and the purpose of section 13 of the BHC Act, including the rule of construction in section
13(g)(2). See, e.g., supra note 1866 and accompanying and following text.

1921

See final rule § __.10(c)(8)(iv); See also 7 U.S.C. 27(a)-(b).

1922

See the discussion above in Part IV.B.1.c.8 of this Supplementary Information.

1923

For a discussion of commodity forward contracts, See Further Definition of “Swap,” “Security-Based
Swap,” and “Security-Based Swap Agreement”; Mixed Swaps; Security-Based Swap Agreement
Recordkeeping, 77 FR 48208 (Aug. 13, 2012) (Release Nos. 33-9338 and 34-67453, July 18, 2012).

1924

See proposed rule § __.13(d).

601

sponsored by a financial institution or other entity. The short term asset-backed securities
issued by the conduit are supported by a managed pool of assets, which may change over
the life of the entity. Depending on the type of ABCP conduit, the securitized assets
ultimately supporting the short term asset-backed securities may consist of a wide range
of assets including automobile loans, commercial loans, trade receivables, credit card
receivables, student loans, and other loans in addition to asset-backed securities
supported by such assets. The term of ABCP typically is short, and the liabilities are
“rolled” (i.e., replaced or refinanced) at regular intervals. Thus, ABCP conduits
generally fund longer-term assets with shorter-term liabilities.1925 In this regard, in the
proposing release, the Agencies requested comment on the proposed rule’s definition of
“covered fund” with respect to asset-backed securities and/or securitization vehicles 1926
and received numerous comments requesting a variety of exemptions for ABCP
conduits. 1927
A number of commenters requested that the final rule exclude ABCP conduits
from the definition of covered fund 1928 or that the Agencies use their authority under
section 13(d)(1)(J) of the BHC Act 1929 to similar effect. 1930 One commenter argued that

1925

Structured investment vehicles (“SIVs”) and securities arbitrage ABCP programs both purchase
securities (rather than receivables and loans). SIVs typically lack liquidity facilities covering all of these
liabilities issued by the SIV, while securities arbitrage ABCP programs typically have such liquidity
coverage, though the terms are more limited than those of the ABCP conduits eligible for the exclusion
pursuant to the final rule.

1926

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,899.

1927

See, e.g., ASF (Feb. 2012); BoA; Capital Group; Eaton Vance; Fidelity; ICI (Feb. 2012); Japanese
Bankers Ass’n.; PNC; RBC.

1928

See, e.g., ICI (Feb. 2012); PNC et al.; SIFMA (May 2012).

1929

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(J).

1930

See ICI (Feb. 2012).

602

ABCP conduits do not have the characteristics of a private equity fund or hedge fund, 1931
even though they typically rely on the exemptions set forth in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of
the Investment Company Act. Another commenter argued that the proposed rule’s
definition of covered fund would negatively impact asset-backed securitizations
(including ABCP conduits), and suggested that the Agencies define covered funds, in
part, as those that both (i) rely on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company
Act and (ii) have the traditional characteristics of private equity funds or hedge funds. 1932
Another commenter stated that the rule of construction set forth in section 13(g)(2) of the
BHC Act 1933 is a clear indication that section 13 of the BHC Act was not intended to
apply to securitization vehicles such as ABCP conduits. 1934 Another commenter stated
that the lending that occurs through ABCP conduits is the type of activity that Congress
and the Executive Branch have urged banks to expand in order to support economic
growth and job creation, 1935 while another commenter stated that ABCP conduits provide
low cost, reliable financing for registered investment companies, which poses little risk to
the safety and soundness of banks because federal law requires registered investment
companies to maintain prescribed asset coverage in connection with borrowings. 1936
Two commenters contended that, while certain issuers of asset-backed securities
may rely on section 3(c)(5) of the Investment Company Act or rule 3a-7 thereunder, and,

1931

See PNC.

1932

See Barclays.

1933

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(g)(2).

1934

See ICI (Feb. 2012).

1935

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

1936

See Eaton Vance.

603

therefore, not be brought under the proposed rule’s definition of covered fund, ABCP
conduits typically cannot rely on this section or rule either because to do so would be too
restrictive (in the case of section 3(c)(5)) or because they cannot meet the rule’s
requirements. 1937
One commenter, employing ABCP conduits as an example, stated that failing to
exempt securitization vehicles from the covered fund prohibitions would preclude
banking entities from engaging in activities that have long been recognized as permissible
activities for banking entities and that are vital to the normal functioning of the
securitization markets, and will have a significant and negative impact on the
securitization markets and on the ability of banking entities and other companies to
provide credit to their customers. 1938 This commenter further stated that ABCP conduits
are an efficient and attractive way for banking entities to lend their own credit-worthiness
to expand the pool of possible lenders willing to finance key economic activity while
maintaining a low cost of funding for consumers, and because of the liquidity support
provided by the sponsoring banking entity, the sponsoring banking entity to the ABCP
conduit has full exposure to the assets acquired by or securing the amounts lent by the
ABCP conduit and the banking entity subjects those assets and the obligors to the same
analysis as it would engage in if the bank were lending directly against those assets. 1939
Another commenter stated that the provision of credit to companies to finance receivables
through ABCP conduits is an area of traditional banking activity that should be

1937

See RBC; ASF (Feb. 2012).

1938

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

1939

Id.

604

distinguished from the type of high-risk, conflict-ridden financial activities that Congress
sought to restrict under section 13 of the BHC Act. 1940
To this end, commenters proposed several means to exclude ABCP conduits from
the proposed rule’s restrictions and requirements, including an expansion of the loan
securitization exemption to treat two-step securitization transactions as a single loan
securitization, 1941 a separate exclusion for ABCP conduits, 1942 an expansion of the
definition of loan, 1943 or as part of a broad exclusion for all issuers of asset-backed
securities. 1944 In order to allow ABCP conduits to qualify as loan securitizations,
commenters suggested that the loan securitization exclusion should permit a limited
amount of securities purchased in the secondary market. 1945 Commenters also proposed

1940

See ICI (Feb. 2012). This commenter emphasized the importance of the ABCP conduit market to
money market funds, noting that as of November 2011, taxable money market funds held $126 billion of
the $348.1 billion of securities issued by ABCP conduits outstanding, which represented approximately
5.4% of taxable money market funds’ total assets. Another commenter noted that approximately $66.7
billion of automobile loans and leases, $52.1 billion of student loans, $22.3 billion of credit card charges,
$49.4 billion of loans to commercial borrowers and $50.7 billion of trade receivables were financed by the
U.S. ABCP conduit market as of October 31, 2011, and that the total outstanding amount of securities sold
by ABCP conduits in the U.S. market was $344.5 billion as of January 18, 2012. See ASF (Feb. 2012).

1941

See AFME et al.; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); PNC; SIFMA
(Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

1942

See ASF (Feb. 2012); Capital Group (alleging that ABCP does not pose the risks that the rule is meant
to combat); GE (Feb. 2012). One commenter proposed an exemption for ABCP conduits that included a
requirement of 100% liquidity support from a regulated, affiliated entity, and such liquidity support may be
conditional or unconditional. See RBC.
1943

See Credit Suisse (Williams) (alleging that ABCP conduits acquire ownership of loans indirectly
through the purchase of variable funding notes, trust certificates, asset-backed securities, repurchase
agreements and other instruments that may be considered securities, all of which economically are
consistent with providing funding or extensions of credit to customers); ICI (Feb. 2012) (requesting that the
definition of loan include the broad array of receivables that back ABCP).

1944

See AFME et al.; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

1945

See ASF (Feb. 2012) (requesting that ABCP conduits be permitted to own asset-backed securities
purchased on the secondary market only if the aggregate principal amount of such securities does not
exceed 5% of the aggregate principal or face amount of all assets held by the ABCP conduit in order to
diversify their asset base and avoid the negative consequences of divestiture of such assets); RBC
(requesting that loan securitizations be permitted to hold cash equivalents and assets, other than loans,

605

changes to the permissible assets such as allowing a loan securitization to hold liquidity
and support commitments, asset-backed securities and certain financial assets in addition
to loans that by their terms convert to cash within a finite period of time. 1946 Another
commenter argued that the loan securitization exemption should allow banking entities to
sponsor, control, and invest in ABCP conduits that facilitate the securitization of
customer loans and receivables. 1947 In contrast, one commenter supported the restriction
of the loan securitization exemption to the plain meaning of what constitutes a loan and
advocated that the Agencies not include ABCP conduits under the exemption. 1948
In addition to the effect the proposed rule’s definition of covered fund would have
on ABCP conduits, commenters also noted that section 13(f) of the BHC Act 1949 would
prohibit certain transactions between a banking entity sponsor and a covered fund
securitization. 1950 Two commenters requested a specific exemption from § __.16 of the
proposed rule for ABCP conduits based on the interpretation that the proposed rule
subjects covered funds exempted under the loan securitization exemption or other
exemptions to § __.16.1951 Commenters argued that without liquidity and credit support,

which, by their terms, convert to cash within a finite period of time so long as such assets comprise no
more than 10% of their total assets based on book value).
1946

See ASF (Feb. 2012) (arguing that the loans, receivables, leases, or other assets purchased by the
ABCP conduit might have fit the definition of loan in the proposed rules but for the proposal’s express
assertion that the definition of loan does not include any asset-backed security that is issued in connection
with a loan securitization or otherwise backed by loans). See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,865; GE (Feb.
2012); RBC.

1947

See PNC.

1948

See Public Citizen.

1949

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(f); See also § __.16 of the proposed rule.

1950

See, e.g., Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); Credit Suisse (Williams); Fidelity;
IIB/EBF; JPMC; PNC; RBC; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).
1951

See ICI (Feb. 2012); Fidelity.

606

ABCP conduits are not viable, 1952 cannot effectively operate, 1953 could not function, 1954
or would not be marketable. 1955 One commenter argued that prohibiting a banking entity
from providing liquidity facilities to ABCP conduits is tantamount to requiring the
banking entity to wind down the operation of such ABCP conduits. 1956
In response to the comments received and in light of the rule of construction
contained in section 13(g)(2) of the BHC Act, the Agencies have determined in the final
rule to exclude from the definition of covered fund an ABCP conduit that is a “qualifying
asset-backed commercial paper conduit” as defined in the final rule is excluded from the
definition of covered fund. 1957
Under the final rule, a qualifying asset-backed commercial paper conduit is an
ABCP conduit that holds only (i) loans or other assets that would be permissible in a loan
securitization 1958 and (ii) asset-backed securities that are supported solely by assets
permissible for a loan securitization and are acquired by the conduit as part of an initial
issuance directly from the issuer or directly from an underwriter engaged in the

1952

See JPMC.

1953

See ASF (Mar. 2012).

1954

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group).

1955

See ASF (Feb. 2012); Fidelity.

1956

See ASF (Mar. 2012).

1957

See final rule § __.10(c)(9)(i). The rule of construction contained in section 13(g)(2) of the BHC Act
provides that nothing in section 13 of the BHC Act shall be construed to limit or restrict the ability of a
banking entity or nonbank financial company supervised by the Board to sell or securitize loans in a
manner that is otherwise permitted by law. As noted above and explained below, a qualifying asset-backed
commercial paper conduit under the final rule is an ABCP conduit that holds only (i) loans or other assets
that would be permissible in a loan securitization and (ii) asset-backed securities that are supported solely
by assets permissible for a loan securitization and are acquired by the conduit as part of an initial issuance
directly from the issuer or directly from an underwriter engaged in the distribution of the securities.

1958

See final rule § __.10(c)(8).

607

distribution of the securities. 1959 In addition, a qualifying asset-backed commercial paper
conduit must issue only asset-backed securities, comprising of a residual and securities
with a term of 397 days or less and in addition, a “regulated liquidity provider,” as
defined in the final rule, must provide a legally binding commitment to provide full and
unconditional liquidity coverage with respect to all the outstanding short term assetbacked securities issued by the qualifying asset-backed commercial paper conduit in the
event that funds are required to redeem the maturing securities. 1960
Under the final rule, a regulated liquidity provider is (i) a depository institution as
defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; 1961 (ii) a bank holding
company or a subsidiary thereof; 1962 (iii) a savings and loan holding company, 1963
provided all or substantially all of the holding company’s activities are permissible for a
financial holding company, 1964 or a subsidiary thereof; (iv) a foreign bank whose home
country supervisor as defined in section 211.21 of the Federal Reserve Board’s
Regulation K 1965 has adopted capital standards consistent with the Capital Accord of the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as amended, and that is subject to such
standards, or a subsidiary thereof or (v) a sovereign nation. 1966 In order for a sovereign
nation to qualify as a regulated liquidity provider, the liquidity provided must be

1959

See final rule § __.10(c)(9)(i)(B).

1960

See final rule § __.10(c)(9)(ii) and (iii).

1961

See 12 U.S.C. 1813.

1962

See 12 U.S.C. 1841.

1963

See 12 U.S.C. 1467a.

1964

See 12 U.S. C. 1843(k).

1965

See 12 CFR 211.21.

1966

See final rule § __.10(c)(9)(iii).

608

unconditionally guaranteed by the sovereign, which would include its departments and
ministries, including the central bank.
In this regard, under the final rule, the exclusion from the definition of covered
fund in respect of ABCP conduits is only available to an issuer of short-term asset-backed
securities supported by loans and certain asset-backed securities supported by loans that
were issued or initially sold to the ABCP conduit, and the short term asset-backed
securities issued by the ABCP conduit are supported by a liquidity facility that provides
100 percent liquidity coverage from a regulated liquidity provider. The exclusion,
therefore, is not available to ABCP conduits that lack 100 percent liquidity coverage.
The liquidity coverage may be provided in the form of a lending facility, an asset
purchase agreement, a repurchase agreement, or similar arrangement and 100 percent
liquidity coverage means that, in the event the qualifying asset-backed commercial paper
conduit is unable for any reason to repay maturing asset-backed securities issued by the
issuing entity, the total amount for which the regulated liquidity provider may be
obligated is equal to 100 percent of the amount of asset-backed securities outstanding
plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, amounts due pursuant to the required
liquidity coverage may not be subject to the credit performance of the asset-backed
securities held by the qualifying asset-backed commercial paper conduit or reduced by
the amount of credit support provided to the qualifying asset-backed commercial paper
conduit. Under the final rule, liquidity coverage that only funds an amount determined
by reference to the amount of performing loans, receivables, or asset-backed securities
will not be permitted to satisfy the liquidity requirement for a qualifying asset-backed
commercial paper conduit.

609

As discussed above, the final rule defines a qualifying asset-backed commercial
paper conduit as having certain elements. First, a qualifying asset-backed commercial
paper conduit must issue only a residual interest and short-term asset-backed securities.
This requirement distinguishes ABCP conduits from covered funds that issue partnership
interests and mitigates the potential that a qualifying ABCP conduit would be used for
evasion of the covered fund prohibitions. The Agencies chose a maximum term of 397
days for these securities because this time frame corresponds to the maximum maturity of
securities allowed to be purchased by money market funds under Rule 2a-7 of the
Investment Company Act.
Second, the asset-backed securities issued by the ABCP conduit must be
supported only by loans and certain asset-backed securities that meet the requirements of
the loan securitization exclusion. By placing restrictions on the assets permitted to be
held by an excluded loan securitization, the potential for evasion of the covered fund
prohibitions is reduced. The exclusion for qualifying ABCP conduits is intended, as
contemplated by the rule of construction in section 13(g)(2) of the BHC Act, to permit
banks to continue to engage in securitizations of loans. Including all types of securities
and other assets within the scope of permitted assets in a qualifying ABCP conduit, as
with loan securitizations, would expand the exclusion beyond the scope of the definition
of loan in the final rule that is intended to implement the rule of construction.
Third, the asset-backed securities supporting a qualifying asset-backed
commercial paper conduit must be purchased as part of the initial issuance of such assetbacked securities. Asset-backed securities purchased by an ABCP conduit in the
secondary market will not be permitted because such a purchase would not be part of an

610

initial issuance and the banking entity that established and manages the ABCP conduit
would not have participated in the negotiation of the terms of such asset-backed
securities. Without a more direct connection between the banking entity and the ABCP
conduit, the purchase of such asset-backed securities in the secondary market would
resemble investments in securities.
Fourth, under the final rule, the ABCP conduit exclusion will not be available to
ABCP conduits that lack 100 percent liquidity coverage. The Agencies believe that the
100 percent liquidity coverage requirement distinguishes the conduits eligible for the
exemption, which sometimes hold and securitize a customer’s loans through an
intervening special-purpose vehicle instead of holding the loans directly, and are
supported by a 100 percent liquidity guarantee, from other types of conduits with partial
liquidity guarantees (such as structured investment vehicles) that have sometimes been
operated by banking entities for the purpose of financing portfolios of securities acquired
or retained as part of their activities in the securities markets.
The Agencies recognize that ABCP conduits that do not satisfy the elements of
the ABCP conduit exclusion may be covered funds and therefore would be subject to
section 13(f) of the BHC Act. 1967 As a result of section 13(f) of the BHC Act, which
prohibits certain transactions between banking entities and a covered fund securitization
that the banking entity sponsors or for which it provides investment management
services, the banking entity would be prohibited from providing liquidity support for the
ABCP conduit.

1967

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(f); See also § __.16 of the proposed rule.

611

Similarly, while some commenters requested that the loan securitization exclusion
permit the holding of a limited amount of securities purchased in the secondary market,
the final rule does not provide for this in the context of ABCP conduits. The Agencies
believe that the limitations on the types of securities that a qualifying asset-backed
commercial paper conduit may invest in are needed to avoid the possibility that a banking
entity could use a qualifying asset-backed commercial paper conduit to securitize nonloan assets or to engage in proprietary trading of such securities prohibited under the final
rule. Thus this limitation reduces the potential for evasion of the covered fund provisions
of section 13 of the BHC Act. In developing the exclusion from the definition of covered
fund for qualifying asset-backed commercial paper conduits in the final rule, the
Agencies considered the factors set forth in sections 13(g)(2) and 13(h)(2) of the BHC
Act. The final rule includes conditions designed to ensure that an ABCP conduit
established and managed by a banking entity serves as a means of facilitating that
banking entity’s loan securitization activity rather than financing that banking entity’s
capital market investments. The final rule distinguishes between qualifying asset-backed
commercial paper conduits and other ABCP conduits in order to adhere to the tenets of
section 13 of the BHC Act while accommodating the market practices discussed by the
commenters by facilitating reasonable access to credit by consumers and businesses
through the issuance of ABCP backed by consumer and business receivables. As
discussed above, the Agencies understand that some existing ABCP conduits may need to
be restructured to conform to the requirements of the ABCP conduit exclusion.
To the extent that the definition of covered fund, the loan securitization exclusion
and the ABCP conduit exclusion do not eliminate the applicability of the final rule

612

provisions to certain covered funds, there may be adverse effects on the provision of
capital to customers, 1968 to securitization markets, 1969 and to the creation of new
securitization products to meet investor demands that Congress may not have
contemplated. 1970 However, financial institutions that are not banking entities and
therefore are not subject to the restrictions on ownership can continue to engage in
activities relating to securitization, including those securitizations that fall under the
definition of covered fund. Furthermore, new securitizations may be structured so as to
qualify for the loan securitization exclusion or other exclusions under the final rule. For
these reasons, the impact on securitizations that are not excluded under the final rule may
be mitigated.
The Agencies believe that the final rule excludes from the definition of covered
fund typical structures used in the most common loan securitizations representing a
significant majority of the current securitization market, such as residential mortgages,
commercial mortgages, student loans, credit card receivables, auto loans, auto leases and
equipment leases. Additionally, the Agencies believe that esoteric asset classes
supported by loans may also be able to rely on the loan securitization exclusion, such as
time share loans, container leases and servicer advances.

1968

See, e.g., ASF (Feb. 2012).

1969

See Credit Suisse (Williams) (employing ABCP conduits as an example); ASF (Feb. 2012) (describing
the constriction of the market for asset-backed securities if banking entities are restricted from owning debt
classes of new asset backed securities).

1970

See RBC; ASF (Feb. 2012).

613

10.

Covered bonds
Several commenters called for covered bond structures to be excluded from the

definition of covered fund. 1971 They indicated that the proposed rule may interfere with
and restrict non-U.S. banks’ ability to establish or issue covered bonds. As described by
several commenters, covered bonds are full recourse debt instruments typically issued by
a non-U.S. entity that are fully secured or “covered” by a pool of high-quality collateral
(e.g., residential or commercial mortgage loans or public sector loans). 1972 Certain of
these covered bond structures utilize a special purpose vehicle (“SPV”) that holds a
collateral pool. As such, under the proposed rule, an SPV could be a covered fund that
relies on the exclusion in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act.
According to one commenter, the majority of covered bonds are issued under
specific legislative frameworks which define permitted characteristics for covered bond
issuances, including the kinds and quality of collateral that may be included in cover
pools, the specific legal framework for issuance of covered bonds, and the procedures for
resolution in the event that the issuer becomes insolvent. 1973 Some commenters
expressed concern about the possibility that certain covered bond structures could fall
within the definition of covered fund, as proposed. In particular, commenters expressed
concern about covered bond structures in the United Kingdom that also would be relevant

1971

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); UKRCBC; FSA (Apr. 2012); ASF (Feb.
2012).

1972

See AFME et al.; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); FSA (Apr.
2012); UKRCBC.
1973

See UKRCBC. For example, a commenter indicated that in the European Union, Article 52(4) of the
EU UCITS Directive sets out the defining characteristics of covered bonds, and this directive is
implemented by specific legislative frameworks.

614

in principle with respect to covered bond structures used in other European Union (“EU”)
jurisdictions (e.g., the Netherlands and Italy) and certain non-EU jurisdictions (e.g.,
Canada, Australia, and New Zealand). 1974 Another commenter indicated that covered
bonds issued by certain French entities that hold a revolving pool of loans may be
impacted by the proposed rule. 1975
Certain commenters argued that in order to achieve the intended economic effect
of providing recourse to both the bank issuing covered bonds and to the collateral pool,
the issuing bank may enter into a number of agreements with the SPV that holds the
collateral. This includes transactions where the bank takes on credit exposure to the SPV
(e.g., through derivatives and securities lending, provision of loans, and/or investments in
securities of the SPV). 1976 The issuing bank typically also provides asset and liability
management services to the SPV and may also repurchase certain assets from the
SPV. 1977 Commenters also contended that under certain legislative frameworks, the SPV
issues the covered bonds and holds the collateral, and a sponsoring bank lends money to
the SPV. 1978 According to commenters, the broad definition of covered fund in the
proposed rule could capture an SPV that holds the collateral, so transactions between an
SPV and the issuing bank or sponsor bank may be prohibited. 1979 These commenters

1974

See UKRCBC; FSA (Apr. 2012). One commenter argued that there are two main models used for
covered bond structures in Europe—the integrated model (where the collateral pool continues to be owned
directly by the bank issuer and is segregated by special legislation) and the structured model (where the
pool is transferred to a special purpose vehicle and is segregated by operation of legal principles). See
UKRCBC.

1975

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group).

1976

See FSA (Apr. 2012).

1977

See UKRCBC.

1978

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group).

1979

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); UKRCBC; FSA (Apr. 2012).

615

argued that including covered bond structures in the definition of covered fund is
inconsistent with the legislative intent of the rule, would have a negative and
disproportionate effect on foreign banks, markets and economies and would give rise to
potential conflicts with such foreign legislative frameworks. 1980
According to certain commenters, SPVs whose sole function is as part of an
offering of covered bonds should be excluded from the definition of covered fund in the
final rule. These commenters provided that the proposed rule was not clear on whether
these SPVs, which effectively function as collateral devices for the covered bond, would
be excluded from the definition of covered fund. 1981 One commenter indicated that the
key concern was primarily due to the wide definition of covered fund in the proposed
rule. 1982 Other commenters indicated that the final rule should not apply to covered bond
transactions because they are not traditionally recognized or regulated as asset-backed
securities transactions, and they are not the type of transactions that the rule was intended
to address. 1983
As a result of comments received on covered bond vehicles, the final rule
specifically excludes from the definition of covered fund certain entities that own or hold
a dynamic or fixed pool of assets that covers the payment obligations of covered bonds.
In order to qualify for the exclusion, the assets or holdings in the cover pool must satisfy
the conditions in the loan securitization exclusion, except for the requirement that the

1980

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); UKRCBC; FSA (Apr. 2012); ASF (Feb.
2012); AFME et al. For a discussion of possible economic effects, See FSA (Feb. 2012); UKRCBC; Allen
& Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group).
1981

See ASF (Feb. 2012); AFME et al.; UKRCBC.

1982

See UKRCBC.

1983

See, e.g., AFME et al.

616

securities they issue are asset-backed securities (the “permitted cover pool”). 1984 The
Agencies believe this approach is consistent with the rule of construction contained in
section 13(g)(2) of the BHC Act. The rule of construction in section 13(g)(2) of the BHC
Act specifically refers to the “sale and securitization of loans” and the Agencies would
not want a banking entity to use an excluded cover pool to engage in proprietary trading
of such securities prohibited under the final rule. The Agencies believe this restriction
reduces the potential for evasion of the final rule.
By placing restrictions on the assets permitted to be held by a cover pool, the
potential for evasion of the covered fund prohibitions is reduced. The exclusion for cover
pools is intended, as contemplated by the rule of construction in section 13(g)(2) of the
BHC Act, to permit banking entities to continue to engage in lending activities and the
financing those lending activities. Including all types of securities and other assets within
the scope of permitted assets in a cover pools would expand the exclusion beyond the
scope of the definition of loan in the final rule that is intended to implement the rule of
construction. Additionally, because the exclusion for cover pools is only available to
foreign banking organizations, allowing such cover pools to hold securities would
provide unequal treatment of covered bonds as compared to a loan securitization
sponsored by a U.S. banking entity.
Under the definition of covered bond in the final rule, the debt obligation may be
issued directly by a foreign banking organization or by an entity that owns a permitted
cover pool. In both cases, the payment obligations of the debt obligation must be fully

1984

See final rule § __.10(c)(10).

617

and unconditionally guaranteed. If the debt obligation is issued by a foreign banking
organization, such debt obligation will be a “covered bond” under the final rule if the
payment obligations are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by an entity that owns a
permitted cover pool. 1985 If the debt obligation is issued by an entity that owns a
permitted cover pool, such debt obligation will be a “covered bond” under the final rule if
(i) the payment obligations are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by a foreign banking
organization and (ii) the issuer of the debt obligation is a wholly-owned subsidiary (as
defined) by such foreign banking organization. 1986 Thus, under the final rule, a covered
bond structure in which an entity holds the cover pool and issues securities that are fully
and unconditionally guaranteed by a foreign banking organization may also be able to
rely on the loan securitization exclusion if it meets all of the requirements of that
exclusion.
The Agencies recognize that many covered bond programs may involve foreign
covered bond programs (and their related cover pools) that are permitted by their
respective laws to own residential mortgage-backed securities and other non-loan assets.
As a result, the exclusion for covered bonds in the final rule may not be available to many
of the existing cover pools that support outstanding covered bonds. The Agencies
recognize that this approach may not exclude all foreign covered bond programs.
Although certain commenters argued that including covered bond structures in the

1985

See final rule § __.10(c)(10)(ii)(A).

1986

See final rule § __.10(c)(10)(ii)(B). As discussed above in the section describing the wholly-owned
subsidiary exclusion from the definition of covered fund, the Agencies are permitting 0.5 of a whollyowned subsidiary to be owned by an unaffiliated party for the purpose of establishing corporate
separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns.

618

definition of covered fund is inconsistent with the legislative intent of the rule, 1987 the
Agencies believe that the exclusion for qualifying covered bonds, including the
limitations on the types of securities that a loan securitization can hold, is consistent with
the rule of construction contained in section 13(g)(2) of the BHC Act and appropriate for
the reasons discussed directly above and under “Definition of Loan.” The Agencies also
recognize that commenters argued that including covered bonds as covered funds could
have a negative and disproportionate effect on foreign banks, markets and economies and
would give rise to potential conflicts with such foreign legislative frameworks. 1988 The
Agencies note that, although they do not know the composition of the cover pools, the
Agencies believe that foreign banking organizations should be able to look at the
composition of their cover pools to evaluate how to meet the requirements of the
exclusion—and thus to avoid or mitigate the adverse effects commenters asserted would
occur—as they determine appropriate.
11.

Certain permissible public welfare and similar funds
Section 13(d)(1)(E) of the BHC Act permits a banking entity to make and retain:

(i) investments in one or more small business investment companies (“SBICs”), as
defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (SBA) (15
U.S.C. § 662) 1989; (ii) investments that are designed primarily to promote the public

1987

See supra note 1980 and accompanying text.

1988

Id.

1989

The Agencies note that section 13(d)(1)(E) of the BHC Act incorrectly provides that the term “small
business investment company” is defined in section 102 of the SBA, while the definition is in fact
contained in section 103(3) of the SBA as codified at 15 U.S.C. 662. The statute includes the correct
citation to 15 U.S.C. 662. The Agencies are correcting this technical error in the final rule by updating the
reference to section 102 to section 103(3).

619

welfare, of the type permitted under paragraph (11) of section 5136 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. § 24); and (iii) investments that are qualified
rehabilitation expenditures with respect to a qualified rehabilitated building or certified
historic structure, as such terms are defined in section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 or a similar State historic tax credit program. 1990 The proposed rule permitted
banking entities to invest in and act as sponsor 1991 to these entities, but did not explicitly
exclude them from the definition of covered fund. 1992
Commenters generally supported the proposed exemption for investments in and
sponsorship of funds designed to promote the public welfare, SBICs, and other tax credit
funds given the valuable funding and assistance these investments provide in facilitating
community and economic priorities and the role these investments play in the ability of
banking entities, especially community and regional banks, to achieve their financial and
Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) goals. However, commenters raised some issues
with respect to the proposed exemption and sought clarification on its application to
specific investments. 1993 Of primary concern to commenters was the impact of the
prohibition in section 13(f) of the BHC Act on the ability of a banking entity sponsoring a
tax credit fund or its affiliate to guarantee certain obligations of the fund in order to

1990

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(E).

1991

The proposal implemented a proposed determination by the Agencies under 13(d)(1)(J) “that a
banking entity may not only invest in such entities as provided under section 13(d)(1)(E) of the BHC Act,
but also may sponsor an entity described in that paragraph and that such activity, since it generally would
facilitate investment in small businesses and support the public welfare, would promote and protect the
safety and soundness of banking entities and the financial stability of the United States.” Joint Proposal, 76
FR at 68,908 n.292.
1992

See proposed rule § __.13(a).

1993

See Novogradac (LIHTC); Novogradac (NMTC); Novogradac (RETC); PNC; Raymond James;
SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SBIA.

620

provide assurance to investors that the investment has been properly structured to enable
the investor to receive the tax benefits on which the investment are sold. 1994 Some
commenters noted that failure to address this issue in the final rule would damage a large
segment of this market and therefore urged the Agencies to exempt these investments
from the application of section 13(f) or, in the alternative, from the definition of covered
fund. 1995
In addition, commenters requested clarification that specific types of public
welfare, SBIC, and other tax credit investments would be eligible for the exemption,
including Low Income Housing Tax Credits, Renewable Energy Tax Credits, New
Markets Tax Credits, and Rural Business Investment Companies. 1996 One commenter
requested that applicants for an SBIC license that have received permission from the
Small Business Administration to file a formal SBIC license application be viewed the
same as an SBIC. 1997 Other commenters sought coverage of investments in non-SBIC
funds that provide capital to small and middle-market companies, 1998 investments in any
state administered tax credit program, 1999 and investments outside the United States that
are of the type permitted under paragraph (11) of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States (12 U.S.C. § 24). 2000

1994

See AHIC; Novogradac (LIHTC); Novogradac (NMTC); Novogradac (RETC); SBIA; Union Bank;
U.S. Bancorp.

1995

See ABA (Keating); Lone Star; Novogradac (LIHTC); Novogradac (NMTC); Novogradac (RETC);
SVB; U.S. Bancorp.

1996

See NCHSA; SBIA; Novogradac (LIHTC); Novogradac (NMTC); Novogradac (RETC).

1997

See SBIA; See also SEC Rule 3c-2.

1998

See ABA (Keating); PNC.

1999

See USAA.

2000

See JPMC; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

621

In light of the comments received, the final rule excludes from the definition of
covered fund an issuer that is an SBIC (or that has received from the Small Business
Administration notice to proceed to qualify for a license as an SBIC, which notice or
license has not been revoked) or the business of which is to make investments that are: (i)
designed primarily to promote the public welfare, of the type permitted under paragraph
(11) of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. § 24),
including the welfare of low- and moderate-income communities or families (such as
providing housing, services, or jobs); or (ii) qualified rehabilitation expenditures with
respect to a qualified rehabilitated building or certified historic structure, as such terms
are defined in section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or a similar State historic
tax credit program. 2001
By excluding SBICs and other public interest funds from the definition of covered
fund—rather than provide a permitted activity exemption as proposed—the Agencies
addressed commenters’ concerns regarding the burdens imposed by section 13(f). The
Agencies believe that excluding these investments from the definition of covered fund
addresses the issues many commenters raised with respect to the application of section
13(f) of the BHC Act, and gives effect to the statutory exemption of these investments in
a way that appropriately facilitates national community and economic development
objectives. The Agencies believe that permitting a banking entity to sponsor and invest

2001

See final rule § __.10(c)(11). This provision would cover any issuer that engages in the business of
making tax credit investments (e.g., Low Income Housing Tax Credit, New Markets Tax Credit,
Renewable Energy Tax Credit, Rural Business Investment Company) that are either designed to promote
the public welfare of the type permitted under 12 U.S.C. 24(Eleventh) or are qualified rehabilitation
expenditures with respect to a qualified rehabilitated building or certified historic structure, as provided for
under § __.10(c)(11).

622

in these types of public interest entities will result in banking entities being able to
provide valuable expertise and services to these entities and to provide funding and
assistance to small businesses and low- and moderate-income communities. The
Agencies believe that providing the exclusion will also allow banking entities to continue
to provide capital to community-improving projects and in some instances promote
capital formation.
12.

Registered investment companies and excluded entities
The proposed rule did not specifically include registered investment companies

(including mutual funds) or business development companies within the definition of
covered fund. 2002 As explained above, the statute references funds that rely on section
3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. Registered investment companies and
business development companies do not rely on either section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the
Investment Company Act and are instead registered or regulated in accordance with the
Investment Company Act.
Many commenters argued that registered investment companies and business
development companies would be treated as covered funds under the proposed definition
if commodity pools are treated as covered funds. 2003 A few commenters argued that the
final rule should specifically provide that all SEC-registered funds are excluded from the

2002

See proposed rule § __.10(b)(1).

2003

See, e.g., Arnold & Porter; BoA; Goldman (Covered Funds); ICI (Feb. 2012); Putnam; TCW;
Vanguard. According to these commenters, a registered investment company may use security or
commodity futures, swaps, or other commodity interests in various ways to manage its investment portfolio
and be swept into the broad definition of “commodity pool” contained in the Commodity Exchange Act.

623

definition of covered fund (and the definition of banking entity) to avoid any uncertainty
about whether section 13 applies to these types of funds. 2004
Commenters also requested that the final rule exclude from the definition of
covered fund entities formed to establish registered investment companies during the
seeding period. These commenters contended that, during the early stages of forming
and seeding a registered investment company, an entity relying on section 3(c)(1) or
(3)(c)(7) may be created to facilitate the development of a track record for the registered
investment company so that it may be marketed to unaffiliated investors. 2005
Section 13’s definition of private equity fund and hedge fund by reference to
section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act appears to reflect Congress’
concerns about banking entities’ exposure to and relationships with investment funds that
explicitly are excluded from SEC regulation as investment companies. The Agencies do
not believe it would be appropriate to treat as a covered fund registered investment
companies and business development companies, which are regulated by the SEC as
investment companies. The Agencies believe that the proposed rule’s inclusion of
commodity pools would have resulted in some registered investment companies and
business development companies being covered funds, a result the Agencies did not
intend. The Agencies, in addition to narrowing the commodity pools that will be
included as covered funds as discussed above, have also modified the final rule to

2004

See Arnold & Porter; Goldman (Covered Funds); See also SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012);
SIFMA et al. (Mar. 2012); ABA (Keating); BoA; ICI (Feb. 2012); JPMC (requesting clarification that
registered investment companies are not banking entities); TCW.
2005

See ICI (Feb. 2012); TCW.

624

exclude SEC-registered investment companies and business development companies
from the definition of covered fund. 2006
The Agencies also recognize that an entity that becomes a registered investment
company or business development company might, during its seeding period, rely on
section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7). The Agencies have determined to exclude these seeding
vehicles from the covered fund definition for the same reasons the Agencies determined
to exclude entities that are operating as registered investment companies or business
development companies as discussed above.
In order to prevent banking entities from purporting to use this exclusion for
vehicles that the banking entity does not reasonably expect to become a registered
investment company or business development company, the exclusion is available only
with respect to a vehicle that the banking entity operates (i) pursuant to a written plan,
developed in accordance with the banking entity’s compliance program, that reflects the
banking entity’s determination that the vehicle will become a registered investment
company or business development company within the time period provided by the final
rule for seeding a covered fund; (ii) consistently with the leverage requirements under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 that are applicable to registered investment companies
and SEC-regulated business development companies. 2007 A banking entity that seeds a
covered fund for any purpose other than to register it as an investment company or
establish a business development company must comply with the requirements of section
13(d)(1)(G) of the BHC Act and § __.11 of the final rule as described above. The
2006

See final rule § __.10(c)(12).

2007

See final rule §§ __.10(c)(12)(i); 10(c)(12)(iii); __.20(e).

625

Agencies will monitor this seeding activity for attempts to use this exclusion to evade the
requirements governing the ownership of and relationships with covered funds under
section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule. 2008
13.

Other excluded entities
Section 13(h)(2) permits the Agencies to include similar funds within the

definition of covered fund, but the proposal did not contain a process for excluding from
the definition of covered fund other entities that do not engage in the investment activities
contemplated by section 13. Many commenters argued that the breadth of entities that
may be required to rely on the exclusions in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment
Company Act could result in additional unidentified entities becoming subject to the
definition of covered fund. 2009 In order to ensure that the final rule effectively addresses
the full scope of entities that may inadvertently be included within the definition of
covered fund, a number of commenters urged that the final rule include a mechanism to
exclude other entities from the term “covered fund” by rule or order if the Agencies
determine such an exclusion is appropriate. 2010
As evidenced by the extensive comments discussed above identifying the many
types of corporate structures and other vehicles (not just investment funds) that rely on
sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) but do not engage in investment activities of the type

2008

The Agencies also note that banking entities with more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets as
reported on December 31 of the previous two calendar years must maintain records that include, among
other things, documentation of the exclusions or exemptions other than sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the
Investment Company Act of 1940 relied on by each fund sponsored by the banking entity in determining
that such fund is not a covered fund. See final rule § __.20(e).

2009

See also FSOC study.

2010

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams); GE (Feb. 2012).

626

contemplated by section 13, the scope of an overly broad definition of covered fund may
impose significant burdens on banking entities that are in conflict with the purposes of
section 13 of the BHC Act. In response to commenters’ concerns and to address the
potential that the final rule’s definition of covered fund might encompass entities that do
not engage in the investment activities contemplated by section 13, the final rule includes
a provision that provides that the Agencies may jointly determine to exclude an issuer
from the definition of covered fund if the exclusion is consistent with the purposes of
section 13 of the BHC Act. 2011
As noted above, the statute permits the Agencies to act by rule to modify the
definition of covered fund. After issuing the proposed rule and receiving comment on it,
the final rule provides that the Agencies may act jointly to provide an exclusion. 2012 The
Agencies are working to establish a process within which to evaluate requests for
exclusions and expect to provide additional guidance on this matter as the Agencies gain
experience with the final rule. 2013 As a result, the definition of covered fund would
remain unified and consistent. The final rule also provides that a determination by the
Agencies to exclude an entity from the definition of covered fund will be promptly made
public in order to ensure that both banking entities and the public may understand what
entities are and are not included within the definition of covered fund.
d.

Entities Not Specifically Excluded from the Definition of Covered Fund
2011

See final rule § __.10(c)(14).

2012

As discussed above, the Agencies also may determine jointly that an entity excluded from the definition
of covered fund under § __.10(c) is in fact a covered fund, and consequently banking entities’ investments
in and transactions with such fund would be subject to limitations and/or divestiture. The Agencies intend
to utilize this authority to monitor for and address, as appropriate, instances of evasion. See, e.g., 12 U.S.C.
1851(e)(2).

2013

A joint determination specified under § __.10(c)(14) may take a variety of forms.

627

In addition to the entities identified above which are excluded from the definition
of covered fund under the final rule, commenters argued that a number of other entities
such as financial market utilities, venture capital funds, credit funds, cash management
vehicles or cash collateral pools may also be an investment company but for the
exclusion contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act and
requested that these entities expressly be excluded from the final rule’s definition of
covered fund. The Agencies have considered carefully the comments received on each of
these entities but, for the reasons explained below, have declined to provide a separate
exclusion for them from the definition of covered fund at this time. As discussed below,
some of these entities are not covered funds for various reasons or may, with relatively
little cost, conform to the terms of an exclusion or exemption from the definition of
covered fund. As noted above, to the extent that one of these entities qualifies for one or
more of the other exclusions from the definition of covered fund, that entity would not be
a covered fund under the final rule. Any entity that would be a covered fund would still
be able to rely on the conformance period in order to come into compliance with the
requirements of section 13 and the final rule.
A number of commenters requested that certain existing covered funds be either
excluded from the definition of covered fund or grandfathered and not be subject to the
limitations of section 13 of the BHC Act. 2014 The Agencies note, however, that section
13 specifically addresses a banking entity’s preexisting investments in covered funds by
providing a conformance period, which banking entities may use to bring their activities

2014

See, e.g., PNC; SVB; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012); AFME et al.; BoA. See also, e.g., Credit
Suisse (Williams).

628

and investments into compliance with the requirements of section 13 and the final rule.
To the extent that section 13 could be interpreted to permit the Agencies to take a
different approach, despite addressing banking entities’ preexisting covered fund
investments directly, the Agencies believe it would be inconsistent with the purposes of
section 13 to permit banking entities to continue to hold ownership interests in covered
funds beyond the conformance period provided by the statute. Section 13’s prohibition
on banking entities’ investments in and relationships with covered funds and the
requirement that banking entities divest or conform these investments appear to reflect
the statutory purpose that banking entities be limited in their ability to continue to be
exposed to these investments outside of the statutorily-provided conformance period.
The Agencies believe that permitting banking entities to hold ownership interests
indefinitely beyond the conformance period provided by the statute appears inconsistent
with this purpose.
1.

Financial market utilities
Several commenters contended that financial market utilities (“FMUs”) could be

covered funds because they might rely on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) for an exclusion from
the definition of investment company under the Investment Company Act and may not
qualify for an alternative exemption.2015 These commenters argued that banking entities
have long been investors in domestic and foreign FMUs, such as securities clearing
agencies, derivatives clearing organizations, securities exchanges, derivatives boards of
trade and alternative trading systems. These commenters expressed concern that, unless

2015

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams).

629

FMUs are expressly excluded from the definition of covered fund, banking entities could
be prohibited from entering into any new covered transactions with related FMUs and
would be required to divest their investments in FMUs, thereby disrupting the operations
of those FMUs and financial markets generally.
After carefully considering commenters’ concerns, the Agencies believe that
FMUs are not investment vehicles of the type section 13 of the BHC Act was designed to
address, but rather entities that generally engage in other activities, including acting as
central counterparties that reduce counterparty risk in clearing and settlement activities.
Congress recognized, in the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of 2010
(title VIII of the Dodd–Frank Act), 2016 that properly designed, operated, and supervised
financial market utilities as defined in that Act mitigate systemic risk and promote
financial stability. 2017
However, the Agencies have not provided an exclusion from the covered fund
definition for FMUs because these kinds of entities do not generally appear to rely on
section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, and therefore do not appear to
need an exclusion. For example, section 3(b)(1) of the Investment Company Act
excludes from the definition of investment company -- and thus from the definition of a
covered fund -- entities primarily engaged in a business other than that of an investment
company. 2018 If an FMU is primarily engaged in a business other than those that would
make it an investment company, for example, if the FMU is primarily engaged in
2016

12 USC 5461 et seq.

2017

See id.

2018

Section 3(b)(1) of the Investment Company Act excludes from the definition of investment company
“[a]ny issuer primarily engaged, directly or through a wholly-owned subsidiary or subsidiaries, in a
business or businesses other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities.”

630

transferring, clearing, or settling payments, securities, or other financial transactions
among or between financial institutions,2019 the FMU could rely on the exclusion to the
definition of investment company provided by section 3(b)(1) and would not need to rely
on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) and, as such, would not be a covered fund.
2.

Cash collateral pools
Some commenters expressed concern that cash collateral pools, which are part of

securities lending programs, could be included in the definition of covered fund. 2020
According to these commenters, banking entities, including bank custodians acting as
lending agent for customer’s securities lending activities, typically manage these pools as
fiduciaries for their customers. 2021 These commenters argued that collateral pools are
part of a banks’ traditional custody and advisory services and have been an integral part
of any lending agent’s role (whether custodial or non-custodial) for years. 2022
Cash collateral pools are typically formed when, as part of a securities lending
program, a customer of a bank authorizes the bank to take securities from the customer’s
account and lend them in the open market. The agent bank then lends those securities
and receives collateral in return from the borrower; a securities lending customer of a
bank typically elects to have cash collateral provided by a borrower pooled by the agent
bank with other cash collateral provided to other clients. 2023 These investment pools may
exist in the form of trusts, partnerships, limited liability companies, or separate accounts
2019

See 12 U.S.C. 1562(6); 12 CFR Part 234.

2020

See RMA; State Street (Feb. 2012); See also BNY Mellon et al.

2021

See RMA; State Street (Feb. 2012).

2022

See RMA; BNY Mellon et al. (citing Comptroller’s Handbook: Custody Services (Jan. 2002)).

2023

See RMA.

631

maintained by more than one party and these structures may rely on sections 3(c)(1) and
3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act to avoid being an investment company. 2024
While their ownership interest may be nominal in amount, the agent banks may hold a
general partnership, limited liability company membership or trustee interest in the cash
collateral pool. 2025 As part of these arrangements, custodian banks routinely offer
borrower default indemnifications to the securities lender in a securities lending
transactions.
Commenters raised concerns that these indemnification agreements could be
considered a covered transaction prohibited by section 13(f) of the BHC Act. 2026 Since
some cash collateral pools are established outside of the United States, commenters
requested that the final rule permit banking entities to have interests in and relationships
with both U.S. and non-U.S. cash collateral pools. 2027 These commenters suggested that
cash collateral pools be excluded from the definition of covered fund or, in the
alternative, that the Agencies make clear that cash collateral pools managed by agent
banks qualify for the exemption in § __.11 of the proposed rule for organizing and
offering a covered fund and that the prime brokerage exemption from the restrictions of
2024

See RMA.

2025

See RMA.

2026

See State Street; RMA. Commenters also argued that as part of offering pooled cash collateral
management, agent banks have traditionally provided short-term extensions of credit and contractual
income and settlement services to lending clients and cash collateral pools to facilitate trade settlement and
related cash collateral investment activities. See RMA. One commenter further argued that if banks are
required to “outsource” cash collateral pools and/or the related short-term credit services provided to the
pools, “participation in securities lending programs would only be cost effective for the largest lending
clients” and, as a result, “many small and intermediate securities lending clients would be denied the
incremental revenue securities lending can provide”; “securities lending programs could lose significant
diversification in lending clients, lendable assets, borrowers and agent banks”; and, as a result of lost
revenues, “the actual costs of [] custodial or other services provided to clients that no longer participate in
lending would increase.” Id.

2027

See RMA.

632

section 13(f) would permit the indemnification and income or settlement services agent
banks typically provide to the pools. 2028 These commenters also suggested that the
Agencies use their authority under section 13(d)(1)(J) to provide an exemption for
banking entities to continue to have interests in and provide services to these types of
pools. 2029
After carefully considering comments received, the final rule does not provide a
specific exclusion from the definition of covered fund for cash collateral pools. The
Agencies have determined to provide specific exclusions for entities that do not function
as investment funds, consistent with the intent of section 13’s restrictions, or in response
to other unique considerations (e.g., to provide consistent treatment for certain foreign
and domestic pension plans). These considerations do not support a separate exclusion
for cash collateral pools.
The Agencies note, however, that some cash collateral pools may not be covered
funds because they rely on an exclusion from the definition of investment company other
than those contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. 2030
Banking entities may determine to register cash collateral pools with the SEC as
investment companies or to operate them as separate accounts to exclude the pools from
the covered fund definition or, if the pools remain covered funds, to organize and offer
them in compliance with the requirements of § __.11 of the final rule.

2028

See RMA.

2029

See RMA.

2030

For instance, the Agencies understand that a banking entity may set up a cash collateral pool in
reliance on the exclusion contained in section 3(c)(3) of the Investment Company Act, or may be able to
structure these pools as SEC-registered money market funds operated in accordance with rule 2a-7 under
the Investment Company Act.

633

In response to comments received on the proposal, the Agencies note that the
provision of a borrower default indemnification by a banking entity to a lending client in
connection with securities lending transactions involving a covered fund is not a covered
transaction subject to 13(f) or a guarantee of the performance or obligations of a covered
fund prohibited under § __.11 of the final rule. Those restrictions apply to transactions
with the covered fund or guarantees of the covered fund’s performance. Borrower
default indemnifications are provided to the bank’s securities lending customer, not to the
cash collateral pool.
3.

Pass-through REITS
Some banking entities may issue real estate investment trust (“REIT”) preferred

securities to the public directly from a subsidiary that qualifies for the exclusion in
section 3(c)(5) or section 3(c)(6) of the Investment Company Act. These entities would
not be considered a “covered fund” because they may rely on an exclusion from the
definition of an investment company other than the exclusion in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7)
of the Investment Company Act. 2031 However, in order to meet the demands of
customers and avoid undesirable tax consequences, some banking entities structure their
REIT offerings by using a passive, pass-through statutory trust between the banking
entity and the REIT to issue REIT preferred securities to the public. 2032 Because the
pass-through trust holds the preferred securities of the underlying REIT (which would
itself not be a covered fund), as well as provides administrative and ministerial functions
for the REIT (including passing through dividends from the underlying REIT), the pass2031

See PNC.

2032

See PNC.

634

through trust may not itself rely on the exclusion contained in section 3(c)(5) or 3(c)(6)
and, thus, typically relies on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7). 2033
Some commenters urged the Agencies to provide an exclusion for pass-through
REITS from the definition of covered fund. 2034 These commenters argued that because
the pass-through trust exists as a corporate convenience as part of issuing REIT preferred
securities to the banking entity and its customers, it is not the type of entity that the
covered fund prohibition in section 13 of the BHC Act was intended to address. These
commenters also argued that pass-through REITs enable banking entities to offer
preferable tax treatment to holders of the REIT preferred securities and that if passthrough REITs were included as covered funds, because of the limitations on covered
transactions contained in section 13(f), the minority interests in the preferred securities
issued by the REIT would no longer be able to be included in a banking entity’s tier 1
capital, thereby negatively impacting the safety and soundness of the banking entity. 2035
The Agencies are not providing a specific exclusion from the definition of
covered fund for pass-through REITs because the Agencies are concerned that such an
exclusion could enable banking entities to structure non-loan securitization transactions
using a pass-through entity in a manner inconsistent with the final rule’s treatment of
similar vehicles that invest in securities. Furthermore, banking entities have alternative

2033

See ABA (Keating); PNC.

2034

See ABA (Keating); PNC.

2035

See PNC; ABA (Keating). These commenters argued that most REIT preferred securities contain a
conditional exchange provision that allows the primary regulator to direct that the preferred securities be
automatically exchanged for preferred shares of the bank or parent BHC upon occurrence of a conditional
exchange event. Because this arrangement involves the purchase of securities issued by an affiliate or the
purchase of assets, it would be prohibited under section 13(f) of the BHC Act if the pass-through REIT
were a covered fund.

635

manners in which they may issue or hold REIT preferred securities, including through
REITs directly, which do not raise the same concerns about evasion. 2036
4.

Municipal securities tender option bond transactions
The Agencies received a number of comments addressing how the final rule

should treat municipal securities tender option bond vehicles. A number of commenters
argued that issuers of municipal securities tender option bonds would fall under the
definition of covered fund in the proposed rule because these issuers typically rely on the
exclusion contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. 2037
According to commenters, a typical tender option bond transaction consists of the deposit
of a single issue of highly-rated, long-term municipal bonds in a trust and the issuance by
the trust of two classes of securities: a floating rate, puttable security (the “floaters”), and
an inverse floating rate security (the “residual”) with no tranching involved. According
to commenters, the holders of the floaters have the right, generally on a daily or weekly
basis, to put the floaters for purchase at par. The put right is supported by a liquidity
facility delivered by a highly-rated provider (in many cases, the banking entity
sponsoring the trust) and allows the floaters to be treated as a short-term security. The
floaters are in large part purchased and held by money market mutual funds. The residual

2036

The Agencies recognize that banking entities may have relied on pass-through REIT structures to issue
preferred securities in the past and prohibiting such transactions may pose inefficiencies. Furthermore, it
may not be possible to unwind or conform past issuances without significant effort by the banking entity
and negotiation with the holders of the preferred securities. As noted above, in these circumstances, section
13 provides a conformance period which banking entities may take advantage of in order to bring their
activities and investments into compliance with the requirements of section 13 and the final rule.

2037

See, e.g., Ashurst; SIFMA (Municipal Securities) (Feb. 2012); Citigroup (Jan. 2012); Cadwalader
(Municipal Securities); Vanguard; ICI (Feb. 2012); ASF (Feb. 2012); Fidelity; Wells Fargo (Covered
Funds). Commenters also noted that tender option bond programs as currently structured may not meet the
requirements of section 3(a)(5) of the Investment Company Act or rule 3a-7 thereunder, or any other
exclusion or exemption under the Investment Company Act. See Ashurst; RBC; ASF (Feb. 2012).

636

is held by a longer-term investor (in many cases the banking entity sponsoring the trust,
or an insurance company, mutual fund, or hedge fund). According to commenters, the
residual investors take all of the market and structural risk related to the tender option
bonds structure, with the investors in floaters taking only limited, well-defined
insolvency and default risks associated with the underlying municipal bonds generally
equivalent to the risks associated with investing in the municipal bonds directly.
According to commenters, the structure of tender option bond transactions is governed by
certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code in order to preserve the tax-exempt
treatment of the underlying municipal securities.
Many commenters requested a specific exclusion for municipal tender option
bond vehicles from the definition of a covered fund. 2038 These commenters argued that,
without an exclusion from the definition of covered fund, banking entities would be
prohibited from owning or sponsoring tender option bonds and from providing credit
enhancement, liquidity support, remarketing, and other services required in connection
with a tender option bond program. 2039 Commenters argued that tender option bond
vehicles should be excluded because section 13(d)(1)(A) of the BHC Act already allows
banking entities to own and dispose of municipal securities directly, 2040 tender option
bonds are economically similar to repurchase agreements, which are expressly excluded

2038

See, e.g., ASF (Feb. 2012); BDA (Feb. 2012); Eaton Vance; Fidelity; ICI (Feb. 2012); RBC; SIFMA
(Municipal Securities) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (May 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012); Vanguard.

2039

See Ashurst; ASF (Feb. 2012).

2040

See ASF (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Municipal Securities) (Feb. 13, 2012); Citigroup (Jan. 2012). See also
Cadwalader (Municipal Securities) (alleging that the legislative history of section 13 of the BHC Act
suggests that the exemption relating to municipal securities should not be construed to apply only to the
section of the rule pertaining to the proprietary trading prohibitions); BDA (Feb. 2012) (arguing that any
fund or trust the assets of which are entirely invested in any of the obligations that are excluded from the
proprietary trading prohibitions should also be excluded from the definition of covered fund).

637

from the proprietary trading restrictions of the proposed rule, and, because they are safe
and low risk are similar to the types of transactions that the proposed rule would have
exempted. 2041 Commenters also argued that tender option bonds are different from other
covered funds that rely on the exclusion contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the
Investment Company Act 2042 and play an important role in the municipal bond
markets. 2043 Commenters requested that the Agencies use their authority under section
13(d)(1)(J) of the BHC Act to exclude tender option bonds because they argued that
tender option bonds promote the safety and soundness of banking entities and the
financial stability of the United States by providing for a deeper, richer pool of potential
investors, a larger and more liquid market for municipal securities that results in lower
borrowing costs for municipalities and other issuers of municipal securities, and greater
efficiency and risk diversification. 2044 Commenters also suggested a number of other
ways to exclude tender option bonds, including defining ownership interest to exclude
any interest in a tender option bond transaction; 2045 defining banking entity to exclude
tender option bond issuers; 2046 expanding the loan securitization exclusion to include
tender option bond issuers; 2047 and revising the definition of sponsor to exclude sponsors

2041

See, e.g., Ashurst; Cadwalader (Municipal Securities); Eaton Vance; Nuveen Asset Mgmt.; SIFMA
(Municipal Securities) (Feb. 13, 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012); Vanguard; Wells Fargo (Covered Funds);
Citigroup (Jan. 2012).

2042

See, e.g., ASF (Feb. 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012); Citigroup (Jan. 2012); Vanguard; Wells Fargo
(Covered Funds); Cadwalader (Municipal Securities); Ashurst.

2043

See Cadwalader (Municipal Securities); ICI (Feb. 2012); Ashurst; ASF (Feb. 2012).

2044

See Cadwalader (Municipal Securities).

2045

See RBC.

2046

See ICI (Feb. 2012).

2047

See ASF (Feb. 2012).

638

of tender option bond vehicles. 2048 One commenter urged the Commission to consider
amending the exemption under rule 3a-7 under the Investment Company Act or providing
formal guidance regarding the status of tender option bond programs. 2049 In addition,
some commenters requested an exclusion for tender option bond transactions from the
provisions of section 13(f) of the BHC Act. 2050
After carefully considering the comments received, the final rule does not provide
a specific exclusion from the definition of covered fund or from the prohibitions and
requirements of the final rule for tender option bond vehicles. 2051 The Agencies have
determined to provide specific exclusions for entities that they believe fall within the rule
of construction contained in section 13(g)(2) of the BHC Act, which expressly relates to
the sale and securitization of loans, 2052 do not function as investment funds, consistent
with the intent of section 13’s restrictions, or in response to other unique considerations.
The Agencies do not believe that these considerations support a separate exclusion for
tender option bond vehicles, which have municipal securities as underlying assets and not
loans.
The Agencies recognize commenters’ concerns about the treatment of tender
option bonds under the final rule, as discussed above. However, as there is no
corresponding rule of construction in section 13 of the BHC Act for financial instruments
2048

See RBC.

2049

See Ashurst.

2050

See, e.g., RBC; ASF (Mar. 2012); ASF (Feb. 2012).

2051

The Agencies received a variety of requests requesting specific treatment of tender option bond
transactions. See, e.g., supra notes 2045-2050. As discussed above, the Agencies believe that, in light of
the comments received, tender option bond vehicles do not fall within the rule of construction contained in
section 13(g)(2) of the BHC Act and, as a result, the final rule does not provide such treatment.
2052

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(g)(2).

639

other than loans, the Agencies do not believe that the resecuritization of municipal debt
instruments should be treated differently than the resecuritization of other debt
instruments. 2053 Notwithstanding the statutory treatment of municipal securities for
purposes of the proprietary trading restrictions, the Agencies also do not believe that
tender option bond vehicles fall within the rule of construction contained in section
13(g)(2) of the BHC Act, because, in light of commenters’ descriptions of these vehicles,
tender option bond vehicles are more in the nature of other types of bond repackaging
securitizations and other non-excluded securitization vehicles. 2054 The final rule,
however, does not prevent a banking entity from owning or otherwise participating in a
tender option bond vehicle; it requires that these activities be conducted in the same
manner as with other covered funds.
In this regard, under the final rule, a banking entity would need to evaluate
whether a tender option bond vehicle is a covered fund as defined in the final rule. If a
tender option bond vehicle is a covered fund and an exclusion from that definition is not
available, then banking entities sponsoring such a vehicle will be subject to the

2053

For these same reasons, and based on the definitions of sponsor and banking entity in section 13, the
Agencies have not modified those definitions in the final rule to exclude sponsors of tender options bonds
and tender bond issuers, respectively, as some commenters requested. See supra notes 2046 and 2048 and
accompanying text.
2054

Commenters also argued that to the extent tender option bond programs are not excluded from the
definition of covered fund, the definition of ownership interest should exclude any interest in a tender
option bond program (See RBC) or that where a third party owns the residual, the banking entity should not
be treated as having an ownership interest, even when it owns a small interest for tax purposes or becomes
the owner through liquidity or remarketing agreements (See Cadwalader (Municipal Securities)). The
definition of ownership interest in the final rule focuses on the attributes of the interest, as discussed below,
and not the particular type of covered fund involved. The Agencies are not providing separate definitions
of or exclusions from the ownership interest definition based on the type of vehicle or financing involved.
See infra note 2098 and preceding and following text. Banking entities will need to evaluate whether the
interests they may acquire are ownership interests as defined under the final rule.

640

prohibitions in § __.14 of the final rule and the provisions of section 13(f) of the BHC
Act. 2055
As tender option bond vehicles are considered issuers of asset-backed securities
subject to the risk retention requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act, banking
entities may look to the provisions of the final rule governing the limits applicable to
banking entities’ interests in and relationships with those funds. Under the final rule, as
in the statute, a banking entity that conducts the activities described in section 13(f) of the
BHC Act is subject to the restrictions on transactions with a tender option bond vehicle,
including guaranteeing or insuring the performance of the tender option bond vehicle,
contained in section 13(f) of the BHC Act. As a result, a banking entity is not permitted
to provide credit enhancement, liquidity support, and other similar services if it serves in
a capacity covered by section 13(f) with the tender option bond program. 2056 An
unaffiliated third party may provide such services if it does not have a relationship with
the tender option bond vehicle that triggers application of section 13(f). The extent to
which the final rule causes a disruption to the securitization of, and market for, municipal
tender option bonds may also affect the economic burden and effects on the municipal
bond market and its participants, including money market mutual funds 2057 and issuers of
municipal securities. The Agencies recognize that a potential economic burden may be
an increase in financing costs to municipalities as a result of a decrease in demand for the

2055

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(f).

2056

As discussed above, while commenters requested treatment of municipal tender option bond vehicles
that would cause section 13(f) of the BHC Act not to apply to them, the final rule does not exclude these
vehicles from the definition of covered fund or the prohibitions relating to covered funds. As a result,
section 13(f) of the BHC Act will apply to a banking entity that is sponsoring a tender option bond vehicle.

2057

See ASF (Feb. 2012); Nuveen Asset Mgmt.

641

types of municipal securities customarily included in municipal tender option bond
vehicles 2058 and therefore potential effects on the depth and liquidity of the market for
certain types of municipal securities. 2059
5.

Venture capital funds
Some private equity funds that make investments in early-stage start-up

companies or other companies with significant growth potential (“venture capital funds”)
would be investment companies but for the exclusion contained in section 3(c)(1) or
3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. Venture capital funds would therefore qualify as
a covered fund under the proposal. The proposal specifically requested comment on
whether venture capital funds should be excluded from the definition of “covered fund.”
Some commenters argued that venture capital funds should be treated differently
than other covered funds and excluded from the definition. These commenters argued
that, unlike conventional hedge funds and private equity funds, venture capital funds do
not possess high leverage and do not engage in risky trading activities of the type section
13 of the BHC Act was designed to address. 2060 These commenters contended that
investments and relationships by banking entities in venture capital funds would be
consistent with safety and soundness; provide important funding and expertise and other
services to start-up companies; and provide positive benefits to employment, GDP,
growth, and innovation. 2061 These commenters argued that restricting banking entities’

2058

See Ashurst.

2059

See Eaton Vance.

2060

See SVB; NVCA; Rep. Eshoo; Sen. Boxer; Rep. Goodlatte; Rep. Schweikert; Rep. Speier; Rep.
Honda; Rep. Lofgren; Rep. Peters et. al.

2061

See, e.g., NVCA; SVB; Scale.

642

ability to invest in or sponsor venture capital funds would have a negative impact on
companies and the U.S. economy generally. 2062 Some commenters asserted that bank
investments in venture capital funds are important to the success of venture capital, 2063
with some citing a consulting firm’s data indicating that approximately 7 percent of all
venture capital is provided by banks. 2064 One commenter argued, therefore, that
“preventing banks from investing in venture thus could depress U.S. GDP by roughly
1.5% (or $215 billion annually) and eliminate nearly 1% of all U.S. private sector
employment over the long term,” and the funding gap that would result if banks could not
invest in venture capital funds would not be met by other market participants if bank
investments in venture capital were restricted. 2065 Several commenters recommended
that venture capital funds be excluded if they: (i) do not fundamentally engage in
proprietary trading; (ii) do not use leverage to increase investment returns; and (iii)
typically invest in high-growth start-up companies as compared to more mature publicly
traded companies. 2066
Conversely, one commenter alleged that there was no credible way to exclude
venture capital funds without providing a means to circumvent the requirements of

2062

See, e.g., SVB; Scale; Sen. Boxer; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012) (citing a colloquy
between Sen. Dodd and Sen. Boxer supporting an exemption for venture capital funds (156 Cong. Rec.
H5226 (daily ed., June 30, 2010)).

2063

See River Cities; Scale. See also Sofinnova; Canaan (Young); Canaan (Ahrens); Canaan (Kamra);
Mohr Davidow; ATV; BlueRun; Westly; Charles River; Flybridge; SVB.
2064

See, e.g., SVB.

2065

See SVB.

2066

See, e.g., SVB (arguing that the definition of “venture capital fund” in section 203(l)-1 of the
Investment Advisers Act and the SEC’s Form PF reporting requirements for investment advisers to private
funds would be instructive for defining an exclusion for venture capital funds for purposes of section 13 of
the BHC Act).

643

section 13 and the final rule. 2067 Another commenter argued that venture capital funds do
in fact engage in risky activities and that, instead of making investments in venture
capital funds, banking entities may directly extend credit to start-up companies in a safe
and sound manner. 2068
The final rule does not provide an exclusion for venture capital funds. The
Agencies believe that the statutory language of section 13 does not support providing an
exclusion for venture capital funds from the definition of covered fund. Congress
explicitly recognized and treated venture capital funds as a subset of private equity funds
in various parts of the Dodd-Frank Act and accorded distinct treatment for venture capital
fund advisers by exempting them from registration requirements under the Investment
Advisers Act. 2069 This indicates that Congress knew how to distinguish venture capital
funds from other types of private equity funds when it desired to do so. 2070 No such
distinction appears in section 13 of the BHC Act. Because Congress chose to distinguish
between private equity and venture capital in one part of the Dodd-Frank Act, but chose
not to do so for purposes of section 13, the Agencies believe it is appropriate to follow
this Congressional determination.

2067

See Occupy.

2068

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

2069

See S. Rep. No. 111-176, at 71-3 (2010) (“S. Rep. No. 111-176”); H. Rep. No. 111-517, at 866 (2010)
(“H. Rep. No. 111-517”). H. Rep. No. 111-517 contains the conference report accompanying the version
of H.R. 4173 that was debated in conference. See S. Rep. No. 111-176, at 74 (“The Committee believes
that venture capital funds, a subset of private investment funds specializing in long-term equity investment
in small or start-up businesses, do not present the same risks as the large private funds whose advisers are
required to register with the SEC under this title.”). Compare Restoring American Financial Stability Act
of 2010, S. 3217, 111th Cong. § 408 (2010) (as passed by the Senate) with The Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act of 2009, H.R. 4173, 111th Cong. (2009) (as passed by the House) (“H.R. 4173”)
and Dodd-Frank Act (2010).
2070

But See Rep. Honda.

644

In addition to the language of the statute, it appears to the Agencies that the
activities and risk profiles for banking entities regarding sponsorship of, and investment
in, venture capital funds and private equity funds are not readily distinguishable. Many
key structural and operational characteristics of venture capital funds are substantially
similar to those of hedge funds and private equity funds, thereby making it difficult to
define venture capital funds in a manner that would not provide banking entities with an
opportunity to evade the restrictions of section 13 of the BHC Act.
For instance, in addition to relying on the same exemptions under the Securities
Act, 2071 venture capital funds, private equity funds and hedge funds all rely on the
exclusion in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) from the definition of investment company under
the Investment Company Act. Moreover, like private equity funds, venture capital funds
pool funds from multiple investors and invest those funds in interests of portfolio
companies for the purpose of profiting from the resale of those interests. Indeed, funds
that are called “venture capital funds” may invest in the very same entities and to the
same extent as do funds that call themselves private equity funds. Venture capital funds,
like private equity funds, also typically charge incentive compensation to fund investors
based on the price appreciation achieved on the investments held by the fund and provide
a return of principal plus gains at specific times during the limited life of the fund. Not
including venture capital funds in the definition of covered fund, therefore, could allow
banking entities, either directly or indirectly, to engage in the type of activities section 13
was designed to address.

2071

These funds all typically offer their shares on an unregistered basis in reliance on section 4(a)(2) of the
Securities Act of 1933 or Regulation D thereunder.

645

While the final rule does not provide a separate exclusion for venture capital
funds from the definition of covered fund, the Agencies recognize that certain venture
capital investments by banking entities provide capital and funding to nascent or earlystage companies and small businesses and also may provide these companies expertise
and other services. 2072 Other provisions of the final rule or the statute may facilitate, or at
least not impede, other forms of investing that may provide the same or similar benefits.
For example, in addition to permitting a banking entity to organize and offer a covered
fund in section 13(d)(1)(G), section 13 of the BHC Act does not prohibit a banking
entity, to the extent otherwise permitted under applicable law, from making a venture
capital-style investment in a company or business so long as that investment is not
through or in a covered fund, such as through a direct investment made pursuant to
merchant banking authority2073 or through business development companies which are
not covered funds and, like venture capital funds, often invest in small, early-stage
companies. 2074
Thus, to the extent that banking entities are required to reduce their investments in
venture capital funds, certain of these investments may be redirected to the types of

2072

As noted above, some commenters quantified the importance of banking entities to the provision of
venture capital by providing information indicating that approximately 7 percent of all venture capital is
provided by banks. See, e.g., SVB (citing The Venture Capital Industry: A Preqin Special Report,
published by Preqin, Ltd. (Oct. 2010)). The 7% estimate commenters identified includes information on
investors based in North America, Europe, and Asia; thus, although potentially indicative of the extent of
venture capital investing by banking entities in venture capital funds, the estimate does not specifically
address the proportion of investment by banking entities in venture capital funds that are covered funds, as
those terms are defined in the final rule.
2073

See 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(H); 12 CFR 225.170 et seq.

2074

See 15 U.S.C. 80a-54. Companies that have elected to be treated as a business development company
are subject to limits under the Investment Company Act, including: (i) limits on how much debt the
business development company may incur; (ii) prohibitions on certain affiliated transactions; (iii)
regulation and examination by the SEC; and (iv) registration and filing requirements.

646

entities in which venture capital funds invest through alternative means. To the extent
that banking entities may reduce their investments in venture capital funds that are
covered funds, the potential funding gap for venture capital funds may also be offset, in
whole or in part, by investments from firms that are not banking entities and thus not
subject to section 13’s restrictions.
6.

Credit funds
Several commenters requested that the final rule explicitly exclude from the

definition of covered fund entities that are generally formed as partnerships with thirdparty capital and invest in loans or make loans or otherwise extend the type of credit that
banks are authorized to undertake on their own balance sheet (“credit funds”). 2075 Two
commenters contended that the language of section 13(g)(2) indicates that Congress did
not intend section 13 of the BHC Act to limit a banking entity’s ability to extend
credit. 2076 They argued that lending is a fundamental banking activity, whether
accomplished through direct loans or through a fund structure. These commenters argued
that credit funds functioned like syndicated loans that enable borrowers to secure credit
during periods of market distress and reduce the concentration of risk for both individual
banking entities and the banking system as a whole.
Commenters suggested different approaches for excluding credit funds from the
definition of covered fund. One commenter recommended excluding an entity that would

2075

See, e.g., Goldman (Covered Funds); ABA (Keating); Credit Suisse (Williams); Comm. on Capital
Markets Regulation; Chamber (Feb. 2012).

2076

See ABA (Keating); Goldman (Covered Funds).

647

otherwise be a covered fund if more than 50 percent of its assets consist of loans. 2077
Another commenter proposed defining a credit fund as an entity that met a number of
criteria designed to ensure the entity only held loans or otherwise engaged in prudent
lending activity. 2078 Another commenter requested that the Agencies use their authority
under section 13(d)(1)(J) to permit a banking entity to sponsor, invest in, or enter into
covered transactions with related credit funds that are covered funds. 2079
The Agencies, however, are unable effectively to distinguish credit funds from
other types of private equity funds or hedge funds in a manner that would give effect to
the language and purpose of section 13 and not raise concerns about banking entities
being able to evade the requirements of section 13. Moreover, the Agencies also believe
that the final rule largely addresses commenters’ concerns in other ways because some
credit funds may be able to rely on another exclusion from the definition of covered fund
in the final rule such as the exclusion for joint ventures or the exclusion, discussed above,
for loan securitizations. To the extent that a credit fund may rely on another exclusion
from the definition of covered fund, it would not be a covered fund under section 13 of
the BHC Act.
7.

Employee securities companies
Several commenters argued that employee securities companies (“ESCs”) should

be explicitly excluded from the definition of covered fund. 2080 One commenter alleged

2077

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

2078

See Goldman (Covered Funds).

2079

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); See also. ABA (Keating); Chamber (Feb. 2012).

2080

See, e.g., ABA (Keating), Credit Suisse (Williams), Arnold & Porter (as it relates to commodity pools).
Section 2(a)(13) of the Investment Company Act generally defines an ESC as “any investment company or

648

that, though many ESCs could qualify for the exemption in section 6(b) of the Investment
Company Act, they often opt to rely on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) instead due to the fact
that the section 6(b) exemption is available only upon application to the SEC. 2081
According to this commenter, the limitations contained in section 13 on employee
investments and intercompany transactions with covered funds would severely limit the
ability of a banking entity to design competitive employee compensation
arrangements. 2082 This commenter also argued that an exclusion should be provided for
any investment vehicle that satisfies the definition of an ESC under section 2(a)(13) of
the Investment Company Act.
After considering carefully the comments received on the proposed rule, the final
rule does not provide a specific exclusion for ESCs because the Agencies believe that
these vehicles may avoid being a covered fund by either complying with the conditions of
another exclusion from the definition of covered fund or seeking and receiving an
exemption available under section 6(b) of the Investment Company Act. As such, the
Agencies believe a banking entity has a reasonable alternative to design competitive
employee compensation arrangements. The Agencies recognize that preparing an
application under section 6(b) of the Investment Company Act or modifying an ESC’s
activities to meet the terms of another exclusion from the covered fund definition is not
without costs, but have determined to provide specific exclusions for entities that do not
similar issuer all of the outstanding securities of which (other than short-term paper) are beneficially
owned” by employees and certain related persons (e.g., employees’ immediate family members).
2081

Section 6(b) of the Investment Company Act provides, in part, that “[u]pon application by any
employees' security company, the Commission shall by order exempt such company from the provisions of
this title and of the rules and regulations hereunder, if and to the extent that such exemption is consistent
with the protection of investors.”

2082

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

649

function as investment funds, consistent with the purpose of section 13, or in response to
other unique considerations (e.g., to provide consistent treatment for certain foreign and
domestic pension plans). These considerations do not support a separate exclusion for
ESCs.
The Agencies also note that non-qualified plans are not exempt from the
Investment Company Act under 3(c)(11) and thus would be covered funds if they are
operating in reliance on section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. Some
of these non-qualified plans may be formed as employees’ securities companies,
however, and could qualify for an exemption under section 6(b) of the Investment
Company Act for employees’ securities companies as discussed above.
e.

Definition of “Ownership Interest”
The proposed rule defined “ownership interest” in a covered fund to mean any
equity, partnership, or other similar interest (including, without limitation, a share, equity
security, warrant, option, general partnership interest, limited partnership interest,
membership interest, trust certificate, or other similar instrument) in a covered fund,
whether voting or nonvoting, as well as any derivative of such an interest. 2083 This
definition focused on the attributes of the interest and whether it provided a banking
entity with economic exposure to the profits and losses of the covered fund, rather than
its form. The proposal thus would also have included a debt security or other interest in a
covered fund as an ownership interest if it exhibited substantially the same characteristics
as an equity or other ownership interest (e.g., provides the holder with voting rights, the

2083

See proposed rule § __.10(b)(3).

650

right or ability to share in the covered fund’s profits or losses, or the ability, directly or
pursuant to a contract or synthetic interest, to earn a return based on the performance of
the fund’s underlying holdings or investments). 2084 As described further below, the
proposed rule excluded carried interest (termed “restricted profit interest” in the final
rule) from the definition of ownership interest.
Many commenters argued that the proposed definition of ownership interest was
too broad and urged excluding one or more types of interests from the definition. A
number of commenters raised concerns regarding the difficulty of applying the ownership
interest definition to securitization structures and questioned whether the definition of
ownership interest might apply to a debt security issued by, or a debt interest in, a
covered fund that has some characteristics similar to an equity or other ownership
interest. 2085 One commenter argued that the ownership interest definition should not
include debt instruments with equity features unless the Agencies determine with respect
to a particular debt instrument, after appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing, that
the equity features are so pervasive that the debt instrument is the functional equivalent of
an equity interest or partnership interest and was structured to evade the prohibitions and

2084

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,897.

2085

See AFME et al.; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); ASF (Feb. 2012); BoA; Cadwalader (Municipal Securities);
Credit Suisse (Williams); Deutsche Bank (Repackaging Transactions); Occupy; RBC; SIFMA et al.
(Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012); TCW. For example, securitization
structures generally provide that either the most senior or the most junior tranche notes have controlling
voting rights. One commenter argued that under the proposed ownership interest definition, a banking
entity could be deemed to have an ownership interest in an entity it does not own or sponsor simply due to
its obtaining voting rights. See ASF (Feb. 2012). As a further example, one commenter alleged that
securitization structures generally are not viewed as providing economic exposure to the profits and losses
of the issuer in the same manner as equity interests in hedge funds and private equity funds. This
commenter argued that the ownership interest definition should include only those interests that permit the
banking entity to share without limit in the profits and losses or that earn a return that is based on the
performance of the underlying assets. See SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

651

restrictions in the proposal. 2086 Several commenters argued that the Agencies should
explicitly exclude certain debt instruments with equity features from the ownership
interest definition. 2087 Finally, certain commenters argued that, because the application
of the ownership interest definition to securitization structures was problematic,
alternative regulatory treatment was appropriate. 2088
One commenter expressed concern over the proposal’s inclusion of “derivatives”
of ownership interests in the definition of ownership interest and recommended certain
derivative interests of ownership interests in hedge funds and private equity funds not be
included within the definition of ownership interest. 2089 This commenter also

2086

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2087

See AFME et al.; ASF (Feb. 2012); BoA; Cadwalader (Municipal Securities); RBC; SIFMA
(Securitization) (Feb. 2012). These commenters argued that the ownership interest definition should not
include tender option bond programs and other debt asset-backed securities. Two of these commenters
argued that debt asset-backed securities should not be viewed as ownership interests because: (i) they are
not typically viewed as having economic exposure to profits and losses of an ABS Issuer; (ii) they have a
limited life, periodic fixed or fluctuating cumulative payments, and are senior to equity of the issuer should
the issuer fail; (iii) they do not have perpetual life with broad voting rights, appreciation in the market value
of the issuer and non-cumulative dividends, and subordination to the claims of debt holders if the issuer
fails; and (iv) their limited voting rights (such as the rights to replace a servicer or manager) and such rights
are protective in nature and similar to voting rights that accompany securities traditionally classified by the
Agencies as debt securities (including securities formally structured as equity). See AFME et al.; SIFMA
(Securitization) (Feb. 2012). One of these commenters argued that the ownership interest definition should
be limited to those interests that share in the profits or losses of the relevant entity on an unlimited basis or
that otherwise earn a return that is specifically based upon the performance of the underlying assets because
the senior tranche in an asset-based securities transaction often has substantial voting rights and banking
entities should not be penalized for requiring or otherwise obtaining voting rights that protect their
interests. This commenter also expressed the view that banking entities should not be restricted from
owning debt classes of new asset-backed securities because “doing so would substantially constrict the
market for asset-backed securities.” See ASF (Feb. 2012).
2088

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams); Occupy. One of these commenters argued that
any general statement about what instruments would be considered an “ownership interest” for purposes of
securitization structures would be problematic and easy to evade because transaction documents underlying
securitization structures are not standardized. This commenter suggested as an alternative using a safe
harbor for standardized, pre-specified securitization structures. See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012). Another of
these commenters argued that “it is difficult to characterize holders of ABS securities in most securitization
structures as having ‘ownership interests’ in any common understanding of the term” and the concept of
ownership interest is a “poor fit for the securitization market, underscoring the benefits of excluding
securitization issuers from the definition of covered fund entirely.” See Credit Suisse (Williams).

2089

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

652

recommended that the Agencies expressly exclude from the definition of ownership
interest lending arrangements with a covered fund that contain protective covenants
linking the interest rate on the loan to the profits of the borrowing fund. 2090
As discussed in detail below, the Agencies are adopting the definition of
“ownership interest” largely as proposed but clarifying the scope of that definition,
including with respect to the inclusion of interests that are linked to profits and losses of a
covered fund and the exclusion for a restricted profit interest in a covered fund. 2091 The
definition is centered on equity interests, partnership interests, membership interests, trust
certificates, and similar interests, and would not generally cover typical extensions of
credit the terms of which provide for payment of stated principal and interest calculated
at a fixed rate or at a floating rate based on an index or interbank rate. However, as under
the proposal, to the extent that a debt security or other interest in a covered fund exhibits
specified characteristics that are similar to those of equity or other ownership interests
(e.g., provides the holder with the ability to participate in the election or removal of a
party with investment discretion, the right or ability to share in the covered fund’s profits
or losses, or the ability, directly or pursuant to a contract or synthetic interest, to earn a
return based on the performance of the fund’s underlying holdings or investments), the
instrument would be an ownership interest under the final rule.

2090

See Credit Suisse (Williams) (arguing that such arrangements are a fundamental part of a bank’s
lending activities).

2091

See final rule § __.10(d)(6 ). The concept of a restricted profit share was referred to as “carried
interest” in the proposed rule, a term that is often used as a generic reference to performance-based
allocations or compensation. The Agencies have instead used the term “restricted profit interest” in the
final rule to avoid any confusion that could result from using a term that is also used in other contexts. The
final rule focuses only on whether a profit interest is excluded from the definition of ownership interest
under section 13, and the final rule does not address in any way the treatment of such profit interests under
other laws, including under Federal income tax law.

653

In response to commenters and in order to provide clarity about the types of
interests that would be considered within the scope of ownership interest, the Agencies
have revised the definition of “ownership interest” to define the term more clearly. The
Agencies are not explicitly excluding or including debt securities, instruments or interests
with equity features as requested by some commenters, but are instead identifying certain
specific characteristics that would cause a particular interest, regardless of the name or
legal form of that interest, to be included within the definition of ownership interest. The
Agencies believe that this elaboration on the characteristics of an ownership interest will
enable parties, including securitization structures, to more easily analyze whether their
interest is an ownership interest, regardless of the type of legal entity or the name of the
particular interest.
As adopted, the final rule provides that an ownership interest would be any
interest in or security issued by a covered fund that exhibits any of the following features
or characteristics on a current, future, or contingent basis: 2092
•

has the right to participate in the selection or removal of a general partner,
managing member, member of the board of directors or trustees, investment
manager, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor of the covered fund.
For purposes of the rule, this would not include the rights of a creditor to exercise
remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or similar rights arising due
to an acceleration event;

2092

Each of these factors are designed to clarify the interests identified in the proposed definition of
ownership interest as noted above.

654

•

has the right under the terms of the interest to receive a share of the income, gains
or profits of the covered fund. This would apply regardless of whether the right is
pro rata with other owners or holders of interests; 2093

•

has the right to receive the underlying assets of the covered fund, after all other
interests have been redeemed and/or paid in full (commonly known as the
“residual” in securitizations). For purposes of the rule, this would not include the
rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default
or similar rights arising due to an acceleration event;

•

has the right to receive all or a portion of excess spread (the positive difference, if
any, between the aggregate interest payments received from the underlying assets
of the covered fund and the aggregate interest paid to the holders of other
outstanding interests); 2094

•

provides that the amounts payable by the covered fund with respect to the interest
could, under the terms of the interest, be reduced based on losses arising from the
underlying assets of the covered fund, such as allocation of losses, write-downs or
charge-offs of the outstanding principal balance, or reductions in the amount of
interest due and payable on the interest; 2095

2093

This characteristic exists for both multi-class and single-class covered funds. In the context of an
entity that issues shares, this right could cover, for example, common shares, as well as preferred shares the
dividend payments of which are determined by reference to the performance of the covered fund.
2094

The reference to “all or a portion of excess spread” is meant to include within the definition of
ownership interest the right to receive any excess spread which remains after the excess spread is used to
pay expenses, maintain credit enhancement such as overcollateralization or is otherwise reduced.

2095

This characteristic does not refer to any reduction in the stated claim to principal or interest of a holder
of an interest that occurs either as a result of a bona fide subsequent renegotiation of the terms of an interest
or as a result of a bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar proceeding.

655

•

receives income on a pass-through basis from the covered fund, or has a rate of
return that is determined by reference to the performance of the underlying assets
of the covered fund. 2096 This provision would not include an interest that is
entitled to receive dividend amounts calculated at a fixed or at a floating rate
based on an index or interbank rate such as LIBOR; or

•

any synthetic right to have, receive or be allocated any of the rights above. This
provision would not permit banking entities to obtain synthetic or derivative
exposure to any of the characteristics identified above in order to avoid being
considered to have an ownership interest in the covered fund.
This definition of “ownership interest” is intended to address commenters’

concerns regarding the applicability of the ownership interest definition to different types
of interests. The Agencies believe defining “ownership interest” in this way will allow
existing as well as potential holders of interests in covered funds, including
securitizations, to effectively determine whether they have an ownership interest. As an
example, this definition would include preferred stock, as well as a lending arrangement
with a covered fund in which the interest or other payments are calculated by reference to
the profits of the fund. As a contrasting example, the Agencies believe that a loan that
provides for a step-up in interest rate margin when a covered fund has fallen below or
breached a NAV trigger or other negotiated covenant would not generally be an
ownership interest. Banking entities will be expected to evaluate the specific terms of
their interests to determine whether any of the specified characteristics exist. In this
2096

This provision is not intended to encompass derivative transactions entered into in connection with
typical prime brokerage activities of banking entities. However, the activities of banking entities are
subject to the anti-evasion provisions.

656

manner, the Agencies believe that the definition of ownership interest in the final rule is
clearer than under the proposal and thus should be less burdensome for banking entities
in their determination of whether certain rights would cause an interest to be an
ownership interest for purposes of compliance with the rule.
As indicated above, many commenters on securitizations under the proposed rule
made arguments regarding the difficulty of applying the proposal’s definition of
ownership interest to securitization structures, contending that the definition should not
include debt instruments with equity features, or that the final rule should provide a safe
harbor under which the use of a standardized, pre-specified securitization structure would
not give rise to an ownership interest. 2097 The Agencies are not adopting a separate
definition of ownership interest for securitization transactions, providing for differing
treatment of financial instruments, or providing a safe harbor as requested by some
commenters. The revised definition of ownership interest will apply regardless of the
type of legal entity or the name or legal form of the particular interest. The determination
of whether an interest is an ownership interest under the final rule will depend on the
features and characteristics of the particular interest, including the rights the particular
interest provides its holder, including not only voting rights but also the right to receive a
share of the income, gains, or profits of a covered fund, the right to receive a residual, the
right to receive excess spread, and any synthetic or derivative that would provide similar
rights. While some commenters argued that securities issued in asset-backed securities
transactions and by tender option bond issuers should not be viewed as ownership
interests due to the nature of the securities issued or the possible lack of exposure to
2097

See supra note 2085.

657

profits and losses, 2098 the Agencies do not believe that the type of covered fund involved
or the type of security issued is an appropriate basis for determining whether there is an
ownership interest for purposes of the restrictions contained in section 13(a)(1)(B) of the
BHC Act. The Agencies believe that making distinctions in the definition of ownership
interest based on the type of entity or the type of security, in which many of the same
rights exist as for other types of ownership interests, would not be consistent with the
statutory restrictions on ownership. Similarly, while some commenters argued that
including a safe harbor for standardized securitization structures would be more effective
in identifying an ownership interest in securitizations, the Agencies believe that the type
of interest and the rights associated with the interest are more appropriate to determine
whether an interest is an ownership interest and is necessary to avoid potential evasion of
the ownership restrictions contained in section 13 of the BHC Act.
The Agencies understand that the definition of ownership interest in the final rule
may include interests in a covered fund that might not be considered an ownership
interest or equity interest in other contexts. For instance, it may include loans with an
interest rate determined by reference to the performance of a covered fund or senior debt
interests issued in a securitization. While the definition of ownership interest may affect
the ability of a banking entity to hold such interests, whether existing or in the future, the
Agencies believe that the definition of ownership interest as adopted in the final rule is
more effective in preventing possible evasion of section 13 by capturing interests that
may be characterized as debt but confer benefits of ownership, including voting rights
and/or the ability to participate in profits or losses of the covered fund.
2098

See supra note 2087.

658

The definition of ownership interest in the final rule, like the proposed rule,
includes derivatives of the interests described above. Derivatives of ownership interests
provide holders with economic exposure to the profits and losses of the covered fund or
an ability to earn a return based on the performance of the fund’s underlying holdings or
investments in a manner substantially similar to an ownership interest. The Agencies
believe the final rule’s approach appropriately addresses the statutory purpose to limit a
banking entity’s economic exposure to covered funds, irrespective of the legal form,
name, or issuer of that ownership interest.
As noted above, the proposed definition of ownership interest did not include
carried interest (termed “restricted profit interest” in the final rule). The proposal
recognized that many banking entities that serve as investment adviser or provide other
services to a covered fund are routinely compensated for services they provide to the fund
through receipt of carried interest. As a result, the proposed rule provided that an
ownership interest with respect to a covered fund did not include an interest held by a
banking entity (or an affiliate, subsidiary or employee thereof) in a covered fund for
which the banking entity (or an affiliate, subsidiary or employee thereof) served as
investment manager, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor, so long as certain
enumerated conditions were met. 2099
The enumerated conditions contained in the proposal were designed to narrow the
scope of the exclusion of carried interest from the definition of “ownership interest” so as
to distinguish between an investor’s economic risks and a service provider’s
performance-based compensation. This was designed to limit the ability of a banking
2099

See proposed rule § __.10(b)(3)(ii).

659

entity to structure carried interest in a manner that would evade section 13’s restriction on
the amount of ownership interests a banking entity may have as an investment in a
covered fund.
Commenters disagreed over whether the definition of ownership interest should
exclude carried interest. For instance, some commenters did not support excluding
carried interest from the definition of ownership interest, arguing that such an exclusion
was too permissive and inconsistent with the statute because, for instance, carried interest
derives its value in part by tracking gains on price movements of investments by the
fund. 2100 One commenter argued that, despite the fact that carried interest is typically
provided as compensation for services provided to a fund, carried interest is a form of
investment and therefore should be included as an ownership interest. 2101 Another
commenter argued that permitting banking entities to hold an unrestricted amount of
carried interest could create an indirect and undesirable link between prohibited
proprietary trading and covered fund activities. 2102 These commenters also argued that
treating carried interest as compensation for providing services would be inconsistent
with the manner in which carried interest is treated for tax purposes. 2103
Other commenters, however, supported excluding carried interest from the
definition of an ownership interest and argued the exclusion was consistent with the
words and purpose of section 13. 2104 One commenter argued that carried interest is

2100

See, e.g., Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

2101

See Public Citizens; See also Occupy.

2102

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

2103

See Occupy; Public Citizens; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

2104

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); TCW; Credit Suisse (Williams); SVB.

660

readily distinguished from an investment in a covered fund because carried interest
normally does not expose a banking entity to a covered fund’s losses (other than in
limited instances such as when a “clawback” provision is triggered). 2105 Another
commenter argued that permitting a banking entity to receive carried interest without
being subject to the requirements of section 13 regarding ownership interests better aligns
the interest of the investment manager with that of the fund and its investors. 2106 Another
commenter supported expanding the definition of carried interest to include an interest
received by a banking entity in return for qualifying services (e.g., lending, placement,
distribution, or equity financing) provided to the investment manager of the fund, but not
directly provided to the fund itself. 2107
The proposal established four criteria that must be met in order for carried interest
to be excluded from the definition of ownership interest. First, the proposal required that
carried interest have the sole purpose and effect of permitting the banking entity or an
employee thereof to share in the covered fund’s profits as performance compensation for
services provided to the fund. While most commenters did not object to this criterion,
one commenter argued that the wording of this approach would appear to prohibit an
employee of the banking entity from retaining a carried interest after the employee has
changed employment. 2108 This commenter argued that the determination of the carried
interest’s purpose should be made only at the time the interest is granted, thereby
enabling an employee to retain the carried interest if and when the employee no longer
2105

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

2106

See TCW.

2107

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

2108

See TCW.

661

provides investment management, investment advisory, or similar services to the fund or
is no longer employed at the banking entity.
Second, the proposal required that carried interest, once allocated, be distributed
to the banking entity promptly after it is earned or, if not so distributed, not share in the
subsequent profits and losses of the covered fund. One commenter urged the Agencies to
allow the “reserve” portion of carried interest that for tax purposes is allocated to the
investment manager or investment adviser, but invested alongside the fund and not
formally allocated or distributed by the fund, also to qualify for the exclusion as carried
interest. 2109 This commenter also suggested that this criterion should not affect the
common European structure in which allocated carried interest may share in the
subsequent losses, but not the profits, of the fund.
Third, under the proposal a banking entity (including its affiliates or employees)
was not permitted to provide funds to the covered fund in connection with receiving a
carried interest. The proposal specifically requested comment on whether the exemption
for carried interest, including this requirement, was consistent with the current tax
treatment and requirements of carried interest arrangements. 2110 Commenters urged the
Agencies to relax or amend this criterion so that banking entities, including their affiliates
and employees, whether directly or indirectly through a fund vehicle, would be permitted
to make minimal capital contributions to the fund (typically less than 1 percent) in
connection with the receipt of carried interest to the extent that such contributions

2109

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

2110

Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,899.

662

provide the basis for treating the interest as carried interest for tax purposes. 2111
However, these commenters supported the proposal’s requirement that any amount
contributed by a banking entity in connection with receiving a carried interest should be
aggregated with the banking entity’s ownership interests for purposes of the 3 percent
investment limits.
Fourth, the proposal provided that carried interest may not be transferable by the
banking entity (or the affiliate, subsidiary or employee thereof) except to another affiliate
or subsidiary of the banking entity. Commenters generally urged removing the
proposal’s limitations on transferability and argued, among other things, that this
criterion could prevent a banking entity (or its affiliate or employee) from transferring the
carried interest in connection with selling or otherwise transferring the provision of
advisory or other services that gave rise to the carried interest. 2112 Similarly, one
commenter argued that the final rule should not require carried interest to be recharacterized as an ownership interest if it is transferred among employees, family
members of employees or to estate planning vehicles upon an employee’s death. 2113
After considering carefully comments received on the proposal, the Agencies
have determined to retain in the final rule the exclusion from the definition of “ownership
interest” for a restricted profit interest (termed “carried interest” in the proposed rule 2114)
largely as provided in the proposed rule. The final rule, like the proposal, recognizes that
banking entities that serve as investment adviser or provide other services to a covered
2111

See TCW; SIFMA (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams).

2112

See ASF (Feb. 2012); See also Credit Suisse (Williams); SVB.

2113

See TCW.

2114

See supra note 2091 and accompanying text.

663

fund are routinely compensated for such services through receipt of a restricted profit
interest. The final rule, also like the proposal, generally excludes restricted profit interest
from the definition of ownership interest subject to conditions designed to distinguish
restricted profit interest, which serves as a form of compensation, from an investment in
the fund prohibited (or limited) by section 13. As explained in detail below, the
definition of restricted profit interest in the final rule has been modified from the proposal
in several aspects to respond to commenters’ concerns and to more effectively capture the
types of compensation that is often granted in exchange for services provided to a fund.
However, like the proposal, the final rule continues to contain a number of requirements
designed to ensure that restricted profit interest functions as compensation for providing
certain services to a covered fund and does not permit a banking entity to evade the
investment limitations or other requirements of section 13.
Under the final rule, restricted profit interest is defined to include an interest held
by an entity (or employee or former employee thereof) that serves as investment
manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or other service provider so
long as:
(i) the sole purpose and effect of the interest is to allow the entity (or an
employee or former employee thereof) to share in the profits of the covered
fund as performance compensation for the investment management,
investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services provided
to the covered fund by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof),
provided that the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) may be
obligated under the terms of such interest to return profits previously received;
(ii) all such profit, once allocated, is distributed to the entity (or employee or
former employee thereof) promptly after being earned or, if not so distributed,
is retained by the covered fund for the sole purpose of establishing a reserve
amount to satisfy contractual obligations with respect to subsequent losses of
the covered fund and such undistributed profit of the entity (or employee or

664

former employee thereof) does not share in subsequent investment gains of
the covered fund;
(iii)any amounts invested in the covered fund, including any amounts paid by the
entity (or employee or former employee thereof) in connection with obtaining
the restricted profit interest, are within the investment limitations of § __.12;
and
(iv) the interest is not transferable by the entity (or employee or former employee
thereof) except to an affiliate thereof (or an employee of the banking entity or
affiliate), to immediate family members, or through the intestacy of the
employee or former employee, or in connection with a sale of the business
that gave rise to the restricted profit interest by the entity (or employee or
former employee thereof) to an unaffiliated party that provides investment
management, investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other
services to the fund. 2115
The final rule, like the proposal, permits any entity (or the affiliate or employee thereof)
to receive or hold restricted profit interest if the entity (or the affiliate or employee
thereof) serves as investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor,
or other service provider to the covered fund. For example, an entity that provides
services to the covered fund in a capacity as sub-adviser or placement agent would be
eligible to receive or hold restricted profit interest.
As requested by commenters, the first condition in the final rule, in contrast to the
proposal, permits an employee or former employee to retain a restricted profit interest
after a change in employment status so long as the restricted profit interest was originally
received as compensation for qualifying services provided to the covered fund.
Also in response to issues raised by commenters, the second condition in the final
rule has been modified to permit so-called “clawback” features whereby restricted profit
interest that has been provided to an investment manager, investment adviser, commodity

2115

See final rule § __.10(d)(6)(ii).

665

trading advisor, or similar service provider may be taken back if certain subsequent
events occur, such as if the fund fails to achieve a specified preferred rate of return or if
liabilities or subsequent losses are incurred by the fund. Under these circumstances, the
Agencies believe it is appropriate to allow the allocated but undistributed profits to be
clawed back from the service provider’s performance compensation, and the final rule
has been amended to allow this practice. The final rule makes clear, however, that the
undistributed profits may only be held in the fund in connection with such a clawback
arrangement. Undistributed profits that remain in the covered fund after they have been
allocated without connection to such an arrangement would be deemed to be an
investment in the fund and would be an ownership interest under the final rule.
Importantly, the final rule also retains the limitation in the proposal that undistributed
profit may not share in subsequent investment gains of the covered fund. This limitation
(together with the limited circumstances under which the undistributed profit may be
retained in the fund) appears necessary in order to distinguish restricted profit interest,
which functions as performance compensation and is not intended to be a form of
investment, from an ownership interest, which is designed to be an investment. The
Agencies believe that this approach achieves an appropriate balance between
accommodating receipt of restricted profit interest, including such amounts held in
“reserve,” 2116 and limiting the ability of a banking entity to evade the investment
limitations of section 13. The Agencies expect to review restricted profit interests to

2116

The Agencies believe that this addresses a commenter’s concern regarding the “reserve” portion of
carried interest discussed above; however such amounts may not share in subsequent investment gains of
the covered fund for the reasons also discussed above.

666

ensure banking entities do not use the exclusion for restricted profit interest in a manner
that functions as an evasion of section 13.
As noted above, the Agencies understand that entities that provide investment
management, investment advisory, commodity trading advisory or other services to a
covered fund may, in connection with receiving restricted profit interest, be required to
hold a small amount of ownership interests in a fund to provide the basis for desired tax
treatment of restricted profit interest. Accordingly, the third condition of the final rule
allows an entity that provides qualifying services to a fund to contribute funds to, and
have an ownership interest in, the fund in connection with receiving restricted profit
interest. As under the proposal, the amount of the contribution must be counted toward
the investment limits under section 13(d)(4) and § __.12 of the final rule. This would
include attribution to the banking entity of sums invested by employees in connection
with obtaining a restricted profit interest. Thus, the final rule permits a banking entity
that provides investment management, investment advisory, or commodity trading
advisory services to have both an ownership interest in, and receive restricted profit
interest from, the covered fund, so long as the aggregate of the sums invested in all
ownership interests acquired or retained by the banking entity (including a general
partnership interest), either in connection with receiving the restricted profit interest or as
an investment, are within the investment limitations in section 13(d)(4) and § __.12 of the
final rule. The Agencies believe this more appropriately implements the requirements of
section 13 of the BHC Act by permitting banking entities to continue to provide
customer-driven investment management services through organizing and offering
covered funds, while also abiding by the investment limitations of section 13.

667

In response to comments, the fourth condition of the final rule permits the transfer
of a restricted profit interest in connection with a sale to an unaffiliated party that
provides investment management, investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or
other services to the fund. In response to comments, the final rule also permits the
transfer of a restricted profit interest to immediate family members of the banking
entity’s employees or former employees that provide investment management,
investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the covered fund,
or in connection with the death of such employee. Also in response to comments, the
final rule permits the transfer of a restricted profit interest to an affiliate or employee that
provides investment management, investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or
other services to the covered fund. However, the final rule, like the proposed rule, would
treat a restricted profit interest as an ownership interest if the restricted profit interest is
otherwise transferable. This remaining restriction recognizes that a freely transferable
restricted profit interest has the same economic benefits as an ownership interest and is
essential to differentiating a restricted profit interest from an ownership interest.
f.

Definition of “Resident of the United States”
Section 13(d)(1)(I) of the BHC Act provides that a foreign banking entity may
acquire or retain an ownership interest in or act as sponsor to a covered fund, but only if
that activity is conducted according to the requirements of the statute, including that no
ownership interest in the covered fund is offered for sale or sold to a “resident of the
United States.” The statute does not define this term.
Under the proposed rule, the term “resident of the United States” was used in the
context of the exemptions for covered trading and covered fund activities. As proposed,

668

the definition of resident of the United States was similar, but not identical, to the SEC’s
definition of U.S. person in Regulation S, which governs offerings of securities outside of
the United States. 2117 The Agencies proposed this approach in order to promote
consistency and understanding among market participants that have experience with the
concept from the SEC’s Regulation S.
Some commenters supported the proposed definition of resident of the United
States. 2118 One commenter suggested that the proposed rule defined resident of the
United States too broadly and inappropriately precluded investments in U.S. funds by
foreign banking entities. 2119
Other commenters generally argued that the final rule should adopt the definition
of “U.S. person” under the SEC’s Regulation S without the modifications in the proposed
rule. 2120 According to many commenters, market participants are familiar with and rely
upon the body of law interpreting U.S. Person under Regulation S. 2121 They argued that,
to the extent that the definitions of “resident of the United States” under section 13 and
“U.S. person” under Regulation S differ, this would create unnecessary uncertainty and
increase compliance burdens associated with monitoring multiple definitions. 2122 Other
commenters urged the Agencies not to depart from the treatment of international parties
2117

See proposed rule § __.2(t); 17 CFR 230.901 – 230.905.

2118

See, e.g., Occupy.

2119

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012) (citing 156 Cong. Rec. S5897 (daily ed. July 15, 2010)
(statement of Sen. Merkley)).

2120

See, e.g., Union Asset; EFAMA; BVI; AFME et al.; IIB/EBF; Credit Suisse (Williams); Hong Kong
Inv. Funds Ass’n.; PEGCC; UBS; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); Allen & Overy (on
behalf of Foreign Bank Group); AFG.
2121

See PEGCC; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign
Bank Group); ICI (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams).

2122

See IIB/EBF; Credit Suisse (Williams); ICI (Feb. 2012); ICI Global; PEGCC.

669

and organizations (e.g., the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank) under the
SEC’s Regulation S. 2123
Many commenters contended that, because the definition of resident of the United
States in the proposal was generally broader than the definition of U.S. person under
Regulation S, many additional types of persons, entities and investors would be deemed
residents of the United States for purposes of the foreign activity exemptions.
Commenters argued that this would limit the potential for foreign banking entities to
effectively use those statutorily provided exemptions. A few commenters noted that
using a definition in the foreign fund exemption that differs from the definition in
Regulation S loses the advantage of using a term that is already understood by market
participants and that avoids confusion and limits compliance costs. 2124
Other commenters suggested that defining resident of the United States as
proposed presented problems for investment funds managed by U.S. investment advisers,
even those without U.S. investors. 2125 Some commenters argued that, under the proposed
definition, a foreign fund managed by a U.S. investment adviser or sub-adviser that is not
otherwise subject to section 13 might be deemed a resident of the United States, thereby
disqualifying the fund from relying on the foreign funds exemption, a result inconsistent
with the purpose of section 13 and the statutory exemption in section 13(d)(1)(I). 2126

2123

See IIB/EBF; ICI Global; Credit Suisse (Williams).

2124

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); IIB/EBF; PEGCC; Union Asset.

2125

See, e.g., MFA; TCW.

2126

See AFG; BVI. See also MFA; TCW. Similarly, these commenters argued that although treated as a
non-U.S. person under Regulation S, a non-U.S. fund organized as a trust in accordance with local law with
a limited number of U.S. investors would have been a resident of the United States. Under the proposal,
this foreign fund could not invest in another foreign covered fund Seeking to rely on the exemption for
covered fund activities or investments that occur solely outside of the United States.

670

Commenters also argued that the proposed definition raised issues for
compensation plans of international organizations that are subject to section 13 of the
BHC Act. Several commenters argued that U.S. employees of a foreign banking entity
should not be considered residents of the United States if they invest in a non-U.S.
covered fund pursuant to a bona fide employee investment, retirement or compensation
program. 2127 The Agencies have carefully considered the comments received on the
definition of resident of the United States, and have determined to modify the final rule as
discussed below. The term “resident of the United States” is not defined in the statute
and is used by the statute to clarify when foreign activity or investment of a foreign
banking entity qualifies for the foreign funds exemption in section 13(d)(1)(I). The
purpose of this exemption is to enable foreign banking entities to continue to engage in
foreign funds activities and investments that do not have a sufficient nexus to the United
States so as to present risk to U.S. investors or the U.S. financial system. 2128 The purpose
of Regulation S is to provide a safe harbor from the registration provisions under the
Securities Act for offerings that take place outside of the United States. 2129
The Agencies believe that, because the covered funds provisions of the final rule
involve sponsoring covered funds and offering and selling securities issued by funds (as
compared to counterparty transactional relationships), the securities law framework
reflected in Regulation S would most effectively achieve the purpose of the foreign funds
exemption. As noted by commenters and discussed above, market participants are

2127

See IIB/EBF; Credit Suisse (Williams); UBS; JPMC.

2128

See 156 Cong. Reg. S.5894-5895 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley).

2129

Offers and Sales, Securities Act Release No. 6863 (Apr. 24, 1990), 55 FR 18,306 (May 2, 1990).

671

familiar with and rely upon the body of law interpreting U.S. Person under Regulation S,
and differing definitions under section 13 and Regulation S could create uncertainty and
increase compliance burdens associated with monitoring multiple definitions. The
Agencies therefore have defined the term “resident of the United States” in the final rule
to mean a “U.S. person” as defined in Regulation S. 2130
In addition, as explained in detail below in Part IV.B.4.b.3. of this
Supplementary Information, the final rule provides that an ownership interest is offered
for sale or sold to a resident of the United States if it is sold in an offering that “targets”
residents of the United States. 2131 As explained in more detail in that section, this
approach is consistent with Regulation S.
g.

Definition of “Sponsor”
Section 13(h)(5) of the BHC Act defines “sponsor” to mean: (i) serving as a
general partner, managing member, or trustee of a covered fund; (ii) in any manner
selecting or controlling (or to have employees, officers, or directors, or agents who
constitute) a majority of the directors, trustees, or management of a covered fund; or (iii)
sharing with a covered fund, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other purposes, the
same name or a variation of the same name. 2132 Sponsor is a key definition because it
defines, in part, the scope of activities to which the prohibition in section 13(a)(1)
applies. 2133

2130

See final rule § __.10(d)(8).

2131

See infra Part IV.B.4.b.3.

2132

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(5).

2133

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(a)(1).

672

Under the proposal, the term sponsor would have been defined largely as in the
statute. 2134 Nearly all commenters who addressed the definition of sponsor argued that
the definition was too broad and suggested various ways to narrow or limit the
definition. 2135 Commenters generally expressed concerns that a sponsor to a covered
fund became subject to the restrictions of section 13(f), limiting the relationships of the
banking entity with the covered fund. Commenters argued this would prevent banking
entities from providing many customary services to covered funds. 2136
The proposal excluded from the definition of “trustee” as used in the term sponsor
a trustee that does not exercise investment discretion with respect to a covered fund,
including a directed trustee, as that term is used in section 403(a)(1) of the Employee’s
Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) (29 U.S.C. 1103(a)(1)). 2137 On the other
hand, the proposal provided that any banking entity that directs a directed trustee, or that
possesses authority and discretion to manage and control the assets of a covered fund for
which a directed trustee serves as trustee, would be considered a trustee of the covered
fund.
Commenters generally supported the exception for directed trustees in the
proposed rule but argued that the exception was too narrow because it only referred to
directed trustees under section 403(a)(1) of the ERISA and did not include other similar
2134

See proposed rule __.10(b)(5).

2135

A number of comments received regarding the definition of sponsor relate to securitization structures
and are addressed below. There also were a few comments urging that insurance companies not be
considered to sponsor their separate accounts. See Sutherland (on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers);
Nationwide. The Agencies believe these concerns should be addressed by the exclusion of separate
accounts from the definition of covered fund, as discussed in Part IV.B.1.c.6. of this Supplementary
Information.

2136

See, e.g., ASF (Feb. 2012); BNY Mellon et al.; Credit Suisse (Williams).

2137

See proposed rule § __.10(b)(6); See also 29 U.S.C. 1103(a)(1).

673

custodial or administrative arrangements that may not meet those requirements or be
subject to ERISA. 2138 These commenters argued that banking entities that serve as
trustees or custodians of covered funds may provide a limited range of ministerial
services or exercise limited fiduciary duties that, while not subject to ERISA or beyond
those permitted for a directed trustee under ERISA, nevertheless do not involve the
exercise of investment discretion or control over the operations of the covered fund in the
same manner as a general partner or managing member. Some of these commenters
advocated defining “directed trustee” more expansively to include any situation in which
a banking entity serves solely in a directed, fiduciary, or administrative role where a
third-party and not the banking entity exercises investment discretion.
In particular, some commenters also argued that a trustee should not be viewed as
having investment discretion, and therefore should not be treated as a sponsor, if it
possesses only the authority to terminate an investment adviser to a covered fund and to
appoint another unaffiliated investment adviser in order to fulfill a demonstrable legal or
contractual obligation of the trustee, or the formal but unexercised power to make
investment decisions for a covered fund in circumstances where one or more unaffiliated
investment advisers have been appointed to manage fund assets. Some commenters
argued in favor of excluding trustees serving under non-U.S. trust arrangements pursuant
to which they may have legal or contractual authority to, but in fact do not, exercise
investment discretion (i.e., the entity has the formal authority to appoint an investment

2138

See, e.g., Arnold & Porter; Ass’n. of Global Custodians; BNY Mellon et al.; SIFMA et al. (Covered
Funds) (Feb. 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012); See also Fin. Services Roundtable (June 14, 2011)
(recommending the definition of directed trustee under the Board’s Regulation R be used, which defines
directed trustee to mean “a trustee that does not exercise investment discretion with respect to the
account”).

674

adviser to a trust but does so only in extraordinary circumstances such as appointing a
successor investment adviser). 2139
A few commenters requested confirmation that a banking entity acting as a
custodian should not be considered a sponsor of a covered fund. 2140 One commenter
argued that traditional client trust accounts for which a bank serves as discretionary
trustee should not, by implication, themselves become “covered funds” that are
“sponsored” by the bank. 2141
One commenter argued that any person performing similar functions to a directed
trustee (such as a fund management company established under Irish law), regardless of
its formal title or position, also should be excluded if the person does not exercise
investment discretion. 2142 Some commenters argued more generally for an exclusion
from the definition of trustee (and therefore from the definition of sponsor) for entities
that act as service providers (such as custodians, trustees, or administrators) to non-U.S.
regulated funds, arguing that European laws already impose significant obligations on
entities serving in these roles. 2143
Under both section 13 of the BHC Act and the proposal, the definition of sponsor
also included the ability to select or control (or to have employees, officers, directors, or
2139

See BNY Mellon et al. (providing proposed rule text or suggesting in the alternative clarification
regarding the phrase “exercise investment discretion” in the final rule preamble); Ass’n. of Global
Custodians; ICI Global; State Street (Feb. 2012).

2140

See Ass’n. of Global Custodians; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); ABA (Keating); AFG;
AFTI; BNY Mellon et al.; EFAMA; IMA; State Street (Feb. 2012).

2141

See Arnold & Porter. To the extent that a client trust account would not be an investment company but
for the exclusion contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, such as the
exclusion for common trust funds under section 3(c)(3) of that Act, it would not be a covered fund
regardless of whether a banking entity acts as trustee.

2142

See BNY Mellon et al.

2143

See EFAMA; F&C; IRSG; Union Asset.

675

agents who constitute) a majority of the directors, trustees or management of a covered
fund. Some commenters argued that an entity should not be treated as a sponsor of a
covered fund when it selects a majority of the initial directors, trustees or management of
a covered fund that are independent of the banking entity, so long as the banking entity
may not remove or replace the directors, trustees, or management and directors are
subsequently either chosen by others or self-perpetuating. 2144 One of these commenters
argued similarly that a banking entity should not be deemed to sponsor a covered fund if
it selects an independent general partner, managing member or trustee of a new fund, so
long as the general partner, managing member or trustee may not be terminated and
replaced by the banking entity. 2145 Commenters argued that initial selection of these
parties was inherently part of, and necessary to allow, the formation of a covered fund
and would not provide a banking entity with ongoing control over the fund to a degree
that the banking entity should be considered to be a sponsor.
The statute and proposed rule also defined the term sponsor to include an entity
that shares, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other purposes, the same name or a
variation of the same name, with a covered fund. One commenter argued in favor of a
narrower interpretation of this statutory provision. 2146 This commenter argued that a
covered fund should be permitted to share the name of the asset manager that advises the

2144

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012) (recommending the Agencies adopt independence
guidelines similar to the FDIC’s guidelines for determining whether audit committee members of insured
depository institutions are “independent” of management); Credit Suisse (Williams).

2145

See Credit Suisse (Williams) (arguing that such an approach would be consistent with the existing BHC
Act concept of control with respect to funds).

2146

A number of comments were also received regarding the restriction on name sharing that is one of the
requirements of section 13(d)(1)(G) and § __.11 of the proposed rule. These comments are discussed in
Part IV.B.2.a.5. of this Supplementary Information.

676

fund without the asset manager becoming a sponsor so long as the asset manager does not
share the same name as an affiliated insured depository institution or the ultimate parent
of an affiliated insured depository institution. 2147 Another commenter argued that the
proposal would put U.S. banking entities at a competitive disadvantage relative to nonbanking entities and foreign banks. 2148 These commenters argued that the costs of
rebranding covered funds or an asset manager would far outweigh any potential benefit in
terms of reducing the risk that a banking entity may be pressured to “bail out” a covered
fund with a name similar to its investment manager. 2149 One commenter also requested
clarification that the name sharing prohibition does not apply in the context of offering
documents that carry the names of the manager, sponsor, distributor, as well as the name
of the fund itself. 2150 This commenter also advocated that, because of the costs
associated with changing a fund name, the Agencies give specific guidance regarding
how similar a name may be so as not to be a “variation of the same name” for purposes of
the definition of sponsor and the activities permitted under section 13(d)(1)(G) and §
__.11 of the rule.
The Agencies have carefully considered comments received in light of the terms
of the statute. Section 13(h)(5) of the BHC Act specifically defines the term “sponsor”
for purposes of section 13. The Agencies recognize that the broad definition of sponsor
in the statute will result in some of the effects commenters identified, as discussed above.

2147

See Credit Suisse (Williams); See also ABA (Keating); BlackRock; Goldman (Covered Funds);
SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); TCW (proposing similarly to limit the name-sharing restriction
to the insured depository institution in context of section 13(d)(1)(G)).
2148

See Goldman (Covered Funds).

2149

See Credit Suisse (Williams); See also Goldman (Covered Funds).

2150

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

677

The final rule generally retains the definition of “sponsor” in the statute and the
proposed rule, although with certain modifications and clarifications to respond to
comments received regarding the exclusion for “directed trustees.” As in the proposed
rule, the definition of sponsor in the final rule covers an entity that (i) serves as general
partner, managing member, or trustee of a covered fund, or that serves as a commodity
pool operator of a covered fund as defined in § __.10(b)(1)(ii) of the final rule, (ii) in any
manner selects or controls (or has employees, officers, or directors, or agents who
constitute) a majority of the directors, trustees, or management of a covered fund, or (iii)
shares with a covered fund, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other purposes, the
same name or a variation of the same name. 2151
While commenters urged the Agencies to provide an exemption from the
definition of sponsor for a banking entity that selects the initial directors, trustees, or
management of a fund, 2152 the final rule has not been modified in this manner because the
initial selection of the directors, trustees or management of a fund is an action
characteristic of a sponsor and is essential to the creation of a covered fund. The
Agencies note, however, that the statute and the final rule allow banking entities to
sponsor covered funds, including selecting the initial board of directors, trustees and
management, so long as the banking entity observes certain requirements and conforms
any initial investment in the covered fund to the limits in the statute and regulation during

2151

See final rule § __.10(d)(9). Some commenters asserted that custodians and service providers should
not treated as sponsors under the final rule. The Agencies note, however, that a banking entity is not a
sponsor under the final rule unless it serves in one or more of the capacities specified in the definition;
controls or makes up the fund’s board of directors or management as described in the final rule; or shares
the same name or a variation of the same name with the fund as described in the final rule. See, e.g., supra
note 2151 and accompanying text. See also infra note 2155.
2152

See supra note 2144 and accompanying text.

678

the relevant conformance period as discussed in Part IV.B.3.b. of this Supplementary
Information. 2153 Moreover, a banking entity that does not continue to select or control a
majority of the board of directors would not be considered to be a sponsor under this part
of the definition once that role or control terminates. In the case of a covered fund that
will have a self-perpetuating board of directors or a board selected by the fund’s
shareholders, this would not be considered to have occurred until the board has held its
first re-selection of directors or first shareholder vote on directors without selection or
control by the banking entity.
As explained below, the Agencies believe that, in context, the term trustee in the
definition of the term sponsor refers to a trustee with investment discretion. Consistent
with this view, commenters urged the Agencies to exclude from the definition of sponsor
certain trustees and parties commenters asserted acted in a similar capacity, as discussed
above. 2154 The final rule therefore has been modified to exclude from the definition of
trustee: (i) a trustee that does not exercise investment discretion with respect to a covered
fund, including a trustee that is subject to the direction of an unaffiliated named fiduciary
who is not a trustee pursuant to section 403(a)(1) of the Employee’s Retirement Income
Security Act (29 U.S.C. 1103(a)(1)); or (ii) a trustee that is subject to fiduciary standards
imposed under foreign law that are substantially equivalent to those described in
paragraph (i). 2155 Under the final rule, a trustee would be excluded if the trustee does not

2153

Similarly, a banking entity may share the same name or a variation of the same name with a covered
fund so long as the banking entity does not organize and offer the covered fund in accordance with section
13(d)(1)(G)
and § __.11.

2154

See, e.g., supra notes 2138-2139 and accompanying text. See also supra note 2151.

2155

See final rule § __.10(d)(10). With respect to the concept of a “directed trustee” under foreign law,
commenters generally requested changes only if non-U.S. mutual fund equivalents were not excluded from

679

have any investment discretion, but is required to ensure that the underlying assets are
appropriately segregated for the benefit of the trust. Similarly, a trustee would be
excluded if the trustee has no investment discretion but is authorized to replace an
investment adviser with an unaffiliated party when the investment adviser resigns. With
respect to an issuing entity of asset-backed securities and as explained below, a directed
trustee excluded from the definition of sponsor would include a person that conducts their
actions solely in accordance with directions prepared by an unaffiliated party.
The Agencies believe that this exclusion is appropriate because the relevant prong
of the definition of sponsor (i.e., serving as general partner, managing member, or
trustee) specifies entities that have the ongoing ability to exercise control over a fund;
directed trustees excluded from definition of sponsor in the final rule do not appear to
have this ability and thus do not appear to be the type of entity that this prong of the
definition of sponsor was intended to capture. If a trustee were itself to assume the role
of investment adviser, or have the ability to exercise investment discretion with respect to
the covered fund, the trustee would not qualify for this exclusion. The final rule does not
include within the definition of sponsor custodians or administrators of covered funds
unless they otherwise meet the definitional qualifications set forth in section 13 and the
final rule.
The definition of sponsor will continue to cover entities that share the same name
or variation of the same name of a covered fund for corporate, marketing, promotional, or
other purposes, consistent with the definition of sponsor in section 13(h)(5). The

the definition of covered fund. As discussed above, the final rule explicitly excludes foreign public funds
from the definition of covered fund, which should address these commenters concerns. See final rule §
__.10(c)(1).

680

Agencies recognize that some commenters urged the Agencies to modify this aspect of
the definition of sponsor, and that the name-sharing prohibition included in the definition
of sponsor (and in the conditions for the organize and offer exemption) will require some
banking entities to rebrand their covered funds, which may prove expensive and will limit
the extent to which banking entities may continue to benefit from brand equity they have
developed. 2156 The costs a banking entity would incur to rebrand its covered funds would
depend on the cost to rebrand the banking entity’s current funds, as well as the banking
entity’s ability to attract new investor capital to its current and future covered funds. The
total burden per banking entity, therefore, would depend on the brand equity as well as
the number of covered funds that share a similar name. 2157 One commenter argued that,
as a result, banking entities subject to section 13 may be at a competitive disadvantage to
other firms that are not subject to these or similar restrictions. 2158 The Agencies believe
that the final rule addresses some commenters’ concerns to an extent by adopting a more
tailored definition of covered, including a focused definition of foreign funds that will be
covered funds and an exclusion for foreign public funds. 2159 In addition, to the extent
that a banking entity would otherwise come under pressure for reputational reasons to
directly or indirectly assist a covered fund under distress that bears the banking entity’s
name, the name-sharing prohibition could reduce the risk to the banking entity this
assistance could pose.

2156

See supra notes 2146-2150 and accompanying text.

2157

See infra note 2159.

2158

See supra note 2148 and accompanying text.

2159

For example, one commenter argued that it would need to rebrand approximately 500 established
funds under the rule proposal if the final rule was not modified to exclude established and regulated funds
in foreign jurisdictions. See Goldman (Covered Funds).

681

B. Definition of sponsor with respect to securitizations.
Commenters on the definition of sponsor in the context of securitization vehicles
generally argued that the proposed definition of sponsor was too broad and requested
clarification that various roles that banking entities might serve within a securitization
structure would be excluded from the definition of sponsor, including servicers; 2160
backup servicers and master servicers; 2161 collateral agents and administrators; 2162
custodians; 2163 indenture trustees; 2164 underwriters, distributors, placement agents; 2165
arrangers, structuring agents; 2166 originators, depositors, securitizers; 2167 “sponsors”
under the SEC’s Regulation AB; 2168 administrative agents; 2169 and securities
administrators and remarketing agents. 2170 Commenters argued that these parties should
not be included in the definition of sponsor because such parties have clearly defined and

2160

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams);
SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Covered Funds). One of these commenters argued that
servicers will not have the right to control the decision-making and operational functions of the issuer. See
SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012). Another commenter stated that servicers do not have the authority to
select assets or make investment decisions on behalf of investors. See PNC.

2161

See ASF (Feb. 2012).

2162

Id.

2163

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012).

2164

Id.

2165

See Cleary Gottlieb; Credit Suisse (Williams); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo
(Covered Funds). One of these commentators argued that placement agents and underwriters will not have
the right to control the decision-making and operational functions of the issuer. See SIFMA
(Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

2166

See Cleary Gottlieb (“party that structures the asset-backed securities”); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb.
2012).

2167

See Credit Suisse (Williams); Wells Fargo (Covered Funds).

2168

See SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012) (arguing that Regulation AB sponsors will not have the right
to control the decision-making and operational functions of the issuer after they deposit the assets).

2169

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

2170

See ASF (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Covered Funds).

682

extremely limited authority and discretion, 2171 do not have the right to control the
decision-making and operational functions of the issuer, 2172 and would not have “control”
under BHC Act control precedent. 2173 Conversely, one commentator supported defining
sponsor under the proposed rule to include the Regulation AB sponsor, the servicer and
the investment manager. 2174 Commenters also made arguments regarding the potential
detrimental effects to securitization and credit markets if banking entities are prohibited
from acting as sponsors of securitizations. 2175
Commenters disagreed as to whether or not a sponsor under the final rule should
include a party with any investment discretion, some investment discretion or complete
investment discretion. Some commenters argued that certain parties should not be
considered a sponsor because they were not an investment advisor or did not have
investment discretion. 2176 Other commenters argued that an entity should not be
considered a sponsor even though it has limited investment discretion, 2177 while others

2171

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group).

2172

See SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012).

2173

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

2174

See Occupy.

2175

See ASF (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams).

2176

See ASF (Feb. 2012) (arguing that service providers, including trustees, custodians, collateral agents,
servicers, master servicers, backup servicers, securities administrators, remarketing agents and collateral
administrators, should not be considered the sponsor or investment manager of a fund under section 13 of
the BHC Act because they have roles that are principally ministerial in nature and do not generally involve
investment discretion or management and control activities); PNC (arguing that a banking entity should not
be deemed a sponsor simply by serving as underwriter, distributor, placement agent, originator, depositor,
investment adviser, servicer, administrative agent, securitizer or similar role because these parties do not
have the authority to select assets or make investment decisions on behalf of investors).

2177

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); ASF (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Securitization)
(Feb. 2012). One commenter argued that the limited discretion that a servicer, trustee or custodian may
have to either invest funds within certain parameters, liquidate assets following a default on the asset or the
securitization default, or mitigate losses subject to a servicing standard, should not be considered a sponsor
because these entities do not exercise the level of management and control exercised by the general partner
or managing member of a hedge fund or private equity fund. Another commenter argued that to the extent

683

argued that investment advisers and parties with investment discretion should not be
included in the definition of sponsor. 2178
After considering comments received and the language and purpose of section 13,
the Agencies have determined not to adopt a separate definition of sponsor for issuers of
covered funds that are issuers of an asset-backed security. As described above and
consistent with the statute, the definition of sponsor only includes parties that: (i) serve as
a general partner, managing member, or trustee (other than a directed trustee) of a
covered fund; (ii) have the right to select or control a majority of the directors, trustees, or
management of a covered fund; or (iii) share with a covered fund, for corporate,
marketing, promotional, or other purposes, the same name or a variation of the same
name. If the parties that commenters described do not serve in those capacities for a
covered fund, do not have those rights with respect to a covered fund or do not share a
name with a covered fund, such parties would not be a sponsor for purposes of the final

that any of these parties exercises discretion, such discretion (A) involves decisions made after another
party defaults (e.g., post-event of default collateral sale), (B) prescribed by the transaction documents (e.g.,
choosing among a limited number of eligible investments) and (C) governed by standards of care (e.g., the
servicing standards). See ASF (Feb. 2012). Another commenter requested clarification that the exclusion
of trustees that do not exercise investment discretion would also cover trustees that (A) direct investment of
amounts in accordance with the applicable transaction documents, (B) act as servicer pending the
appointment of a successor or (C) liquidate collateral. See SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012). One
commenter argued that the definition of sponsor should not include an investment manager unless the
investment manager (A) serves in one of the capacities designated in the definition of sponsor and can be
replaced at the discretion of one or more entities serving in such capacity or with or without cause by the
security holders or (B) has the “discretion to acquire or dispose of assets in the securitization for the
primary purpose of recognizing gains or decreasing losses resulting from market value changes.” Id.
2178

See Credit Suisse (Williams); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012); TCW (arguing that the investment
manager is typically unaffiliated with the general partner or equivalent of such fund, does not control the
board of directors, is not responsible for the operations or books and records of the fund and generally does
not perform any other significant function for the fund, such as acting as transfer agent).

684

rule, and, therefore, they would not be subject to the restrictions applicable to the sponsor
of a covered fund, including the restrictions contained in section 13(f). 2179
Additionally, the Agencies believe that the exclusion of loan securitizations from
the definition of covered fund under the final rule addresses many of the commenters’
concerns about the sponsor definition because this exclusion limits the types of
securitizations that are covered funds and subject to the final rule. Similarly, the
exclusion of certain ABCP conduits from the definition of covered fund will mean that
the restrictions under section 13(f) will not apply to qualifying asset-backed commercial
paper conduits.
As with any other covered fund under the final rule, the term sponsor would
include a trustee that has the right to exercise any investment discretion for the
securitization. For issuers of asset-backed securities, this would generally not include a
trustee that executes decision-making, including investment of funds prior to the
occurrence of an event of default, solely according to the provisions of a written contract
or at the written direction of an unaffiliated party. In addition, under the rule as adopted a
trustee with investment discretion may avoid characterization as a sponsor if it
irrevocably delegates all of its investment discretion to another unaffiliated party with
respect to the covered fund. The Agencies believe that these considerations regarding

2179

As discussed above, commenters argued that that various roles that banking entities might serve within
a securitization structure should be excluded from the definition of sponsor. See supra notes 2160-2170
and accompanying text.

685

when a trustee is a sponsor responds to commenters’ concerns regarding the roles of
trustees in securitizations. 2180
2.

Section __.11: Activities Permitted in Connection with Organizing and Offering
a Covered Fund
Section 13(d)(1)(G) of the BHC Act permits a banking entity to make investments

in and sponsor covered funds within certain limits in connection with organizing and
offering the covered fund. 2181 Section __.11 of the final rule implements this statutory
exemption, and includes several changes from the proposed rule in response to concerns
raised by commenters as described in detail below. 2182
a.

Scope of Exemption
Section __.11 of the proposed rule described the conditions that must be met in
order to qualify for the exemption provided by section 13(d)(1)(G) for covered fund
activities conducted in connection with organizing and offering a covered fund. 2183
These conditions generally mirrored section 13(d)(1)(G) of the statute, and included: (i)
the banking entity must provide bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or
commodity trading advisory services; 2184 (ii) the covered fund must be organized and

2180

The Agencies also note that, while the entities commenters identified may not fall into the definition of
sponsor, the ability of a banking entity to acquire and retain an interest in a securitization that is a covered
fund will depend on whether it conducts its activity in a manner permitted under one of the exemptions
contained in section 13(d)(1) of the BHC Act, such as the exemption for organizing and offering a covered
fund.

2181

156 Cong. Rec. S5889 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Hagan) (arguing that section 13
permits a banking entity to engage in a certain level of traditional asset management business).

2182

See final rule § __.11; proposed rule § __.11.

2183

See proposed rule §§ __.11(a) – (h).

2184

While section 13(d)(1)(G) of the BHC Act does not explicitly mention “commodity trading advisory
services,” the Agencies proposed to treat commodity trading advisory services in the same way as

686

offered only in connection with the provision of bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment
advisory, or commodity trading advisory services and only to persons that are customers
of such services of the banking entity; (iii) the banking entity may not acquire or retain an
ownership interest in the covered fund except in accordance with the limitations on
amounts and value of those interests as permitted under subpart C of the proposed rule;
(iv) the banking entity must comply with the restrictions governing relationships with
covered funds under § __.16 of the proposed rule; (v) the banking entity may not, directly
or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of
the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such covered fund invests; (vi) the
covered fund, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other purposes, may not share the
same name or a variation of the same name with the banking entity (or an affiliate or
subsidiary thereof), and may not use the word “bank” in its name; (vii) no director or
employee of the banking entity may take or retain an ownership interest in the covered
fund, except for any director or employee of the banking entity who is directly engaged in
providing investment advisory or other services to the covered fund; (viii) the banking
entity must clearly and conspicuously disclose, in writing, to any prospective and actual
investor in the covered fund (such as through disclosure in the covered fund’s offering
documents) the enumerated disclosures contained in § __.11(h) of the proposed rule; and
(ix) the banking entity must comply with any additional rules of the appropriate Agency

investment advisory services because the proposed rule would have included commodity pools within the
definition of “covered fund.” One commenter argued that a covered banking entity should not be permitted
to qualify for the exemption in section 13(d)(1)(G) based on providing commodity trading advisory
services. See Occupy. The Agencies believe that commodity trading advisors provide services to
commodity pools that are similar to the services an investment adviser provides to a hedge fund or private
equity fund. Because certain commodity pools are included within the definition of covered fund, banking
entities may organize and offer these commodity pools as a means of providing these services to customers.

687

or Agencies, designed to ensure that losses in such covered fund are borne solely by
investors in the covered fund and not by the banking entity. 2185
Commenters raised concern that the proposed rule could be read to extend the
prohibition on covered fund activities beyond the scope intended by the statute. 2186
Because the proposed exemption was applicable to banking entities engaged in
“organizing and offering” a covered fund, commenters were concerned that the proposed
rule might be interpreted to prohibit a banking entity from engaging in activities that are
part of organizing and offering a covered fund but that are not prohibited under the
covered fund prohibition. In this regard, commenters contended that the activity of
“organizing and offering” a covered fund would include serving as investment adviser,
distributor, broker, and other activities not prohibited by section 13 of the BHC Act and
not involving the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in or sponsorship of a
covered fund as those terms are defined in section 13. 2187
The Agencies have modified the final rule to address this concern, which reflects
a reading of the proposal not intended by the Agencies. Section 13(d)(1)(G) of the BHC
Act by its terms provides an exemption from section 13(a) of the BHC Act, which
prohibits a banking entity from acquiring or retaining an equity, partnership or other
ownership interest in or sponsoring a covered fund. To the extent that an activity is not
prohibited by section 13(a), no exemption to that statutory prohibition is needed to

2185

See proposed rule §§ __.11(a) – (h).

2186

See, e.g., Arnold & Porter.

2187

See Arnold & Porter; F&C.

688

conduct that activity. However, it is common for prohibited and non-prohibited activities
to be conducted together in connection with offering and organizing a covered fund. For
example, an entity that provides investment advisory services to a covered fund (an
activity not itself prohibited by section 13(a)(1)(B) of the BHC Act) often acquires an
ownership interest in a covered fund and/or appoints a majority of management of the
covered fund (which is included in the definition of sponsor under the statute), both of
which are covered by the statutory prohibition in section 13(a)(1)(B). In that case, the
banking entity may engage in the prohibited activity as part of organizing and offering a
covered fund only if the prohibited activity is conducted in accordance with the
requirements in the exemption in section 13(d)(1)(G) or some other exemption.
The final rule reflects this view in that it permits a banking entity to invest in or
sponsor a covered fund in connection with organizing and offering the fund, which may
involve activities that are not prohibited by section 13. Under the final rule, a banking
entity that serves as an investment adviser to a covered fund (including a sub-adviser), for
example, may permissibly invest in the covered fund to the extent the banking entity
complies with the requirements of section 13(d)(1)(G) of the Act. An entity that serves
only as investment adviser, without making any investment or conducting any activity
covered by the prohibition in section 13(a), would not be covered by the prohibition in
section 13(a) and thus would not need to rely on section 13(d)(1)(G) and § __.11 of the
final rule to conduct that investment advisory activity.
As described in more detail below, a number of commenters expressed concern
about applying the requirements of section 13(d)(1)(G) and the final rule outside of the
United States, including with respect to foreign public funds organized and offered by

689

foreign banking entities, particularly in situations where requirements in foreign
jurisdictions may conflict with the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act and
implementing regulations. 2188 The Agencies believe that many of the concerns raised
with respect to applying section 13(d)(1)(G) and the proposed rule outside the United
States have been addressed through the revised definition of covered fund described
above and revisions to the exemption provided for activities conducted solely outside the
United States. In particular, the revised definition of covered fund makes clear that a
foreign fund offered outside the United States is only a covered fund under specified
circumstances with respect to a banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or
indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized or established under the laws
of the United States or of any State. 2189 Furthermore, foreign public funds are excluded
from the definition of covered fund in the final rule. 2190 Consequently, a foreign banking
entity may invest in or organize and offer a variety of funds outside of the United States
without becoming subject to the requirements of section 13(d)(1)(G) and § __.11 of the
final rule, such as the name-sharing restriction or limitations on director and employee
investments.
1.

Fiduciary services
In order to qualify for the exemption for activities related to organizing and

offering a covered fund, section 13(d)(1)(G) generally requires that a banking entity
provide bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory

2188

See, e.g., EFAMA; ICI Global; JPMC.

2189

See final rule § __.10(b)(1)(iii).

2190

See final rule § __.10(c)(1).

690

services, that the covered fund be organized and offered in connection with providing
these services, and that the banking entity providing those services offer the covered fund
only to persons that are customers of those services of the banking entity. 2191 These
requirements were largely mirrored in the proposed rule. Requiring a customer
relationship in connection with organizing and offering a covered fund helps to ensure
that a banking entity is engaging in the covered fund activity for others and not on the
banking entity’s own behalf. 2192
As noted in the proposal, section 13(d)(1)(G)(ii) of the BHC Act does not
explicitly require that the customer relationship be pre-existing. Accordingly, the
Agencies explained in the proposal that the customer relationship may be established
through or in connection with the banking entity’s organization and offering of a covered
fund, so long as that fund is a manifestation of the provision by the banking entity of
bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services to
the customer. This application of the customer requirement is consistent with the manner
in which these services are provided by banking entities. The proposed rule also required
that a banking entity relying on the authority contained in § __.11 adopt a credible plan
or similar documentation outlining how the banking entity intended to provide advisory
or similar services to its customers through organizing and offering such fund.
Several commenters indicated support for this customer requirement and, in
particular, the Agencies’ view that the customer relationship need not be a preexisting

2191

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(G)(i); proposed rule § __.11(a).

2192

See 156 Cong. Rec. at S5897 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley).

691

one. 2193 A few commenters contended that the statute required that a banking entity have
a pre-existing customer relationship, and may not solicit investors outside of its existing
asset management customers. 2194 One of these commenters argued that this would place
banking entities at a competitive disadvantage compared to investment advisers that are
not banking entities (and thus not subject to the requirements of section 13 and the final
rule), but argued that this is a necessary result of section 13. 2195
The final rule adopts the language largely as proposed, and the Agencies continue
to believe that the customer relationship required under section 13(d)(1)(G) and the final
rule may be established through or in connection with the banking entity’s organization
and offering of a covered fund, so long as that fund is a manifestation of the provision by
the banking entity of bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity
trading advisory services to the customer. 2196 The final rule requires that a covered fund
be organized and offered pursuant to a written plan or similar documentation outlining
how the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) intends to provide advisory or similar
services to its customers through organizing and offering the fund. As part of this
requirement, the plan must be credible and indicate that the banking entity has conducted
reasonable analysis to show that the fund is organized and offered for the purpose of
providing bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory

2193

See Ass’n of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); JPMC.

2194

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen.

2195

See Sens. Merkley & Levin.

2196

See final rule §__.11(a)(1)-(2). See Part IV.B.2.b. below for a discussion of these requirements in the
context of a banking entity that organizes and offers a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed
securities.

692

services to customers of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) and not to evade the
restrictions of section 13 of the BHC Act.
The language of the final rule also adopts the statutory requirements (and
modifications related to commodity pools as discussed above) that the banking entity
provide bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory
services, and that the covered fund be organized and offered only in connection with the
provision of those services. Banking entities provide a wide range of customer-oriented
services which may qualify as bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or
commodity trading advisory services. 2197 Historically, banking entities have used
covered funds as a method of providing these services to customers in a manner that is
both cost efficient for the customer and allows customers to benefit from access to advice
and services that might not otherwise be available to them. These benefits apply to longestablished customers as well as individuals or entities that have no pre-existing
relationship with the banking entity but choose to obtain the benefit of trust, fiduciary,
investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services through participation in the
covered fund. Covered funds also allow customers to gauge the historical record of the
banking entity in providing these services by reviewing the funds’ past performance.
The statute does not require that a covered fund be offered only to pre-existing
customers of the banking entity, and the Agencies believe that imposing such a
requirement would not improve the quality of the trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or

2197

See, e.g., 12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(4), (c)(8), (K), 12 CFR 225.28(b)(5) and (6), 12 CFR 225.86, 12 CFR
225.125 (with respect to a bank holding company); 12 U.S.C. 24(Seventh), 92a, 12 CFR Part 9 (with
respect to a national bank); 12 U.S.C. Part 362 (with respect to a state non-member bank).

693

commodity trading advisory service, enhance the safety and soundness of the banking
entity, or reduce the risks to the customers or the banking entity. In each case, the
banking entity provides trust, fiduciary or advisory services to a covered fund for the
benefit of the banking entity’s customers, and the statute recognizes that organizing and
offering a covered fund is a legitimate method for providing that service. In addition, the
banking entity must abide by all the statutory and prudential requirements imposed by
section 13 and the entity’s supervisors on the provision of those services. The Agencies
do not believe that a pre-existing customer relationship requirement would be meaningful
because it could easily be satisfied by a prospective customer seeking to invest in a
covered fund by first establishing an account with a banking entity or purchasing another
product (e.g., a brokerage account or shares of a mutual fund).
2.

Compliance with investment limitations
Section 13(d)(1)(G)(iii) of the BHC Act limits the ability of a banking entity that

organizes and offers a covered fund to acquire or retain an ownership interest in that
covered fund as an investment. 2198 Both the proposed rule and the final rule implement
this provision by requiring that a banking entity limit its investments in a covered fund
that the banking entity organizes and offers as provided in § __.12. 2199 Comments
received on investment limitations in the proposed rule, and modifications made to the
final rule implementing these limitations, are described in Part IV.B.3. below.

2198

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(G)(iii).

2199

See proposed rule and final rule § __.12.

694

3.

Compliance with section 13(f) of the BHC Act
Section __.11(d) of the proposed rule required that the banking entity comply

with the limitations on relationships with covered funds imposed by section 13(f) of the
BHC Act. 2200 The final rule adopts this requirement and provides that the banking entity
(and its affiliates) must comply with the requirements of § __.14. Section 13(f) of the
BHC Act prohibits certain transactions or relationships that would be covered by section
23A of the Federal Reserve Act, and provides that any permitted transaction is subject to
section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, in each instance as if such banking entity were a
member bank and such covered fund were an affiliate thereof. 2201 These limitations
apply in several contexts, and are contained in § __.14 of the final rule, discussed in
detail below in Part IV.B.5.
4.

No guarantees or insurance of fund performance
Section __.11(e) of the proposed rule prohibited a banking entity that organizes

and offers a covered fund from, directly or indirectly, guaranteeing, assuming or
otherwise insuring the obligations or performance of the covered fund or any covered
fund in which such covered fund invests. 2202 This prong implemented section

2200

12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(G)(iv); proposed rule § __.11(d).

2201

See Part IV.B.5. below. The comments received on section 13(f) and § __.16 of the proposed rule are
described below.

2202

12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(G)(v); proposed rule § __.11(e).

695

13(d)(1)(G)(iv) of the BHC Act and was intended to prevent a banking entity from
engaging in bailouts of a covered fund in which the banking entity has an interest. 2203
There were only a few comments received on this aspect of the proposal. One
commenter supported the restriction on guarantees as effective and consistent with the
statute. 2204
One commenter argued that the final rule should not prohibit borrower default
indemnification services (i.e., the guarantee of collateral sufficiency upon a securities
borrower’s default) provided to lending clients by agent banks in connection with
securities lending transactions involving a covered fund. 2205 This commenter argued that
borrower default indemnification services guarantee only the deficit between the mark to
market value of cash collateral received and the amount of any borrower default, and are
therefore different from and more limited than the type of general investment
performance or obligation guarantee that section 13 was designed to prevent.
The Agencies believe that the statute does not permit either full or partial
guarantees of the obligations of a covered fund that the banking entity organizes and
offers. Accordingly, the final rule, like the proposed rule, continues to mirror the
statutory restriction on direct or indirect guarantees of the obligations or performance of a
covered fund by a banking entity in connection with reliance on the exemption provided
in section 13(d)(1)(G) of the BHC Act. However, in response to comments received on
2203

See 156 Cong. Rec. S5897 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley).

2204

See Occupy.

2205

See RMA.

696

the proposal, the Agencies note that the provision of a borrower default indemnification
by a banking entity to a lending client in connection with securities lending transactions
involving a covered fund is not prohibited. This type of indemnification is not a
guarantee of the performance or obligations of a covered fund because it represents a
guarantee to the customer or borrower of the obligation of the counterparty to perform
and not a guarantee of the performance or underlying obligations of the covered fund.
The requirement of the final rule that a banking entity and its affiliates not guarantee the
obligations or performance of a covered fund that it organizes and offers therefore does
not prohibit a banking entity from providing borrower default indemnifications to
customers.
5.

Limitation on name sharing with a covered fund
Section __.11(f) of the proposed rule prohibited the covered fund from sharing the

same name or a variation of the same name with the banking entity that relies on the
exemption in section 13(d)(1)(G) of the BHC Act. 2206 The proposed rule also prohibited
the covered fund from using the word “bank” in its name. 2207
The name-sharing restriction was one of the most commented upon aspects of §
__.11. A number of commenters on this section expressed the view that the namesharing restriction in section 13(d)(1)(G)(vi) of the BHC Act and the proposed rule was
too strict. In particular, a number of commenters argued that the name-sharing restriction
2206

12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(G)(vi); proposed rule § __.11(f).

2207

Similar restrictions on a fund sharing the same name, or variation of the same name, with an insured
depository institution or company that controls an insured depository institution or having the word “bank”
in its name, have been used previously in order to prevent customer confusion regarding the relationship
between such companies and a fund. See, e.g., Bank of Ireland, 82 FED. RES. BULL. 1129 (1996).

697

should allow an asset manager to share its name with a sponsored covered fund so long as
the covered fund does not share the name of the insured depository institution or its
affiliated holding company or use the word “bank.” 2208
Commenters argued that the name-sharing restriction as proposed would impose
significant business and branding burdens on the industry without providing incremental
benefit to the public. 2209 These commenters argued that it would be unduly burdensome
and costly for funds currently affiliated with banking entities or managers that are
themselves banking entities to change the name of their affiliated funds and that many of
these funds have developed a reputation in the marketplace based on the current name of
the fund and/or fund manager. Some of these commenters argued that the name-sharing
restriction would place asset managers and funds affiliated with banking entities at a
competitive disadvantage to other asset managers and funds. 2210
A few commenters argued that the rationale for the name-sharing restriction (i.e.,
to discourage bailing out funds) was already addressed under other restrictions of section
13(d)(1)(G) and the proposed rule that prohibit a banking entity from, directly or
indirectly, guaranteeing, assuming or otherwise insuring the obligations or performance
of the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such covered fund invested and that
require disclosure that investments in the covered fund are not insured by the Federal

2208

See ABA (Keating); Ass’n of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); Blackrock; EFAMA; SIFMA et al.
(Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); TCW; Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients); Union Asset.

2209

See, e.g., ABA (Keating); Ass’n of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); Blackrock; See also SVB;
Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); UBS.
2210

See Ass’n of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients); SIFMA et al.
(Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

698

Deposit Insurance Corporation. 2211 These commenters questioned the necessity for the
name-sharing restriction when a prohibition on bailing out funds is already in place and
where there is disclosure that investors bear the risk of loss in the fund. Some of these
commenters contended it was unlikely that investors in a covered fund with an SECregistered investment adviser that has a name unrelated to the name of an insured
depository institution would be misled to believe that the fund would be backed in any
way by a related insured depository institution or the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation. 2212 One of these commenters argued that the name-sharing restriction
should not apply to organizations where insured depository institutions represent a de
minimis component of the organization’s operations. 2213
Other commenters recommended that the name-sharing restriction not be applied
to covered funds that rely on the exemption for covered fund activities and investments
that occur solely outside of the United States. 2214 A few commenters expressed concern
that the name-sharing restriction could be incompatible with regulatory requirements in
certain foreign jurisdictions that a covered fund’s name must indicate the fund’s
connection with the fund sponsor. 2215 One commenter argued that it is common practice
in Germany to disclose the designation of the sponsoring investment manager in the fund

2211

See Ass’n of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); T. Rowe
Price; TCW.

2212

See TCW; Union Asset.

2213

See T. Rowe Price.

2214

See, e.g., UBS.

2215

See Credit Suisse (Williams); EFAMA; JPMC; Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients); Union Asset; IAA;
ICI Global; UBS; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012) (citing Directive 2004/39/EC of the
European Parliament and Council).

699

name in order to provide transparency to investors, while a few commenters contended
that European jurisdictions, including the U.K., require an authorized fund to have a
name representative of the authorized investment manager to avoid misleading fund
investors. 2216 Commenters also argued that the name-sharing restriction was inconsistent
with the laws of Ireland and Hong Kong. 2217 Certain commenters argued that the impact
of the name-sharing restriction would be particularly unfair to non-U.S. retail funds like
European UCITS if such funds are not allowed to use the name of the bank while U.S.
mutual funds would not be subject to the same restriction. 2218
By contrast, some commenters supported the name-sharing restriction. For
example, one commenter indicated that the use of the word “bank” or a shared name in
the fund’s name was already strongly discouraged by prior guidance. 2219 Another
commenter supported the name-sharing restriction but argued it did not go far enough
because it did not apply to funds that a banking entity was permissibly allowed to sponsor
and invest in under other provisions of section 13. 2220 According to this commenter,
covered funds permitted under other exemptions should not be allowed to share the same
name with the banking entity. 2221

2216

See BVI; EFAMA; JPMC; UBS; Union Asset; ICI Global; IAA.

2217

See UBS; Union Asset; ICI Global.

2218

See, e.g., AFG; ICI Global; JPMC.

2219

See Arnold &Porter (citing SEC Division of Investment Management, Letter to Registrants (May 13,
1993); Memorandum to SEC Chairman Breeden from Division of Investment Management (May 6, 1993);
FDIC, Board, OCC, OTS, Interagency Statement on Retail Sales of Non-Deposit Investment Products (Feb.
14, 1994)).
2220

See Occupy the SEC at 165.

2221

See id.

700

After carefully considering comments and the express terms of the statute, the
final rule includes the name-sharing restriction as proposed. 2222 The name-sharing
restriction is imposed by the statute and prohibits a banking entity from sharing the same
name or variation of the same name with a covered fund. The statute also defines the
scope of the prohibition by defining the term “banking entity” to generally include any
affiliate or subsidiary of an insured depository institution or any company that controls an
insured depository institution. 2223
However, the Agencies believe that many of the concerns raised by commenters
with respect to this provision should be addressed through the revised definition of
covered fund in the final rule, and modifications to the exemption for covered fund
activities and investments that occur solely outside of the United States. 2224 For example,
as discussed in greater detail above in Part IV.B.1.c.1., foreign public funds sold outside
the United States are excluded from the definition of covered fund. 2225 In addition,
pursuant to the definition of covered fund in the final rule, a foreign fund only becomes a
covered fund with respect to a U.S. banking entity (including a foreign affiliate of that
U.S. banking entity) that acts as sponsor to, or has an ownership interest in, the fund.
Moreover, numerous funds operate successfully with names that differ from the name of
the fund sponsor or adviser.

2222

See final rule § __.11(f).

2223

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(G)(vi) & (h)(1).

2224

For example, one commenter alleged that it would need to rebrand approximately 500 established
funds if the final rule was not modified to exclude established and regulated funds in foreign jurisdictions.
See Goldman (Covered Funds).

2225

See final rule §§ __.10(b) (1)(ii) & (c)(1).

701

The Agencies recognize, however, that the statutory name-sharing restriction may
affect some entities that will be covered funds and that cannot rely on another permitted
activity exemption under section 13(d)(1) and the final rule. The name-sharing
restriction may result in certain costs and other economic burdens for banking entities
that advise these funds, as discussed in greater detail in Part IV.B.1.g. above. 2226
However, as the Agencies also note above, to the extent that the restriction results in a
banking entity not otherwise coming under pressure for reputational reasons to directly or
indirectly assist a covered fund under distress that shares the banking entity’s name, the
name-sharing prohibition could reduce the risk to the banking entity that this assistance
might pose. The Agencies also expect that the conformance period, both for compliance
with section 13 of the BHC Act generally and for funds that are illiquid funds, should be
sufficient to allow covered funds to take the steps necessary to comply with the namesharing restriction in the statute and final rule.
6.

Limitation on ownership by directors and employees
Section __.11(g) of the proposed rule implemented section 13(d)(1)(G)(vii) of the

BHC Act. That statutory provision prohibits any director or employee of the banking
entity from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in the covered fund, except for
any director or employee of the banking entity who is directly engaged in providing
investment advisory or other services to the covered fund. 2227 This allows an individual
employed by a banking entity, who also acts as fund manager or adviser (for example), to

2226

See Part IV.B.1.g.

2227

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(G)(vii); proposed rule § __.11(g).

702

acquire or retain an ownership interest in a covered fund that aligns the manager or
adviser’s incentives with those of the banking entity’s customers. 2228
One commenter argued that only employees or directors who provide investment
advisory services should be allowed to make an investment in the fund and that the rule
should not allow employees or directors who provide other, unspecified services to invest
in a fund. 2229 This commenter argued that the proposed rule would allow non-adviser
banking entity employees who have no need to maintain “skin in the game” to earn profit
on the fund’s performance. According to another commenter, fiduciary clients of
banking organizations often are less interested in whether the fund manager or other
service providers have money in the fund than whether the client’s own account manager,
and those individuals above him/her who are responsible for investment decisions, have
allocated his or her own assets in the same way and into the same general asset classes
and funds as the client’s fiduciary account is being allocated. 2230
The more prevalent view among commenters was that the proposed rule should be
revised and expanded to permit investments in a sponsored fund by a broader group of
banking entity directors, officers, and employees, directly or indirectly through employee
benefit programs or trust and fiduciary accounts, regardless of whether the individual
provides services to the covered fund. 2231 Some commenters argued that narrowly
limiting permissible director and employee investments could put asset managers

2228

See 156 Cong. Rec. S5897 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley).

2229

See Occupy.

2230

See Arnold & Porter.

2231

See Arnold & Porter; BOK, Credit Suisse (Williams); Fin. Services Roundtable (Jun. 14, 2011);
PEGCC; T. Rowe Price.

703

affiliated with an insured depository institution at a competitive disadvantage relative to
managers that are not affiliated with an insured depository institution, 2232 as well as make
it more difficult for banking entities to offer their U.S. and non-U.S. employees similar
choices in retirement plans. 2233
Two commenters urged that the supervisors of a fund’s portfolio managers or
investment advisers should be permitted to invest. 2234 These commenters also argued
that individuals who provide support services to the fund, including administrative,
oversight and risk management, legal compliance, regulatory, product structuring, deal
sourcing and origination, deal evaluation and diligence, investor relations, sales and
marketing, tax, accounting, valuation and other operational support services, should be
permitted to invest in the fund. These commenters also requested confirmation that any
director, including an individual serving on the board or investment committee of a fund
or its manager, should be permitted to invest. 2235 Another commenter argued that
employees and directors should be permitted to make their own individual investment
decisions independently without regard to whether they provide services to the covered
fund. 2236 One commenter contended that a grandfathering approach is necessary to
address situations where a pre-existing covered fund already has investments from

2232

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

2233

See T. Rowe Price.

2234

See Credit Suisse (Williams); Fin. Services Roundtable (Jun. 14, 2011).

2235

See Credit Suisse (Williams); Fin. Services Roundtable (Jun. 14, 2011).

2236

See BOK (citing proposed rule at §__.17); Arnold & Porter.

704

directors and employees who do not directly provide services to the fund because the
fund may be unable to force those individuals out of the fund. 2237
A number of commenters argued that, if defined too narrowly, this restriction may
conflict with the laws of other jurisdictions that require advisers and/or their directors and
employees to invest in the funds they manage. 2238 For example, several commenters
argued that this requirement will directly conflict with the European Alternative
Investment Fund Managers Directive. 2239 Two commenters contended that certain
jurisdictions, including the Netherlands, require directors and other personnel of fund
managers to hold fund units or shares of funds managed by the fund manager as part of
their pensions. 2240
The final rule retains the requirement limiting the ownership of a covered fund by
directors and employees of a banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) relying on the
exemption in section 13(d)(1)(G) of the BHC Act. 2241 This limitation is imposed by
statute on banking entities that rely on this exemption. If a director or employee does not
provide services to the fund, they may not invest in that fund. As in the statute, the final
rule allows employees who provide services to the fund other than investment advisory
services to invest in the fund. Under the final rule, directors or employees who provide
investment advice or investment management services to the fund may invest in that

2237

See SVB.

2238

See EFAMA; BVI; IAA; ICI Global; JPMC; Union Asset.

2239

See Annex II para. 1(m). Directive 2011/61/EU of the European Parliament and the Council of 8 June
2011 on Alternative Investment Fund Managers.
2240

See EFAMA; Union Asset.

2241

See final rule § __.11(g).

705

fund. Similarly, directors or employees who provide services that enable the provision of
investment advice or investment management, such as oversight and risk management,
deal origination, due diligence, administrative or other support services, may also invest
in the fund. In response to comments, the final rule has been modified to make clear that
a former director or employee may retain an interest in a covered fund if the director or
employee acquired the interest while serving as a director or employee of the banking
entity and providing investment advisory or other services to the covered fund.
The Agencies believe that many of the concerns raised by commenters regarding
the effects of this limitation on foreign funds are addressed through the scope of foreign
funds that will be covered funds, and revisions to the exemption provided for covered
fund activities and investments that occur solely outside of the United States. Moreover,
the final rule excludes foreign public funds and broad-based foreign pension funds from
the definition of covered fund and they are thus not subject to the restrictions of section
13 or the final rule. 2242
Section 13 clearly contemplates investments by certain employees and directors
of the banking entity. 2243 However, the Agencies continue to believe that certain director
or employee investments in a covered fund may provide an opportunity for a banking
entity to evade the limitations regarding the amount or value of ownership interests a
banking entity may acquire or retain in a covered fund or funds contained in section
13(d)(4) of the BHC Act and the final rule. In order to address this concern, the final rule
attributes an ownership interest in a covered fund acquired or retained by a director or
2242

See final rule §§ __.10(c)(1) and __.10(c)(5).

2243

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(G)(vii).

706

employee to a banking entity for purposes of the investment limits in section 13(d)(4)
under certain circumstances. This attribution is discussed in detail below in Part IV.B.3.f.
7.

Disclosure requirements
Section __.11(h) of the proposed rule required that, in connection with organizing

and offering a covered fund, the banking entity clearly and conspicuously disclose, in
writing, to prospective and actual investors in the covered fund that any losses in the
covered fund will be borne solely by investors in the covered fund and not by the banking
entity and its affiliates or subsidiaries; and that the banking entity’s and its affiliates’ or
subsidiaries’ losses in the covered fund will be limited to losses attributable to the
ownership interests in the covered fund held by the banking entity and its affiliates or
subsidiaries in their capacity as investors in the covered fund. In addition, the proposed
rule required that a banking entity disclose, in writing: (i) that each investor should read
the fund offering documents before investing in the covered fund; (ii) that the ownership
interests in the covered fund are not insured by the FDIC, and are not deposits,
obligations of, or endorsed or guaranteed in any way, by any banking entity (unless that
happens to be the case); and (iii) the role of the banking entity and its affiliates,
subsidiaries, and employees in sponsoring or providing any services to the covered fund.
The proposed rule also required banking entities to comply with any additional rules of
the appropriate Agency designed to ensure that losses in any covered fund are borne
solely by the investors in the covered fund and not by the banking entity. 2244 In
proposing the rule, the Agencies indicated that a banking entity may satisfy these
2244

12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(G)(viii); proposed rule § __.11(h).

707

disclosure requirements by making the required disclosures in the covered fund’s offering
documents. 2245
A few commenters supported the disclosure requirement as effective and
consistent with the statute. 2246 One commenter stated that the disclosures required in
section 13(d)(1)(G)(viii) of the Act and the proposed rule are consistent with disclosures
in the banking agencies’ February 1994 “Interagency Statement on Retail Sales of Nondeposit Investment Products” and other FINRA and SEC guidance. 2247 One commenter
suggested that the rule include a requirement that the disclosures be issued in plain
English. 2248
Another commenter argued that the Agencies should revise the disclosure
requirements under the proposal so that offering materials of non-U.S. funds provided to
non-U.S. investors outside the United States need not include the specified disclosures
nor refer to the FDIC or other specific U.S. agencies. 2249 This commenter argued that a
non-U.S. person investing in a non-U.S. fund offered or sponsored by a non-U.S. banking
entity has no expectation that the fund or its interests would be insured by the FDIC. The
Agencies believe this concern is addressed through the revised definition of covered
fund, which generally provides that a foreign fund offered outside of the United States

2245

To the extent that any additional rules are issued to ensure that losses in a covered fund are borne
solely by the investors in the covered fund and not by the banking entity, a banking entity would be
required to comply with those as well in order to satisfy the requirements of section 13(d)(1)(G)(viii) of the
BHC Act.

2246

See, e.g., Occupy.

2247

See Arnold& Porter.

2248

See Occupy.

2249

See Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients).

708

will only be a covered fund with respect to a U.S. banking entity (including a foreign
affiliate of the U.S. banking entity) that acts as sponsor to, or invests in, the fund. 2250
The final rule adopts the proposed disclosure requirements substantially as
proposed. As explained above, these disclosures are largely required by the statute. 2251
The proposed requirement to disclose that ownership interests in a covered fund are not
insured by the FDIC, and are not deposits, obligations of, or endorsed or guaranteed in
any way, by any banking entity (unless that happens to be the case) is not expressly
required by the statute. However, section 13(d)(1)(G)(iii) permits the Agencies to impose
additional rules designed to ensure that losses in a covered fund are borne solely by
investors in the fund and not by a banking entity. The Agencies believe that requiring a
banking entity to make this disclosure as part of organizing and offering a covered fund
furthers this purpose by removing the potential for misperception that a covered fund
sponsored by a banking entity (which by definition must be affiliated with a depository
institution insured by the FDIC) is guaranteed by that insured institution or the FDIC.
Moreover, as noted above, this disclosure is already commonly provided by banking
entities.
b.

Organizing and Offering an Issuing Entity of Asset-Backed Securities
To the extent that an issuing entity of asset-backed securities is a covered fund,
the investment limitations contained in section 13(d)(4) of the BHC Act also would limit
the ability of a banking entity to acquire or retain an investment in that issuer. Section
941 of the Dodd-Frank Act added a new section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C.
2250

See final rule § __.10(b)(1)(iii).

2251

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(G)(viii).

709

78o-11) which requires a banking entity to retain and maintain a certain minimum
interest in certain asset-backed securities. 2252 In order to give effect to this separate
requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act, § __.14(a)(2) of the proposed rule permitted a
banking entity that is a “securitizer” or “originator” under the provisions of that Act to
acquire or retain an ownership interest in an issuer of asset-backed securities, in an
amount (or value of economic interest) required to comply with the minimum
requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act and any implementing regulations
issued thereunder. 2253 The proposal also permitted a banking entity to act as sponsor to
the securitization.
Commenters expressed a variety of views on the treatment of interests in
securitizations held under risk retention pursuant to the proposed rule. Some commenters
argued that the proposal was effective as written and represented a reasonable way to
reconcile the two sections of the Dodd-Frank Act consistent with the risk-reducing
objective of section 13 of the BHC Act. 2254 Other commenters also supported the
proposal’s recognition that banking entities may be required to hold a certain amount of
risk in a securitization that would also be a covered fund, but argued that the proposed
exemption was too narrow. 2255

2252

The relevant agencies issued a proposed rule to implement the requirements of section 15G of the
Exchange Act, as required under section 941 of the Dodd-Frank Act. See Credit Risk Retention, 76 FR
24,090 (Apr. 29, 2011). Those agencies recently issued a re-proposal of the risk-retention requirements.
See Credit Risk Retention, 78 FR 57,928 (Sept. 20, 2013).

2253

See proposed rule § __.14(a)(2)(iii).

2254

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Alfred Brock.

2255

See, e.g., AFME et al.; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; BoA.

710

After carefully considering the comments received on the proposal, as well as the
language and purpose of section 13 of the BHC Act, the final rule provides an exemption
that permits a banking entity to organize and offer a covered fund that is an issuing entity
of asset-backed securities. 2256 The Agencies have determined to provide this exemption
in order to address the unique circumstances and ownership structures presented by
securitizations. 2257 Under the final rule, a banking entity may permissibly organize and
offer a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities so long as the
banking entity (and its affiliates) comply with all of the requirements of § __.11(a)(3)
through (a)(8). 2258 As discussed above, the requirements of § __.11(a)(3) through
__.11(a)(8) are that: (i) the banking entity and its affiliates do not acquire or retain an
ownership interest in the covered fund except as permitted under § __.12 of the final
rule; 2259 (ii) the banking entity and its affiliates comply with the requirements of § __.14
of the final rule; (iii) the banking entity and its affiliates do not, directly or indirectly,
guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the covered
fund or of any covered fund in which such covered fund invests; (iv) the covered fund,
for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other purposes, does not share the same name
or variation of the same name with the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) and does
2256

See final rule § __.11(b).

2257

As used in this Supplementary Information, the term “securitization” means a transaction or series of
transactions that result in the issuance of asset-backed securities.

2258

See final rule § __.11(b) (providing the requirements for a banking entity that is organizing and
offering a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities by reference to the requirements
of § __.11(a), as discussed above).

2259

As explained in detail below in Part IV.B.3. addressing the limitations on investments in covered funds
by a banking entity, the final rule permits a banking entity to acquire and retain ownership interests in a
covered fund in order to comply with section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C.78o-11) in an amount
that does not exceed the amount required to comply with the banking entity’s chosen method of compliance
under section 15G and the implementing regulations issued thereunder.

711

not use the word “bank” in its name; (v) no director or employee of the banking entity (or
an affiliate thereof) takes or retains an ownership interest in the covered fund except
under the limited circumstances noted in the final rule; and (vi) the banking entity
complies with the disclosure requirements regarding covered funds in the final rule.
The Agencies believe that the requirements of the exemption for organizing and
offering a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities, which are in
most aspects consistent with the exemption for organizing and offering a covered fund in
section 13(d)(1)(G), provide limitations on a banking entity’s securitization activities
involving covered funds that are consistent with the limitations imposed with respect to
organizing and offering a covered fund that is not an issuing entity of asset-backed
securities. For instance, a banking entity may not share the same name as a covered fund
that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities and is prohibited from guaranteeing or
otherwise “bailing out” a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities,
including being required to comply with section 13(f) of the BHC Act regarding covered
transactions with the covered fund. Furthermore, like a banking entity’s investment in
any covered fund, the final rule limits the ability of a banking entity to invest in a covered
fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities unless it meets the requirements of
§ __.12.
Unlike many other covered funds, the Agencies understand that banking entities
might not act in a fiduciary capacity when they organize and offer a covered fund that is a
securitization vehicle. For instance, as part of organizing and offering a securitization
vehicle, one or more parties may typically organize and initiate the securitization by
selling or transferring assets, either directly or indirectly, to an issuing entity of asset-

712

backed securities. An entity that provides these services typically does so as a service to
provide investors and the entity’s customers with the ability to invest in the assets in a
manner and to a degree that they may otherwise be unable to do. In order to identify
certain activities that would be included as organizing and offering a securitization, the
final rule provides that organizing and offering an issuing entity of asset-backed
securities means acting as the securitizer, as that term is used in section 15G(a)(3) of the
Exchange Act, for the issuer, or acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in the issuer
in compliance with the implementing regulations issued under section 15G of that Act.
The final rule reflects, as discussed above, that one or more parties that organize
and offer an issuing entity of asset-backed securities may not provide any of the services
identified in § __.11(a)(1). In this case the banking entity is not required to comply with
§ __.11(a)(1) or (a)(2). Section __.11(b) of the final rule is designed to address situations
where, as discussed above, a banking entity does not act in a fiduciary capacity when it
organizes and offers a covered fund that is a securitization vehicle. With respect to any
securitization vehicle that retains a collateral manager for investment advice regarding
the assets of the securitization vehicle, such a collateral manager would be required to
comply with all of the provisions of § __.11(a) to acquire and retain an ownership interest
in such securitization vehicle.
The final rule therefore both identifies certain activities that would be included as
organizing and offering a securitization and modifies the requirements of § __.11 to
reflect differences between securitizations and other types of covered funds, as discussed
above. The Agencies believe, therefore, that the final rule appropriately addresses the
type of activity that is usually associated with organizing and offering a securitization and

713

also comports with the manner in which Congress chose to define the type of parties
engaged in activities that merit special attention related to issuing entities of asset-backed
securities in another part of the Dodd-Frank Act.
The Agencies have determined to provide this exemption by using their authority
in section 13(d)(1)(J) of the BHC Act and believe that this exemption promotes and
protects the safety and soundness of banking entities and the financial stability of the
United States. Many companies and other entities utilize securitization transactions to
efficiently manage, allocate and distribute risks throughout the markets in a manner
consistent with meeting the demands of their investors. Companies also utilize
securitizations in order to help provide liquidity to certain asset classes or portions of the
market that, absent this liquidity, may experience decreased liquidity and increased costs
of funding. For instance, if banking entities were not permitted to organize and offer a
securitization, the Agencies believe this would result in increased costs of funding or
credit for many businesses of all sizes that are engaged in activities that section 13 of the
BHC Act was not designed to address. Additionally, this exemption enables banking
entities to acquire and retain ownership interests in a covered fund to comply with section
15G of the Exchange Act, which requires certain parties to a securitization transaction to
retain a minimum amount of risk in a securitization, a requirement not applicable to
covered funds that are not securitizations. The Agencies therefore have determined that
this exemption will promote and protect the safety and soundness of banking entities and
the financial stability of the United States by facilitating the benefits securitizations can
provide as discussed above, and also by enabling banking entities to comply with section
15G of the Exchange Act.

714

The Agencies believe it would not be consistent with the safety and soundness of
banking entities or the financial stability of the United States to prevent banking entities
from acquiring or retaining ownership interests in securitizations as part of the permitted
activity of organizing and offering securitizations or from meeting any applicable
requirements related to securitizations, including those imposed under section 15G of the
Exchange Act. The Agencies note that the exemption for organizing and offering a
securitization does not relieve banking entities of any requirements that they may be
subject to with respect to their investments in or relationships with a securitization, such
as any applicable requirements regarding conflicts of interest relating to certain
securitizations under section 27B of the Securities Act of 1933.
c.

Underwriting and Market Making for a Covered Fund
Section 13(d)(1)(B) permits a banking entity to purchase and sell securities and
other instruments described in 13(h)(4) in connection with certain underwriting or market
making-related activities. 2260 The proposal did not discuss how this exemption applied in
the context of underwriting or market making of ownership interests in covered funds.
Commenters argued that the scope of the permitted activities under sections
13(d)(1)(B), (D) and (F), which respectively set out permitted activities of underwriting
and market making-related activities, activities on behalf of customers, and activities by a
regulated insurance company, apply to all of the activities prohibited under section 13(a),
whether those activities would involve proprietary trading or ownership of or acting as a

2260

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(B).

715

sponsor to covered funds. 2261 Commenters argued that the statutory exemption for
underwriting and market making-related activities is applicable to both proprietary
trading and covered fund activities, and recommended that the final rule allow banking
entities to hold ownership interests and other securities of covered funds for the purpose
of underwriting and engaging in market making-related activities. 2262 Commenters noted
that many structured finance vehicles rely on sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the
Investment Company Act, and argued that, without a market making exemption for
securities of covered funds, banking entities would be unable to engage in customerdriven underwriting and market making activity with respect to securities issued by
entities such as collateralized loan obligation issuers and non-U.S. exchange-traded
funds. 2263
After careful review of the comments in light of the statutory provisions, the final
rule has been modified to provide a covered fund specific provision for underwriting and
market making-related activities of ownership interests in covered funds. These
underwriting and market making activities are within the scope of permitted activities
under the final rule so long as:
•

2261

The banking entity conducts the activities in accordance with the requirements of
§ __.4(a) or § __.4(b), respectively;

See Cleary Gottlieb et al.; JPMC; Credit Suisse (Williams).

2262

See BoA; Cleary Gottlieb; Credit Suisse (Williams); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); See
also Deutsche Bank (Fund-Linked Products); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012). Other commenters
argued that application of Section 13(f) of the BHC Act would prohibit the underwriting and market
making by a banking entity of the securities of a covered fund that such banking entity sponsors, organizes
and offers or provides investment management advice or services because Section 13(f) of the BHC Act
prohibits the purchase of securities by a banking entity from such a covered fund. See, e.g., ASF (Feb.
2012); Cleary Gottlieb; Credit Suisse (Williams); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012); FSA (Feb. 2012).
2263

See JPMC; Cleary Gottlieb.

716

•

With respect to any banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) that: acts as a sponsor,
investment adviser or commodity trading advisor to a particular covered fund or
otherwise acquires and retains an ownership interest in such covered fund in
reliance on § __.11(a); acquires and retains an ownership interest in such covered
fund and is either a securitizer, as that term is used in section 15G(a)(3) of the
Exchange Act, or is acquiring and retaining an ownership interest in such covered
fund in compliance with section 15G of that Act and the implementing regulations
issued thereunder each as permitted by § __.11(b); or, directly or indirectly,
guarantees, assumes, or otherwise insures the obligations or performance of the
covered fund or of any covered fund in which such fund invests, then in each such
case any ownership interests acquired or retained by the banking entity and its
affiliates in connection with underwriting and market making related activities for
that particular covered fund are included in the calculation of ownership interests
permitted to be held by the banking entity and its affiliates under the limitations of
§ __.12(a)(2)(ii) and § __.12(d); and

•

With respect to any banking entity, the aggregate value of all ownership interests
of the banking entity and its affiliates in all covered funds acquired and retained
under § __.11, including all covered funds in which the banking entity holds an
ownership interest in connection with underwriting and market making related
activities under § __.11(c), are included in the calculation of all ownership
interests under § __.12(a)(2)(iii) and § __.12(d). 2264

The Agencies believe that providing a separate provision relating to permitted
underwriting and market making-related activities for ownership interests in covered
funds is supported by section 13(d)(1)(B) of the BHC Act. 2265 The exemption for
underwriting and market making-related activities under section 13(d)(1)(B), by its terms,
is a statutorily permitted activity and exemption from the prohibitions in section 13(a),
whether on proprietary trading or on covered fund activities. Applying the statutory
exemption in this manner accommodates the capital raising activities of covered funds

2264

See final rule §_.11(c).

2265

A discussion of the implementation of section 13(d)(1)(D) and (F) with regard to the final rule’s
limitations on covered fund investments and activities is provided in the section that relates to permitted
covered fund interests and activities by a regulated insurance company and §__.13(c) of the final rule.

717

and other issuers in accordance with the underwriting and market making provisions
under the statute.
The final rule provides that a banking entity must include any ownership interests
that it acquires or retains in connection with underwriting and market making-related
activities for a particular covered fund for purposes of the per-fund limitation under §
__.12(a)(2)(ii) if the banking entity: (i) acts as a sponsor, investment adviser or
commodity trading advisor to the covered fund; (ii) otherwise acquires and retains an
ownership interest in the covered fund as permitted under § __.11(a); (iii) acquires and
retains an ownership interest in the covered fund and is either a securitizer, as that term is
used in section 15G(a)(3) of the Exchange Act, or is acquiring and retaining an
ownership interest in the covered fund in compliance with section 15G of that Act and
the implementing regulations issued thereunder each as permitted by § __.11(b); or (iv)
directly or indirectly guarantees, assumes, or otherwise insures the obligations or
performance of the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such fund invests. This
is designed to prevent any unintended expansion of ownership of covered funds by
banking entities that are subject to the per fund limitations under § __.12.
These banking entities will have a limited ability to engage in underwriting or
market making-related activities for a covered fund for which the banking entity’s
investments are subject to the per-fund limitations in § __.12 as discussed above. Such a
banking entity will have more flexibility to underwrite and make a market in the
ownership interests of such a covered fund in connection with organizing and offering the
covered fund during the fund’s seeding period, since during the seeding period a banking

718

entity may own in excess of three percent of the covered fund, subject to the other
requirements in § __.12.
The final rule also provides that all banking entities that engage in underwriting
and market-making related activities in covered funds are required to include the
aggregate value of all ownership interests of the banking entity in all covered funds
acquired and retained under
§ __.11, including in connection with underwriting and market making-related activities
under
§ __.11(c), in the calculation of the aggregate covered fund ownership interest limitations
under § __.12(a)(2)(iii) (and make the associated deduction from tier one capital for
purposes of calculating compliance with applicable regulatory capital requirements). 2266
Some commenters asked that the Agencies permit banking entities to engage in
market making and underwriting in non-sponsored covered fund interests. 2267 The final
rule permits a banking entity that does not hold an ownership interest in the covered fund
in reliance on
§§ __.11(a) or __.11(b) of the final rule, is not a sponsor of the covered fund, is not an
investment adviser or commodity trading advisor to the covered fund, and does not,
directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or
performance of the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such fund invests to
rely on the market-making and underwriting exemption in § __.11(c) provided that the
banking entity meets all of the requirements of that exemption. These conditions include
2266

See final rule § __.11(c)(3).

2267

See Cleary Gottlieb; Credit Suisse (Williams).

719

the aggregate funds limitation and the capital deduction contained in § __.12 after
including all ownership interest held by the banking entity and its affiliates under § __.11,
including ownership interests acquired or retained under the exemption for underwriting
and market making-related activities in § __.11(c). In accordance with section 13(d)(1)
of the BHC Act, the Agencies have determined that these restrictions on reliance on the
market-making and underwriting exemption provided by section 13(d)(1)(B) are
appropriate to address the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act, which is aimed at
assuring that banking entities do not bail-out a covered fund and maintain sufficient
capital against the risks of ownership of covered funds. The Agencies note, however,
that the guarantee restriction is not intended to prevent a banking entity from entering
into arrangements with a covered fund that are not entered into for the purpose of
guaranteeing the obligations or performance of the covered fund. For example, this
restriction is not intended to prohibit a banking entity from entering into or providing
liquidity facilities or letters of credit for covered funds; however, it would apply to
arrangements such as a put of the ownership interest in the covered fund to the banking
entity. The determination of whether an arrangement would fall within this guarantee
restriction would depend on the facts and circumstances.
The Agencies emphasize that any banking entity that engages in underwriting or
market making-related activities in covered funds must comply with all of the conditions
applicable to such activity as set forth in section §§ __.4(a) and __.4(b). 2268 Thus,
holdings of a single covered fund would be subject to limitations on risk as well as length

2268

See final rule § __.11(c)(1).

720

of holding period, among other applicable limitations and requirements. These
requirements are designed specifically to address a banking entity’s underwriting and
market making-related activities and to prohibit holding exposures in excess of
reasonably expected near term demand of clients, customers and counterparties.
3.
a.

Section __.12: Permitted Investment in a Covered Fund

Proposed Rule
Section __.12 of the proposed rule implemented section 13(d)(4) of the BHC Act
and described the limited circumstances under which a banking entity may acquire or
retain an ownership interest in a covered fund that the banking entity (which includes its
subsidiaries and affiliates) organizes and offers. 2269 Section 13(d)(4)(A) of the BHC Act
permits a banking entity to acquire and retain an ownership interest in a covered fund that
the banking entity organizes and offers for the purpose of: (i) establishing the fund and
providing the fund with sufficient initial equity for investment to permit the fund to
attract unaffiliated investors; or (ii) making a de minimis investment in the fund, subject
to several limitations. Section 13(d)(4)(B) of the BHC Act requires that investments by a
banking entity in a covered fund must, not later than one year after the date of
establishment of the fund, be reduced to an amount that is not more than three percent of
the total outstanding ownership interests of the fund. Consistent with the statute,

§

.__12 of the proposal provided that, after expiration of the seeding period, a banking
entity’s investment in a single covered fund may not represent more than three percent of
the total outstanding ownership interests in the covered fund (the “per-fund

2269

12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(4); proposed rule § __.12.

721

limitation”). 2270 In addition, as provided in the statute, the proposal provided that the
total amount invested by a banking entity in all covered funds may not exceed three
percent of the tier 1 capital of the banking entity (the “aggregate funds limitation”). 2271
b.

Duration of Seeding Period for New Covered Funds
Commenters argued that it is essential to serving their customers efficiently that a
banking entity be permitted to acquire and retain an ownership interest in a covered fund
that it organizes and offers as a de minimis investment or for the purpose of establishing
the fund. A number of commenters contended that a banking entity typically invests a
limited amount of its own capital in a fund (“seed capital”) as part of organizing the fund
to produce investment performance as a record of the fund’s investment strategy (“track
record”). 2272 Once a track record for the fund is established, the banking entity markets
the fund to unaffiliated investors.
Commenters argued that the one-year seeding period provided in the proposed
rule would be too short to establish a track record for many types of covered funds.
Commenters argued that the duration of the track record investors typically demand
before investing in a new fund depends on a number of factors (e.g., the type of fund,
investment strategy, and potential investors). According to commenters, an inability to
demonstrate a track record over multiple years may reduce the allocation of capital by

2270

See proposed rule §§ __.12(a)(1)(i); _.12(a)(2)(i)(A) and (B); __.12(b).

2271

See id. at §§ __.12(a)(1)(ii); __.12(a)(2)(ii); __.12(c).

2272

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012); T. Rowe Price; Credit Suisse
(Williams); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks);TCW.

722

investors who are unable to gain an understanding of the investment strategy, risk profile,
and potential performance of the fund. 2273
Commenters provided alternative suggestions regarding how to define the start of
the seeding period for purposes of applying the statutory exception for investments
during the seeding period. For example, two commenters recommended that the
Agencies treat a private equity fund as being established on the date on which the fund
begins its asset-acquisition phase and is closed to new investors, and a hedge fund as
established on the date on which the fund has reached its target amount of funding and
begins investing according to the fund’s stated investment objectives. 2274 Another
commenter suggested that the permitted seeding period begin on the date on which thirdparty investors are first admitted to the fund. 2275
Several commenters expressed concern that the per-fund limitation could be
subject to evasion unless the Agencies require that the seeding period begin at the time
funds are first invested by the banking entity in the fund. 2276 Some of these commenters
suggested the Agencies impose a dollar cap of $10 million on the seed capital that a
banking entity may provide to a newly organized covered fund in addition to the statutory
limits based on the amount of the fund’s shares and the amount of the banking entity’s

2273

See et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); See also Ass’n of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); Bank of
Montreal et al. (Jan. 2012); Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); Credit Suisse (Williams);
Japanese Bankers Ass’n; SSgA (Feb. 2012); T. Rowe Price; Union Asset. One commenter argued that
this limitation would constrain portfolio composition of a covered fund due to an inability of a fund to raise
sufficient capital to make larger investments. See Credit Suisse (Williams).
2274

See AFG; Union Asset.

2275

See SIFMA (Mar. 2012); See also Credit Suisse (Williams).

2276

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

723

tier 1 capital. 2277 These commenters argued that an explicit quantitative limit better
accounted for the size of some banking entities, which otherwise made the potential
amount of capital placed in covered funds quite large. 2278
The Agencies have considered carefully the comments on the proposal and have
made several modifications to the final rule to more clearly explain how the limitations
apply during the seeding period. The final rule continues to provide that a banking entity
may invest in a covered fund that it organizes and offers either in connection with
establishing the fund, or as a de minimis investment. 2279 Importantly, the statute does not
permit a banking entity to invest in a covered fund unless the banking entity organizes or
offers the covered fund or qualifies for another exemption. As explained more fully in
the discussion of § __.11 above, a wide variety of activities are encompassed in
organizing and offering a covered fund. Under the statute, which generally prohibits
investments in covered funds, a banking entity may invest in a covered fund under the
exemptions provided in section 13(d)(1) of the BHC Act, including section 13(d)(1)(G)
and the provisions of section 13(d)(4), only if the banking entity engages in one or more
of these permitted activities with regard to that covered fund and complies with all
applicable limitations under the final rule regarding investments in a covered fund.
As noted above, the statute allows a banking entity to acquire and hold all of the
ownership interests in a covered fund for the purpose of establishing the fund and
providing the fund with sufficient initial equity for investment to permit the fund to

2277

See Occupy; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); See also 156 Cong. Rec. S5897 (daily ed. July 15,
2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley).
2278

See, e.g., Public Citizen.

2279

See final rule §__.12(a)(1).

724

attract unaffiliated investors. 2280 However, the statute also imposes a limit on the
duration of an investment made in connection with seeding a covered fund. At the end of
that period, the investment must conform to the limits on de minimis investments set by
the statute. In keeping with the terms of the statute, the final rule, like the proposal,
allows banking entities a seeding period of one-year for all covered funds. The statute
also allows the Board to extend that period, upon an application by a banking entity, for
two additional years if the Board finds an extension to be consistent with safety and
soundness and in the public interest. 2281 As explained below, the final rule, like the
proposal, incorporates this process and sets forth the factors the Board will consider when
determining whether to allow an extended seeding period. The Board and the Agencies
will monitor these extension requests to ensure that banking entities do not seek
extensions for the purpose of evading the restrictions on covered funds or to engage in
prohibited proprietary trading.
As noted above, the proposal did not specify “date of establishment,” and
commenters suggested a variety of dates that could serve as the date of establishment for
purposes of determining the duration of the seeding period and the per-fund limitations
on ownership interests in a covered fund. 2282 After considering comments received on
the proposal, the Agencies have modified the final rule to include a definition of “date of
establishment” for a covered fund. In general, the date of establishment is the date on
which an investment adviser or similar party begins to make investments that execute an

2280

12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(4).

2281

See id. at 1851(d)(4)(C).

2282

See SIFMA et al. (Mar. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams); EFAMA: Hong Kong Inv. Funds Ass’n;
AFG; Union Asset.

725

investment or trading strategy for the covered fund. The Agencies perceive the act of
making investments to execute an investment or trading strategy as demonstrating that
the fund has begun its existence and is no longer simply a plan or proposal. In order to
account for the unique circumstances and manner in which securitizations are established,
for a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities, the date of
establishment under the final rule is the date on which the assets are initially transferred
into the issuing entity of the asset-backed securities. This is the date that the entity is
formed and the securities are generally sold around this time. The Agencies believe this
is the appropriate time for the date of establishment for securitizations because this is the
date that the securitization risks are transferred to the owners of the securitization vehicle.
Once the assets have been transferred, the securitization has been established and
securities of the issuer may typically be priced in support of organizing and offering the
issuer. Setting a later time, such as when the fund becomes fully subscribed or the assets
have been fully assembled, could permit a banking entity to engage in prohibited
proprietary trading under the guise of waiting for investors that may never
materialize. 2283
The statute also requires a banking entity to actively seek unaffiliated investors to
reduce or dilute the entity’s ownership interest to the amount permitted under the statute.
This requirement is included in the final rule, and underscores the nature of covered fund
activities under section 13(d)(1)(G) as a method to provide investment advisory, trust and

2283

Importantly, the statute recognizes that a banking entity may need more than the automatic one-year
Seeding period to build a track record and/or market its interests to unaffiliated investors; therefore, a
banking entity may apply for an extension of the Seeding period as provided in __.12(e) of the final rule as
discussed below in Part IV.B.3.h.

726

fiduciary services to customers rather than allow the banking entity to engage in
prohibited proprietary trading. To effectuate the requirements of the statute, under the
final rule, banking entities that organize and offer a covered fund must develop and
document a plan for offering shares in the covered fund to other investors and
conforming the banking entity’s investments to the de minimis limits to help monitor and
ensure compliance with this requirement.
While certain commenters requested that the final rule include a quantitative
dollar limit on the amount of funds a banking entity may use to organize and offer a
covered fund, the Agencies have declined to add this limitation in the final rule. This
type of limit is not required by statute. Moreover, the Agencies believe that imposing a
strict dollar limit may not adequately permit banking entities to employ trading or
investment strategies that will attract unaffiliated investors, thereby precluding banking
entities from meeting the demands of customers contrary to the purpose of section 13.
c.

Limitations on Investments in a Single Covered Fund (“Per-Fund Limitation”)
Section 13(d)(4)(B) imposes limits on the amount of ownership interest a banking
entity may have in any single covered fund at the end of the one year period (subject to
limited extension) after the date of establishment of the fund (the “seeding period”). In
recognition of the fact that a covered fund may have multiple classes or types of
ownership interests with different characteristics or values, the proposal required that a
banking entity apply the limits to both the total value of and total amount of the banking
entity’s ownership interest in a covered fund.
The proposed rule required a banking entity to calculate the per-fund limitation
using two methods. First, a banking entity was required to calculate the value of its

727

investments and capital contributions made with respect to any ownership interest in a
single covered fund as a percentage of the value of all investments and capital
contributions made by all persons in that covered fund. Second, a banking entity was
required to determine the total number of ownership interests held by the banking entity
in a single covered fund as a percentage of the total number of ownership interests held
by all persons in that covered fund. 2284 Both calculations were required to be done
without regard to committed funds not yet called for investment. The proposed rule also
required the banking entity to calculate the value and amount of its ownership interest in
each covered fund in the same manner and according to the same standards utilized by
the covered fund for determining the aggregate value of the fund’s assets and ownership
interests. 2285 These calculations were designed to ensure that the banking entity’s
investment in a covered fund could not result in more than three percent of the losses of
the covered fund being allocated to the banking entity’s investment. 2286
Commenters did not generally object to calculating the per-fund limitation based
on both number and value of ownership interests. Several commenters urged the
Agencies to allow a banking entity to value its investment in a covered fund based on the
acquisition cost of the investment, instead of fair market value, notwithstanding the
manner in which the covered fund accounts for or values investments for its shareholders
generally. 2287 One commenter suggested that the Agencies allow a banking entity to
choose between acquisition cost and fair value so long as the chosen valuation method is
2284

See proposed rule §__.12(b)(2).

2285

See proposed rule §__.12(b)(4).

2286

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,904.

2287

See ABA (Keating); BoA; Arnold & Porter; BOK; Scale; SVB.

728

applied consistently to both the numerator and denominator when calculating the perfund limitation.2288
To the extent that an issuer of an asset-backed security is a covered fund, the
investment limitations contained in section 13(d)(4) of the BHC Act also would limit the
ability of a banking entity to acquire or retain an investment in that issuer. Section 941 of
the Dodd-Frank Act added a new section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11)
which requires certain parties to a securitization transaction, including banking entities, to
retain and maintain a certain minimum interest in certain issuers or asset-backed
securities. 2289 In order to give effect to this separate requirement under the Dodd-Frank
Act, § __.14(a)(2) of the proposed rule permitted a banking entity that is a “securitizer”
or “originator” under that provisions of the Act to acquire or retain an ownership interest
in an issuer of asset-backed securities, in an amount (or value of economic interest)
required to comply with the minimum requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act
and any implementing regulations issued thereunder. 2290 The proposal also permitted a
banking entity to act as sponsor to the securitization.
Commenters expressed a variety of views on the treatment of interests in
securitizations held under risk retention pursuant to the proposed rule. Some commenters
argued that the proposal was effective as written and represented a reasonable way to
reconcile the two sections of the Dodd-Frank Act consistent with the risk-reducing
2288

See ABA (Keating) (alleging that this is similar to the SEC’s approach to the definition of venture
capital fund for the purposes of being exempt from investment advisor registration).

2289

The relevant agencies issued a proposed rule to implement the requirements of section 15G of the
Exchange Act, as required under section 941 of the Dodd-Frank Act. See Credit Risk Retention, 76 FR
24,090 (Apr. 29, 2011). Those agencies recently issued a re-proposal of the risk-retention requirements.
See Credit Risk Retention, 78 FR 57,928 (Sept. 20, 2013).

2290

See proposed rule § __.14(a)(2)(iii).

729

objective of section 13 of the BHC Act. 2291 Other commenters also supported the
proposal’s recognition that banking entities may be required to hold a certain amount of
risk in a securitization that would also be a covered fund, but argued that the proposed
exemption was too narrow. 2292 Some commenters argued that the exemption should be
broadened to permit a banking entity to hold in excess of the minimum amount required
under section 15G of the Exchange Act instead of allowing only the minimum amount
required by that section. 2293 One commenter requested that the final rule permit a
banking entity to hold an amount of risk in a securitization that is commensurate with
what investors demand rather than the minimum required by section 15G. 2294 Some
commenters argued that banking entities may be subject to similar generally applicable
requirements to hold risk in securitizations under foreign law, such as Article 122a of the
Capital Requirements Directive issued by the European Union, and that the final rule
should permit banking entities to comply with these foreign legal requirements. 2295
Conversely, a few commenters objected to the proposed rule’s exemption for riskretention as unclear and argued that if the exemption was retained, the Agencies should
provide that any amounts held by a banking entity in a securitization that exceed the
minimum required to satisfy section 15G of the Exchange Act should count towards the
aggregate funds limitation of the banking entity. 2296 One commenter argued that the final

2291

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Alfred Brock.

2292

See, e.g., AFME et al.; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; BoA.

2293

See AFME et al.; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; BoA.

2294

See BoA.

2295

See AFME et al.; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb.
2012);BoA.

2296

See Occupy.

730

rule should impose higher capital charges for interests held in these securitizations due to
concerns that securitizations involve heightened risks due to the complexity of their
ownership structure. 2297
The Agencies have carefully considered the comments received and are adopting
the calculation requirements for the per-fund limitation as proposed with several
modifications, including modifications designed to address the unique characteristics and
ownership structure of securitizations. The final rule, like the proposal, requires that a
banking entity calculate its per-fund investment limit in covered funds that are not issuing
entities of asset-backed securities based on both the value of its investments and capital
contributions in and to each covered fund and the total number of ownership interests it
has in each covered fund. A banking entity’s investment (including investments by its
affiliates) may not exceed either three percent of the value of the covered fund or three
percent of the number of ownership interests in the covered fund at the end of the seeding
period. The Agencies continue to believe that requiring the per-fund limitation to be
calculated based on these two measures best effectuates the terms and purpose of the perfund limitation in the statute. Together, these measures ensure that a banking entity’s
exposure to and ownership of each covered fund is limited. Each measure alone could
provide a distorted view of the banking entity’s ownership interest and could be more
easily manipulated, for example by issuing ownership interests with high value or special
governance provisions. As discussed in more detail below, the final rule contains a
separate method for calculating the value of investments in issuing entities of asset-

2297

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

731

backed securities due to the fact that these entities do not have a single class of security
and thus, the valuation of the ownership interests cannot be made on a per interest or
single class basis.
The per-fund limitation on ownership interests must be measured against the total
ownership interests of the covered fund, as defined in § __.10 of the final rule and as
discussed above in Part IV.B.1.e. In determining the amount of ownership interests held
by the banking entity and its affiliates, the banking entity must include an ownership
interest permitted under §§ __.4 and __.11 of the final rule. 2298 Additionally, any
banking entity that acts as underwriter or market-maker for ownership interests of a
covered fund must do so in compliance with the limitations of §§ __.4(a) and __.4(b) of
the final rule, including the limits on the amount, types, and risk of the underwriting
position or market-maker inventory as well as in compliance with the per-fund limitation,
as applicable, and the aggregate funds limitations and capital deduction in the final rule.
The Agencies expect to monitor these activities to ensure that a banking entity does not
engage in underwriting or market making-related activity in a manner that is inconsistent
with the limitations of the statute and the final rule. 2299

2298

As discussed above in Part IV.B.2.c., the per-fund limitation does not apply to ownership interests held
by a banking entity that acts as market maker or underwriter in accordance with § __.11(c) of the final rule,
so long as the banking entity does not also organize and offer, or act as sponsor, investment adviser or
commodity trading advisor to, the fund, or, with respect to ownership interests in issuing entities of assetbacked securities, is not a securitizer who continues to own ownership interests or is not an entity that holds
ownership interests in compliance with Section 15G of the Exchange Act and the implementing regulations
adopted thereunder; however, the banking entity that is acting as market maker or underwriter that is not
subject to the per-fund limitation must still comply with the other requirements set forth in §§ __.4(a) and
__.4(b), respectively, and any other applicable requirements set out in § __.11(c).
2299

The Agencies note that if a banking entity acts as investment adviser or commodity trading advisor to a
covered fund and shares the same name or variation of the same name with the fund, then that banking
entity would be a sponsor and therefore subject to the limitations of section 13(f).

732

The final rule requires that the value of the ownership interests and contributions
made by a banking entity in each covered fund (that is not an issuing entity of an assetbacked security) be the fair market value of the interest or contribution. The Agencies
have determined to use fair market value as the measurement of value for the per-fund
value limitation in order to ensure comparability with the investments made in the
covered fund by others and limit the potential that the valuation measure can be
manipulated (for example by altering the percentage of gains and losses that are
associated with a particular ownership interest). A banking entity should determine fair
market value for purposes of the final rule, including the calculation of both the per-fund
and aggregate funds limitations, in a manner that is consistent with its determination of
the fair market value of its assets for financial statement purposes and that fair market
value would be determined in a manner consistent with the valuations reported by the
relevant covered fund unless the banking entity determines otherwise for purposes of its
financial statements and documents the reason for any disparity. If fair market value
cannot be determined, then the value shall be the historical cost basis of all investments
and capital contributions made by the banking entity to the covered fund. The final rule
also requires that, once a valuation method is chosen, the banking entity calculate the
value of its investments and the investments of all others in the covered fund for purposes
of the per-fund limitation in the same manner and according to the same standards. 2300
This approach is intended to ensure that, for purposes of calculating the per-fund

2300

In the context of securitizations, the final rule similarly provides that the valuation methodology used
to calculate the fair market value of the ownership interests must be the same for both the ownership
interests held by a banking entity and the ownership interests held by all other investors in the covered fund
in the same manner and according to the same standards.

733

limitation, a banking entity does not calculate its investment in a covered fund in a
manner more favorable to the banking entity than the method used by the covered fund
for valuing the investments made by others. Under the final rule and as explained in
more detail below, any ownership interest acquired or retained by an employee or
director of the banking entity is attributed to the banking entity for purposes of the perfund limitation if the banking entity financed the purchase of the ownership interest.
Additionally, any amount contributed or paid by a banking entity or its employee to
obtain an ownership interest in connection with obtaining the restricted profit interest
must be included in calculating compliance with the per-fund and aggregate funds
limitations (See Part IV.B.1.e. above). 2301
In determining the per-fund limitation for purposes of § __.12 of the final rule, the
banking entity should use the same methodology for valuing its investments and capital
contributions as the banking entity uses to prepare its financial statements and regulatory
reports. 2302 In particular, the fair market value of a banking entity’s investments and any
capital contributions made to a covered fund should be the same for purposes of § __.12
of the final rule as reported on the banking entity’s financial statements and regulatory
reports. Similarly, if fair market value of all investments in and capital contributions
cannot be determined for purposes of § __.12 of the final rule, then the banking entity
should use the same methodology to calculate the historical cost basis of the investments
and any capital contributions as the banking entity uses to prepare its financial statements

2301

See Part IV.B.1.e.

2302

For example, a depository institution or bank holding company should use the same methodology as
used in the Report of Condition and Income (Call Report) for depository institutions and the Consolidated
Financial Statements for Holding Companies (FR Y-9C) for bank holding companies, respectively.

734

and regulatory reports. The Agencies will review carefully the methodology that a
banking entity uses to calculate the value of its investments in and capital contributions
made to covered funds as part of the process to monitor compliance with the final rule.
The Agencies expect that for the majority of covered funds, the party that
organizes and offers the fund or otherwise exercises control over the fund will provide a
standard methodology for valuing interests in the fund. However, the Agencies
understand that for some covered funds, including issuing entities of asset backed
securities, there may be multiple parties that organize and offer the fund that each utilize
a different methodology or standard for calculating the value of ownership interests of the
fund. Going forward, the Agencies expect that in these circumstances the parties that
organize and offer the covered fund will work together or select a responsible party to
determine a single standard by which all ownership interests in the covered fund will be
valued.
One commenter suggested the Agencies count both invested funds and committed
funds not yet called for investment towards the per-fund limitation. 2303 This commenter
argued that a banking entity has already contractually allocated committed-yet-uncalled
funds to the covered fund and that depositors face a risk of loss for such funds if the
covered fund fails.
The final rule, like the proposal, does not count committed-yet-uncalled funds
towards the per-fund limitation; instead, it counts funds once they are invested. This
approach reflects the fact that these funds may never be called while at the same time
ensuring that the banking entity must comply with the per-fund limitation once the funds
2303

See Occupy.

735

are called. The Agencies note that a banking entity is prohibited from guaranteeing or
bailing out a covered fund that the banking entity or one of its affiliates organizes and
offers by the terms of the statute and the final rule and, accordingly, would not be
permitted to provide committed funds to a covered fund in a manner inconsistent with the
limitations in the statute and final rule.
After carefully considering the comments received on the proposal, as well as the
language and purpose of section 13 of the BHC Act, the final rule provides that, for
purposes of applying the per-fund limitation to an investment in a covered fund that is an
issuing entity of an asset-backed security, the ownership interest held by the banking
entity and its affiliates generally may not exceed three percent of the fair market value of
the ownership interests of the fund as measured in accordance with § __.12(b)(3), unless
a greater percentage is retained by the banking entity and its affiliates in compliance with
the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act and the implementing regulations
issued thereunder, in which case the investment by the banking entity and its affiliates in
the covered fund may not exceed the amount, number, or value of ownership interests of
the fund required under section 15G of the Exchange Act and the implementing
regulations issued thereunder. A banking entity may rely on any of the options available
to it in order to meet the requirements of section 15G, but for purposes of section 13 of
the BHC Act and this rule, the amount held by the banking entity may not exceed the
amount required under the chosen option. Under the final rule, if a banking entity’s
investment in a covered fund is held pursuant to the requirements of section 15G of the
Exchange Act, the banking entity must calculate the amount and value of its ownership
interest for purposes of the per-fund limitation as of the date and according to the same

736

valuation methodology applicable pursuant to the requirements of that section and the
implementing regulations issued thereunder.
While the amount retained in compliance with section 15G of the Exchange Act
and the implementing regulations issued thereunder may permit a banking entity to own
more than three percent of the ownership interests in a securitization that is a covered
fund, this approach is appropriate to reconcile the competing policies of section 13 of the
BHC Act and section 15G of the Exchange Act which requires that a securitizer of
certain securitizations retain a minimum of five percent of the risk of the securitization.
Congress enacted these two apparently conflicting provisions in the same Act, and the
Agencies believe the more specific section regarding risk retention in securitizations was
intended to prevail over the more general restriction on ownership of covered funds
(which applies to a broader range of entities). The Agencies believe that the risk
limitation goals of section 13 of the BHC Act are met by satisfying the minimum
requirement of an applicable option under section 15G of the Exchange Act as the
maximum initial investment limit, and applying the other limitations discussed in this
section governing aggregate investment in covered funds and capital deductions.
As under the proposal, if a banking entity does not have a minimum risk retention
requirement, that banking entity would remain subject to the limitations of section
13(d)(4) of the BHC Act and § __.12 on the amount of ownership interests it may hold in
an issuing entity of asset-backed securities. A banking entity may not combine the
amounts under these provisions to acquire or retain ownership interests in a securitization
that exceed the aggregate permissible amounts.

737

Some commenters requested that the Agencies coordinate implementation of any
exemption for risk-retention requirements under section 13 of the BHC Act with the
issuance of rules implementing section 15G of the Exchange Act. The Agencies note that
rules implementing section 15G have been proposed but not yet finalized, but the
Agencies will review the interaction between the rules promulgated under section 13 of
the BHC Act and section 15G of the Exchange Act once the rules under section 15G are
finalized. Regardless of any action that may be taken regarding rules implementing
section 15G, the final rule permits banking entities to own ownership interests in and
sponsor covered funds as discussed above.
Some commenters also requested that the final rule provide an exemption to
permit banking entities to comply with any risk retention requirement imposed under
foreign law that is similar to section 15G of the Exchange Act. The Agencies are not
revising the rule to permit banking entities to own ownership interests required to be
retained pursuant to risk retention-type requirements under foreign law. The Agencies
are providing the exemption for the required ownership arising from the risk retention
provisions under section 15G of the Exchange Act in order to reconcile the requirements
under the Dodd-Frank Act applicable to ownership of securitization interests; however,
the Agencies do not believe at this time that such reconciliation is appropriate with
respect to foreign law risk retention-type requirements and those requirements should not
prevail over the purpose of section 13 of the BHC Act to reduce banking entities’
exposure to risks from investments in covered funds.
The Agencies also note that the definition of covered fund has been modified to
exclude certain foreign public funds and also any foreign fund that is not owned or

738

sponsored by a U.S. banking entity. Moreover, the final rule permits foreign banking
entities to engage in covered fund activities and investments that occur solely outside of
the United States without regard to the investment limitations of section 13(d)(4) of the
BHC Act and § __.12 of the final rule, which may include retaining risk in a
securitization to the extent required under foreign law. In these manners, the final rule
permits foreign banking entities to comply with requirements under foreign law that
govern their securitization activities or investments abroad. However, as noted above,
section 13 of the BHC Act applies to the global operations of U.S. banking entities and,
as such, U.S. banking entities’ investments in foreign securitizations that are covered
funds would remain subject to the investment limitations of section 13(d)(4) and § __.12
of the final rule.
The proposed rule provided that a banking entity must comply with both measures
of the per-fund limitation at all times. The preamble to the proposal explained that the
Agencies expected a banking entity to calculate its per-fund limitation no less frequently
than the frequency with which the fund performs such calculation or issues or redeems
interests, and in no case less frequently than quarterly. 2304
Several commenters requested that the Agencies modify the frequency of this
calculation and monitoring requirement to a standard quarterly basis. 2305 These
commenters argued that, although some covered funds may provide daily liquidation and
redemption rights to investors, monitoring the per-fund limitation on a continuous basis
would be costly and burdensome and would not provide a significant offsetting benefit.

2304

See proposed rule § __.12(b); Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,904.

2305

See, e.g., ABA (Keating); Credit Suisse (Williams); JPMC.

739

The Agencies continue to believe that for covered funds other than issuing entities
of asset-backed securities the per-fund limitations apply to investments in covered funds
at all times following the end of the seeding period. However, to relieve burden and
costs, while also setting a minimum recordkeeping standard, the final rule has been
modified to require that a banking entity calculate the amount and value of its ownership
interests in covered funds other than issuing entities of asset-backed securities
quarterly. 2306 The Agencies believe that this change will assist in reducing unnecessary
costs and burdens in connection with calculating the per-fund limitation, particularly for
smaller banking entities, and will also facilitate consistency with the calculation for the
aggregate funds limitation (which is also determined on a quarterly basis). Nevertheless,
should a banking entity become aware that it has exceeded the per-fund limitation for a
given fund at any time, the Agencies expect the banking entity to take steps to ensure that
the banking entity complies promptly with the per-fund limitation. 2307
The Agencies have also modified the timing and methodology of the per-fund
limitation as it applies to securitizations to address the unique circumstances and
ownership structure presented by securitizations, which typically wind down over time.
Unlike many other covered funds, securitizations do not generally experience increases in
the amount of investors or value of ownership interests during the life of the
securitization; rather, they generally experience only a contraction of the investor base
and reduction in the total outstanding value of ownership interests on an aggregate basis,

2306

See final rule §_.12(b)(2)(i) and (ii). For covered funds that are an issuing entity of asset-backed
securities, recalculation of the banking entity’s permitted ownership for purposes of the per-fund limitation
is not required unless the covered fund sells additional securities.

2307

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(4)(B)(ii)(I).

740

and may do so at different rates under the terms of the transaction agreements, meaning
that the percentage of ownership represented by a particular ownership interest may
increase as the fund amortizes but without the banking entity adding any funds. The
manner in which securitizations are organized and offered, as well as the amortization of
securitizations, differs from many other covered funds; section 15G of the Exchange Act
also requires that certain parties to securitization transactions, which may include banking
entities, retain a minimum amount of risk in a securitization, a requirement not applicable
to covered funds that are not securitizations. Therefore, for purposes of calculating a
banking entity’s per-fund limitation with respect to a securitization, the calculation of the
per-fund limitation shall be based on whether section 15G applies and the implementing
regulations are effective. In the case of an ownership interest in an issuing entity of an
asset-backed security that is subject to section 15G of the Exchange Act and for which
effective implementing regulations have been issued, the calculation of the per-fund
limitation shall be made as of the date and pursuant to the methodology applicable
pursuant to the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act and the implementing
regulations issued. For securitizations executed after the effective date of the final rule
and prior to the adoption and implementation of the rules promulgated under section 15G
of the Exchange Act and for securitizations for which a fair valuation calculation is not
required by the implementing rules promulgated under section 15G of the Exchange Act,
the per fund limitation is calculated as of the date on which the assets are initially
transferred into the issuing entity of the asset-backed securities or such earlier date on
which the transferred assets have been valued for purposes of transfer to the covered

741

fund. 2308 This calculation for issuers of asset backed securities is only required to be
performed once on the date noted above, and thereafter only upon the date on which the
price of additional securities of the covered fund to be sold to third parties is determined.
As noted above, the per-fund limitations for ownership interests in issuing entities
of asset-backed securities are calculated based only on the value of the ownership interest
in relation to the value of all ownership interests in the issuing entity of the asset-backed
security and are not calculated on a class by class, or tranche by tranche basis. For
purposes of the valuation, the aggregate value of all the assets that are transferred to the
issuing entity of the asset-backed securities, and any assets otherwise held by the issuing
entity, are determined based on the valuation methodology used for determining the value
of the assets for financial statement purposes. This valuation will be the value of the
ownership interests in the issuing entity for purposes of the calculation. A banking entity
will need to determine its percentage ownership in the issuing entity based on the its
contributions to the entity in relation to the contributions of all parties and after taking
into account the value of any residual interest in the issuing entity. In addition, for
purposes of the final rule, the asset valuation is as of the date of establishment (the date of
the asset transfer to the issuing entity of the asset-backed securities).
d.

Limitation on Aggregate Permitted Investments in all Covered funds (“Aggregate Funds
Limitation”)

2308

In addition, although some commenters requested that banking entities be able to hold more than the
minimum required by section 15G, the Agencies are not revising the per fund limitation in that manner.
One of the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act is to reduce banking entities’ exposure to risks from
investments in covered funds, and the Agencies believe at this time that permitting banking entities to
retain risk exposure to the covered fund in excess of the minimum required to be retained would contradict
the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act.

742

In addition to the per-fund limitation, section 13(d)(4) of the BHC Act provides
that the aggregate of a banking entity’s investments in all covered funds may not exceed
three percent of the tier 1 capital of the banking entity (referred to above as the
“aggregate funds limitation”). 2309 To implement this limitation, the proposed rule
required a banking entity to determine the aggregate value of the banking entity’s
investments in covered funds by calculating the sum of the value of each investment in a
covered fund, as determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards. This
amount was then measured as a percentage of the tier 1 capital of the banking entity for
purposes of determining compliance with the aggregate funds limitation. For purposes of
applying the limit, a banking entity that is subject to regulatory capital requirements was
required under the proposed rule to measure tier 1 capital in accordance with those
regulatory capital requirements; a banking entity that is not a subsidiary of a reporting
banking entity and that is not itself required to report capital in accordance with the riskbased capital rules of a Federal banking agency was required by the proposed rule to
calculate its tier 1 capital based on the total amount of shareholders’ equity of the top-tier
entity as of the last day of the most recent calendar quarter, as determined under
applicable accounting standards.
Commenters expressed a variety of views regarding the aggregate funds
limitation. One commenter argued that basing the aggregate funds limitation on the size
of tier 1 capital of a banking entity provides an advantage to the largest institutions with
large absolute capital bases and disadvantages smaller banks that are well capitalized but

2309

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(4)(B)(ii)(II).

743

have a smaller absolute capital base. 2310 This commenter urged the Agencies to permit
all banking entities to invest in covered funds in an amount that is, in the aggregate, the
greater of $1 billion (subject to prudential investment limitations and safety and
soundness concerns), or three percent of tier 1 capital. 2311
In contrast, other commenters urged the Agencies to decrease the statutory limit
in order to prevent the largest banking entities from investing amounts that, while within
the statutory limit, could be very large in absolute terms. 2312 One commenter argued that
a loss of three percent of tier 1 capital would be a material loss reflected in a change in
stock price. 2313 Another commenter suggested the Agencies consider whether the
investment supports a large flow of management fees linked to market volatility or has
significant embedded leverage. 2314
Some commenters argued that the final rule should calculate the value of covered
fund investments based on acquisition cost instead of fair market value. 2315 These
commenters argued that using fair value to calculate the aggregate funds limitation
penalizes banking entities for organizing and investing in successful funds and,
conversely, would allow banking entities to increase investments in unsuccessful funds
(the value of which would decline relative to the capital of the banking entity).

2310

See ABA (Abernathy).

2311

See, e.g., ABA (Abernathy).

2312

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.

2313

See Public Citizen.

2314

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

2315

See ABA(Keating); BoA; Arnold & Porter; BOK; Scale; SVB.

744

In contrast, another commenter argued that valuation of a covered fund
investment should include any mark-to-market increase in a banking entity’s aggregate
investments in order to keep pace with increases in the capital of the banking entity. 2316
Some commenters discussing the frequency of the calculation of the aggregate
funds limitation supported determining the aggregate funds limitation on the last day of
each calendar quarter as required in the proposal. 2317 Other commenters argued that the
statute requires compliance at all times rather than periodic calculations of
compliance. 2318
After consideration of the comments in light of the statutory provisions, the
Agencies have adopted the requirements for calculating the aggregate funds limitation as
proposed with several modifications as explained below. Under the final rule, the
aggregate value is the sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking entity in
connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in each covered fund
(together with any amounts paid by the entity (or employee thereof) in connection with
obtaining a restricted profit interest under § __.10(d)(6)(ii)), as measured on a historical
cost basis. This aggregate value is measured against the total applicable tier 1 capital for
the banking entity as explained below.
For purposes of determining the aggregate funds limitation, the final rule requires
that the value of investments made by a banking entity be calculated on a historical cost
basis. This approach limits the aggregate amount of funds a banking entity may provide

2316

See Occupy.

2317

See ABA (Keating).

2318

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy.

745

to covered funds as a percentage of the banking entity’s capital as required by statute. At
the same time, this approach does not permit a banking entity to increase its exposure to
covered funds in the event any investment in a particular covered fund declines in value
as a result of the fund’s investment activities. Permitting a banking entity to increase its
aggregate investments as covered funds lose value would permit the banking entity both
to increase its exposure to covered funds at the same time the covered funds it already
owns are losing value and to effectively bail-out investors by providing additional capital
to troubled covered funds. Neither of these actions is consistent with the purposes of
section 13 of the BHC Act. Moreover and as explained below, because the final rule
requires that the banking entity deduct from the entity’s capital the greater of historical
cost (plus earnings) or fair market value of its investments in covered funds, the
deduction accounts for any profits resulting from investments in covered funds.
Historical cost basis means, with respect to a banking entity’s ownership interest
in a covered fund, the sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking entity to a
covered fund in connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest (together
with any amounts paid by the entity (or employee thereof) in connection with obtaining a
restricted profit interest)), less any amounts received as a redemption, sale or distribution
of such ownership interest or restricted profit interest. Under the final rule, any reduction
of the historical cost would not generally include gains or losses, fees, income, expenses
or similar items. However, as noted above, the final rule also requires that a banking
entity deduct any earnings from its tier 1 capital even if it values its ownership interests in
a covered fund pursuant to historical cost.

746

The concern expressed by commenters that the aggregate funds limitation should
account for increases in the fair market value of covered funds is addressed in other ways
under the final rule. In particular, the final rule requires that for purposes of calculating
compliance with regulatory capital requirements the banking entity deduct from the
entity’s capital the greater of fair market value (or historical cost plus earnings) of its
investment in each covered fund; thus, profits resulting from investments in covered
funds will not inflate the capital of the banking entity for regulatory compliance purposes.
Moreover, as explained above, the per-fund limitation is generally based on fair market
value, which maintains the relative level of a banking entity’s investment in each covered
fund.
As noted above, the aggregate funds limitation applies to all investments by a
banking entity in a covered fund that the banking entity or an affiliate thereof holds under
§§ __.4 and __.11 of the final rule. The limitation would also apply to investments by a
banking entity made or held during the seeding period as part of organizing and offering
a covered fund, including ownership interests held in order to satisfy the requirements of
section 15G of the Exchange Act, as well as ownership interests held by a banking entity
in the capacity of acting as underwriter or market-maker.
As under the proposal, this calculation must be made as of the last day of each
calendar quarter, consistent with when tier 1 capital is reported by banking entities to the
Agencies. Because compliance with the aggregate funds limitations is calculated based
on tier 1 capital, the Agencies believe it is more appropriate to require the calculation to
be performed on the same schedule as tier 1 capital is reported. While the aggregate
funds limitation must be calculated on a quarterly basis, the Agencies expect banking

747

entities to monitor investments in covered funds regularly and remain in compliance with
the limitations on covered fund investments throughout the quarter. The Agencies intend,
through their respective supervisory processes, to monitor covered fund investment
activity to ensure that a banking entity is not attempting to evade the requirements of
section 13.
The Agencies recognize that banks with large absolute capital bases will be able
to place a greater amount of capital in covered funds compared to banks with small
absolute capital bases. However, the amount of risk exposure to a covered fund, despite
their different investment strategies, will be relatively similar across banking entities,
which is consistent with the language and risk-limiting purpose of section 13.
e.

Capital Treatment of an Investment in a Covered Fund
Section 13(d)(4)(B)(iii) of the BHC Act provides that, for purposes of
determining compliance with applicable capital standards under section 13(d)(3) of that
Act, the aggregate amount of outstanding investments by a banking entity under section
13(d)(4), including retained earnings, must be deducted from the assets and tangible
equity of the banking entity, and the amount of the deduction must increase
commensurate with the leverage of the covered fund. 2319 Section 13(d)(3) authorizes the
Agencies, by rule, to impose additional capital requirements and quantitative limitations,
including diversification requirements on any of the activities permitted under section 13
of the BHC Act if the Agencies determine that such additional capital and quantitative

2319

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(4)(B)(iii).

748

limitations are appropriate to protect the safety and soundness of banking entities
engaged in such activities. 2320
The proposed rule implemented the capital deduction provided for under section
13(d)(4)(B)(iii) of the BHC Act by requiring a banking entity to deduct the aggregate fair
value of its investments in covered funds, including any attributed profits, from tier 1
capital. As in the statute, the proposed rule applied the capital deduction to ownership
interests in covered funds held as an investment by a banking entity pursuant to the
provisions of section 13(d)(4) of the BHC Act, and not to ownership interests acquired
under other permitted authorities, such as a risk-mitigating hedge under section 13 of the
BHC Act. The proposed rule required the deduction to be calculated consistent with the
method for calculating other deductions under the applicable risk-based capital rules.
The proposed rule did not otherwise adopt additional capital requirements and
quantitative limitations under section 13(d)(3) of the BHC Act.
Some commenters supported the proposed dollar-for-dollar deduction from tier 1
capital of a banking entity’s aggregate investments in covered funds and asserted it is
consistent with the statute. 2321 One of these commenters urged the Agencies to rely on
their authority under section 13(d)(3) of the BHC Act to apply the capital deduction to
other permitted ownership interests in covered funds to protect the safety and soundness
of the banking entity. 2322 In contrast, other commenters urged the Agencies to eliminate
the capital deduction for investments in covered funds and questioned the Agencies’

2320

Id. at 1851(d)(3).

2321

See Occupy.

2322

See Occupy.

749

statutory authority to impose the capital deduction. 2323 These commenters argued that the
statute does not authorize or require the Agencies to require banking entities to deduct
their investments in covered funds for purposes of calculating capital pursuant to the
applicable capital rules. According to these commenters, section 13 only requires
deductions for purposes of determining compliance with applicable capital standards
under section 13 and argued the Agencies did not make the necessary safety and
soundness findings under section 13(d)(3) to impose additional capital requirements on
any activities permitted under section 13(d)(1). 2324 One commenter urged the Agencies
to make any capital adjustment as part of the banking agencies’ broader efforts to
implement the Basel III capital framework. 2325 Another commenter urged the Agencies
to apply the capital deduction only for purposes of determining a banking entity’s
compliance with the aggregate funds limitation and not for other regulatory capital
purposes. 2326 This commenter also argued that a capital deduction is normally not
required for assets reflected on a bank’s consolidated balance sheet, and that the Agencies
should not require a deduction for a covered fund investment that is not consolidated with
the banking entity for financial reporting purposes under GAAP. 2327 Some commenters
urged the Agencies to apply the capital deduction only to a banking entity’s investment in

2323

See ABA (Keating); BNY Mellon et al.; PNC; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SVB.

2324

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2325

Id.

2326

See ABA (Keating).

2327

See ABA (Keating); See also letter from PNC.

750

a covered fund that the banking entity organizes and offers and not to ownership interests
otherwise permitted to be held under section 13 of the BHC Act. 2328
Several commenters addressed the manner for valuing an investment subject to
the deduction. One commenter urged the Agencies to permit a banking entity to calculate
the deduction based on the acquisition cost, instead of the fair market value, of the
banking entity’s ownership interest in the covered fund. 2329 This commenter emphasized
that valuing the investment at fair market value would penalize a banking entity if the
covered fund performs well by reducing the amount of capital available for additional
covered fund investments but reduce the capital charge against troubled investments.
One commenter argued that the Agencies did not perform an appropriate cost-benefit
analysis of the deduction in the proposed rules. 2330
Other commenters sought clarification on how the capital deduction would apply
to a foreign banking organization. Several commenters argued that the capital deduction
should not apply to a foreign banking entity that calculates its tier 1 capital under the
standards of its home country. 2331 These commenters argued that imposing a capital
deduction requirement on foreign banks would not be consistent with past practices on
the application of U.S. risk-based capital requirements to foreign banking organizations.
The Agencies have carefully considered the comments in light of the statutory
provisions requiring a capital deduction. The statute requires that the aggregate amount
of outstanding investments by a banking entity, including retained earnings, be deducted
2328

See Arnold & Porter; SVB.

2329

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2330

Id.

2331

See IIB/EBF.

751

from the assets and tangible equity of the banking entity. 2332 This requirement is
independent of the minimum regulatory capital requirements in the final capital rule
published by the Federal Banking agencies in 2013 (“regulatory capital rule”). 2333
The Federal Banking agencies recognize that the regulatory capital rule imposes
risk weights and deductions that do not correspond to the deduction for covered fund
investments imposed by section 13 of the BHC Act. The Federal Banking agencies
intend to review the interaction between the requirements of this rule and the
requirements of the regulatory capital rule and expect to propose steps to reconcile the
two rules.
At the same time, the Agencies believe that the dollar-for-dollar deduction of the
fair market value of a banking entity’s investment in a covered fund is appropriate to
protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity, as provided in section 13(d) of the
BHC Act. This approach ensures that a banking entity can withstand the failure of a
covered fund without causing the banking entity to breach the minimum regulatory
capital requirements. Consistent with the language and purpose of section 13 of the BHC
Act, this deduction will help provide that a banking entity has sufficient capital to absorb
losses that may occur from covered fund investments without endangering the safety and
soundness of the banking entity or the financial stability of the United States.
Accordingly, under the final rule, a banking entity must, for purposes of
determining compliance with applicable regulatory capital requirements, deduct the
greater of (i) the sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking entity in
2332

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(4)(B)(iii).

2333

See 78 FR 62,018, 62,072 (Oct. 11, 2013) (Board/OCC/FDIC Basel III Final Rule); 78 FR 55,340,
55,391 (Sept. 10, 2013) (FDIC Basel III interim final rule).

752

connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest (together with any amounts
paid by the entity (or employee thereof) in connection with obtaining a restricted profit
interest under § __.10(b)(6)(ii)), on a historical cost basis, including earnings or (ii) the
fair market value of the sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking entity in
connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest (together with any amounts
paid by the entity (or employee thereof) in connection with obtaining a restricted profit
interest under § __.10(b)(6)(ii)), if the banking entity accounts for the profits (or losses)
of the fund investment in its financial statements. 2334 This deduction must be made
whenever the banking entity calculates its tier 1 capital, either quarterly or at such other
time at which the appropriate Federal banking agency may request such a calculation.
Requiring a banking entity to deduct the greater of historical cost or fair market value of
all covered fund investments made by a banking entity from the entity’s tier 1 capital
should result in an appropriate deduction that is consistent with the manner in which the
banking entity accounts for its covered fund investments. For instance, if a banking
entity accounts for its investments in covered funds using fair market value, then any
changes in the fair market value of the banking entity’s investment in a covered fund
should similarly be reflected in the banking entity’s tier 1 capital. Thus, this deduction
should not unduly penalize banking entities for making successful investments or allow
more investments in troubled covered funds.
The final rule does not require a foreign banking entity that makes a covered fund
investment in the United States, either directly or through a branch or agency, to deduct
2334

See 12 CFR part 208, subpart D and appendixes A, B, E, and F; 12 CFR part 217 (to be codified), and
12 CFR part 225, appendixes A, D, E, and G; See also 12 CFR 240.15c3-1 (net capital requirements for
brokers or dealers).

753

the aggregate value of the investment from the foreign bank’s tier 1 capital calculated
under applicable home country standards. However, any U.S. subsidiary of a foreign
banking entity that is required to calculate tier 1 capital under U.S. risk based capital
regulations must deduct the aggregate value of investment held through that subsidiary
from its tier 1 capital.
While some commenters requested that additional capital charges be imposed on
banking entity’s interests in securitizations, the Agencies have declined to do so at this
time. Under the final rule, the banking entity must deduct the value of its investment in a
securitization that is a covered fund from its tier 1 capital for purposes of determining
compliance with the applicable regulatory capital requirements. This requirement
already requires the banking entity to adjust its capital for the possibility of losses on the
full amount of its investment. The Agencies do not believe that it is appropriate to
impose additional capital charges on these securitizations because it would act as a
disincentive to retain risk in securitizations for which the banking entity acts as issuer or
sponsor, a result that would contradict the purpose of section 15G of the Exchange Act.
Additionally and as noted in the proposal, permitting a banking entity to retain the
minimum level of economic interest and risk in a securitization will incent banking
entities to engage in more careful and prudent underwriting and evaluation of the risks
and obligations that may accompany asset-backed securitizations, which would promote
and protect the safety and soundness of banking entities and the financial stability of the
United States.
The Agencies have also declined to impose additional quantitative limitations or
diversification requirements on covered fund investments at this time. The Agencies

754

believe that the per-fund and aggregate funds limitations, as well as the capital deduction
required by the rule, acting together with the other limitations on covered fund activities,
establish an appropriate framework for ensuring that the covered fund investments and
activities of banking entities are conducted in a manner that is safe and sound and
consistent with financial stability. The Agencies will continue to monitor these activities
and investments to determine whether other limitations are appropriate over time.
f.

Attribution of Ownership Interests to a Banking Entity
The proposed rule attributed an ownership interest to a banking entity based on
whether or not the banking entity held the interest through a controlled entity. The
proposed rule required that any ownership interest held by any entity that is controlled,
directly or indirectly, by a banking entity be included in the amount and value of the
banking entity’s permitted investments in a single covered fund. The proposed rule
required that the pro rata share of any ownership interest held by any covered fund that is
not controlled by the banking entity, but in which the banking entity owns, controls, or
holds with the power to vote more than 5 percent of the voting shares, be included in the
amount and value of the banking entity’s permitted investments in a single covered fund.
Many commenters expressed concerns regarding the proposed attribution
requirements. 2335 These commenters argued that the proposed pro rata attribution
requirements are not required or permitted by the statute, have unintended and
inconsistent consequences for covered fund investments, impose heavy compliance costs
on banking entities, and would impede the ability of funds sponsored by banking entities

2335

See ABA (Keating); Arnold & Porter; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012).

755

to invest in third-party funds for the benefit of clients. Some commenters argued that the
costs and complexity of determining whether a banking entity “controls” another banking
entity under the BHC Act and the Board’s precedent are high and urged the Agencies to
adopt a simpler test. 2336 For example, some commenters urged that shares of a company
be attributed to a banking entity only when the banking entity maintains ownership of 25
percent or more of voting shares of the company. 2337
Several commenters maintained that applying the attribution requirements to
fund-of-funds structures and parallel or master-feeder structures would be
unworkable. 2338 Commenters contended that the proposed attribution rules could result
in a banking entity calculating the per-fund limitation in a way that exceeds the banking
entity’s actual loss exposure if the attribution rule for controlled investments is
interpreted to require that 100 percent of all investments made by controlled entities be
attributed to the banking entity. 2339
In addition, several commenters argued that the pro rata attribution of investments
held through non-controlled structures is not consistent with the Board’s rules and
practices for purposes of the activity and investment limits in other sections of the BHC

2336

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); BlackRock; Arnold & Porter.

2337

See ABA (Keating); Arnold & Porter.

2338

See BoA; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012). These commenters argued
that banking entities traditionally utilize a fund-of-funds structure to offer customers the opportunity to
invest indirectly in a portfolio of other funds (including some funds sponsored and managed by one or more
third parties) and that these structures provide customers with certain risk-mitigating benefits and allow
customers to gain exposure to a diverse portfolio without having to satisfy the minimum investment
requirements of each fund directly. They also argued that parallel and feeder entities are established for a
variety of client-driven reasons, including to accommodate tax needs of clients and that these entities
should be viewed as a single investment program in which the master fund holds and manages investments
in portfolio assets and the feeder fund typically makes no investments other than in the master fund.
2339

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); BoA; Arnold & Porter; SSgA (Feb. 2012).

756

Act. Commenters also maintained that this pro rata attribution for non-controlled entities
would be impracticable because a banking entity has only a limited ability to monitor,
direct, or restrain investments of a covered fund that it does not control. 2340
Conversely, one commenter supported the pro rata attribution requirement in the
proposal. This commenter argued that this requirement reduced opportunities for evasion
through subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities. 2341
The final rule has been modified in light of the comments. Under the final rule, a
banking entity must account for an investment in a covered fund for purposes of the perfund and aggregate funds limitations only if the investment is made by the banking entity
or another entity controlled by the banking entity. Accordingly, the final rule does not
generally require that a banking entity include the pro rata share of any ownership interest
held by any entity that is not controlled by the banking entity, and thus reduces the
potential compliance costs of the final rule. The Agencies believe that this concept of
attribution is more consistent with how the Board has historically applied the concept of
“control” under the BHC Act for purposes of determining whether a company subject to
that Act is engaged in an activity or whether to attribute an investment to that company.
Furthermore, because a banking entity does not control a non-affiliate and typically has
less access to information about the holdings of a non-affiliate, this change is unlikely to
present opportunity for circumvention of the per-fund and aggregate funds limitations.

2340

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2341

See Occupy.

757

The Agencies will monitor these limitations for practices that appear to be attempts to
circumvent them. 2342
Whether a banking entity controls another entity under the BHC Act may vary
depending on the type of entity in question. As noted above in Part IV.B.1.b.3., the
Board’s regulations and orders have long recognized that the concept of control is
different for funds than for operating companies. 2343 In contrast to the proposal, the final
rule incorporates these different concepts of control in part by providing that, for
purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule, a registered investment
company, SEC-regulated business development company, and a foreign public fund as
described in § __.10(c)(1) of the final rule will not be considered to be an affiliate of the
banking entity if the banking entity owns, controls, or holds with the power to vote less
than 25 percent of the voting shares of the company or fund, and provides investment
advisory, commodity trading advisory, administrative, and other services to the company
or fund only in a manner that complies with other limitations under applicable
regulation, order, or other authority. 2344
In response to commenter concerns regarding the workability of the proposed
rule, the final rule has been modified to address how ownership interests would be
attributed to a banking entity when those interests are held in a fund-of-funds or multitiered fund structures. For instance, banking entities may use a variety of structures to

2342

The Agencies note that other provisions of the BHC Act and Savings and Loan Holding Company Act
would prohibit a banking entity that is a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company from
acquiring 5 percent or more of a covered fund that is itself a bank holding company or a savings and loan
holding company, respectively, without regulatory approval. See 12 U.S.C. 1842(a); 12 U.S.C. 1467a(e).

2343

See, e.g., First Union Letter.

2344

Id. See final rule §__.12(b)(1)(ii).

758

satisfy operational needs or meet the investment needs of customers of their trust,
fiduciary, investment advisory or commodity trading advisory services.
First, except as explained for purposes of calculating a banking entity’s permitted
investment in multi-tier fund structures, the final rule does not generally attribute to a
banking entity ownership interests held by a covered fund so long as the banking entity’s
investment in the covered fund meets the per-fund limitation in the final rule. 2345 Absent
unusual circumstances or structures, a banking entity would not control a covered fund in
which the banking entity has an ownership interest that conforms to the per-fund and
aggregate funds limitations contained in the final rule. Thus, the interests held by that
covered fund would not be attributed to the banking entity for the reasons discussed
above.
The final rule also explains how the investment limitations apply to investments
of a banking entity in multi-tier fund structures. The Agencies believe that master-feeder
fund structures typically constitute a single investment program in which the master fund
holds and manages investments and the feeder funds typically make no investments other
than in the master fund and exist as a convenience for customers of the trust, fiduciary,
investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services of the banking entity.
Similarly, trust, fiduciary, or advisory customers of a banking entity may desire to obtain
diversified exposure to a variety of funds or investments through investing in a fund-offunds structure that the banking entity organizes and offers.
In order to meet the demands of these customers, the final rule provides that if the
principal investment strategy of a covered fund (the “feeder fund”) is to invest
2345

See final rule §__.12(b)(1)(iii).

759

substantially all of its assets in another single covered fund (the “master fund”), then for
purposes of the per-fund limitation the banking entity’s permitted investment shall be
measured only at the master fund. However, in order to appropriately capture the
banking entity’s amount of investment in the master fund, a banking entity must include
in this calculation any investment held by the banking entity in the master fund, as well
as the banking entity’s pro-rata share of any ownership interest of the master fund that is
held through the feeder fund. 2346
Similarly, regarding fund-of-funds structures, the final rule provides that if a
banking entity organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § __.11 for the purpose of
investing in other covered funds (a “fund of funds”) and that fund of funds itself invests
in another covered fund that the banking entity organizes and offers, then the banking
entity’s permitted investment in that other covered fund shall include any investment held
by the banking entity in that other fund, as well as the banking entity’s pro-rata share of
any ownership interest of the other fund that is held through the fund of funds. The
banking entity’s investment in the fund of funds must also meet the investment
limitations contained in § __.12. In these manners, the final rule permit a banking entity
to meet the demands of customers of their trust, fiduciary, or advisory services while also
limiting the ability of a banking entity to be exposed to more than the amount of risk of a
covered fund contemplated by section 13.
As described above in the discussion of organizing and offering a covered fund,
other provisions of section 13 contemplate investments by employees and directors of the

2346

See final rule §__.12(b)(34).

760

banking entity that provide qualifying services to a covered fund. 2347 The Agencies
recognized in the proposal that employee and director investments in a covered fund may
provide an opportunity for a banking entity to evade the limitations regarding the amount
or value of ownership interests a banking entity may acquire in a covered fund. 2348 In
order to address this concern, the proposal attributed an ownership interest in a covered
fund acquired or retained by a director or employee to the person’s employing banking
entity if the banking entity either extends credit for the purposes of allowing the director
or employee to acquire the ownership interest, guaranteed the director or employee’s
purchase, or guarantees the director or employee against loss on the investment.
One commenter supported the way the proposal addressed evasion concerns by
attributing an ownership interest in a covered fund acquired or retained by a director or
employee to a banking entity. 2349 A different commenter urged the Agencies to attribute
any employee investments in a covered fund to the banking entity itself, regardless of the
source of funds. 2350 Another commenter argued that the statute prohibits a banking entity
from guaranteeing an investment by an employee or director. 2351
After considering the comments and the language of the statute, the Agencies
have determined to retain the requirement that all director or employee investments in a
covered fund be attributed to the banking entity for purposes of the per-fund limitation
and the aggregate funds limitation whenever the banking entity provides the employee or

2347

See 12U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(G)(vii); final rule § __.11(g).

2348

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,902.

2349

See Ass’n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012).

2350

See Occupy.

2351

See Arnold & Porter.

761

director funding for the purpose of acquiring the ownership interest. Specifically, under
the final rule, an investment by a director or employee of a banking entity who acquires
an ownership interest in his or her personal capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the
banking entity will be attributed to the banking entity if the banking entity, directly or
indirectly, extends financing for the purpose of enabling the director or employee to
acquire the ownership interest in the fund and the financing is used to acquire such
ownership interest in the covered fund. 2352 It is also important to note that the statute
prohibits a banking entity from guaranteeing the obligations or performance of a covered
fund in which it acts as investment adviser, investment manager or sponsor, or organizes
and offers. 2353
As discussed above in the definition of ownership interest, the final rule also
attributes to the banking entity any amounts contributed by an employee or director when
made in order to receive a restricted profit interest, whether or not funded or guaranteed
by the banking entity. This approach ensures that all funding provided by the banking
entity – whether directly or through its employees or directors – and all exposures of the
banking entity – whether directly or through a guarantee provided to or on behalf of an
employee or director – is counted against the limits on exposure contained in the statute
and final rule. At the same time, this approach recognizes that employees and directors
may use their own resources, not protected by the banking entity, to invest in a covered
fund. Employees of investment advisers in particular often invest their own resources in
covered funds they advise, both by choice and as a method to align their personal

2352

See final rule §__.12(b)(1)(iv).

2353

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(f)(1).

762

financial interests with those of other investors in the covered fund. So long as these
investments are truly with personal resources, and are not funded by the banking entity,
these personal investments would not expose the banking entity to loss and would not be
attributed by the final rule to the banking entity. This approach is also consistent with the
terms of the statute, which expressly contemplates investments by directors or employees
of a banking entity in their individual capacity. 2354
The Agencies intend to monitor investments by directors and employees of a
banking entity to ensure that employee ownership interests are not used to circumvent the
per-fund and aggregate funds limitations in section 13. Among the factors the Agencies
will consider, in addition to financing and guarantee arrangements, are whether the
benefits of the acquisition and retention, such as dividends, inure to the benefit of the
director or employee and not the banking entity; the voting or control of the ownership
interests is subject to the direction of, or otherwise controlled by, the banking entity; and
the employee or director, rather than the banking entity, determines whether the
employee or director should make the investment.
The proposed rule contained a provision intended to curb potential evasion of the
per-fund limitation and aggregate limitation through parallel investments by banking
entities that were not otherwise subject to section 13 of the BHC Act. Specifically, the
proposed rule provided that, to the extent that a banking entity is contractually obligated
to invest in, or is found to be acting in concert through knowing participation in a joint
activity or parallel action toward a common goal of investing in, one or more investments
with a covered fund that is organized and offered by the banking entity (whether or not
2354

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(G)(vii).

763

pursuant to an express agreement), such investment must be included in the calculation of
a banking entity’s per-fund limitation.
Several commenters objected to this requirement and argued that it was not
consistent with the statute. These commenters argued that section 13 of the BHC Act
restricts a banking entity’s investments in covered funds, and not direct investments by a
banking entity in individual companies under other authorities, such as the merchant
banking investment authority in section 4(k)(4)(H) of the BHC Act. 2355 Some
commenters argued that prohibiting or limiting direct investments could cause a conflict
between a banking entity’s fiduciary duty to its clients to manage their covered fund
investments and the banking entity’s duty to its shareholders to pursue legitimate
merchant banking investments. 2356 Some commenters urged the Agencies not to attribute
any parallel co-investment alongside a covered fund to a banking entity unless there is a
pattern of evasion, and some requested that there be prior notice and an opportunity for a
hearing to determine whether such a pattern has occurred. 2357 Another commenter
recommended the Agencies provide a safe harbor for situations where a bank trustee is
acting on behalf of customers. 2358
In contrast, other commenters contended that the risks of direct investments, such
as those made under merchant banking authority, are similar to those of many
investments in covered funds. These commenters urged the Agencies to restrict direct

2355

See 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(H); 12 CFR 225.170 et seq. See ABA (Keating); BoA; BOK; SIFMA et al.
(Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SVB.
2356

See ABA (Keating).

2357

See BOK; SVB; ABA (Keating); BoA; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2358

See BOK.

764

investments in the underlying holdings or assets of a covered fund in the same manner as
direct investments in covered funds. 2359
After carefully considering the comments and the language of the statute, the
Agencies have determined not to adopt the proposed prohibition on parallel investments
in the final rule. As illustrated by commenters, banking entities rely on a number of
investment authorities and structures to meet the needs of their clients and make
investments under a variety of authorities that are not coordinated with investments made
by covered funds owned or advised by the banking entity. The Agencies believe that
many investments made by banking entities are made for the purpose of serving the
legitimate needs of customers and shareholders, and not for the purpose of circumventing
the per-fund and aggregate funds limitations in section 13.
Nevertheless, the Agencies continue to believe that the potential for evasion of
these limitations may be present where a banking entity coordinates its direct investment
decisions with the investments of covered funds that it owns or sponsors. For instance,
the Agencies understand that it is relatively common for the sponsor of a covered fund in
connection with a privately negotiated investment to offer investors co-investment
opportunities when the general partner or investment manager for the covered fund
determines that the covered fund does not have sufficient capital available to make the
entire investment in the target portfolio company or determines that it would not be
suitable for the covered fund to take the entire available investment. In such
circumstances, a banking entity that sponsors the covered fund should not itself make any
additional side by side co-investment with the covered fund in a privately negotiated
2359

See Public Citizen; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

765

investment unless the value of such co-investment is less than 3% of the value of the total
amount co-invested by other investors in such investment. Further, if the co-investment
is made through a co-investment vehicle that is itself a covered fund (a “co-investment
fund”), the sum of the banking entity’s ownership interests in the co-investment fund and
the related covered fund should not exceed 3% of the sum of the ownership interests held
by all investors in the co-investment fund and related covered fund. Finally, the
Agencies note that if a banking entity makes investments side by side in substantially the
same positions as the covered fund, then the value of such investments shall be included
for purposes of determining the value of the banking entity’s investment in the covered
fund.
g.

Calculation of Tier 1 Capital
The proposal explained that tier 1 capital is a banking law concept that, in the
United States, is calculated and reported by certain depository institutions and bank
holding companies in order to determine their compliance with regulatory capital
standards. Accordingly, the proposed rule clarified that for purposes of the aggregate
funds limitation in §__.12, a banking entity that is a bank, a bank holding company, a
company that controls an insured depository institution that reports tier 1 capital, or
uninsured trust company that reports tier 1 capital (each a “reporting banking entity”)
needed to use the reporting banking entity’s tier 1 capital as of the last day of the most
recent calendar quarter that has ended, as reported to the relevant Federal banking
agency.
The proposal also recognizes that not all entities subject to section 13 of the BHC
Act calculate and report tier 1 capital. In order to provide a measure of equality related to

766

the aggregate funds limitation contained in section 13(d)(4)(B)(ii)(II) of the BHC Act and
§ __.12(c) of the proposed rule, the proposed rule clarified how the aggregate funds
limitation should be calculated for entities that are not required to calculate and report tier
1 capital in order to determine compliance with regulatory capital standards. Under the
proposed rule, with respect to any banking entity that is not affiliated with a reporting
banking entity and not itself required to report capital in accordance with the risk-based
capital rules of a Federal banking agency, the banking entity’s tier 1 capital for purposes
of the aggregate funds limitation was the total amount of shareholders’ equity of the toptier entity within such organization as of the last day of the most recent calendar quarter
that has ended, as determined under applicable accounting standards. 2360 For a banking
entity that was not itself required to report tier 1 capital but was a subsidiary of a
reporting banking entity that is a depository institution (e.g., a subsidiary of a national
bank), the aggregate funds limitation was the amount of tier 1 capital reported by such
depository institution. 2361 For a banking entity that was not itself required to report tier 1
capital but was a subsidiary of a reporting banking entity that is not a depository
institution (e.g., a nonbank subsidiary of a bank holding company), the aggregate funds
limitation was the amount of tier 1 capital reported by the top-tier affiliate of such
banking entity that holds and reports tier 1 capital under the proposal. 2362
Commenters did not generally object to the proposed approach for determining
the applicable tier 1 capital for banking entities. One commenter advocated calculating

2360

See proposed rule § __.12(c)(2)(ii)(B)(2).

2361

See proposed rule § __.12(c)(2)(ii)(A).

2362

See proposed rule § __.12(c)(1)(B(2)(ii)(B)(1).

767

the aggregate funds limitation based on the tier 1 capital of the banking entity making the
covered fund investment instead of the tier 1 capital of the consolidated banking
entity. 2363 In addition, the commenter urged the Agencies to require banking entities to
divest any portions of the investment that exceeds 3 percent of that entity’s tier 1 capital.
The final rule provides that any banking entity that is required to calculate and
report tier 1 capital (a “reporting banking entity”) must calculate the aggregate funds
limitation using the tier 1 capital amount reported by the entity as of the last day of the
most recent calendar quarter as reported to the relevant Federal banking agency. A nondepository institution subsidiary of a reporting banking entity may rely on the
consolidated tier 1 capital of the reporting banking entity for purposes of calculating
compliance with the aggregate funds limitation. In the case of a depository institution
that is itself a reporting banking entity and that is also a subsidiary or affiliate of a
reporting banking entity, the aggregate of all investments in covered funds held by the
depository institution (including the investments by its subsidiaries) may not exceed three
percent of either the tier 1 capital of the depository institution or of the top-tier reporting
banking entity that controls such depository institution. The final rule also provides that
any banking entity that is not itself required to report tier 1 capital but is a subsidiary of a
reporting banking entity that is a depository institution (e.g., a subsidiary of a national
bank) may compute compliance with the aggregate funds limitations using the amount of
tier 1 capital reported by such depository institution.
Several commenters argued that foreign banking organizations should be
permitted to use the consolidated tier 1 capital at the top-tier foreign banking organization
2363

See Occupy.

768

level, as calculated under applicable home country capital standards, to calculate
compliance with the aggregate funds limitation. 2364 One commenter noted that the tier 1
capital of a banking entity may fluctuate based on specific conditions relevant only to the
banking entity, and urged the Agencies to consider an alternative measure of capital,
although this commenter did not suggest any alternative. 2365
After considering the comments received and that purpose and language of
section 13 of the BHC Act, the Agencies have determined that for foreign banking
organizations, the aggregate funds limitation would be based on the consolidated tier 1
capital of the foreign banking organization, as calculated under applicable home country
standards. However, a U.S. bank holding company or U.S. savings and loan holding
company that is controlled by a foreign banking entity must separately meet the per-fund
and aggregate funds limitations for each and all (respectively) covered fund investments
made by the U.S. holding company, based on the tier 1 capital of the U.S. bank holding
company or U.S. savings and loan holding company. The Federal banking agencies may
revisit this approach in light of the manner in which the Board implements the enhanced
prudential standards and early remediation requirements for foreign banking
organizations and foreign nonbank financial companies, including the proposed U.S.
intermediate holding company requirements under that rule. 2366
h.

Extension of Time to Divest Ownership Interest in a Single Fund

2364

See Credit Suisse (Williams); IIB/EBF.

2365

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.

2366

See Enhanced Prudential Standards and Early Remediation Requirements for Foreign Banking
Organizations and Foreign Nonbank Financial Companies, 77 FR 76,628, 76,637 (Dec. 28, 2012).

769

The proposed rule provided that the Board may, upon application by a banking
entity, extend the period of time that a banking entity may have to conform an investment
to the 3 percent per-fund limitation. As in the statute, the proposed rule permitted the
Board to grant up to an additional two years if the Board finds that an extension would be
consistent with safety and soundness and not detrimental to the public interest. The
proposal required a banking entity to submit an application for extension to the Board,
and set forth the factors that the Board would consider in reviewing an application for
extension, including a requirement that the Board consult with the primary federal
supervisory agency for the banking entity prior to acting on an application.
Some commenters argued that the final rule should be modified to extend
automatically the one-year statutory period for complying with the per-fund limitation by
an additional two years without application or approval on a case-by-case basis and to
apply the extended conformance period to the aggregate funds limitations. 2367 Some of
these commenters suggested that Congress explicitly recognized the need for a banking
entity to have a sufficient seeding period following establishment of a fund, and that
funds often require more than one year to attract enough unaffiliated investors to enable
the sponsoring banking entity to reduce its ownership interests in the fund to the level
required by section 13(d)(4).
Other commenters argued that the amount of a banking entity’s own capital
involved in seeding a fund is typically “small” and suggested that, in order to prevent
banking entities from engaging in prohibited proprietary trading through a fund, the

2367

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012); TCW; Credit Suisse
(Williams).

770

Board should condition the ability of a banking entity to qualify for an extension of the
one-year statutory period on several requirements, including a requirement that the
banking entity not have provided more than $10 million in seed capital as part of
establishing the covered fund. 2368
The Agencies have carefully considered comments received on the proposal and
have determined instead to adopt the process and standards governing requests for
extensions of time to divest an ownership interest in a single covered fund largely as
proposed. The Agencies believe that this approach is consistent with the process and
standards set out under the statute.
As under the proposal, the final rule requires any banking entity that seeks an
extension of the conformance period provided for the per-funds limitation to submit a
written request to the Board. Any such request must be submitted to the Board at least 90
days prior to the expiration of the applicable time period and provide the reasons why the
banking entity believes the extension should be granted. In addition, the request must
explain the banking entity’s plan for reducing the permitted investment in a covered fund
through redemption, sale, dilution or other methods to the limits imposed by the final
rule. To allow the Board to assess the factors provided in the statute, the final rule
provides that any extension request by a banking entity must address: (i) whether the
investment would result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking
entity to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies; (ii) the contractual terms
governing the banking entity’s interest in the covered fund; (iii) the total exposure of the
covered banking entity to the investment and the risks that disposing of, or maintaining,
2368

See, e.g., Occupy; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

771

the investment in the covered fund may pose to the banking entity and the financial
stability of the United States; (iv) the cost to the banking entity of divesting or disposing
of the investment within the applicable period; (v) whether the investment or the
divestiture or conformance of the investment would involve or result in a material
conflict of interest between the banking entity and unaffiliated parties, including clients,
customers or counterparties to which it owes a duty; (vi) the banking entity’s prior efforts
to reduce through redemption, sale, dilution, or other methods its ownership interests in
the covered fund, including activities related to the marketing of interests in such covered
fund; (vii) market conditions; and (viii) any other factor that the Board believes
appropriate. In contrast to the proposal, the final rule does not require information on
whether the extension would pose a threat to safety and soundness of the covered banking
entity or to financial stability of the United States. The categories of information in final
rule have been modified in order to eliminate redundancies.
The final rule continues to permit the Board to impose conditions on granting any
extension granted if the Board determines conditions are necessary or appropriate to
protect the safety and soundness of banking entities or the financial stability of the United
States, address material conflicts of interest or otherwise unsound practices, or to
otherwise further the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule. In cases
where the banking entity is primarily supervised by another Agency, the Board will
consult with such Agency both in connection with its review of the application and, if
applicable, prior to imposing conditions in connection with the approval of any request
by the banking entity for an extension of the conformance period. While some
commenters requested that the Board modify the final rule to permit a banking entity to

772

have covered fund investments in excess of the aggregate funds limitation, 2369 the final
rule does not contain such a provision. As noted in the release for the proposed rule, the
statutory grant of authority to provide extensions of time to comply with the investment
limits refers specifically and only to the period for conforming a seeding investment to
the per-fund limitation. 2370
As noted in the proposed rule, the Agencies recognize the potential for evasion of
the restrictions contained in section 13 of the BHC Act through misuse of requests for
extension of the seeding period for covered funds. Therefore, the Board and the
Agencies will monitor requests for extensions of the seeding period for activity in
covered funds that is inconsistent with the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act.
4.
a.

Section __.13: Other permitted covered fund activities

Permitted Risk-Mitigating Hedging Activities
Section 13(d)(1)(C) of the BHC Act provides an exemption for certain riskmitigating hedging activities. 2371 In the context of covered fund activities, the proposed
rule implemented this authority narrowly and permitted a banking entity to acquire or
retain an ownership interest in a covered fund as a risk-mitigating hedge only in two
situations: (i) when acting as intermediary on behalf of a customer that is not itself a
banking entity to facilitate exposure by the customer to the profits and losses of the
covered fund; and (ii) with respect to a compensation arrangement with an employee of
the banking entity that directly provides investment advisory or other services to that
2369

See ABA (Keating).

2370

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(4)(C).

2371

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(C).

773

fund. 2372 The proposed rule imposed specific requirements on a banking entity seeking to
rely on this exemption. 2373
The Agencies received a range of comments on the proposed risk-mitigating
hedging exemption for ownership interests in covered funds. Some commenters objected
to the limited applicability of the statutory risk-mitigating hedging exemption in the
covered funds context and urged the Agencies to allow ownership interests in covered
funds to be used in any appropriate risk-mitigating hedging. 2374 In contrast, other
commenters urged the Agencies to delete one or both of the risk-mitigating hedging
exemptions as the commenters argued they were inconsistent with the statute or
otherwise inappropriate. 2375 Commenters also argued that a separate risk-mitigating
hedging exemption for covered funds is unnecessary because the statute provides a single
risk-mitigating hedging exemption.2376
Some commenters argued that the proposed rule would impede banking entities
from offering covered-fund linked products to customers, including hedging these
products, and would, in particular, impair the ability of banking entities to hedge the risks
of fund-linked derivatives with fund-linked swaps or shares of covered funds referenced
2372

See proposed rule § __.13(b)(1)(i)(A) and (B).

2373

These requirements were substantially similar to the requirements for the risk-mitigating hedging
exemption for trading activities contained in proposed §__.5. In addition, proposed §__.13(b) also required
that: (i) the hedge represent a substantially similar offsetting exposure to the same covered fund and in the
same amount of ownership interest in that covered fund arising out of the transaction to accommodate a
specific customer request or directly connected to the banking entity’s compensation arrangement with an
employee; and (ii) the banking entity document, at the time the transaction is executed, the hedging
rationale for all hedging transactions involving an ownership interest in a covered fund.

2374

See BoA; Credit Suisse (Williams); Deutsche Bank (Fund-Linked Products); ISDA (Feb. 2012);
SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2375

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Public Citizen; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

2376

See BoA.

774

in fund-linked products. 2377 These commenters argued this limitation would increase
risks at banking entities and was inconsistent with the purpose of the risk-mitigating
hedging exemption. Commenters also proposed modifying the proposal to permit riskmitigating hedging activities that facilitate a customer’s exposure to profits and/or losses
of the covered fund, to permit portfolio or dynamic hedging strategies involving covered
fund interests, and to eliminate the proposed condition that a customer would not itself be
a banking entity. 2378 Some commenters also urged the Agencies to grandfather existing
risk-mitigating hedging activities with respect to any covered-fund linked products that
comply with the hedging requirements for proprietary trading under §__.5 of the
proposed rule. 2379
In contrast, other commenters objected to the exemption for hedging covered
fund-linked products sold to customers. These commenters asserted that this activity
would authorize investment in covered funds in a manner that would not be subject to the
three percent per-fund limitation; 2380 or would be inconsistent with the statutory
requirement that a banking entity actively seek additional investors for a fund. 2381
Some commenters urged the Agencies to expand the hedging exemption to allow
banking entities to invest in covered funds in order to hedge obligations relating to
deferred compensation plans for employees who do not directly provide services to the
2377

See ISDA (Feb. 2012); BoA; Credit Suisse (Williams); Deutsche Bank (Fund-Linked Products); ISDA
(Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2378

See, e.g., BoA; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Deutsche Bank (Fund-Linked Products).

2379

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); BoA.

2380

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

2381

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

775

covered fund for which the hedge relates. 2382 Another commenter argued that banking
entities should be permitted to hedge compensation investment accounts for executive
officers who are not involved in the management of the investment accounts. 2383 In
contrast, other commenters objected to the hedging exemption for compensation
arrangements, arguing that it may increase risk to banking entities, 2384 is unnecessary, 2385
or may provide banking entities with an opportunity to evade the limitations on the
amount of ownership interests they may have as an investment in a covered fund. 2386
After review of the comments, the Agencies believe at this time that permitting
only limited risk-mitigating hedging activities involving ownership interests in covered
funds is consistent with the safe and sound conduct of banking entities, and that increased
use of ownership interests in covered funds could result in exposure to higher risks. 2387
In particular, the Agencies have determined that transactions by a banking entity
to act as principal in providing exposure to the profits and losses of a covered fund for a
customer, even if hedged by the entity with ownership interests of the covered fund, is a
high risk strategy that could threaten the safety and soundness of the banking entity.
These transactions expose the banking entity to the risk that the customer will fail to
perform, thereby effectively exposing the banking entity to the risks of the covered fund.
Furthermore, a customer’s failure to perform may be concurrent with a decline in value
2382

See Arnold & Porter.

2383

See BOK.

2384

See Occupy.

2385

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.

2386

See Occupy.

2387

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(2).

776

of the covered fund, which could expose the banking entity to additional losses.
Accordingly, the Agencies believe that these transactions pose a significant potential to
expose banking entities to the same or similar economic risks that section 13 of the BHC
Act sought to eliminate, and have not adopted the proposed exemption for using
ownership interests in covered funds to hedge these types of transactions in the final rule.
As argued by some commenters, modifying the proposal to eliminate the
exemption for permitting banking entities to acquire covered fund interests in connection
with customer facilitation may impact banking entities ability to hedge the risks of fundlinked derivatives through the use of fund-linked swaps or shares of covered funds
referenced by fund-linked products. 2388 Some commenters on the proposal argued that
innovation of financial products may potentially be reduced if the final rule does not
permit this type of activity related to fund-linked products. 2389 The Agencies recognize
that U.S. banking entities may no longer be able to participate in offering certain
customer facilitation products relating to covered funds, but believe it is consistent with
the purposes of section 13 to restrict these activities.
The final rule maintains the proposed exemption for hedging employee
compensation arrangements with several changes. To ensure that exempt hedging
activities are designed to reduce one or more specific risks, as required by section
13(d)(1)(C) of the BHC Act, the proposed rule required that permitted hedging activity be
designed to reduce the specific risks to the banking entity in connection with and related
2388

See ISDA (Feb. 2012); BoA; Credit Suisse (Williams); Deutsche Bank (Fund-Linked Products);
SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2389

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Credit Suisse (Williams).

777

to its obligations or liabilities. The final rule permits a banking entity to acquire or retain
an ownership interest in a covered fund provided that the ownership interest is designed
to demonstrably reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risks
to the banking entity in connection with a compensation arrangement with an employee
who directly provides investment advisory or other services to the covered fund. Under
the final rule, a banking entity may not use as a hedge ownership interests of a covered
fund for which the employee does not provide services. The requirement under the final
rule that the hedging activity be designed to demonstrably reduce or otherwise
significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risks to the banking entity is consistent
with the requirement in § __.5 of the final rule, as discussed above in Part IV.A.4. The
final rule permits a banking entity to hedge its exposures to price and other risks based on
fund performance that arise from restricted profit interest and other performance based
compensation arrangements with its investment managers.
Section 13(a)(2) of the final rule describes the criteria a banking entity must meet
in order to rely on the risk-mitigating hedging exemption for covered funds. These
requirements, which are based on the requirements for the risk-mitigating hedging
exemption for trading activities under § __.5 of the final rule and which are discussed in
detail above in Part IV.A.4, have been modified from the proposal to reflect the more
limited scope of this section. 2390 In particular, the final rule permits a banking entity to
engage in risk-mitigating hedging activities involving ownership interests in a covered
fund only if the banking entity has established and implements, maintains and enforces an

2390

See final rule §__.13(a)(2).

778

internal compliance program that is reasonably designed to ensure the covered banking
entity’s compliance with the requirements of the hedging exemption, including
reasonably designed written policies and procedures and internal controls and ongoing
monitoring and authorization procedures, and has acquired or retained the ownership
interest in accordance with these written policies, procedures and internal controls.
Furthermore, the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest must demonstrably
reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate, at the inception of the hedge, one or more
specific, identifiable risks arising in connection with the compensation arrangement with
an employee that directly provides investment advisory or other services to the covered
fund. The acquisition or retention also may not, at the inception of the hedge, result in
any significant new or additional risk that is not itself hedged contemporaneously in
accordance with the hedging exemption, and the hedge must be subject to continuing
review, monitoring and management by the banking entity.
The final rule also permits a banking entity to engage in risk-mitigating hedging
activities in connection with a compensation arrangement, subject to the conditions noted
above, only if the compensation arrangement relates solely to the covered fund in which
the banking entity or any affiliate thereof has acquired an ownership interest and the
losses on such ownership interest are offset by corresponding decreases in the amounts
payable in connection with the related employee compensation arrangement. 2391
b.

Permitted Covered Fund Activities and Investments Outside of the United States

2391

See final rule § __.13(a)(2)(iii).

779

Section 13(d)(1)(I) of the BHC Act 2392 permits foreign banking entities to acquire
or retain an ownership interest in, or act as sponsor to, covered funds, so long as those
activities and investments occur solely outside the United States and certain other
conditions are met (the “foreign fund exemption”). 2393 As described in the proposal, the
purpose of this statutory exemption appears to be to limit the extraterritorial application
of the statutory restrictions on covered fund activities and investments, while preserving
national treatment and competitive equality among U.S. and foreign banking entities
within the United States. 2394 The statute does not explicitly define what is meant by
“solely outside of the United States.”
The proposed rule allowed foreign banking entities that met certain qualifications
to engage in covered fund activities, including owning, organizing and offering, and
sponsoring funds outside the United States. The proposed rule defined both the type of
foreign banking entity that is eligible for the exemption and when an activity or
2392

Section 13(d)(1)(I) of the BHC Act permits a banking entity to acquire or retain an ownership interest
in, or have certain relationships with, a covered fund notwithstanding the restrictions on investments in, and
relationships with, a covered fund, if: (i) such activity or investment is conducted by a banking entity
pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act; (ii) the activity occurs solely outside of
the United States; (iii) no ownership interest in such fund is offered for sale or sold to a resident of the
United States; and (iv) the banking entity is not directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is
organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more States. See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(I).

2393

This section’s discussion of the concept “solely outside of the United States” is provided solely for
purposes of the final rule’s implementation of section 13(d)(1)(I) of the BHC Act, and does not affect a
banking entity’s obligation to comply with additional or different requirements under applicable securities,
banking, or other laws.
2394

See 156 Cong. Rec. S5897 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley). (“Subparagraphs (H)
and (I) recognize rules of international regulatory comity by permitting foreign banks, regulated and backed
by foreign taxpayers, in the course of operating outside of the United States to engage in activities
permitted under relevant foreign law. However, these subparagraphs are not intended to permit a U.S.
banking entity to avoid the restrictions on proprietary trading simply by setting up an offshore subsidiary or
reincorporating offshore, and regulators should enforce them accordingly. In addition, the subparagraphs
Seek to maintain a level playing field by prohibiting a foreign bank from improperly offering its hedge fund
and private equity fund services to U.S. persons when such offering could not be made in the United
States.”).

780

investment would occur “solely outside of the United States.” The proposed rule allowed
a qualifying foreign banking entity to acquire or retain an ownership interest in, or act as
sponsor to, a covered fund under the exemption only if no subsidiary, affiliate or
employee of the banking entity that’s incorporated or physically located in the United
States engaged in offering or selling the covered fund. The proposed rule also
implemented the statutory requirement that prohibited an ownership interest in the
covered fund from being offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States.
Commenters generally expressed support for an exemption to allow foreign
banking entities to conduct foreign covered fund activities and make investments outside
the United States. 2395 A number of commenters also expressed concerns that the
proposed foreign fund exemption was too narrow and would not be effective in
permitting foreign banking entities to engage in covered fund activities and investments
outside of the United States. For instance, many commenters argued that several of the
proposal’s restrictions on the exemption were not required by statute and were
inconsistent with congressional intent to limit the extraterritorial impact of section 13 of
the BHC Act. 2396 These commenters argued that the foreign funds exemption should
focus on whether a prohibited activity, such as sponsoring or investing in a covered fund,
involves principal risk taken or held by the foreign banking entity that poses risk to U.S.

2395

See, e.g., IIB/EBF; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); See also Occupy.

2396

See Ass’n. of German Banks; BVI; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); EFAMA; F&C;
HSBC; IIB/EBF; ICSA; PEGCC; Société Générale; Union Asset; Ass’n. of Banks in Malaysia; EBF;
Credit Suisse (Williams); Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai Banks).

781

banking entities or the financial stability of the United States. 2397 Commenters also
argued that a broader exemption would better recognize the regulation and supervision of
the home country supervisor of the foreign banking entity and of its covered fund
activities. 2398
Some commenters contended that the proposal represented an improper
extraterritorial application of U.S. law that could be found to violate international treaty
obligations of the United States, such as those under the North American Free Trade
Agreement, and might result in retaliation by foreign countries in their treatment of U.S.
banking entities abroad. 2399 Commenters also alleged that the proposal would impose
significant compliance costs on the foreign operations of foreign banking entities
conducting activity pursuant to this exemption.2400 These commenters argued that
foreign banking entities relying on the foreign fund exemption should not be subject to
the compliance program requirements contained in Appendix C with respect to their nonU.S. operations. 2401

2397

See IIB/EBF; EBF; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); Credit Suisse (Williams); Katten
(on behalf of Int’l Clients).

2398

See Credit Suisse (Williams); PEGCC; See also Commissioner Barnier.

2399

See e.g., Norinchukin; Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai Banks); Barclays; EBF; Ass’n. of German
Banks; Société Générale; Chamber (Feb. 2012).
2400

See BaFin/Deutsche Bundesbank; Norinchukin; IIF; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks);
ICFR; BoA. As discussed below in Part IV.C.1, other parts of the final rule address commenters’ concerns
regarding the compliance burden on foreign banking entities.

2401

See AFG; Ass’n. of German Banks; BVI; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; IIB/EBF; Japanese
Bankers Ass’n.; Norinchukin; Union Asset. As discussed in greater detail below in Part IV.C.1, activities
and investments of a foreign bank that are conducted under the foreign funds exemption are generally not
subject to the specific requirements of § __.20 and Appendices A and B. The U.S. operations of foreign
banking entities are expected to have policies and procedures in place to ensure that they conduct activities
under this part in full compliance with this part.

782

Several commenters argued that the restrictions of section 13(f), which limits
transactions between a banking entity and certain covered funds, would not apply to
activities and investments made in reliance on the foreign fund exemption. 2402 Some
commenters argued that the Agencies should grandfather all existing foreign covered
funds and argued that failure to provide relief for existing relationships could cause
substantial disruption to foreign covered funds and significantly harm investors in
existing funds without producing a clear offsetting benefit. 2403
In response to comments received on the proposal, the final rule contains a
number of modifications to more effectively implement the foreign fund exemption in
light of the language and purpose of the statute. Importantly, as explained in the section
defining covered funds, the Agencies also believe that the more circumscribed definition
of covered fund, including the exclusion for foreign public funds, should alleviate many
of the concerns raised and potential burdens identified by commenters with respect to the
funds activities of foreign banking entities. 2404

2402

See Australian Bankers Ass’n.; AFMA; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); British
Bankers’ Ass’n.; F&C; French Banking Fed’n.; IIB/EBF; Japanese Bankers Ass’n; Katten (on behalf of
Int’l Clients); Union Asset. See also infra Part IV.B.5.

2403

See BVI; Credit Suisse (Williams); EFAMA; IIB/EBF; PEGCC; Union Asset. See supra Part II for a
discussion regarding the conformance period.
2404

For instance, many commenters raised concerns regarding the treatment of foreign public funds such
as UCITS. As discussed in greater detail above in Part IV.B.1, the definition of covered fund under the
final rule has been modified from the proposal and tailored to include only the types of foreign funds that
the Agencies believe are intended to be the focus of the statute (e.g., certain foreign funds that are
established by U.S. banking entities). Foreign public funds are also excluded from the definition of
covered fund under the final rule. The modifications in the final rule in part address commenters’ request
that foreign funds be grandfathered. To the extent that an entity qualifies for one or more of the exclusions
from the definition of covered fund, that entity would not be a covered fund under the final rule. Moreover,
any entity that would be a covered fund would still be able to rely on the conformance period in order to
come into compliance with the requirements of section 13 and the final rule.

783

1.

Foreign banking entities eligible for the exemption
The statutory language of section 13(d)(1)(I) provides that, in order to be eligible

for the foreign funds exemption, the banking entity must not be directly or indirectly
controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of
one or more States. Consistent with this statutory language, the proposed rule limited the
scope of the exemption to banking entities that are organized under foreign law and, as
applicable, controlled only by entities organized under foreign law.
The Agencies did not receive substantive comment on this aspect of the proposal
related to the foreign fund exemption, though some commenters offered suggestions to
clarify various parts of the wording of the scope of the definition of banking entities that
may qualify for the exemption. The final rule makes only minor, technical changes to
more fully carry out the purposes of the statute.
Consistent with the statutory language and purpose of section 13(d)(1)(I) of the
BHC Act, the final rule provides that the exemption is available only if the banking entity
is not organized under 2405 or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is
organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more States. As noted above,
section 13(d)(1)(I) of the BHC Act specifically provides that its exemption is available
only to a banking entity that is not “directly or indirectly” controlled by a banking entity

2405

The final rule clarifies the eligibility requirements for banking entities Seeking to rely on the foreign
fund exemption. Section 13(d)(1)(I) of the BHC Act and § __.13(c)(1)(i) of the proposal require that a
banking entity Seeking to rely on the foreign fund exemption not be directly or indirectly controlled by a
banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more states. For
clarification purposes, in addition to the eligibility requirement in Section 13(d)(1)(I) of the BHC Act and
the proposal, the final rule also expressly requires that the banking entity not itself be organized under the
laws of the United States.

784

that is organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more States. 2406
Because of this express statutory requirement, a foreign subsidiary controlled, directly or
indirectly, by a banking entity organized under the laws of the United States or one of its
States, and a foreign branch office of a banking entity organized under the laws of the
United States or one of the States, may not take advantage of this exemption.
Like the proposal, the final rule incorporates the statutory requirement that the
banking entity conduct its sponsorship or investment activities pursuant to sections
4(c)(9) or 4(c)(13) of the BHC Act. The final rule retains the tests in the proposed rule
for determining when a banking entity would meet that requirement. The final rule also
provides qualifying criteria for both a banking entity that is a qualifying foreign banking
organization under the Board’s Regulation K and a banking entity that is not a foreign
banking organization for purposes of Regulation K. 2407
Section 4(c)(9) of the BHC Act applies to any company organized under the laws
of a foreign country the greater part of whose business is conducted outside the United
States, if the Board by regulation or order determines that the exemption would not be
substantially at variance with the purposes of the BHC Act and would be in the public
interest. 2408 The Board has implemented section 4(c)(9) as part of subpart B of the

2406

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(I).

2407

Section __.13(b)(2) only addresses when a transaction will be considered to have been conducted
pursuant to section 4(c)(9) of the BHC Act. Although the statute also references section 4(c)(13) of the
BHC Act, the Board has to date applied the general authority contained in that section solely to the foreign
activities of U.S. banking organizations which, by the express terms of section 13(d)(1)(I) of the BHC Act,
are unable to rely on the foreign funds exemption.

2408

See 12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(9).

785

Board’s Regulation K, 2409 which specifies a number of conditions and requirements that a
foreign banking organization must meet in order to act pursuant to that authority. 2410 The
qualifying conditions and requirements include, for example, that the foreign banking
organization demonstrate that more than half of its worldwide business is banking and
that more than half of its banking business is outside the United States. 2411 Under the
final rule a banking entity that is a qualifying foreign banking organization for purposes
of the Board’s Regulation K, other than a foreign bank as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the
International Banking Act of 1978 that is organized under the laws of any
commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, will qualify for the foreign
fund exemption. 2412

2409

See 12 CFR 211.20 et seq.

2410

Some commenters argued that the Board’s Regulation K contains a number of limitations that may not
be appropriate to include as part of the requirements of the foreign fund exemption. For example, subpart
B of the Board’s Regulation K includes various approval requirements and interstate office location
restrictions. See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); HSBC Life. The final rule does not
retain the proposal’s requirement that the activity be conducted in compliance with all of subpart B of the
Board’s Regulation K (12 CFR 211.20 through 211.30). However, the foreign fund exemption in section
13(d)(1)(I) of the BHC Act and the final rule operates as an exemption and is not a separate grant of
authority to engage in an otherwise impermissible activity. To the extent a banking entity is a foreign
banking organization, it remains subject to the Board’s Regulation K and must, as a separate matter,
comply with any and all applicable rules and requirements of that regulation.

2411

See 12 CFR 211.23(a), (c), and (e). The proposed rule only referenced the qualifying test under
section 211.23(a) of the Board’s Regulation K; however, because there are two other methods by which a
foreign banking organization may meet the requirements to be considered a qualified foreign banking
organization, the final rule incorporates a reference to those provisions as well.

2412

This modification to the definition of foreign banking organization from the proposed definition is
necessary because, under the International Banking Act and the Board’s Regulation K, depository
institutions that are located in, or organized under the laws of a commonwealth, territory, or possession of
the United States, are foreign banking organizations. However, for purposes of the Federal securities laws
and certain banking statutes, such as section 2(c)(1) of the BHC Act and section 3 of the FDI Act, these
same entities are defined to be and treated as domestic entities. For instance, these entities act as domestic
broker-dealers under U.S. securities laws and their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Because one of the
purposes of section 13 is to protect insured depository institutions and the U.S. financial system from the
perceived risks of proprietary trading and covered fund activities, the Agencies believe that these entities
should be considered to be located within the United States for purposes of section 13. The final rule
includes within the definition of State any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto

786

Section 13 of the BHC Act also applies to foreign companies that control a U.S.
insured depository institution but that are not subject to the BHC Act generally or to the
Board’s Regulation K – for example, because the foreign company controls a savings
association or an FDIC-insured industrial loan company. Accordingly, the final rule also
provides that a foreign banking entity that is not a foreign banking organization would be
considered to be conducting activities “pursuant to section 4(c)(9)” for purposes of the
foreign fund exemption 2413 if the entity, on a fully-consolidated basis 2414, meets at least
two of three requirements that evaluate the extent to which the foreign banking entity’s
business is conducted outside the United States, as measured by assets, revenues, and
income. 2415 This test largely mirrors the qualifying foreign banking organization test that
is made applicable under section 4(c)(9) of the BHC Act and § 211.23(a), (c), or (e) of
the Board’s Regulation K, except that the test does not require the foreign entity to
demonstrate that more than half of its banking business is outside the United States. 2416
This difference reflects the fact that foreign entities subject to section 13 of the BHC Act,
but not the BHC Act generally, are likely to be, in many cases, predominantly
commercial firms. A requirement that such firms also demonstrate that more than half of

Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands.
2413

This clarification would be applicable solely in the context of section 13(d)(1) of the BHC Act. The
application of section 4(c)(9) to foreign companies in other contexts is likely to involve different legal and
policy issues and may therefore merit different approaches.
2414

For clarification purposes, the final rule has been modified from the proposal to provide that the
requirements for this provision must be met on a fully-consolidated basis.

2415

See final rule § __.13(b)(2)(ii)(B). For purposes of determining whether, on a fully consolidated basis,
it meets the requirements under § __.13(b)(2)(ii)(B), a foreign banking entity that is not a foreign banking
organization should base its calculation on the consolidated global assets, revenues, and income of the toptier affiliate within the foreign banking entity’s structure.

2416

See 12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(9); 12 CFR 211.23(a), (c), and (e); final rule § __.13(b)(2)(ii)(B).

787

their banking business is outside the United States would likely make the exemption
unavailable to such firms and subject their global activities to the restrictions on covered
fund activities and investments, a result that the Agencies do not believe was intended.
2.

Activities or investments solely outside of the United States
As noted above, the proposed rule adopted a transaction-based approach to

implementing the foreign fund exemption and focused on the extent to which the foreign
fund transactions occur within, or are carried out by personnel, subsidiaries or affiliates
within, the United States. In particular, § __.13(c)(3) of the proposed rule provided that a
transaction or activity be considered to have occurred solely outside of the United States
only if: (i) the transaction or activity is conducted by a banking entity that is not
organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more States; (ii) no subsidiary,
affiliate, or employee of the banking entity that is involved in the offer or sale of an
ownership interest in the covered fund is incorporated or physically located in the United
States; and (iii) no ownership interest in such covered fund is offered for sale or sold to a
resident of the United States.
Commenters suggested that, like the foreign trading exemption, the foreign fund
exemption should focus on the location of activities that a banking entity engages in as
principal. 2417 These commenters argued that the location of sales activities of a fund
should not determine whether a banking entity has sponsored or acquired an ownership
interest in a covered fund solely outside of the United States. Commenters also argued

2417

See Credit Suisse (Williams); IIB/EBF; Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients).

788

that foreign banking entities typically locate marketing and sales personnel for foreign
funds in the United States in order to serve customers, including those that are not
residents of the United States, and that the proposal would needlessly force all covered
fund sales activities to shift outside of the United States. These commenters alleged that
the restrictions under the proposal would cause foreign banking entities to relocate their
personnel from the United States to overseas, diminishing U.S. jobs with no concomitant
benefit. 2418
Many commenters requested removal of the proposal’s prohibition on a U.S.
subsidiary, affiliate, or employee of the foreign banking entity offering or selling fund
interests in order to qualify for the foreign fund exemption. 2419 Commenters argued that
this limitation was not included in the statute and that the limited involvement of persons
located in the U.S. in the distribution of ownership interests in a foreign covered fund
should not, by itself, disqualify the banking entity from relying on the foreign fund
exemption so long as the fund is offered only outside the United States. 2420 These
commenters argued that organizing and offering a fund is not a prohibited activity so long
as it is not accompanied by ownership or sponsorship of the covered fund. One
commenter urged that the final rule permit U.S. personnel of a foreign banking entity to

2418

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); Ass’n. of German Banks; Credit Suisse
(Williams); IIB/EBF; Société Générale; Union Asset.

2419

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); Ass’n. of German Banks; Credit Suisse
(Williams); IIB/EBF; Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients); TCW; Union Asset.

2420

See IIB/EBF; Société Générale; TCW; Union Asset; Credit Suisse (Williams); See also Katten (on
behalf of Int’l Clients) (recommending that, similar to the SEC’s Regulation S, the final rule provide that
involvement of persons located in the United States in the distribution of a non-U.S. covered fund’s
securities to potential purchasers outside of the United States not affect the analysis of whether a non-U.S.
banking entity’s investment or sponsorship occurs outside the United States).

789

engage in non-selling activities related to a covered fund, including acting as investment
advisor, establishing fund vehicles, conducting back-office functions such as day-to-day
management and deal sourcing tax structuring, obtaining licenses, interfacing with
regulators, and other related activities that do not involve U.S. sales activity. 2421
Instead of the proposal’s transaction-based approach to implementing the foreign
fund exemption, many commenters suggested the final rule adopt a risk-based
approach. 2422 These commenters argued that a risk-based approach would prohibit or
significantly limit the amount of financial risk from such activities that could be
transferred to the United States by the foreign activity of foreign banking entities in line
with the purpose of the statue. 2423 Commenters also contended that foreign activities of
most foreign banking entities are already subject to activities limitations, capital
requirements, and other prudential requirements of their home-country supervisor(s). 2424
In response to commenters’ concerns and in order to more effectively implement
both the statutory prohibition as well as the foreign fund exemption, the final rule has
been modified to better reflect the purpose of the statute by ensuring that the principal
risks of covered fund investments and sponsorship by foreign banking entities permitted
under the foreign funds exemption occur and remain solely outside of the United States.
One of the principal purposes of section 13 is to limit the risks that covered fund

2421

See Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group).

2422

See BaFin/Deutsche Bundesbank; ICSA; IIB/EBF; EBF; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian
Banks); Credit Suisse (Williams); George Osborne.

2423

See IIB/EBF.

2424

See IIB/EBF.

790

investments and activities pose to the safety and soundness of U.S. banking entities and
the U.S. financial system. Another purpose of the foreign fund exemption was to limit
the extraterritorial application of section 13 as it applies to foreign banking entities
subject to section 13.
To accomplish these purposes in light of the structure and purpose of the statute
and in response to commenters, the final rule adopts a risk-based approach rather than a
transaction approach to the foreign fund exemption. In order to ensure these risks remain
solely outside of the United States, the final rule also includes several conditions on the
availability of the foreign fund exemption. Specifically, the final rule provides that an
activity or investment occurs solely outside the United States for purposes of the foreign
fund exemption only if:
•

The banking entity acting as sponsor, or engaging as principal in the
acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in the covered fund, is not
itself, and it not controlled directly or indirectly by, a banking entity that is
located in the United States or established under the laws of the United
States or of any State;

•

The banking entity (including relevant personnel) that makes the decision
to acquire or retain the ownership interest or act as sponsor to the covered
fund is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the
United States or of any State;

•

The investment or sponsorship, including any transaction arising from
risk-mitigating hedging related to an ownership interest, is not accounted
791

for as principal directly or indirectly on a consolidated basis by any branch
or affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws
of the United States or of any State; and
•

No financing for the banking entity’s ownership or sponsorship is
provided, directly or indirectly, by any branch or affiliate that is located in
the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of
any State. 2425

These requirements are designed to ensure that any foreign banking entity
engaging in activity under the foreign fund exemption does so in a manner that ensures
the risk and sponsorship of the activity or investment occurs and resides solely outside of
the United States.
The final rule has been modified from the proposal to specifically recognize that,
for purposes of the foreign fund exemption, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a
foreign bank, is located in the United States; however, a foreign bank that operates or
controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United
States solely by virtue of operation of the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary. 2426 A
subsidiary (wherever located) of a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign bank is
also considered itself to be located in the United States. This provision helps give effect
to the statutory language limiting the foreign fund exemption to activities of foreign
banking entities that occur “solely outside of the United States” by clarifying that the
2425

See final rule § __.13(b)(4).

2426

See final rule § __.13(b)(5).

792

U.S. operations of foreign banking entities may not sponsor or acquire or retain an
ownership interest in a covered fund as principal based on this exemption.
Because so-called “back office” activities do not involve sponsoring or acquiring
or retaining an ownership interest in a covered fund, the final rule does not impose
restrictions on U.S. personnel of a foreign banking entity engaging in these activities in
connection with one or more covered funds. This allows providing administrative
services or similar functions to the covered fund as an incident to the activity conducted
under the foreign fund exemption (such as clearing and settlement, maintaining and
preserving records of the fund, furnishing statistical and research data, or providing
clerical support for the fund).
The foreign fund exemption in the final rule also permits the U.S. personnel and
operations of a foreign banking entity to act as investment adviser to a covered fund in
certain circumstances. For instance, the U.S. personnel of a foreign banking entity may
provide investment advice and recommend investment selections to the manager or
general partner of a covered fund so long as that investment advisory activity in the
United States does not result in the U.S. personnel participating in the control of the
covered fund or offering or selling an ownership interest to a resident of the United
States. As explained above, the final rule also explicitly provides that acquiring or
retaining an ownership interest does not include acquiring or retaining an ownership
interest in a covered fund by a banking entity acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian,
subject to certain conditions, or acting on behalf of customers as a trustee, or in a similar
fiduciary capacity for a customer that is not a covered fund, so long as the activity is
conducted for the account of the customer and the banking entity and its affiliates do not
793

have or retain beneficial ownership of the ownership interest. 2427 The final rule would
thus allow a foreign bank to engage in any of these capacities in the U.S. without the
need to rely on the foreign fund exemption.
3.

Offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States
The proposed rule provided that no ownership interest in the covered fund be

offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States, a requirement of the statute. 2428
Numerous commenters focused on the definition of “resident of the United States” in the
proposed rule and the manner in which the restriction on offers and sales to such persons
would interrelate with Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933. Commenters
asserted that, since market participants have long conducted offerings of foreign funds in
reliance on Regulation S 2429 in order to comply with U.S. securities law obligations, these
same securities law principles should be applied to determine whether a person is a
resident of the United States for purposes of section 13 and the final rule to determine
whether an offer or sale is made to residents of the United States. 2430
Certain commenters argued that because of the way the restriction in the statute
and proposed rule was written, it was unclear whether the restriction on offering for sale
to a resident of the United States applied to the foreign banking entity or to any third
party that establishes a fund. 2431 Commenters argued the prohibition against offers or

2427

See final rule § __.10(a)(2).

2428

See proposed rule §__.13(c)(1)(iii).

2429

See 17 CFR 230.901-905.

2430

See IIB/EBF; EFAMA; ICI Global.

2431

See Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai Banks); Grosvenor; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

794

sales of ownership interests to residents of the United States should apply only to offers
and sales of covered funds organized and offered by the foreign banking entity but not to
covered funds established by unaffiliated third parties. 2432 These commenters reasoned
that a foreign banking entity should be permitted to make a passive investment in a
covered fund sponsored and controlled by an unaffiliated third party that has U.S.
investors as long as the foreign banking entity does not itself offer or sell ownership
interest in the covered fund to residents of the United States. 2433 Commenters contended
that this interpretation would be consistent with section 13’s purpose to prevent foreign
banks from using the foreign fund exemption to market and sell covered funds to U.S.
investors, while simultaneously limiting the extraterritorial impact of section 13. 2434
Commenters argued that the proposal’s foreign fund exemption would negatively impact
U.S. asset managers unaffiliated with any banking entity because they would either be
forced to exclude foreign banking entities from investing in their funds or would need to
ensure that no residents of the United States hold ownership interests in funds offered to
these entities. 2435 Commenters also contended that foreign banking entities, including
sovereign wealth funds that own or control foreign banking organizations, invest tens of
billions of dollars in U.S. covered funds and that if these types of investments were not

2432

See Ass’n. of German Banks; BAROC; Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai Banks); Comm. on Capital
Markets Regulation; Credit Suisse (Williams); IIB/EBF; Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Katten (on behalf of
Int’l Clients); PEGCC.

2433

See Grosvenor; IIB/EBF; Japanese Bankers Ass’n.; Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients); Sens. Merkley
& Levin (Feb.2012); Norinchukin; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2434

See BAROC; Credit Suisse (Williams); Grosvenor; IIB/EBF.

2435

See Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; Credit Suisse (Williams); PEGCC.

795

permitted under the foreign fund exemption an important source of foreign investment in
the U.S. could be eliminated. 2436
Commenters argued that an investment by a foreign banking entity in a third-party
unaffiliated fund does not pose any risk to a U.S. banking entity or to the U.S. financial
system. Moreover, commenters argued that a foreign banking entity that has invested in
a fund sponsored and advised by a third party has no control over whether – and may
have no knowledge - that the third party has determined to offer or sell the fund to U.S.
residents. 2437
As noted above, one of the purposes of section 13 is to limit the risk to banking
entities and the financial system of the United States. Another purpose of the statute
appears to be to permit foreign banking entities to engage in foreign activities without
being subject to the restrictions of section 13 while also ensuring that these foreign
entities do not receive a competitive advantage over U.S. banking entities with respect to
offering and selling their covered fund services in the United States. 2438 As such, the
final rule does not prohibit a foreign banking entity from making an investment in or
sponsoring a foreign fund. However, a foreign banking entity would not be permitted
under the foreign fund exemption to invest in, or engage in the sponsorship of, a U.S. or
foreign covered fund that offers ownership interests to residents in the United States
unless it does so pursuant to and subject to the limitations of the permitted activity

2436

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); See also Grosvenor; PEGCC.

2437

See AFG; BAROC; Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai Banks); Japanese Bankers Ass’n.

2438

See 156 Cong. Rec. S5897 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley).

796

exemption for organizing and offering a covered fund, for example, which has the same
effect for U.S. banking entities. The final rule ensures that the risk of the sponsoring and
investing in non-U.S. covered funds by foreign banking entities remains outside of the
United States and that the foreign fund exemption does not advantage foreign banking
entities relative to U.S. banking entities with respect to providing their covered fund
services in the United States by prohibiting the offer or sale of ownership interests in
related covered funds to residents of the United States.
Commenters also argued that foreign investors in a foreign covered fund should
not be treated as residents of the United States for purposes of the final rule if, after
purchasing their interest in the covered fund, they relocate to the U.S., 2439 or travel to the
U.S. on a temporary basis. 2440 Commenters also argued that non-U.S. investors in a fund
offered by a foreign banking entity should not be prohibited from transferring their
interests to residents of the United States in the secondary market. 2441 One commenter
alleged that, notwithstanding the reasonable efforts of foreign banking entities to prevent
residents of the United States from investing in their foreign covered funds, investors
may find ways to circumvent and invest in covered funds without knowledge or
assistance from the foreign banking entity. 2442
Certain commenters argued that there was a substantial risk that foreign funds
offered by foreign banking entities would not be able to rely on the exemption due to the

2439

See IIB/EBF; Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients); Union Asset.

2440

See IFIC; See also Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks).

2441

See Ass’n. of German Banks; Credit Suisse (Williams); IIB/EBF; Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients).

2442

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

797

presence of a limited number of investors who are residents of the United States. 2443 A
few commenters suggested that the final rule should require that, for both related and
unrelated covered funds, a banking entity need only have a reasonable belief that an
ownership interest in a covered fund is not offered or sold to residents of the United
States in order to qualify for the foreign fund exemption. Commenters argued that only
active targeting or marketing towards a resident of the United States by the foreign
banking entity should be prohibited by the final rule, and that the incidental presence of a
limited number of investors that are residents of the United States in a foreign covered
fund offered by a foreign banking entity should not prohibit the foreign banking entity
from relying on the foreign fund exemption. 2444 One commenter argued that, for certain
complex fund structures (e.g., a structure with a master fund and multiple feeder funds
that investors invest in or a parallel fund structure both managed by the same fund
manager), eligibility for the foreign fund exemption should not be precluded for a fund
with no ownership interests offered for sale or sold to U.S. residents even if a related
covered fund is offered to residents of the United States. 2445
After considering comments received on the proposal, the final rule retains the
statutory requirement that no ownership interest in the covered fund be offered for sale to
a resident of the United States. 2446 The final rule provides that an ownership interest in a
covered fund is offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States for purposes of

2443

See BVI; EFAMA; Union Asset.

2444

See AFG; Union Asset; See also BVI; Allen & Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); Katten (on
behalf of Int’l Clients).
2445

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n.

2446

See final rule §__.13(b)(1)(iii).

798

the foreign fund exemption only if it is sold or has been sold pursuant to an offering that
targets residents of the United States. 2447
Absent circumstances otherwise indicating a nexus with residents of the United
States, the sponsor of a foreign fund would not be viewed as targeting U.S. residents for
purposes of the foreign fund exemption if it conducts an offering directed to residents of
one or more countries other than the United States; includes in the offering materials a
prominent disclaimer that the securities are not being offered in the United States or to
residents of the United States; and includes other reasonable procedures to restrict access
to offering and subscription materials to persons that are not residents of the United
States. 2448 If ownership interests that are issued in a foreign offering are listed on a
foreign exchange, secondary market transactions could be undertaken by the banking
entity outside the United States in accordance with Regulation S under the foreign fund
exemption.2449 Foreign banking entities should use precautions not to send offering
materials into the United States or conduct discussions with persons located in the United
States (other than to or with a person known to be a dealer or other professional fiduciary
acting on behalf of a discretionary account or similar account for a person who is not a

2447

See final rule §__.13(b)(3).

2448

See Statement of the Commission Regarding Use of Internet Web Sites to Offer Securities, Solicit
Securities Transactions or Advertise Investment Services Offshore, Securities Act Release No. 7516 (Mar.
23, 1998). Reliance on these principles only applies with respect to whether an ownership interest in a
covered fund is offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States for purposes of section 13 of the
BHC Act. In addition, reliance would not be appropriate if a foreign fund engages in a private placement
of ownership interests in the United States in reliance on Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 or
Regulation D (17 CFR 230.501-506).
2449

An offer or sale is made in an “offshore transaction” under Regulation S if, among other conditions,
the transaction is executed in, on or through the facilities of a “designated offshore securities market” as
described in Regulation S, which includes a number of foreign stock exchanges and markets and any others
the SEC designates. See Securities Act rule 902(h).

799

resident of the United States). 2450 In order to comply with the rule as adopted, sponsors
of covered funds established outside of the United States must examine the facts and
circumstances of their particular offerings and confirm that the offering does not target
residents of the United States.
With respect to the treatment of multi-tiered fund structures under the foreign
fund exemption, the Agencies expect that activities related to certain complex fund
structures should be integrated in order to determine whether an ownership interest in a
covered fund is offered for sale to a resident of the United States. For example, a
banking entity may not be able to rely on the foreign fund exemption to sponsor or invest
in an initial covered fund (that is offered for sale only overseas and not to residents of the
United States) that is itself organized or operated for the purpose of investing in another
covered fund (that is sold pursuant to an offering that targets U.S. residents) and that is
either organized and offered or is advised by that banking entity.
4.

Definition of “resident of the United States”
As discussed in greater detail above in Part IV.B.1, section 13(d)(1)(I) of the BHC

Act provides that a foreign banking entity may acquire or retain an ownership interest in
or act as sponsor to a covered fund, but only if that activity is conducted according to the
requirements of the statute, including that no ownership interest in the covered fund is
offered for sale or sold to a “resident of the United States.” As noted above in Part

2450

See Securities Act rule 902(k)(2).

800

IV.B.1.f describing the definition of “resident of the United States,” the statute does not
define this term.
After carefully considering comments received, the Agencies have defined the
term “resident of the United States” in the final rule to mean a “U.S. person” as defined
in the SEC’s Regulation S. 2451 The Agencies note, however, that it would not be
permissible under the foreign fund exemption for a foreign banking entity to facilitate or
participate in the formation of a non-U.S. investment vehicle for a person or entity that is
itself a U.S. person for the specific purpose of investing in a foreign fund. The Agencies
believe that this type of activity would constitute an evasion of the requirements of
section 13 of the BHC Act.
c.

Permitted Covered Fund Interests and Activities by a Regulated Insurance Company
As discussed above, section 13(d)(1)(F) of the BHC Act permits a banking entity
that is a regulated insurance company acting for its general account, or an affiliate of an
insurance company acting for the insurance company’s general account, to purchase or
sell a financial instrument subject to certain conditions. 2452 Section 13(d)(1)(D) of the
Act permits a banking entity to purchase or sell a financial instrument on behalf of
customers. 2453 The proposal implemented these exemptions with respect to the
proprietary trading activities of insurance companies by permitting a banking entity that
is an insurance company to purchase or sell a financial instrument for the general account
of the insurance company or for a separate account, in each case subject to certain

2451

See final rule § __.10(d)(8).

2452

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(F).

2453

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(D).

801

restrictions. 2454 The proposal did not apply these exemptions to covered fund activities or
investments.
A number of commenters argued that section 13 was designed to accommodate
the business of insurance by exempting both the proprietary trading and covered fund
activities of insurance companies. 2455 These commenters argued that providing an
exemption for covered fund activities and investments through both the general account
and separate accounts of an insurance company was integral to the business of insurance
and that, absent an exemption from the covered fund provisions, insurance companies
would lack an effective means to diversify their holdings and obtain adequate rates of
return in order to maintain affordable premiums for customers. 2456
Some commenters argued that section 13 of the BHC Act specifically provides
exemptions from both the covered fund prohibition of section 13(a)(1), and the
prohibition on proprietary trading. 2457 Commenters contended that the exemptions in
section 13(d)(1)(F) (referencing activity in general accounts of insurance companies) and
13(d)(1)(D) (referencing activities on behalf of customers) cross-reference the
instruments described in section 13(h)(4) and not activity described in section 13(h)(4).
On this basis, commenters argued the statute exempts both proprietary trading in these

2454

See proposed rule §§ __.6(b)(2)(iii); __.6(c).

2455

See, e.g., Sutherland (on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers); ACLI (Jan. 2012); Country Fin. et al.;
Nationwide; NAMIC; Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012) (citing FSOC study at 71); HSBC Life;
Chamber (Feb. 2012); Country Fin. et al.; Mutual of Omaha; See also Rep. McCarthy et al.; Sen. Nelson;
Sen. Hagan; Sens. Brown & Harkin.
2456

See, e.g., Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012); TIAA-CREF (Feb. 13, 2012); Sutherland (on behalf
of Comm. of Annuity Insurers); USAA (citing FSOC study at 71); HSBC Life; ACLI; NAMIC;
Nationwide.
2457

See Sutherland (on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers); Nationwide; See also Rep. McCarthy et al.;
Sens. Brown & Harkin.

802

instruments described in section 13(h)(4) and investments in those instruments (including
when those instruments are ownership interests in covered funds). 2458
Alternatively, commenters argued that the Agencies should use their authority in
section 13(d)(1)(J) of the BHC Act to provide an exemption for the covered fund
activities and investments of insurance companies. 2459 These commenters argued that
exempting covered funds activities and investments of insurance companies would
promote and protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity and financial stability
of the United States and provide certain benefits to the U.S. financial system by allowing
insurance companies to access important asset classes (for better investment diversity and
returns), provide more diverse product offerings to customers, better manage their
investment risks through diversification and more closely matching the maturity of their
assets and liabilities, contribute liquidity to capital markets, and support economic growth
through the provision of capital to entrepreneurs and businesses. 2460 Commenters also
argued that an exemption for insurance companies from the covered fund prohibitions
was necessary to permit insurance companies that are banking entities to effectively
compete with insurance companies not affiliated with an insured depository
institution.2461 Commenters alleged that insurance companies are already subject to
extensive regulation under state insurance laws that specifically include provisions

2458

See, e.g., Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012); USAA; HSBC Life; Country Fin. et al.; Sutherland
(on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers); Nationwide (discussing the exemption for the general account
of an insurance company); ACLI; Nationwide (discussing the exemption for separate accounts).

2459

See, e.g., Sutherland (on behalf of Comm. of Annuity Insurers).

2460

See Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012); TIAA-CREF (Feb. 13, 2012); USAA; HSBC Life; ACLI
(Jan. 2012); NAMIC; Nationwide.

2461

See, e.g., Nationwide.

803

designed to diversify risk among investment categories, limit exposure to particular types
of asset classes including covered fund investments, and protect the safety and soundness
of the insurance company. 2462
After careful review of the comments in light of the statutory provisions, the final
rule has been modified to permit an insurance company or its affiliate 2463 to acquire or
retain an ownership interest in, or act as sponsor to, a covered fund for either the general
account of the insurance company or one or more separate accounts established by the
insurance company. 2464
These activities are only permitted under the final rule so long as: (1) the
insurance company or its affiliate acquires and retains the ownership interest solely for
the general account of the insurance company or for one or more separate accounts
established by the insurance company; (2) the acquisition and retention of the ownership
interest is conducted in compliance with, and subject to, the insurance company
investment laws, regulations, and written guidance of the State or jurisdiction in which

2462

See, e.g., ACLI (Jan. 2012); Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012); USAA; Chamber (Feb. 2012);
Country Fin. et al.; Mutual of Omaha; NAMIC; Nationwide; Rep. McCarthy et al. See also 156 Cong.
Reg. S.5896 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Merkley) (arguing that activities of insurance
companies “are heavily regulated by State insurance regulators, and in most cases do not pose the same
level of risk as other proprietary trading”).
2463

Some commenters urged the Agencies to provide that an affiliate or subsidiary of an insurance
company could purchase covered funds for the insurance company’s general account or a separate account.
See e.g., Fin. Services Roundtable (Feb. 3, 2012); TIAA-CREF (Feb. 13, 2012). The Agencies note that
the final rule provides (as does the statute) an exemption that permits an insurance company or its affiliate
to acquire and retain an ownership interest in a covered fund solely for the insurance’s company general
account (or one or more of its separate account); such an affiliate or subsidiary also may be a whollyowned subsidiary, as defined in the final rule.
2464

The final rule defines the terms “general account” and “separate account” largely as proposed, and
includes the new defined term “insurance company,” defined as a company that is organized as an
insurance company, primarily and predominantly engaged in writing insurance or reinsuring risks
underwritten by insurance companies, subject to supervision as such by a state insurance regulator or a
foreign insurance regulator, and not operated for the purpose of evading the provisions of section 13 of the
BHC Act. Cf. section 2(a)(17) of the Investment Company Act (defining the term insurance company).

804

the insurance company is domiciled; and (3) the appropriate Federal banking agencies,
after consultation with the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the relevant
insurance commissioners of the States and relevant foreign jurisdictions, as appropriate,
have not jointly determined, after notice and comment, that a particular law, regulation,
or written guidance described in § __.13(c)(2) of the final rule is insufficient to protect
the safety and soundness of the banking entity, or the financial stability of the United
States. 2465
The Agencies believe that exempting insurance activities and investments from
the covered fund restrictions is supported by the language of sections 13(d)(1)(D) and (F)
of the BHC Act, 2466 and more fully carries out Congressional intent and the statutory
purpose of appropriately accommodating the business of insurance within an insurance
company. 2467 Section 13(d)(1)(F) of the statute specifically exempts general accounts of
insurance companies, and, as explained above in Part IV.A.7, separate accounts are
managed and maintained on behalf of customers, an activity exempt under section
13(d)(1)(D) of the statute. By their terms, these are statutory exemptions from the
prohibitions in section 13(a), which includes both the prohibition on proprietary trading
and the prohibition on covered fund investments and sponsorship. Moreover, the
statutory language of sections 13(d)(1)(D) and 13(d)(1)(F), both cross-reference the
instruments described in section 13(h)(4) and not activity described in section 13(h)(4).
These instruments are “any security, any derivative, any contract of sale of a commodity
2465

See final rule § __.13(c).

2466

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(d)(1)(D), (F).

2467

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(b)(1)(F). See also 156 Cong. Reg. S.5896 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of
Sen. Merkley) (arguing that “section 13 of the BHC Act] was never meant to affect the ordinary business of
insurance”).

805

for future delivery, any option on any such security, derivative or contract or any other
security or financial instrument that [the Agencies determine by rule.]” This reference
covers an ownership interest in a covered fund. The Agencies believe these exemptions
as modified more fully carry out Congressional intent and the statutory purpose of
appropriately accommodating the business of insurance within an insurance company. 2468
Insurance companies are already subject to a robust regulatory regime including
limitations on their investment activities.
5.

Section __.14: Limitations on Relationships With a Covered Fund
Section 13(f) of the BHC Act generally prohibits a banking entity that, directly or

indirectly, serves as investment manager, investment adviser, or sponsor to a covered
fund (or that organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to section 13(d)(1)(G) of the
BHC Act) from entering into a transaction with a covered fund that would be a covered
transaction as defined in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act (“FR Act”). 2469 The
statute also provides an exemption for prime brokerage transactions between a banking
entity and a covered fund in which a covered fund managed, sponsored, or advised by
that banking entity has taken an ownership interest. Section 13(f) subjects any
transaction permitted under section 13(f) of the BHC Act (including a permitted prime
brokerage transaction) between the banking entity and covered fund to section 23B of the

2468

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(b)(1)(F). See also 156 Cong. Reg. S.5896 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of
Sen. Merkley) (arguing that “section 13 of the BHC Act] was never meant to affect the ordinary business of
insurance”).
2469

12 U.S.C. § 371c. The Agencies note that this does not alter the applicability of section 23A of the FR
Act and the Board’s Regulation W to covered transactions between insured depository institutions and their
affiliates.

806

FR Act. 2470 In general, section 23B of the FR Act requires that the transaction be on
market terms or on terms at least as favorable to the banking entity as a comparable
transaction by the banking entity with an unaffiliated third party. Section __.16 of the
proposed rule implemented these provisions. 2471
a.

Scope of Application
Section 13(f) of the BHC Act and the related provisions of the proposal were
among the most commented upon aspects of the covered funds section. The majority of
commenters argued that the broad definition of “covered fund” under the proposal made
the proposed implementation of section 13(f) unworkable and disruptive to existing
market practices because it would prohibit corporate funding transactions with ordinary
corporate entities that do not engage in hedge fund or private equity activities. 2472
Commenters also argued that activities that the proposal appeared to permit as a
permitted activity exemption (e.g., investments in public welfare funds) would be
prohibited by the restrictions in 13(f) 2473 and that the Agencies should construe section
13(d)(1)(J) of the BHC Act as allowing them to permit banking entities to enter into
covered transactions with a covered fund, if those activities would promote and protect
the safety and soundness of banking entities and the financial stability of the United

2470

12 U.S.C. § 371c-1.

2471

See proposed rule § __.16.

2472

See, e.g., Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group); BoA; Barclays; Credit Suisse (Williams);
Deutsche Bank (Fund-Linked Products); GE (Feb. 2012); Goldman Sachs (Covered Funds); ICI Global;
ISDA (Feb. 2012); RMA; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2473

See SunTrust; AHIC; SBIA.

807

States. 2474 However, many of the comments discussed above and some of the economic
burdens noted by these commenters have been addressed by revisions discussed above in
Part IV.B.1 to the definition of covered fund. 2475 A number of these and related
comments are also addressed by portions of the final rule that provide that the
prohibitions of section 13 do not apply to interests acquired, for example, as agent,
broker, custodian, in satisfaction of a debt previously contracted, through a pension fund,
or as trustee or fiduciary (all within the limits defined in the final rule).
Several commenters argued that applying the restrictions in section 13(f) to
foreign activities of foreign banking entities would be inconsistent with the presumption
against extraterritorial application of U.S. law and principles of international comity,
including deference to home-country regulation. 2476 For example, one commenter
expressed concern that rules being developed around custody obligations in the European
Union may require a prime broker or custodian to indirectly guarantee assets of a fund,
which would directly conflict with the prohibition on guarantees in section 13(f) of the
BHC Act. 2477 As explained above, the final rule has been modified to more narrowly
focus the scope of the definition of covered fund as it applies to foreign funds. 2478 These
changes substantially address the issues raised by commenters regarding the applicability
of section 13(f) of the BHC Act to foreign funds.

2474

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2475

See final rule § __.10(b). See supra Part IV.B.1.

2476

See IIB/EBF; Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients); EBF; EFAMA; French Banking Fed’n.; Japanese
Bankers Ass’n.

2477

See AIMA.

2478

See final rule § __.10(b)(1)(ii) & (c)(1). See supra Part IV.B.1.

808

Commenters also raised a number of other issues. For instance, some
commenters argued that applying section 13(f) to securitization entities would in some
instances run counter to the rule of construction contained in section 13(g)(2) regarding
the sale and securitization of loans. 2479 These commenters recommended that the final
rule, at a minimum, grandfather pre-existing relationships between banking entities and
existing securitization vehicles to reduce the potential effects of the final rule on
agreements and positions entered into before the enactment of the statute. 2480
One commenter argued that a banking entity that delegates its responsibility for
acting as sponsor, investment manager, or investment adviser to an unaffiliated entity
should no longer be subject to the restrictions of section 13(f). 2481 By its terms, section
13(f) of the BHC Act applies to a banking entity that, directly or indirectly, serves as
investment manager, investment adviser, or sponsor to a covered fund (or that relies on
section 13(d)(1)(G) of the BHC Act in connection with organizing and offering a covered
fund). The Agencies believe that a banking entity that delegates its responsibility to act
as sponsor, investment manager, or investment adviser to an unaffiliated party would still

2479

Section __.11(b) of the final rule provides that for purposes of securitizations, organizing and offering
includes acting as the securitizer. As discussed in greater detail above in Part IV.B.2.b, a banking entity
that continues to hold interests in a securitization in reliance on this exemption must comply with certain
requirements, including the requirements of §__.14. Accordingly, § __.14 of the final rule has also been
modified from the proposal to prohibit a banking entity that continues to hold an ownership interest in
accordance with § __11(b), and its affiliates, from entering into a covered transaction with a covered fund,
subject to certain exceptions.

2480

See AFME et al.: ASF (Feb. 2012); Ashurst; BoA; Barclays; Cadwalader (Municipal Securities);
Credit Suisse (Williams); Commercial Real Estate Fin. Council; Deutsche Bank (Fund-Linked Products);
Fidelity; GE (Feb. 2012); Goldman Sachs (Covered Funds); ICI (Feb. 2012); IIB/EBF; ISDA (Feb. 2012);
JPMC; PNC et al.; PNC; RBC; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb.
2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012). These comments are addressed above in Part II regarding availability of the
conformance period provisions of section 13 of the BHC Act.
2481

See Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients).

809

be subject to the limitations of section 13(f) if the banking entity retains the ability to
select, remove, direct, or otherwise exert control over the sponsor, investment manager,
or investment adviser designee. In addition, the unaffiliated party designated as sponsor,
investment manager, or investment adviser would be subject to the restrictions of section
13(f) if the third party is a banking entity.
b.

Transactions that Would Be a “Covered Transaction”
Section 13(f) of the BHC Act prohibits covered transactions as defined in section
23A of the FR Act between a banking entity that serves as investment manager,
investment advisor or sponsor to a covered fund or that relies on the exemption in section
13(d)(1)(G) and a covered fund. 2482 A number of commenters contended that the
definition of “covered transaction” in section 13(f) of the BHC Act should incorporate
the exemptions available under section 23A and the Board’s Regulation W. 2483 These
commenters alleged that the statute’s general reference to section 23A suggests that the
term “covered transaction” should be construed in light of section 23A as a whole,

2482

The term “covered transaction” is defined in section 23A of the FR Act to mean, with respect to an
affiliate of a member bank: (i) a loan or extension of credit to the affiliate, including a purchase of assets
subject to an agreement to repurchase; (ii) a purchase of or an investment in securities issued by the
affiliate; (iii) a purchase of assets from the affiliate, except such purchase of real and personal property as
may be specifically exempted by the Board by order or regulation; (iv) the acceptance of securities or other
debt obligations issued by the affiliate as collateral security for a loan or extension of credit to any person
or company; (v) the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance, or letter of credit, including an endorsement or
standby letter of credit, on behalf of an affiliate; (vi) a transaction with an affiliate that involves the
borrowing or lending of securities, to the extent that the transaction causes a member bank or subsidiary to
have credit exposure to the affiliate; or (vii) a derivative transaction, as defined in paragraph (3) of section
5200(b) of the Revised Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. 84(b)), with an affiliate, to the extent that
the transaction causes a member bank or a subsidiary to have credit exposure to the affiliate. See 12 U.S.C.
371c(b)(7), as amended by section 608 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
2483

See 12 U.S.C. 371c(d); 12 CFR 223.42; ABA (Keating); Ass’n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012);
BoA; BNY Mellon et al.; Credit Suisse (Williams); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); See also
Allen & Overy (on behalf of Foreign Bank Group).

810

including the exemptions in subsection (d) of that Act and as implemented in the Board’s
Regulation W. 2484 These commenters also argued that the Board’s authority to interpret
and issue rules pursuant to section 23A of the FR Act and section 5(b) of the BHC Act,
the general rule-making authority contained in section 13(b) of the BHC Act, and the
exemptive authority in section 13(d)(1)(J) all provide a basis for providing such
exemptions.2485
In particular, commenters argued that intraday extensions of credit; 2486
transactions fully secured by cash or U.S. government securities; 2487 purchases of liquid
assets and marketable securities from covered funds; 2488 and riskless principal
transactions with covered funds all should be exempt from the restrictions in section 13(f)
of the BHC Act. 2489 These commenters argued that providing an exemption for intraday
extensions of credit in particular was necessary to allow a banking entity to continue to
provide affiliated covered funds with standard custody, clearing, and settlement services
that include intra-day or overnight overdrafts necessary to facilitate securities settlement,
contractual settlement, pre-determined income, or similar custody-related transactions.
Some commenters argued that transactions fully secured by cash or U.S. government
securities do not expose banking entities to inappropriate risks, are permitted in unlimited
2484

See ABA (Keating); Ass’n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); BoA; BNY Mellon et al.; SIFMA et
al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2485

See BNY Mellon et al.; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); See also Credit Suisse (Williams).

2486

See ABA (Keating); AFG; Ass’n. of Institutional Investors (Feb. 2012); BoA; BNY Mellon et al.;
Credit Suisse (Williams); EFAMA; French Treasury et al.; JPMC; IMA; RMA; SIFMA et al. (Covered
Funds) (Feb. 2012); State Street (Feb. 2012); SSgA (Feb. 2012); Vanguard.

2487

See BoA; Credit Suisse (Williams); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2488

See Credit Suisse (Williams).

2489

See, e.g., Credit Suisse (Williams).

811

amounts under section 23A, and should not be entirely prohibited under the rule. 2490 A
few commenters argued that the proposal would prohibit securities lending transactions
and argued that borrower default indemnifications by a banking entity in agency
securities lending arrangements should not be prohibited under section 13(f). 2491 Some
commenters argued that a banking entity should be allowed to accept the shares of a
sponsored covered fund as collateral for a loan to any person or entity, in particular where
the loan is not for the purpose of purchasing interests in the covered fund. 2492
One commenter argued that no exceptions should be granted to the definition of
covered transaction, and financing of covered funds would relate to greater fund risk. 2493
In addition, that commenter contended that the Agencies should prohibit a sale of
securities by a banking entity to a covered fund even though these transactions are not
within the definition of covered transaction for purposes of section 23A of the FR
Act. 2494
The final rule continues to apply the same definition of covered transaction as the
proposal. Section 13(f) refers to a covered transaction, as defined in section 23A of the
FR Act. Section 13(f) of the BHC Act does not incorporate or reference the exemptions
contained in section 23A of the FR Act or the Board’s Regulation W. Indeed, the
exemptions for these transactions are not included in the definition of covered
2490

See BoA; Credit Suisse (Williams); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2491

See State Street (Feb. 2012); RMA.

2492

See BoA; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); See also Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients).

2493

See Occupy.

2494

See 12 U.S.C. 371c(b)(7); See also 12 U.S.C. 371c-1(a)(2)(B) (including the sale of securities or other
assets to an affiliate as a transaction subject to section 23B).

812

transactions in section 23A; the exemptions are instead in a different subsection of
section 23A and provide an exemption from only some (but not all) of the provisions of
section 23A governing covered transactions. 2495 Therefore, the final rule does not
incorporate the exemptions in section 23A.
Similarly, the final rule incorporates the statutory restriction as written, which
provides that a banking entity that serves in certain specified roles may not enter into a
transaction with a covered fund that would be a covered transaction as defined in section
23A of the FR Act as if the banking entity were a member bank and the covered fund
were an affiliate thereof. There are certain occasions when the restrictions of section 23A
apply to transactions that involve a third party other than an affiliate of a member bank.
For example, section 23A would apply to an extension of credit by a member bank to a
customer where the extension of credit is secured by shares of an affiliate. The Agencies
believe that these transactions between a banking entity and a third party that is not a
covered fund are not covered by the terms of section 13(f), which (as discussed above)
make specific reference to transactions by the banking entity with the covered fund. A
contrary reading would prohibit securities margin lending, which Congress has
specifically addressed (and permitted) in other statutes. There is no indication in the
legislative history that Congress intended section 13(f) to prohibit margin lending that
occurs in accordance with other specific statutes. Thus, section 13(f) does not prohibit a
banking entity from extending credit to a customer secured by shares of a covered fund
(as well as, perhaps, other securities) held in a margin account. However, the Agencies

2495

See 12 U.S.C. 371c(d).

813

expect banking entities not to structure transactions with third parties in an attempt to
evade the restrictions on transactions with covered funds, and the Agencies will use their
supervisory authority to monitor and restrict transactions that appear to be evasions of
section 13(f).
c.

Certain Transactions and Relationships Permitted
While section 13(f)(1) of the BHC Act generally prohibits a banking entity from
entering into a transaction with a related covered fund that would be a covered
transaction as defined under section 23A of the FR Act, other specific portions of the
statute permit a banking entity to engage in certain transactions or relationships with such
funds.
1.

Permitted investments and ownerships interests
The proposed rule permitted a banking entity to acquire or retain an ownership

interest in a covered fund in accordance with the requirements of section 13. 2496 This
was consistent with the text of section 13(f), which by its terms is triggered by the
presence of certain ownership interests. This view also resolved an apparent conflict
between the text of section 13(f) and the reference in section 13(f) prohibiting covered
transactions under section 23A of the FR Act, which includes acquiring or retaining an
interest in securities issued by an affiliate.

2496

See proposed rule § __.16(a)(2)(i).

814

Several commenters supported this aspect of the proposal. 2497 There is no
evidence that Congress intended section 13(f)(1) of the BHC Act to override the other
provisions of section 13 with regard to the acquisition or retention of ownership interests
specifically permitted by the section. Moreover, a contrary reading would make these
more specific sections that permit covered transactions between a banking entity and a
covered fund mere surplusage. Therefore, the final rule adopts this provision as
proposed. 2498
2.

Prime brokerage transactions
Section 13(f) provides an exception from the prohibition on covered transactions

with a covered fund for any prime brokerage transaction with a covered fund in which a
covered fund managed, sponsored, or advised by a banking entity has taken an ownership
interest (a “second-tier fund”). However, the statute does not define prime brokerage
transaction. The proposed rule defined prime brokerage transaction to include providing
one or more products or services, such as custody, clearance, securities borrowing or
lending services, trade execution, or financing, data, operational, and portfolio
management support. 2499
A few commenters argued that the proposed definition of prime brokerage
transaction was overly broad and should not permit securities lending or borrowing
services. These commenters argued that securities lending and borrowing (and certain
2497

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

2498

The final rule modifies the proposal to clarify that a banking entity may acquire and retain an
ownership interest in a covered fund by express reference to the permitted activities described in §§ __.11,
__.12 and __.13.

2499

See proposed rule §__.10(b)(4).

815

other services) could increase leverage by covered funds and the risk that a banking entity
would bailout these funds. 2500
Other commenters argued that the proposed definition of prime brokerage
transaction was confusing because it included transactions (such as data or portfolio
management support) that were not “covered transactions” under section 23A of the FR
Act and thus not prohibited as an initial matter by section 13(f). These commenters
argued that including otherwise permissible transactions within the definition of prime
brokerage transaction created uncertainty about the permissibility of other transactions or
services that are not expressly covered transactions under section 23A of the FR Act and
thus not prohibited under section 13(f). One commenter proposed defining prime
brokerage transaction as any “covered transaction” entered into by a banking entity with
a covered fund “for purposes of custody, clearance, securities borrowing or lending
services, trade execution and settlement, financing and related hedging, intermediation, or
a similar purpose.” 2501
A few commenters supported expanding the definition of prime brokerage
transaction to include any service or transaction “related to” a specific list of permissible
transactions. For instance, one commenter argued that acting as agent in providing
contractual income and settlement services and intraday and overnight overdraft
protection should expressly be included within the definition of prime brokerage
transaction. 2502 This commenter also urged that borrower default indemnification should

2500

See, e.g., Occupy; Public Citizen.

2501

See SIFMA et al. (Mar. 2012).

2502

See RMA.

816

be included as a prime brokerage transaction to the extent it would be a covered
transaction that is prohibited by section 13(f). 2503 Another commenter recommended that
the definition of prime brokerage transaction expressly include transactions in
commodities, futures and foreign exchange, as well as securities, and transactions
effected through OTC derivatives, including, without limitation, contracts for differences,
various swaps and security-based swaps, foreign exchange swaps and forwards and “FX
prime brokerage”. 2504
Based on review of the comments, the definition of prime brokerage transaction
has been modified in several ways. For purposes of the final rule, prime brokerage
transaction is defined to mean any transaction that would be a covered transaction, as
defined in section 23A(b)(7) of the FR Act (12 U.S.C. 371c(b)(7)), that is provided in
connection with custody, clearance and settlement, securities borrowing or lending
services, trade execution, financing, or data, operational, and administrative support. The
definition of prime brokerage transaction under the final rule generally recognizes the
same relationships that were considered when defining prime brokerage transaction under
the proposal, 2505 without certain of the modifications suggested by some commenters that
are discussed above. The Agencies carefully considered comments received on the
definition of prime brokerage transaction. As noted above, certain commenters requested
that various types of transactions be included in or omitted from the definition. The
Agencies believe it appropriate to include within the definition of prime brokerage

2503

See RMA.

2504

See Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients).

2505

See final rule §__.10(d)(5).

817

transaction those transactions that the Agencies believe generally constitute the typical
type of prime brokerage transactions provided in the market. Including this list of
relationships provides clarity and certainty for transactions that are commonly considered
to be prime brokerage transactions.
The final rule incorporates within the definition of prime brokerage transaction a
reference to covered transactions under section 23A(b)(7) of the FR Act. This change
aligns the final rules with section 13(f) of the BHC Act and is designed to eliminate
confusion and provide certainty regarding both the breath of the prohibition on covered
transactions in section 13(f) and the scope of the exception for prime brokerage
transactions. Thus, a transaction or relationship that is not a covered transaction under
section 13(f) of the BHC Act is not prohibited in the first instance (unless prohibited
elsewhere in section 13). Within the category of transactions prohibited by section 13(f),
transactions within the definition of prime brokerage transaction are permitted.
Some commenters argued that the Agencies should provide an exemption for
prime brokerage transactions with a broader array of funds than the proposal permitted.
For instance, some commenters argued that the Agencies should permit a banking entity
to enter into a prime brokerage transaction with any covered fund or fund structure that
the banking entity organizes and offers or for which it directly serves as investment
manager, investment adviser, or sponsor, and should not limit the exception for prime
brokerage transactions to only a second-tier covered fund. 2506 Conversely, a few
commenters argued that the prime brokerage exemption should only permit a banking

2506

See RMA; Katten (on behalf of Int’l Clients); EFAMA; See also Hong Kong Inv. Funds Ass'n.; IMA;
Union Asset.

818

entity to provide these services to a third-party fund in order to ensure that the provision
of prime brokerage services does not give rise to the same risks that section 13 was
designed more generally to limit.2507
The Agencies note that the statute by its terms does not restrict prime brokerage
transactions generally. As noted above, section 13(f)(3)(A) of the BHC Act provides that
a banking entity may enter into any prime brokerage transaction with a second-tier fund.
The statute by its terms permits a banking entity with a relationship to a covered fund
described in section 13(f) to engage in prime brokerage transactions (that are covered
transactions) only with second-tier funds and does not extend to covered funds more
generally. Neither the statute nor the final rule limit covered transactions between a
banking entity and a covered fund for which the banking entity does not serve as
investment manager, investment adviser, or sponsor (as defined in section 13 of the BHC
Act) or have an interest in reliance on section 13(d)(1)(G) of the BHC Act. Under the
statute, the exemption for prime brokerage transactions is available only so long as
certain enumerated conditions are satisfied. 2508 The conditions are that (i) the chief
executive officer (or equivalent officer) of the banking entity certifies in writing annually
that the banking entity does not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise
insure the obligations or performance of the covered fund or of any covered fund in
which such covered fund invests, and (ii) the Board has not determined that such
transaction is inconsistent with the safe and sound operation and condition of the banking

2507

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Occupy.

2508

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(f)(3).

819

entity. The proposed rule incorporated each of these provisions. The final rule provides
that this certification be made to the appropriate Federal supervisor for the banking entity.
A few commenters argued that the proposal did not adequately address how the
CEO attestation requirement in section 13(f) would apply to foreign banking
organizations. They argued that a senior officer with authority for the U.S. operations of
the foreign bank should be permitted to make the required attestation. 2509
The statute allows the attestation for purposes of the prime brokerage exception
in section 13(f) of the BHC Act to be from the chief executive officer or “equivalent
officer.” 2510 In the case of the U.S. operations of foreign banking entities, the senior
officer of the foreign banking entity’s U.S. operations or the chief executive officer of the
U.S. banking entity may provide the required attestation.
d.

Restrictions on Transactions With Any Permitted Covered Fund
Sections 13(f)(2) and 13(f)(3)(B) of the BHC Act apply section 23B of the FR
Act 2511 to certain transactions and investments between a banking entity and a covered
fund as if such banking entity were a member bank and such covered fund were an
affiliate thereof. 2512 Section 23B provides that transactions between a member bank and
an affiliate must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that are
substantially the same or at least as favorable to the banking entity as those prevailing at

2509

See proposed rule § __.16(a)(2)(ii); IIB/EBF; Credit Suisse (Williams).

2510

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(f)(3)(A)(ii).

2511

12 U.S.C. 371c-1.

2512

See proposed rule § __.16(b).

820

the time for comparable transactions with or involving unaffiliated companies or, in the
absence of comparable transactions, on terms and under circumstances, including credit
standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated
companies. 2513
Mirroring the statute, the proposal applied this requirement to transactions
between a banking entity that serves as investment manager, investment adviser, or
sponsor to a covered fund and that fund and any other fund controlled by that fund. It
also applied this condition to a permissible prime brokerage transaction in which a
banking entity may engage under the proposal.
Commenters generally did not raise any issues regarding the proposal’s
implementation of section 13(f)(2) and 13(f)(3)(B). The final rule generally implements
these requirements in the same manner as the proposal. 2514
6.

Section __.15: Other limitations on permitted covered fund activities
Like § __.8, § __.17 of the proposed rule implemented section 13(d)(2) of the

BHC Act, which places certain limitations on the permitted covered fund activities and
investments in which a banking entity may engage. Consistent with the statute and §

2513

12 U.S.C. 371c-1(a); 12 CFR 223.51.

2514

See final rule § __.14(b). As discussed above, § __.11(b) of the final rule provides that for purposes of
securitizations, organizing and offering includes acting as the securitizer. A banking entity that continues
to own interests in a securitization in reliance on this exemption must comply, among other things, with the
requirements of §__.14. Accordingly, § __.14(b) of the final rule has been modified to require that a
banking entity that continues to hold an ownership interest in accordance with § __.11(b) is subject to
section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, as if such banking entity were a member bank and the covered
fund were an affiliate.

821

__.8 of the proposed rule, § __.17 provided that no transaction, class of transactions, or
activity was permissible under §§ __.11 through __.14 and § __.16 of the proposed rule if
the transaction, class of transactions, or activity would: (i) involve or result in a material
conflict of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, or
counterparties; (ii) result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking
entity to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy; or (iii) pose a threat to the safety
and soundness of the banking entity or the financial stability of the United States.
Section __.17 of the proposed rule defined “material conflict of interest,” “highrisk assets,” and “high-risk trading strategies” for these purposes in a fashion identical to
the definitions of the same terms for purposes of § __.8 of the proposed rule related to
proprietary trading. In the final rule, other than the permitted activities to which §§ __.7
and __.15 apply, §§ __.7 and __.15 are also identical. Comments received on the
definitions in these sections, as well as the treatment of these concepts under the final
rule, are described in detail in Part IV.A.9 above.
The Agencies also note that some concerns identified by commenters regarding
the rule’s extraterritorial application are addressed by modifications in the final rule to
the definition of a covered fund under § __.10. As noted above, commenters requested
that the Agencies clarify that the limitations in §§ __.8 or __.17 of the proposed rule
apply only to a foreign banking entity’s U.S. activities and affiliates. 2515 As discussed in
greater detail above in Part IV.B.1, the final rule has been modified to more narrowly
focus the scope of the definition of covered fund as it applies to foreign funds. Pursuant
2515

See EBF; Ass’n. of German Banks.

822

to the definition of a covered fund in §__.10(b)(1), a foreign fund may be a covered fund
with respect to the U.S. banking entity that sponsors the fund, but not be a covered fund
with respect to a foreign bank that invests in the fund solely outside the United States.
Foreign public funds, as defined in §__.10(c)(1) of the final rule, are also excluded from
the definition of a covered fund. By excluding foreign public funds from the definition of
covered fund and by narrowing the scope of the definition of a covered fund with respect
to foreign funds, the Agencies have addressed some commenters’ concerns regarding the
burdens imposed by proposed rule §__.17.
C.

Subpart D and Appendices A and B – Compliance Program, Reporting, and
Violations
Subpart D of the proposed rule implemented section 13(e)(1) of the BHC Act and

required certain banking entities to develop and provide for the continued administration
of a program reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the prohibitions
and restrictions on activities and investments set forth in section 13 and the proposed
rule.
As explained in detail below, in response to comments on the compliance
program requirements and Appendix C (Minimum Standards for Programmatic
Compliance) and to conform to modifications to other sections of the proposed rule, the
Agencies are adopting a variety of modifications to Subpart D of the proposed rule,
which requires certain banking entities to develop and provide for the continued
administration of a program reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with
the prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading activities and covered fund
activities and investments set forth in section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule. As

823

described above, this compliance program requirement forms a key part of the multifaceted approach to implementing section 13 of the BHC Act, and is intended to ensure
that banking entities establish, maintain and enforce compliance procedures and controls
to prevent violation or evasion of the prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading
activities and covered fund activities and investments.

The proposal adopted a tiered approach to implementing the compliance program
mandate, requiring a banking entity engaged in proprietary trading activities or covered
fund activities and investments to establish a compliance program that contained specific
elements and, if the banking entity’s activities were significant, meet a number of more
detailed minimum standards. If a banking entity did not engage in proprietary trading
activities and covered fund activities and investments, it was required to ensure that its
existing compliance policies and procedures included measures that were designed to
prevent the banking entity from becoming engaged in such activities and making such
investments and to develop and provide for the required program under § __.20(a) of the
proposed rule prior to engaging in such activities or making such investments, but was
not otherwise required to meet the requirements of subpart D of the proposed rule.
1.
a.

Section __.20: Compliance Program Mandate

Program Requirement
A number of commenters argued that the compliance program requirements of the
proposal were overly specific, too prescriptive and complex to be workable, and not

824

justified by the costs and benefits of having a compliance program. 2516 For instance, one
commenter expressed concern that the complexity of the proposed compliance regime
would undermine compliance efforts because the requirements were overlapping,
imprecise, and did not provide sufficient clarity to traders or banking entities as to what
types or levels of activities would be viewed as permissible trading. 2517 Some
commenters argued that the compliance program would be challenging to enforce or
administer with any consistency across different banking entities and jurisdictions. 2518 A
few commenters objected to any attempt to identify every possible instance of prohibited
proprietary trading in otherwise permitted activity. 2519 By contrast, some commenters
supported the proposed compliance program as effective and consistent with the statute
but also suggested a number of ways that the proposal’s compliance program could be
improved. 2520
A few commenters argued that the proposed compliance program should be
replaced with a more principles-based framework that provides banking entities the
discretion and flexibility to customize compliance programs tailored to the structure and

2516

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop.
Trading); See also Barclays; BlackRock; Chamber (Dec. 2011); Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation;
Credit Suisse (Williams); FIA; Goldman (Covered Funds); Investure; NYSE Euronext; RBC; STANY;
Wedbush; See also Northern Trust; Chamber (Feb. 2012).
2517

See Citigroup (Feb. 2012).

2518

See ABA (Abernathy); IIB/EBF; ICFR. While the Agencies recognize these issues, the Agencies
believe the final rule’s modifications to the proposal – for example, providing for simplified programs for
smaller, less active banking entities and increasing the asset threshold that triggers enhanced compliance
requirements – helps balance enforceability and consistency concerns with implementing a program that
helps to ensure compliance consistent with section 13(e)(1) of the BHC Act. See 12 U.S.C. 1851(e)(1).

2519

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); RBC; STANY; See also Barclays.

2520

See AFR (Nov. 2012); Occupy; Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012)

825

activities of their organizations. 2521 A few commenters argued that building on
compliance regimes that already exist at banking entities, including risk limits, risk
management systems, board-level governance protocols, and the level at which
compliance is monitored, would reduce the costs and complexity of the proposal while
also enabling a robust compliance mechanism for section 13. 2522
Another commenter suggested that the focus of the compliance program be on the
key goal of reducing risk at banking entities by requiring each banking entity to establish
a risk architecture that prescribes a customer-focused business model for market makingrelated activities including a comprehensive set of risk limits that focuses on servicing
customers and ensuring safety and soundness. 2523 This commenter suggested the
proposal’s compliance requirements be replaced by a simpler compliance framework that
could be harmonized with the broader systemic capital and risk management framework
under the Basel accord. This commenter argued such a framework would increase
transparency as well as reduce overall complexity and costs of regulation, and that
information relevant to the compliance infrastructure, including customer orientation
policies and procedures, target customer and product lists, trade histories, and risk limit
calibration methodology and analyses, should all be made available to examiners. 2524
Another commenter urged that the compliance program could be generally improved by

2521

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); See also M&T Bank;
Credit Suisse (Seidel); State Street (Feb. 2012); See also NYSE Euronext; Stephen Roach.
2522

See Citigroup (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); See also ABA (Abernathy); Paul
Volcker.

2523

See Citigroup (Feb. 2012); See also SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

2524

See Citigroup (Feb. 2012).

826

having a greater focus on the compensation incentives within the compliance program of
banking entities. 2525
A number of other commenters requested certain types of banking entities be
specifically excluded from having to implement the requirements of the compliance
program. For example, some commenters urged that the details required in proposed
Appendix C apply only to those banking entities and business lines within a banking
group that have “significant” covered funds or trading activities and not apply to an
affiliate of a banking entity that does not engage in the types of activities section 13 is
designed to address (e.g., an industrial affiliate that manufactures machinery). 2526 One
commenter argued that the final rule should not impose a compliance program
requirement on a banking entity that owns 50 percent or less of another banking entity in
order to ensure the compliance program did not discourage joint ventures or other
arrangements where a banking entity does not have actual control over an affiliate. 2527
As discussed in Part IV.B.4.c. above, 2528 other commenters argued that the reporting and
recordkeeping and compliance requirements of the rule should not apply to permitted
insurance company investment activities because insurance companies are already
subject to comprehensive regulation of the kinds and amounts of investments they can

2525

See Occupy.

2526

See, e.g., Credit Suisse (Williams); GE (Feb. 2012); See also NAIB et al.; Chamber (Feb. 2012).

2527

See GE (Feb. 2012). Under the BHC Act, an entity would generally be considered an affiliate of a
banking entity, and therefore a banking entity itself, if it controls, is controlled by, or is under common
control with an insured depository institution. Pursuant to the BHC Act, a company controls another
company if, for instance, the company directly or indirectly or acting through one or more other persons
owns, controls, or has power to vote 25 per cent or more of any class of voting securities of the company.
See 12 U.S.C. 1841(a)(2). The compliance program requirement applies to all banking entities in order to
ensure their compliance with the final rule.

2528

See Part IV.B.4.c.

827

make under State or foreign insurance laws and regulations. 2529 However, another
commenter suggested that insurance company affiliates of banking entities expressly be
made subject to data collection and reporting requirements to prevent possible evasion of
the restrictions of section 13 and the final rule using their insurance affiliates. 2530
A few commenters argued that requiring securitization vehicles to establish even
the minimal requirements set forth in § __.20(d) would impose unnecessary costs and
burdens on these entities. 2531 By contrast, another commenter argued that, because of the
perceived risks of these entities, securitization vehicles related to a banking entity should
be required to comply fully with the proposed rule regardless of how such compliance
procedures are funded by the banking entity. 2532
Several commenters urged that foreign activities of foreign banking entities,
which are already subject to their own prudential regulation under applicable home
country regulation, be excluded from the compliance program and argued that to do
otherwise would be an extraterritorial expansion of U.S. law. 2533 These commenters
contended that the compliance program requirements for foreign banking entities should,

2529

See, e.g., ACLI (Jan. 2012); Country Fin. et al.; NAMIC.

2530

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012). As noted above, the compliance program requirement applies
to all banking entities, including insurance companies that are considered banking entities, in order to
ensure their compliance with the final rule.

2531

See ASF (Feb. 2012); AFME et al.; SIFMA (Securitization) (Feb. 2012); Commercial Real Estate Fin.
Council.

2532

See Occupy.

2533

See, e.g., Société Générale; IIB/EBF; Australian Bankers Ass'n. (Feb. 2012); Banco de México;
Norinchukin; Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai Banks); Cadwalader (on behalf of Singapore Banks); Allen &
Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); BAROC; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; Credit Suisse
(Williams); EFAMA; Hong Kong Inv. Funds Ass'n.; HSBC; IIAC; IMA; Katten (on behalf of Int'l Clients);
Ass'n. of Banks in Malaysia; RBC; Sumitomo Trust; See also AFME et al.; British Bankers' Ass'n.; EBF;
Commissioner Barnier; French Banking Fed'n.; UBS; Union Asset.

828

in any event, be narrowly circumscribed. 2534 One commenter proposed that the foreign
activity of foreign banking entities be excluded from compliance, reporting and other
obligations where the risk of the activity is outside of the United States because those
risks do not pose a threat to U.S. taxpayers. 2535 Another commenter argued that only
U.S. affiliates of foreign banking entities engaged in proprietary trading and covered fund
activities as principal in the United States should be required to institute the compliance
and reporting systems required in the proposal, and that all foreign affiliates only be
required to have policies and procedures designed to prevent the banking entity from
engaging in relevant trading and covered fund activities in the United States. 2536 This
commenter also expressed concern that the reporting and recordkeeping requirements
could be interpreted to apply to an entire trading unit, even trading activities with no U.S.
nexus, if any portion of a trading unit’s activities, even a single trade, would be required
to rely on the market-making, hedging, underwriting or U.S. government security
exemptions. 2537
Commenters also offered thoughts on the timeframe within which banking entities
must establish a compliance program. One commenter urged that reporting begin
immediately, 2538 while another commenter contended that the effective date provided
banking entities with sufficient time to implement the proposal’s compliance

2534

See, e.g., AFME et al.; IIB/EBF; BaFin/Deutsche Bundesbank; Credit Suisse (Williams); HSBC.

2535

See Australian Bankers Ass'n. (Feb. 2012); See also RBC.

2536

See IIB/EBF.

2537

See IIB/EBF.

2538

See Occupy.

829

program. 2539 Other commenters, however, argued that banking entities should have
additional time to establish compliance programs. 2540 Some commenters argued banking
entities should have one-year from the date of publication of the final rule to implement
their compliance programs, 2541 while others urged that banking entities have a two-year
period to build compliance systems. 2542 One commenter suggested the Board amend its
conformance rule to provide U.S. banking entities with an additional year for
implementing the compliance requirements with respect to their foreign operations. 2543
After considering comments on the proposal, the final rule retains the compliance
program requirement with a variety of modifications. In particular, the modifications are
designed to make the compliance program requirements clearer and more tailored to the
size, complexity and type of activity conducted by each banking entity. 2544 The
Agencies also believe that the revisions build on the limits, procedures and elements of

2539

See Alfred Brock.

2540

See Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); PNC et al.; Australian Bankers Ass'n. (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al.
(Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); ABA (Keating); AFME et al.; BoA; Barclays; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds)
(Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Mar. 2012); Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; Credit Suisse (Williams);
T. Rowe Price; See also Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Société Générale; IIB/EBF; Am. Express; Arnold & Porter;
BDA (Mar. 2012).
2541

See Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); PNC et al.; Australian Bankers Ass'n. (Feb. 2012); BoA; Barclays;
SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Mar. 2012); Credit Suisse (Seidel); See also
BDA (Mar. 2012).
2542

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); ABA (Keating); AFME et al.; GE; Credit Suisse
(Williams); Goldman (Prop. Trading); Morgan Stanley; RBC; SVB.

2543

See Morgan Stanley.

2544

The Agencies believe these modifications, such as increasing the threshold that triggers enhanced
compliance standards and allowing smaller banking entities to customize their compliance programs, help
address concerns that the proposed requirement was too complex and unworkable. See, e.g., SIFMA et al.
(Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

830

risk management programs that many banking entities have already developed to monitor
and control the risk of existing trading and investment activities. 2545
The final rule builds on the proposed rule’s tiered approach by adjusting asset
thresholds and by adding a new provision allowing a banking entity with modest covered
activities to customize its compliance program. Specifically, the final rule allows
banking entities with total assets below $10 billion to fold compliance measures into their
existing compliance program in a manner that addresses the types and amounts of
activities the entity conducts. 2546 The proposal did not contain such a provision. Similar
to the proposal, the final rule requires that a banking entity that conducts no activity
subject to section 13 of the BHC Act is not required to develop any compliance program
until it begins conducting activities subject to section 13. 2547 The final rule further
modifies the proposal by requiring that a banking entity with total assets greater than $10
billion but less than $50 billion is generally required to establish a compliance program
suited to its activities which includes the six elements described in the final rule. 2548
Additionally, the final rule requires that the largest and most active banking entities, with
total assets above $50 billion, or that are subject to the quantitative measurements
2545

Some commenters argued that the requirement should build on banking entities’ existing compliance
regimes. See Citigroup (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); See also ABA (Abernathy);
Paul Volcker.
2546

See final rule § __.20(f)(2).

2547

See final rule § __.20(f)(1). In response to a few commenters, the final rule, unlike §__.20(d) of the
proposed rule, no longer requires a banking entity include measures that are designed to prevent such entity
from becoming engaged in covered trading activities or covered fund investments and activities.
2548

Under the proposal, each banking entity was required to have a compliance program that addressed the
elements described in the rule, unless the banking entity did not engage in prohibited activities or
investments, in which case it need only have existing policies and procedures requiring the banking entity
to develop a compliance program before engaging in such activities. Further, a banking entity that has
trading assets and liabilities equal to or greater than $1 billion, or equal to 10% or more of total assets,
would have been subject to additional standards under the proposed rule. See proposed rule §§ __.20(a),
(c), (d).

831

requirement due to the size of their trading assets and liabilities, adopt an enhanced
compliance program that addresses the six elements described in the rule plus a number
of more detailed requirements described in Appendix B. 2549
In response to commenters’ concerns regarding compliance program burdens in
connection with covered fund activities and investments, the final rule is further modified
with respect to thresholds for covered fund activities and investments. As noted above,
this and the other modifications are designed to make the compliance program
requirement clearer and more tailored to the size, complexity and type of activity
conducted by each banking entity. The final rule, unlike the proposal, does not require a
banking entity to adopt the enhanced compliance program if the banking entity, together
with its affiliates and subsidiaries, invests in the aggregate more than $1 billion in
covered funds or if they sponsor or advise covered funds, the average total assets of
which are equal to or greater than $1 billion. Banking entities would look to the total
asset thresholds discussed above, instead of the amount of covered fund investments and
activities, in determining whether they would be subject to the enhanced compliance
program requirements. The Agencies have also modified the compliance program
reporting obligations of foreign banking entities with respect to their covered trading and
covered fund activities that are conducted pursuant to the exemptions contained in §§
__.6(e) and __.13(b). 2550

2549

Because the Agencies have determined not to retain proposed Appendix B in the final rule, proposed
Appendix C is now Appendix B under the final rule.

2550

See, e.g., Société Générale; IIB/EBF; Australian Bankers Ass'n. (Feb. 2012); Banco de México;
Norinchukin; Cadwalader (on behalf of Thai Banks); Cadwalader (on behalf of Singapore Banks); Allen &
Overy (on behalf of Canadian Banks); BAROC; Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; Credit Suisse
(Williams); EFAMA; Hong Kong Inv. Funds Ass'n.; HSBC; IIAC; IMA; Katten (on behalf of Int'l Clients);

832

The final rule also responds to commenters’ concerns regarding the timeframe
within which a banking entity must establish and implement the compliance program
required for that entity under § __.20. Under the final rule, each banking entity must
establish the compliance program required for that entity under § __.20 as soon as
practicable and in no case later than the end of the conformance period. 2551 The Agencies
expect that during this period a banking entity will develop and implement the
compliance program requirements of the final rule as part of its good-faith efforts to fully
conform its activities and investments to the requirements of section 13 and the final rule.
As explained below in the discussion of the enhanced minimum standards for compliance
programs under Appendix B, the final rule also requires larger and more active banking
entities to report certain data regarding their trading activities. These requirements have
been phased-in to provide banking entities an opportunity to develop the necessary
systems to capture and report the relevant data. 2552 In addition, as explained below, the
Agencies will consider, after a period to gain experience with the data, revisiting these

Ass'n. of Banks in Malaysia; RBC; Sumitomo Trust; See also AFME et al.; British Bankers' Ass'n.; EBF;
Commissioner Barnier; French Banking Fed'n.; UBS; Union Asset.
2551

As discussed in Part II., the Board is extending the conformance period by one year. Extension of the
conformance period will, among other things, provide banking entities with additional time to establish the
required compliance program. The Agencies believe the extension of the conformance period, as well as
the phased-in approach to implementing the enhanced compliance program in Appendix B, address certain
commenters’ requests for additional time to establish a compliance program. See Wells Fargo (Prop.
Trading); PNC et al.; Australian Bankers Ass'n. (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012);
ABA (Keating); AFME et al.; BoA; Barclays; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); SIFMA et al.
(Mar. 2012); Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation; Credit Suisse (Williams); T. Rowe Price; See also
Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Société Générale; IIB/EBF; Am. Express; Arnold & Porter; BDA (Mar. 2012);
Morgan Stanley.
2552

Commenters provided a wide range of feedback regarding the timeframe for establishing a compliance
program, from requesting that reporting begin immediately to requesting two years from the date of
publication of the final rule. See, e.g., Occupy; Alfred Brock; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); PNC et al.;
SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012). The Agencies believe that the final rule’s approach appropriately
balances the desire for effective regulation with requests for additional time to establish a compliance
program.

833

data collections to determine their usefulness in monitoring the risk and types of activities
conducted by banking entities.
b.

Compliance Program Elements
Section __.20 of the final rule specifies six elements that each compliance
program required under that section must at a minimum contain. With some minor
modifications, these are the same six elements that were included in the proposed rule.
The changes reflect modifications made in requirements and limits in the other provisions
of the rule and, in particular, acknowledge the importance of trading and hedging limits,
appropriate setting, monitoring and management review of trading and hedging limits,
strategies, and activities and investments, incentive compensation and other matters.
The six elements specified in § __.20(b) are:
•

•

•

Written policies and procedures reasonably designed to document, describe,
monitor and limit trading activities and covered fund activities and investments
conducted by the banking entity to ensure that all activities and investments that
are subject to section 13 of the BHC Act and the rule comply with section 13 of
the BHC Act and the rule; 2553
A system of internal controls reasonably designed to monitor compliance with
section 13 of the BHC Act and the rule and to prevent the occurrence of activities
or investments that are prohibited by section 13 of the BHC Act and the rule; 2554
A management framework that clearly delineates responsibility and accountability
for compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and the rule and includes
appropriate management review of trading limits, strategies, hedging activities,
investments, incentive compensation and other matters identified in the rule or by
management as requiring attention; 2555

2553

This requirement is substantially the same as the proposed written policies and procedures
requirement. See proposed rule § __20(b)(1).

2554

This requirement is substantially the same as the proposed internal controls requirement. See proposed
rule § __.20(b)(2).

2555

The final rule modifies the proposed management framework requirement by adding that the
management framework element must include appropriate management review of trading limits, strategies,

834

•

•
•

Independent testing and audit of the effectiveness of the compliance program
conducted periodically by qualified personnel of the banking entity or by a
qualified outside party; 2556
Training for trading personnel and managers, as well as other appropriate
personnel, to effectively implement and enforce the compliance program; 2557 and
Making and keeping records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with section 13
of the BHC Act and the rule, which a banking entity must promptly provide to the
relevant supervisory Agency upon request and retain for a period of no less than 5
years.

Under the final rule, these six elements must be part of the compliance program of each
banking entity with total consolidated assets greater than $10 billion that engages in
activities covered by section 13 of the BHC Act.
As discussed above, the Agencies have moved particular elements with respect to
the required compliance program for the exemptions contained in § __.4(a), § __.4(b),
and § __.5 into the specific requirements of these exemptions. The Agencies believe this
structure more effectively conveys that satisfying the requirements of these exemptions
involves specific compliance measures or, with respect to underwriting and market
making, a customer-focused business model, as requested by some commenters. 2558

hedging activities, incentive compensation, and other matters. See final rule § __.20(b)(3). See also
proposed rule § __20(b)(3). One commenter suggested that the compliance program requirement have a
greater focus on compensation incentives. See Citigroup (Feb. 2012).
2556

The final rule modifies the proposed independent testing requirement by specifying that such testing
must be done “periodically.” See final rule § __.20(b)(4). See also proposed rule § __.20(b)(4). The
meaning of “independent testing” is discussed in more detail below in Part IV.C.2.e. The reference to
“audit” does not mean that the independent testing must be performed by a designated auditor, whether
internal or external.
2557

The final rule retains the proposed training requirement. See final rule § __.20(b)(5). See also
proposed rule § __.20(b)(5).
2558

One of these commenters suggested the Agencies adopt a simpler compliance framework that could be
harmonized with the Basel accord. See Citigroup (Feb. 2012). The Agencies believe the final framework
described above helps address concerns about streamlining the compliance program requirement while
meeting the statutory requirement to issue regulations “in order to insure compliance” with section 13. 12
U.S.C. 1851(e)(1).

835

In addition to the generally required compliance program elements specified in
§ __.20(b), a banking entity relying on any of these exemptions should employ the
specific compliance tools specified within the relevant section of this rule to facilitate
compliance with the applicable exemption and should appropriately tailor the required
compliance program elements to the individual trading activities and strategies of each
trading desk on an ongoing basis. By specifying particular compliance program-related
requirements in the exemptions, the Agencies have sought to provide additional guidance
and clarity as to how a compliance program should be structured, 2559 while at the same
time providing the banking entity with sufficient discretion to consider the type, size,
scope and complexity of its activities and business structure in designing a compliance
program to meet the requirements set forth in § __.20(b). 2560
For a banking entity with more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets, the
compliance program requires additional documentation with respect to funds. For
example, the banking entity is required to maintain records that include documentation of
exclusions or exemptions other than sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940 relied on by each fund sponsored by the banking entity (including
all subsidiaries and affiliate) in determining that such fund is not a covered fund. 2561 The

2559

One commenter stated that the proposed rule did not provide sufficient clarity as to what types or
levels of activities would be permissible. See Citigroup (Feb. 2012).

2560

Some commenters requested a more principles-based framework that allows banking entities to
customize compliance programs to the structure and activities of their organizations. See SIFMA et al.
(Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); See also M&T Bank; Credit Suisse (Seidel);
State Street (Feb. 2012); NYSE Euronext; Stephen Roach.
2561

See final rule § __.20(e)(1). As discussed under § __.10 regarding entities excluded from the
definition of covered fund, the Agencies recognize that the final rule’s definition of covered fund does not
include certain pooled investment vehicles. The Agencies expect that the types of pooled investment
vehicles sponsored by the financial services industry will continue to evolve, including in response to the
final rule, and the Agencies will be monitoring this evolution to determine whether excluding these and

836

banking entity is also required to maintain, with respect to each fund sponsored by the
banking entity (including all subsidiaries and affiliates) for which the banking entity
relies on one or more of the exclusions provided by §§ __.10(c)(1), __.10(c)(5),
__.10(c)(8), __.10(c)(9), or__.10(c)(10) of subpart C, documentation supporting the
banking entity’s determination that the fund is not a covered fund pursuant to one or
more of those exclusions. 2562 If the banking entity operates a seeding vehicle described
in §§ __.10(c)(12)(i) or __.10(c)(12)(iii) of subpart C that will become a registered
investment company or SEC-regulated business development company, the compliance
program must also include a written plan documenting the banking entity’s determination
that the seeding vehicle will become a registered investment company or SEC-regulated
business development company; the period of time during which the vehicle will operate
as a seeding vehicle; and the banking entity’s plan to market the vehicle to third-party
investors and convert it into a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business
development company within the time period specified in § __.12(a)(2)(i)(B) of subpart
C. 2563 Furthermore, for any banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly
by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or
of any State, if the aggregate amount of ownership interest in foreign public funds as
described in §__.10(c)(1) of subpart C owned by such banking entity (including

other types of entities remains appropriate. The Agencies will also monitor use of the exclusions for
attempts to evade the requirements of section 13 and intend to use their authority where appropriate to
prevent evasions of the rule. The Agencies are adopting this additional documentation requirement to
facilitate such monitoring activities.
2562

See final rule § __.20(e)(2). The Agencies are adopting this additional documentation requirement for
the same reasons discussed above with respect to § __.20(e)(1).

2563

See final rule § __.20(e)(3). The rationale for this additional documentation requirement is provided
under the discussion regarding registered investment companies and business development companies in §
__.10.

837

ownership interests owned by any affiliate that is controlled directly or indirectly by a
banking entity that is located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any
State) exceeds $50 million at the end of two or more consecutive calendar quarters,
beginning with the next succeeding calendar quarter, such banking entity must include in
its compliance program documentation the value of the ownership interests owned by the
banking entity (and such affiliates) in each foreign public fund and each jurisdiction in
which any such foreign public fund is organized. Such calculation must be done at the
end of each calendar quarter and must continue until the banking entity’s aggregate
amount of ownership interests in foreign public funds is below $50 million for two
consecutive calendar quarters. 2564
c.

Simplified Programs for Less Active Banking Entities
The proposed rule provided that the six elements of the compliance program
required by § __.20 would apply to all banking entities engaged in covered trading
activities or covered fund activities and investments and that the minimum detailed
standards of Appendix C would apply to only those banking entities above specified
thresholds. The application of detailed minimum standards was intended to reflect the
heightened compliance risks of significant covered trading and significant covered fund
activities and investments.

2564

See final rule §__.20(e)(4). The rationale for this additional documentation requirement is provided
under the discussion regarding foreign public funds in § __.10. For purposes of this requirement, a U.S.
branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is located in the United States; however, the
foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in
the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary. See
final rule §__.20(e)(5).

838

The proposed rule provided that a banking entity with no covered activities or
investments could satisfy the requirements of § __.20 if its existing compliance policies
and procedures were amended to include measures that were designed to prevent the
banking entity from becoming engaged in such activities or making such investments and
required the banking entity to develop and provide for the required compliance program
prior to engaging in covered activities or making covered investments.
Several commenters expressed concern over the requirement in § __.20(d) of the
proposed rule that a banking entity that did not engage in any covered trading activities or
covered fund activities or investments must ensure that its existing compliance policies
and procedures include measures designed to prevent the banking entity from becoming
engaged in such activities and making such investments. 2565 In particular, some
commenters expressed concern that the proposal would have a burdensome impact on
community banks and force community banks to hire specialists to amend their policies
and procedures to ensure compliance with section 13 and the final regulations. These
commenters argued that a banking entity should not be required to amend its compliance
policies and procedures and set up a monitoring program if the banking entity does not
engage in prohibited activities. 2566
A few commenters argued that the Agencies should more carefully consider the
burden of the compliance program on smaller institutions that engage in a modest level of
permissible trading or covered fund activity. 2567 One commenter recommended that

2565

See, e.g., ICBA; ABA (Keating); Conf. of State Bank Supervisors; NAIB; Ryan Kamphuis; Wisconsin
Bankers Ass’n.

2566

See, e.g., ICBA; ABA (Keating).

2567

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Conf. of State Bank Supervisors; Ryan Kamphuis; SVB.

839

smaller banks be given the benefit of the doubt regarding compliance. 2568 For instance,
one commenter recommended that banking entities with consolidated assets of $10
billion or less be permitted to engage in a limited amount of interest rate swaps and
certain other traditional banking activities without being required to establish a
compliance program. 2569
The Agencies have considered carefully the comments received and, as noted
above, have modified the rule in order to limit the implementation, operational or other
burdens or expenses associated with the compliance requirements for a banking entity
that engages in no covered activities or investments. The final rule permits banking
entities that have no covered activities or investments (other than covered transactions in
obligations of or guaranteed by the United States or an agency of the United States and
municipal securities) to satisfy the compliance program requirements by establishing the
required compliance program prior to becoming engaged in such activities or making
such investments. This eliminates the burden on banking entities that do not engage in
covered activities or investments.
Similarly, § __.20(f)(2) of the final rule provides that a banking entity with total
consolidated assets of $10 billion or less as measured on December 31 of the previous
two years that does engage in covered activities and investments may satisfy the
requirements of § __.20 by including in its existing compliance policies and procedures
references to the requirements of section 13 and subpart D as appropriate given the

2568

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

2569

See ICBA.

840

activities, size, scope and complexity of the banking entity. 2570 This could include
appropriate references to the limits on trading activities permitted in reliance upon any of
the exemptions contained in § ___.4(a), § ___.4(b) or § ___.5.
d.

Threshold for Application of Enhanced Minimum Standards
Under the proposed rule, banking entities with significant covered trading
activities or covered fund activities and investments were required to establish an
enhanced compliance program in accordance with Appendix C, which contained detailed
compliance program requirements. The proposed rule required a banking entity to
implement the enhanced compliance program under Appendix C if the banking entity
engaged in covered activities and investments and either: (i) has, on a consolidated basis,
trading assets and liabilities the average gross sum of which (on a worldwide
consolidated basis), as measured as of the last day of each of the four prior calendar
quarters, is equal to or greater than $1 billion or equals 10 percent or more of its total
assets; or (ii) has, on a consolidated basis, aggregate investments in covered funds the
average value of which (on a worldwide consolidated basis), as measured as of the last
day of each of the four prior calendar quarters, is equal to or greater than $1 billion, or
sponsors and advises one or more covered funds the total assets of which are, as
2570

Some commenters asked the Agencies to consider the burden of the compliance program requirement
on smaller institutions and recommended that small banks be given the benefit of the doubt regarding
compliance. See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Conf. of State Bank Supervisors; Ryan Kamphuis;
SVB. The Agencies decline to follow the approach suggested by another commenter to allow banking
entities with assets of $10 billion or less be permitted to engage in certain limited activities without having
to establish a compliance program. See ICBA. The Agencies believe that requiring a banking entity
engaged in covered trading or covered fund activity to establish a compliance program is a fundamental
part of the multi-faceted approach to implementing section 13 of the BHC Act, which requires the Agencies
to implement rules “to insure compliance with this section.” 12 U.S.C. 1851(e)(1). Further, the Agencies
believe that the final rule’s modification of the proposal to allow banking entities with total assets under
$10 billion to customize their compliance programs helps ease the burden of this requirement on smaller
institutions.

841

measured as of the last day of each of the four prior calendar quarters, equal to or greater
than $1 billion.
In general, commenters argued that the activities and investments subject to
section 13 are conducted by only a small number of the nation’s largest financial firms
and that the compliance program requirements should be tailored to target these firms. 2571
Some commenters urged the Agencies to raise substantially the proposed $1 billion
threshold for trading assets and liabilities in § __.20(c)(2) of the proposal to $10 billion or
higher due to the high costs of implementing the enhanced compliance program. A few
commenters argued that even if the threshold were raised to $10 billion, an overwhelming
percentage of trading assets and liabilities in the banking industry (approximately 98
percent) would still remain subject to heightened compliance requirements included in
Appendix C. 2572 Some of these commenters recommended the threshold for trading
assets for compliance should be increased to no less than $10 billion to mitigate the costs
and impact on regional banking organizations that do not engage proprietary trading
subject to the prohibition of section 13. These commenters argued that the compliance
requirements of § __.20(a)-(b) are sufficient to ensure that regional banking organizations
have appropriate compliance programs. 2573 One commenter suggested the threshold for
the enhanced compliance requirement be increased to $50 billion in combined trading
assets and liabilities. 2574 One commenter also argued that banking entities required to

2571

See, e.g., Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); PNC et al.

2572

See ABA (Keating); M&T Bank; PNC et al.

2573

See PNC et al.; M&T Bank; See also ABA (Abernathy).

2574

See State Street (Feb. 2012).

842

establish enhanced compliance programs should no longer be required to do so if they fall
below the threshold. 2575
Commenters also offered a number of suggestions for modifying the activity that
would be considered in meeting the thresholds for determining which compliance
program requirements apply to a banking entity. Several commenters argued that certain
types of trading assets or fund investments should not be included for purposes of
determining whether the relevant dollar threshold triggering the enhanced compliance
was met, particularly those that are not prohibited activities or investments. For instance,
some commenters urged that trading in U.S. government obligations should not count
toward the calculation of whether a banking organization meets the trading threshold
triggering Appendix C. 2576 These commenters also argued that other positions or
transactions that do not involve financial instruments and that may constitute trading
assets and liabilities, such as loans, should be excluded from the thresholds because
exempt activities should not determine the type of compliance program a banking entity
must implement.2577 One commenter urged that foreign exchange swaps and forwards be
excluded from the definition of a “derivative” and not be subject to compliance
requirements as a result. 2578 Conversely, one commenter urged that all assets and
liabilities defined as trading assets for purposes of the Market Risk Capital Rule should

2575

See ABA (Keating).

2576

See PNC et al.

2577

See PNC et al.

2578

See Northern Trust.

843

be included in the $1 billion standard for becoming subject to any reporting and
recordkeeping requirements under the final rule. 2579
A few commenters argued that the $1 billion threshold for establishing an
enhanced compliance program should not include the amount of investments in, or assets
of, funds that are SBICs or similar funds that contain, SBICs or other investments
specified under section 13(d)(1)(E) of the BHC Act, such as investments in and funds
that qualify for low-income housing tax credits, or New Markets Tax Credits or that
qualify for Federal historic tax credits or similar state programs. 2580 These commenters
argued that each of these types of funds is expressly permitted by the statute and that
including these investments and funds in the dollar thresholds that trigger the
programmatic compliance requirements of Appendix C would provide a disincentive to
banking entities investing in or sponsoring these funds, a result inconsistent with
permitting these types of investments. Similarly, one commenter urged that investments
by a banking entity in, and assets held by, loan securitizations not be included in these
thresholds because these activities and investments are expressly excluded from coverage
under the rule of construction contained in section 13(g)(2) of the BHC Act regarding the
securitization of loans. 2581 Another commenter urged that this threshold not include
investments in, or assets of, any securitization vehicle that would be considered a covered
fund because many smaller and regional banking entities that were not intended to be
subject to Appendix C likely would exceed the $1 billion threshold if these assets are

2579

See Occupy.

2580

See ABA (Keating); PNC et al.

2581

See PNC et al.

844

included. 2582 A few commenters also argued that, during the conformance period,
investments in, and relationships with, a covered fund that a banking entity is required to
terminate or otherwise divest in order to comply with section 13 should not be included
for purposes of calculating the compliance thresholds. 2583
After considering comments received on the proposal and in order to implement a
compliance program requirement that is consistent with the purpose and language of the
statute and rule while at the same time appropriately calibrating the associated resource
burden on banking entities, the final rule applies the enhanced minimum standards
contained in Appendix B to only those banking entities with the most significant covered
trading activities or those that meet a specified threshold of total consolidated assets. The
final rule, unlike the proposal, does not require a banking entity to adopt the enhanced
compliance program if the banking entity, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries,
invest in the aggregate more than $1 billion in covered funds or if they sponsor or advise
covered funds, the average total assets of which are equal to or greater than $1 billion.
Banking entities would look to the total consolidated asset thresholds, instead of the
amount of covered fund investments and activities, in determining whether they would be
subject to the enhanced compliance program requirements. The Agencies believe that
commenters’ concerns about whether certain types of covered fund investments or
activities (e.g., amounts or relationships held during the conformance period) are
included for purposes of calculating the enhanced compliance thresholds are addressed
because under the final rule, the enhanced compliance thresholds are based on total

2582

See ASF (Feb. 2012).

2583

See PNC et al.; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012).

845

consolidated assets and not the amount of covered fund investments and activities.
Similar to the proposed rule, which provided that a banking entity could be subject to the
enhanced compliance program if the Agency deemed it appropriate, the final rule’s
enhanced compliance program also could apply if the Agency notifies the banking entity
in writing that it must satisfy the requirements. 2584
Section __.20 provides that three categories of banking entities will be subject to
the enhanced minimum standards contained in Appendix B. The first category is any
banking entity that engages in proprietary trading and is required to report metrics
regarding its trading activities to its primary Federal supervisory agency under the final
rule. 2585 This category includes a banking entity that has, together with its affiliates and
subsidiaries, trading assets and liabilities that equal or exceed $50 billion based on the
average gross sum of trading assets and liabilities (on a worldwide consolidated basis and
after excluding trading assets and liabilities involving obligations of or guaranteed by the
United States or any agency of the United States) over the previous consecutive four
quarters, as measured as of the last day of each of the four prior calendar quarters. A
foreign banking entity with U.S. operations is required to adopt an enhanced compliance
program if its total trading assets and liabilities across all its U.S. operations equal or
exceed $50 billion (after excluding trading assets and liabilities involving obligations of
or guaranteed by the US or any agency of the U.S.). While these banking entities will be
required to begin to report and record quantitative measurements by June 30, 2014, they
will not be required to implement an enhanced compliance program by this date. Instead,
2584

See proposed rule § __.20(c)(2)(iii); final rule § __.20(c)(3).

2585

Issues related to the threshold for reporting quantitative measurements are discussed in detail in Part
IV.C.3., below.

846

as discussed above, a banking entity must establish a compliance program as soon as
practicable and in no event later than the end of the conformance period. As explained
more fully in Part IV.C.3., this category expands over time to include any banking entity
with trading assets and liabilities that equal or exceed $10 billion (as measured in the
manner described above). For banking entities below the $50 billion threshold that
become subject to the quantitative measurements requirement through the phased-in
approach, they will not become subject to the enhanced compliance program until the
date they are required to comply with the quantitative measurements requirement.
However, these banking entities will be required to have a compliance program that
meets the requirements of § __.20(b) by the end of the conformance period. Thus,
banking entities with between $25 billion and $50 billion trading assets and liabilities (as
described in § __.20(d)) will be required to implement an enhanced compliance program
under Appendix B by April 30, 2016. Similarly, banking entities with between $10
billion and $25 billion trading assets and liabilities will be subject to the requirements of
Appendix B by December 31, 2016.
After considering comments, the Agencies have increased the trading asset and
liability thresholds triggering the enhanced compliance program requirements. The
Agencies believe that banking entities with a significant amount of trading assets should
have the most detailed programs for ensuring compliance with the trading and other
requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule. Specifically, consistent
with the thresholds for reporting and recording quantitative measurements, the threshold
will initially be $50 billion trading assets and liabilities and, over time, will be reduced to

847

$10 billion.2586 As noted by commenters, these thresholds will continue to capture a
significant percentage of the total trading assets and liabilities in the banking system, but
will reduce the burdens to smaller, less complex banking entities. 2587 With respect to this
first category, the Agencies determined, in response to comments, 2588 that the threshold
for proprietary trading should not include trading assets and liabilities involving
obligations of or guaranteed by the United States or any agency of the United States.
This approach reduces the burdens associated with the enhanced minimum compliance
program on banking entities whose trading operations consist primarily of trading U.S.
government or agency obligations, which are generally exempt from the proprietary
trading prohibition under § __.6(a)(1)(i). While some commenters argued that additional
assets or liabilities, such as securitizations or investments in SBICs, should be excluded
from the calculation, 2589 the Agencies believe that trading in other assets involves more
complex trading activity and warrants being included in the threshold calculation for
applying the enhanced compliance program requirement.
To balance the increased trading asset and liability threshold with the goal of
requiring appropriate specificity and rigor for large and complex banking organizations’
compliance programs, the Agencies have determined to also require an enhanced

2586

Some commenters requested raising this dollar threshold to at least $10 billion. See PNC et al.; PNC;
ABA (Keating). One commenter suggested the threshold be increased to $50 billion. See State Street (Feb.
2012).

2587

See PNC et al.; M&T Bank; See also ABA (Abernathy); ABA (Keating). The Agencies recognize
that, at the $10 billion threshold, a significant percentage of the trading assets and liabilities in the banking
industry will remain subject to the enhanced compliance program requirement. See PNC.
2588

See PNC et al.

2589

See, e.g., ABA (Keating) (suggesting the threshold should not include the amount of investments in or
assets of SBICs, or those that qualify for low-income housing tax credits (LIHTC) New Markets Tax
Credits (NMTC), or Federal historic tax credits (HTC)); PNC et al. (loans); Northern Trust.

848

compliance program for any banking entity that has reported total consolidated assets, as
of the previous calendar year-end, of $50 billion or more. Banking entities with total
assets of $50 billion or more are among the most complex banking entities and have been
found by Congress to pose sufficient risk to the financial stability of the United States to
warrant being generally subject to enhanced prudential standards under section 165 of the
Dodd-Frank Act. With respect to foreign banking entities, this threshold is calculated by
reference solely to the aggregate assets of the foreign banking entity’s U.S. operations,
including its U.S. branches and agencies. This approach is consistent with the statute’s
focus on the risks posed by covered trading activities and investments within the United
States and also responds to commenters’ concerns regarding the level of burden placed
on foreign banking entities with respect to their foreign operations. 2590
The third category includes any banking entity that is notified by its primary
Federal supervisory Agency in writing that it must satisfy the requirements and other
standards contained in Appendix B. By retaining the flexibility to impose enhanced
compliance requirements on a given banking entity upon specific notice to the firm, the
Agencies have the ability to apply additional standards to any banking entity with a mix,
level, complexity or risk of activities that, in the judgment of the relevant supervisory
Agency, indicates that the firm should appropriately have in place an enhanced
compliance program.

2590

Several commenters requested that foreign activities of foreign banking entities be excluded from the
compliance program requirement. See, e.g., Société Générale; IIB/EBF; Australian Bankers Ass’n. (Feb.
2012); Banco de Mexico; Norinchukin. One commenter stated the only U.S. affiliates of foreign banking
entities should be required to institute the proposed reporting and compliance requirements. See IIB/EBF.

849

Some commenters argued that the final rule should not require a banking entity to
establish the type of detailed compliance regime dictated by Appendix C for both trading
and covered fund activities and investments simply because the banking entity engages in
one but not the other activity. 2591
To comply with the applicable compliance program requirements under § __.20
and Appendix B of the final rule, banking entities should appropriately take into account
the type, size, scope and complexity of their activities and business structure in
determining the terms, scope and detail of the compliance program to be instituted. 2592
For example, if all of a banking entity’s activities subject to the rule involve covered fund
activities or investments, it would be expected that the banking entity would have an
appropriate compliance program governing those activities (including an enhanced
compliance program if applicable) and it would not be expected that the banking entity
would construct the same detailed compliance program under the proprietary trading
provision of the rule. Similarly, if a banking entity engages only in activities that are
subject to the proprietary trading provisions of the rule and does not engage in any
covered fund activities or investments, it would not be expected that the banking entity
would implement the same detailed compliance program under the covered funds section
as would be required for its proprietary trading activities. In each of these situations, the
banking entity would be expected to put in place sufficient controls to ensure that an
appropriate compliance program is established before the banking entity commences a

2591

See, e.g., SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

2592

This is generally consistent with the proposed rule’s compliance program requirement. See proposed
rule § __.20(a) (requiring that the banking entity’s compliance program be appropriate for the size, scope
and complexity of activities and business structure of the banking entity).

850

new covered activity. The Agencies believe that this treatment is consistent with the
statutory language regarding internal controls and recordkeeping to ensure compliance
with section 13 and also reduces unnecessary costs and burdens associated with requiring
banking entities to implement compliance requirements that are not appropriate to the
size, scope and risk of their relevant activities.
2.

Appendix B: Enhanced Minimum Standards for Compliance Programs
The proposed rule contained an appendix (Appendix C) which specified a variety

of minimum standards applicable to the compliance program of a banking entity with
significant covered trading activities or covered fund activities and investments. The
Agencies proposed to include these minimum standards as part of the regulation itself,
rather than as accompanying guidance, reflecting the compliance program’s importance
within the general implementation framework for the rule.
As explained above, the Agencies continue to believe that the inclusion of
specified minimum standards for the compliance program within the regulation itself
rather than as accompanying guidance serves to reinforce the importance of the
compliance program in the implementation framework for section 13 of the BHC Act.
As explained above, the Agencies believe that large banking entities and banking entities
engaged in significant trading activities should establish, maintain and enforce an
enhanced compliance program. The requirements for an enhanced compliance program
have been consolidated in Appendix B of the final rule.
Similar to the proposed rule, section I of Appendix B provides that the enhanced
compliance program must:
•

Be reasonably designed to identify, document, monitor and report the covered
trading and covered fund activities and investments of the banking entity;
851

•

•

•

•

identify, monitor and promptly address the risks of these covered activities and
investments and potential areas of noncompliance; and prevent activities or
investments prohibited by, or that do not comply with, section 13 of the BHC Act
and the rule;
Establish and enforce appropriate limits on the covered activities and investments
of the banking entity, including limits on the size, scope, complexity, and risks of
the individual activities or investments consistent with the requirements of section
13 of the BHC Act and the rule;
Subject the effectiveness of the compliance program to periodic independent
review and testing, and ensure that the entity’s internal audit, corporate
compliance and internal control functions involved in review and testing are
effective and independent;
Make senior management, and others as appropriate, accountable for the effective
implementation of the compliance program, and ensure that the board of directors
and CEO (or equivalent) of the banking entity review the effectiveness of the
compliance program; and
Facilitate supervision and examination by the Agencies of the banking entity’s
covered trading and covered fund activities and investments.
The proposed rule included several definitions within the appendix. In the final

rule, all definitions have been moved to other sections of the rule or into Appendix A
(governing metrics). Any banking entity subject to the enhanced minimum standards
contained in Appendix B may incorporate existing policies, procedures and internal
controls into the compliance program required by Appendix B to the extent that such
existing policies, procedures and internal controls assist in satisfying the requirements of
Appendix B.
Section II of Appendix B contains two parts: one that sets forth the enhanced
minimum compliance program standards applicable to covered trading activities of a
banking entity and one that sets forth the corresponding enhanced minimum compliance
program standards with respect to covered fund activities and investments. As noted
above, if all of a banking entity’s activities subject to the final rule involve only covered
trading activities (or only covered fund activities and investments), it would be expected
852

that the banking entity would have an appropriate compliance program governing those
activities (including an enhanced compliance program if applicable) and it would not be
expected that the banking entity would construct the same detailed compliance program
under the covered funds (or proprietary trading) provisions of the rule. As discussed
below, the Agencies have determined not to include the provisions regarding enterprisewide compliance programs.
a.

Proprietary Trading Activities
Like the proposed compliance appendix, section II.A of Appendix B requires a
banking entity subject to the enhanced minimum standards contained in Appendix B to
establish, maintain and enforce a compliance program that includes written policies and
procedures that are appropriate for the types, size, and complexity of, and risks associated
with, its permitted trading activities. 2593 This portion of Appendix B requires a banking
entity to devote adequate resources and use knowledgeable personnel in conducting,
supervising and managing its covered trading activities, and to promote consistency,
independence and rigor in implementing its risk controls and compliance efforts. The
compliance program must be updated with a frequency sufficient to account for changes
in the activities of the banking entity, results of independent testing of the program,
identification of weaknesses in the program and changes in legal, regulatory or other
requirements.
Similar to the proposed rule, section II.A of Appendix B requires a banking entity
subject to the Appendix to: (i) have written policies and procedures governing each

2593

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,963.

853

trading desk that include a description of certain information specific to each trading desk
that will delineate its processes, mission and strategy, risks, limits, types of clients,
customers and counterparties and its compensation arrangements; (ii) include a
comprehensive description of the risk management program for the trading activity of the
banking entity, as well as a description of the governance, approval, reporting, escalation,
review and other processes that the banking entity will use to reasonably ensure that
trading activity is conducted in compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and subpart
B; (iii) implement and enforce limits and internal controls for each trading desk that are
reasonably designed to ensure that trading activity is conducted in conformance with
section 13 of the BHC Act and subpart B and with the banking entity’s policies and
procedures, and establish and enforce risk limits appropriate for the activity of each
trading desk; and (iv) for any hedging activities that are conducted in reliance on the
exemption contained in § __.5, establish, maintain and enforce policies and procedures
regarding the use of risk-mitigating hedging instruments and strategies that describe the
positions, techniques and strategies that each trading desk may use, the manner in which
the banking entity will determine that the risks generated by each trading desk have been
properly and effectively hedged, the level of the organization at which hedging activity
and management will occur, the management in which such hedging strategies will be
monitored and the personnel responsible for such monitoring, the risk management
processes used to control unhedged or residual risks, and a description of the process for
developing, documenting, testing, approving and reviewing all hedging positions,
techniques and strategies permitted for each trading desk and for the banking entity in
reliance on § __.5.

854

To the extent that any of the standards contained in Appendix B may be
appropriately met by policies and procedures, internal controls and other requirements
that are common to more than one trading desk, a banking entity may satisfy the
requirements for the enhanced minimum standards of the compliance program by
implementing such common requirements with respect to any such desks as to which
they are appropriately applicable. 2594 To the extent the required elements of the
compliance program apply differently to different trading desks that conduct trading in
the same financial instruments, a banking entity must document the differences and adopt
policies and procedures and implement internal controls specific to each of the different
trading desks. Overall, the policies and procedures should provide the Agencies with a
clear, comprehensive picture of a banking entity’s covered trading activities that can be
effectively reviewed.
Appendix B also requires that the banking entity perform robust analysis and
quantitative measurement of its covered trading activities that is reasonably designed to
ensure that the trading activity of each trading desk is consistent with the banking entity’s
compliance program; monitor and assist in the identification of potential and actual
prohibited proprietary trading activity; and prevent the occurrence of prohibited
proprietary trading. In particular, the banking entity must incorporate into its compliance
program any quantitative measure reported by the banking entity pursuant to Appendix A
where applicable, and include at a minimum: (i) internal controls and written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to ensure the accuracy and integrity of the quantitative

2594

This is consistent with proposed Appendix C, except that the term “trading unit” from the proposal has
been replaced with the term “trading desk.” See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,965.

855

measures employed; (ii) ongoing timely monitoring and review of calculated quantitative
measurements; (iii) the establishment of thresholds and trading measures for each trading
desk and heightened review of any trading activity that is inconsistent with those
thresholds; and (iv) review, investigation and escalation with respect to matters that
suggest a reasonable likelihood that a trading desk has violated any part of section 13 of
the BHC Act or the rule. 2595
Where a banking entity is subject to the reporting requirements of Appendix A,
any additional quantitative measurements developed and implemented by the banking
entity under the compliance program requirement are not required to be routinely
submitted to the relevant Agency as provided in Appendix A, but are subject to the
recordkeeping requirements set forth in subpart D, including the requirement to promptly
produce such records to the relevant Agency upon request. Where a banking entity is not
subject to the requirements of Appendix A, that banking entity would likewise not be
required by this rule to routinely submit these additional quantitative measurements to the
relevant Agency, but would be subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth in
subpart D, including the requirement to promptly produce such records to the relevant
Agency upon request.
In addition to the other requirements that are specific to proprietary trading, the
banking entity’s compliance program must identify the activities of each trading desk that
will be conducted in reliance on the exemptions contained in §§ __.4 through __.6,
including an explanation of (i) how and where in the organization such activity occurs,
and (ii) which exemption is being relied on and how the activity meets the specific
2595

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,965.

856

requirements of such exemption. For trading activities that rely on an exemption
contained in §§ __.4 through § __.6, the banking entity’s compliance program should
include an explanation of how, and its policies, procedures and internal controls that
demonstrate that, such trading activities satisfy such exemption and any other
requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule that are applicable to such
activities. A foreign banking entity that engages in proprietary trading in reliance on the
exemption contained in § __.6(e) will be expected to provide information regarding the
compliance program implemented to ensure compliance with the requirements of that
section, including compliance by the U.S. operations of the foreign banking firm, but will
only be expected to provide trading information regarding activity conducted within the
United States (absent an indication of activity conducted or designed to evade the
requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act of the final rule). 2596
In addition, the compliance program must describe the process for ensuring that
liquidity management activities are conducted in conformance with the limits and
policies contained in
§ __.3(d)(3). This includes processes for ensuring that liquidity management activities
are not conducted for the purpose of prohibited proprietary trading.
The banking entity’s compliance program must be reasonably designed and
established to effectively monitor and identify for further analysis any proprietary trading
activity that may indicate potential violations of section 13 of the BHC Act and subpart B
and to prevent violations of section 13 of the BHC Act and subpart B. The standards set

2596

See AFME et al.; IIB/EBF; BaFin/Deutsche Bundesbank; Credit Suisse (Seidel); HSBC.

857

forth in subpart D direct the banking entity to include requirements in its compliance
program for documenting remediation efforts, assessing the extent to which modification
of the compliance program is warranted and providing prompt notification to appropriate
management and the board of directors of material weakness or significant deficiencies in
the implementation of the compliance program.
b.

Covered Fund Activities or Investments
Section II.B of Appendix B requires a banking entity subject to the enhanced
minimum standards contained in Appendix B to establish, maintain and enforce a
compliance program that includes written policies and procedures that are appropriate for
the types, size, complexity and risks of the covered fund and related activities conducted
and investments made, by the banking entity.
The enhanced compliance program requirements for covered funds and
investments focus on: (i) ensuring that the compliance program provides a process for
identifying all covered funds that the banking entity sponsors, organizes or offers, and
covered funds in which the banking entity invests; (ii) ensuring that the compliance
program provides a method for identifying all funds and pools that the banking entity
sponsors or has an interest in and the type of exemption from the Investment Company
Act or Commodity Exchange Act (whether or not the fund relies on section 3(c)(1) or
3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act or section 4.7 of the regulations under the
Commodity Exchange Act), and the amount of ownership interest the banking entity has
in those funds or pools; (iii) identifying, documenting, and mapping where any covered
fund activities are permitted to be conducted within the banking entity; and (iv) including
an explanation of compliance; (v) describing sponsorship activities related to covered

858

funds; and (vi) establishing, maintaining and enforcing internal controls that are
reasonably designed to ensure that its covered fund activities or investments comply with
the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act and subpart C, and (vii) monitoring of the
banking entity’s investments in and transactions with any covered funds.
In addition, the banking entity’s compliance program must document the banking
entity’s plan for seeking unaffiliated investors to ensure that any investment by the
banking entity in a covered fund conforms to the limits contained in the final rule or that
the covered fund is registered in compliance with the securities laws within the
conformance period provided in the final rule. Similarly, the compliance program must
ensure that the banking entity complies with any limits on transactions or relationships
with the covered fund contained in the final rule, including in situations in which the
banking entity is designated as a sponsor, investment manager, investment adviser or
commodity trading adviser by another banking entity.
The banking entity’s compliance program must be reasonably designed and
established to effectively monitor and identify for further analysis any covered fund
activity that may indicate potential violations of section 13 of the BHC Act and subpart
C. The standards set forth in subpart D require the banking entity to include requirements
in its compliance program for documenting remediation efforts, assessing the extent to
which modification of the compliance program is warranted and providing prompt
notification to appropriate management and the board of directors of material weakness
or significant deficiencies in the design or implementation of the compliance program.
c.

Enterprise-Wide Programs

859

Appendix C in the proposed rule contained a provision that permitted a banking
entity to establish a compliance program on an enterprise-wide basis. Some commenters
argued that a less specific and more flexible compliance regime would be essential to
make the enterprise-wide compliance structures contemplated in Appendix C effective
because requiring individualized policies and procedures for each business line would
diminish the benefits of enterprise-wide compliance and prevent consistency of these
policies and procedures within the banking entity. 2597 One of these commenters
recommended the Agencies provide greater options for developing a compliance program
and not limit a banking entity to a choice between a single enterprise-wide program or a
separate program for each subsidiary engaged in activities covered by the proposed
rule. 2598
In contrast, one commenter argued that any enterprise-wide compliance program
would only be effective if combined with additional programs at the trading unit or
subsidiary level to train all employees at a banking entity. 2599 This commenter argued
that each trading unit is different and suggested that it would be more efficient to
mandate enterprise-wide default internal controls, but provide each individual trading
unit the flexibility to tailor these requirements to its own specific business. 2600 This
commenter also urged that Appendix C’s elements III (internal controls), IV

2597

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

2598

See Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

2599

See Occupy.

2600

See Occupy.

860

(responsibility and accountability) and VII (recordkeeping) should not be imposed solely
at the enterprise-wide level. 2601
After considering carefully the comments on the proposal, the Agencies have
removed the reference to an enterprise-wide compliance program from the final rule;
however, the Agencies acknowledge that a banking entity may establish a compliance
program on an enterprise-wide basis, as long as the program satisfies the requirements of
§ __.20 and, where applicable, Appendix B. A banking entity may employ common
policies and procedures that are established at the enterprise-wide level or at a businessunit level to the extent that such policies and procedures are appropriately applicable to
more than one trading desk or activity, as long as the required elements of Appendix B
and all of the other applicable compliance-related provisions of the rule are incorporated
in the compliance program and effectively administered across trading desks and banking
entities within the consolidated enterprise or designated business. If a banking entity
establishes an enterprise-wide program, like a non-enterprise wide program, that program
will be subject to supervisory review and examination by any Agency vested with rule
writing authority under section 13 of the BHC Act with respect to the compliance
program and the activities or investments of each banking entity for which the Agency
has such authority. 2602 The banking organization would be expected to provide each
appropriate Agency with access to all records related to the enterprise-wide compliance
program pertaining to any banking entity that is supervised by the Agency vested with
such rule writing authority.

2601

See Occupy.

2602

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(b)(2)(B)(i).

861

For similar reasons, the Agencies have determined not to adopt some
commenters’ requests that a single agency be responsible for determining compliance
with section 13. 2603 At this time the Agencies do not believe such an approach would be
consistent with the statute, which requires each Agency to adopt a rule for the types of
banking entities under its jurisdiction, 2604 or effective given the different authorities and
expertise of each Agency. The Agencies expect to continue to coordinate their
supervisory efforts related to section 13 of the BHC Act and to share information as
appropriate in order to effectively implement the requirements of that section and the
final rule. 2605
d.

Responsibility and Accountability
Section III of Appendix B includes the enhanced minimum standards for
responsibility and accountability. Section III contains many of the provisions contained
in the proposed rule relating to responsibility and accountability, with certain
modifications. 2606 Section III requires a banking entity to establish, maintain and enforce
both a governance and management framework to manage its business and employees
with a view to preventing violations of section 13 of the BHC Act and the rule. The
standards in Section III focus on four key constituencies – the board of directors, the
CEO, senior management, and business line managers. Certain of the standards
2603

See Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA; SIFMA Funds et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012);
Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation.

2604

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(b)(2)(B).

2605

Accordingly, the SEC’s and CFTC’s final rules, unlike the applicable proposals, do not incorporate by
reference the rules and interpretations of the Federal banking agencies with respect to covered fund
activities or investments. See SEC proposed rule 255.10(a)(2), Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,942-68,943, and
CFTC proposed rule, 77 FR at 8421-8423.

2606

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,966.

862

contained in the proposed rule relating to business management are separately covered by
specific requirements contained in sections II.A and II.B of Appendix B. Section III
makes it clear that the board of directors, or similar corporate body, and the CEO and
senior management are responsible for creating an appropriate “tone at the top” by setting
an appropriate culture of compliance and establishing clear policies regarding the
management of the firm’s trading activities and its fund activities and investments.
Senior management must be made responsible for communicating and reinforcing the
culture of compliance established by it and the board of directors, for the actual
implementation and enforcement of the approved compliance program, and for taking
corrective action where appropriate.
In response to a question in the preamble to the proposed rule regarding whether
the chief executive officer or similar officer of a banking entity should be required to
provide a certification regarding the compliance program requirements, a few
commenters urged that the final rule should not require that the board of directors or CEO
of a banking entity review or certify the effectiveness of the compliance program. 2607
These commenters argued that existing processes developed by large, complex banking
entities for board of director reporting and governance processes ensure that compliance
programs work appropriately, and argued that these protocols would establish appropriate
management and board of directors’ oversight of the section 13 compliance program. 2608
By contrast, several commenters advocated requiring CEO attestation regarding

2607

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

2608

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading); See also Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

863

compliance with section 13. 2609 One commenter suggested that the rule require an annual
assessment by management of the effectiveness of internal controls and policies and
require a public accounting firm to attest to the accuracy of those annual assessments. 2610
After considering comments received on the proposal, the Agencies have
determined to include a requirement in the final rule that a banking entity’s CEO annually
attest in writing to the appropriate Agency for the banking entity that the banking entity
has in place processes to establish, maintain, enforce, review, test and modify the
compliance program established pursuant to Appendix B and § __.20 of the rule in a
manner reasonably designed to achieve compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and
this rule. Although some commenters stated that existing protocols of certain banking
entities would establish appropriate oversight of the rule’s compliance program, 2611 the
Agencies believe this requirement will better help to ensure that a strong governance
framework is implemented with respect to compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act,
and that it more directly underscores the importance of CEO engagement in the
governance and management framework supporting compliance with the rule. In the
case of the U.S. operations of a foreign banking entity, including a U.S. branch or agency
of a foreign banking entity, the attestation may be provided for the entire U.S. operations
of the foreign banking entity by the senior management officer of the U.S. operations of
the foreign banking entity who is located in the United States.

2609

See Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen; Ralph Saul
(Oct. 2011); John Reed; See also BEC et al. (Oct. 2011); Matthew Richardson.

2610

See Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

2611

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); See also Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

864

e.

Independent Testing
Section IV of the Appendix B includes the enhanced minimum standards for
independent testing, which are substantially similar to the proposed independent testing
standards. 2612 A banking entity subject to Appendix B must ensure that independent
testing regarding the effectiveness of the banking entity’s compliance program is
conducted by a qualified independent party, such as the banking entity’s internal audit
department, compliance personnel or risk managers independent of the trading desk or
other organizational unit being tested, outside auditors, consultants, or other qualified
independent parties. If a banking entity uses internal personnel to conduct the
independent testing, the Agencies would expect that the banking entity ensure that the
personnel responsible for the testing are separate from the unit and functions being tested
(e.g., the personnel do not report to a person who is directly responsible for the unit or
involved in the functions being tested) and have knowledge of the requirements of
section 13 and its implementing rules. Although an external audit is not required to meet
the independent testing requirement, the Agencies would expect that, when external
auditors are engaged to review compliance by a banking entity with laws and regulations,
the banking entity would give appropriate consideration to the need to review the
compliance program required under this rule.
While one commenter suggested the final rule prescribe the precise manner in
which a banking entity must conduct its compliance testing, 2613 the Agencies believe

2612

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,967.

2613

One commenter suggested that any compliance testing under the final rule be monitored by the
Agencies and initially tested by internal audit personnel of the banking entity who are subject to a specific
licensing and registration process for section 13 of the BHC Act and supplemented by an annual

865

such a requirement is unnecessary because the standards in the final rule will ensure that
independent testing of the effectiveness of a banking entity’s compliance program is
objective and robust. The independent testing must examine both the banking entity’s
compliance program and its actual compliance with the rule. This testing must include
not only testing of the overall adequacy and effectiveness of the compliance program and
compliance efforts, but also the effectiveness of each element of the compliance program
and the banking entity’s compliance with each provision of the rule. This requirement is
intended to ensure that a banking entity continually reviews and assesses, in an objective
manner, the strength of its compliance efforts and promptly identifies and remedies any
weaknesses or matters requiring attention within the compliance framework.
f.

Training
Like the proposed compliance appendix, Section V of Appendix B includes the
enhanced minimum standards for training. 2614 It requires that a banking entity provide
adequate training to its trading personnel and managers, as well as other appropriate
personnel, in order to effectively implement and enforce the compliance program. In
particular, personnel engaged in covered trading activities and investments should be
educated with respect to applicable prohibitions and restrictions, exemptions, and
compliance program elements to an extent sufficient to permit them to make informed,
day-to-day decisions that support the banking entity’s compliance with section 13 of the
BHC Act and the rule. In particular, any personnel with discretionary authority to trade,

independent external review. See Occupy; See also proposed rule §__.20(b)(4). The Agencies believe it
would be unnecessarily burdensome to require particular licensing and registration processes for internal
auditors that are specific to section 13 of the BHC Act.
2614

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,967.

866

in any amount, should be appropriately trained regarding the differentiation of prohibited
proprietary trading and permitted trading activities and given detailed guidance regarding
what types of trading activities are prohibited. Similarly, personnel providing investment
management or advisory services, or acting as general partner, managing member, or
trustee of a covered fund, should be appropriately trained regarding what covered fund
activities and investments are permitted and prohibited.
g.

Recordkeeping
Section VI of Appendix B contains the enhanced minimum standards for
recordkeeping which are consistent with the proposed recordkeeping standards. 2615
Generally, a banking entity must create records sufficient to demonstrate compliance and
support the operation and effectiveness of its compliance program (i.e., records
demonstrating the banking entity’s compliance with the requirements of section 13 of the
BHC Act and the rule, any scrutiny or investigation by compliance personnel or risk
managers, and any remedies taken in the event of a violation or non-compliance), and
retain these records for no less than five years in a form that allows the banking entity to
promptly produce these records to any relevant Agency upon request. Records created
and retained under the compliance program must include trading records of the trading
units, including trades and positions of each such unit. Records created and retained
under the enhanced compliance program must also include documentation of any
exemption in the final rule relied on by the banking entity to invest in or sponsor a
covered fund.

2615

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,967.

867

While one commenter requested that the period for retaining records be extended
from 5 years to 6 years, the final rule does not make this change. 2616 The Agencies
believe that 5 years is an appropriate minimum period for requiring retention of records
to demonstrate compliance with the final rule. The final rule allows the Agencies to
require a banking entity to retain records for a longer period if appropriate.
3.

Section __.20(d) and Appendix A: Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
Applicable to Trading Activities
Section __.7 of the proposed rule, which the Agencies proposed to implement in

part section 13(e)(1) of the BHC Act, 2617 required certain banking entities to comply with
the reporting and recordkeeping requirements specified in Appendix A of the proposed
rule. In addition, §__.7 required banking entities to comply with the recordkeeping
requirements in §__.20 of the proposed rule, related to the banking entity’s compliance
program, 2618 as well as any other reporting or recordkeeping requirements that the
relevant Agency may impose to evaluate the banking entity’s compliance with the
proposed rule. 2619
Proposed Appendix A required a banking entity with significant trading activities
to furnish periodic reports to the relevant Agency regarding various quantitative

2616

One commenter specifically urged that records for any type of compliance program be required to be
kept on all hedges, rather than only those placed at a different level or trading unit as under the proposal,
and that the retention period for all compliance records be changed from 5 years to 6 years in line with the
statute of limitations on civil suits for fraud, contracts and collection of debt in accounts in New York State.
See Occupy.

2617

Section 13(e)(1) of the BHC Act requires the Agencies to issue regulations regarding internal controls
and recordkeeping to ensure compliance with section 13. See 12 U.S.C. 1851(e)(1). Section __.20 and
Appendix C of the proposed rule also implemented section 13(e)(1) of the BHC Act.

2618

See Part III.D. of this Supplementary Information.

2619

See proposed rule § __.7.

868

measurements of its trading activities and create and retain records documenting the
preparation and content of these reports. The measurements varied depending on the
scope, type, and size of trading activities. In addition, proposed Appendix B contained a
detailed commentary regarding the characteristics of permitted market making-related
activities and how such activities may be distinguished from trading activities that, even
if conducted in the context of a banking entity’s market-making operations, would
constitute prohibited proprietary trading. 2620 Under the proposal, a banking entity was
required to comply with proposed Appendix A’s reporting and recordkeeping
requirements only if it had, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, trading assets and
liabilities the average gross sum of which (on a worldwide consolidated basis) was, as
measured as of the last day of each of the four prior calendar quarters, equal to or greater
than $1 billion. 2621 The Agencies did not propose to extend the reporting and
recordkeeping requirements to banking entities with smaller amounts of trading activity,
as it appeared that the more limited benefits of applying these requirements to such
banking entities, whose trading activities are typically small, less complex, and easier to
supervise, would not justify the burden associated with complying with the reporting and
recordkeeping requirements.
a.

Approach to Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements under the Proposal
The proposal explained that the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of §
__.7 and Appendix A of the proposed rule were an important part of the proposed rule’s

2620

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.8 (explaining why Appendix B was removed from the final rule).

2621

See proposed rule § __.7(a).

869

multi-faceted approach to implementing the prohibition on proprietary trading. These
requirements were intended, in particular, to address some of the difficulties associated
with (i) identifying permitted market making-related activities and distinguishing such
activities from prohibited proprietary trading, and (ii) identifying certain trading activities
resulting in material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies. To do so,
the proposed rule required certain banking entities to calculate and report detailed
quantitative measurements of their trading activity, by trading unit. These measurements
were meant to help banking entities and the Agencies in assessing whether such trading
activity is consistent with permitted trading activities in scope, type and profile. The
quantitative measurements required to be reported under the proposed rule were generally
designed to reflect, and to provide meaningful information regarding, certain
characteristics of trading activities that appear to be particularly useful in differentiating
permitted market making-related activities from prohibited proprietary trading. For
example, the proposed quantitative measurements measured the size and type of revenues
generated, and the types of risks taken, by a trading unit. Each of these measurements
appeared to be useful in assessing whether a trading unit was (i) engaged in permitted
market making-related activity or (ii) materially exposed to high-risk assets or high-risk
trading strategies. Similarly, the proposed quantitative measurements also measured how
much revenue was generated per such unit of risk, the volatility of a trading unit’s
profitability, and the extent to which a trading unit trades with customers. Each of those
characteristics appeared to be useful in assessing whether a trading unit is engaged in
permitted market making-related activity.

870

However, as noted in the proposal, the Agencies recognize that no single
quantitative measurement or combination of measurements can accurately identify
prohibited proprietary trading without further analysis of the context, facts, and
circumstances of the trading activity. In addition, certain quantitative measurements may
be useful for assessing one type of trading activity, but not helpful in assessing another
type of trading activity. As a result, the Agencies proposed to use a variety of
quantitative measurements to help identify transactions or activities that warrant more indepth analysis or review.
To be effective, this approach requires identification of useful quantitative
measurements as well as judgment regarding the type of measurement results that suggest
a further review of the trading unit’s activity is warranted. The Agencies proposed to
take a heuristic approach to implementation in this area that recognized that quantitative
measurements can only be usefully identified and employed after a process of substantial
public comment, practical experience, and revision. In particular, the Agencies noted
that, although a variety of quantitative measurements have traditionally been used by
market participants and others to manage the risks associated with trading activities, these
quantitative tools have not been developed, nor have they previously been utilized, for
the explicit purpose of identifying trading activity that warrants additional scrutiny in
differentiating prohibited proprietary trading from permitted market making-related
activities. 2622

2622

Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,883.

871

Consistent with this heuristic approach, the proposed rule included a large number
of potential quantitative measurements on which public comment was sought, many of
which overlap to some degree in terms of their informational value. The proposal
explained that not all of these quantitative measurements may ultimately be adopted in
the final rule, depending on their relative strengths, weaknesses, costs, and benefits. The
Agencies noted that some of the proposed quantitative measurements may not be relevant
to all types of trading activities or may provide only limited benefits, relative to cost,
when applied to certain types of trading activities. In addition, certain quantitative
measurements may be difficult or impracticable to calculate for a specific covered trading
activity due to differences between asset classes, market structure, or other factors. The
Agencies therefore requested comment on a large number of issues related to the
relevance, practicability, costs, and benefits of the quantitative measurements proposed.
The Agencies also sought comment on whether the quantitative measurements described
in the proposal were appropriate to use to help assess compliance with section 13 of the
BHC Act.
In addition to the proposed quantitative measurements, the proposal explained
that a banking entity may itself develop and implement other quantitative measurements
in order to effectively monitor its covered trading activities for compliance with section
13 of the BHC Act and the proposed rule and to establish, maintain, and enforce an
effective compliance program, as required by § __.20 of the proposed rule and Appendix
C. The Agencies noted that the proposed quantitative measurements in Appendix A were
intended to assist banking entities and Agencies in monitoring compliance with the
proprietary trading restrictions and would not necessarily provide all the data necessary

872

for the banking entity to establish an effective compliance program. The Agencies also
recognized that appropriate and effective quantitative measurements may differ based on
the profile of the banking entity’s businesses in general and, more specifically, of the
particular trading unit, including types of instruments traded, trading activities and
strategies, and history and experience (e.g., whether the trading desk is an established,
successful market maker or a new entrant to a competitive market). In all cases, banking
entities needed to ensure that they have robust measures in place to identify and monitor
the risks taken in their trading activities, to ensure the activities are within risk tolerances
established by the banking entity, and to monitor for compliance with the proprietary
trading restrictions in the proposed rule.
To the extent that data regarding measurements, as set forth in the proposed rule,
are collected, the Agencies proposed to utilize the conformance period provided in
section 13 of the BHC Act to carefully review that data, further study the design and
utility of these measurements, and if necessary, propose changes to the reporting
requirements as the Agencies believe are needed to ensure that these measurements are as
effective as possible. 2623 This heuristic, gradual approach to implementing reporting
requirements for quantitative measurements was intended to ensure that the requirements
are formulated in a manner that maximizes their utility for identifying trading activity
that warrants additional scrutiny in assessing compliance with the prohibition on
proprietary trading, while limiting the risk that the use of quantitative measurements

2623

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(c)(2); Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,883.

873

could inadvertently curtail permissible market making-related activities that provide an
important service to market participants and the capital markets at large.
In addition, the Agencies requested comment on the use of numerical thresholds
for certain quantitative measurements that, if reported by a banking entity, would require
the banking entity to review its trading activities for compliance and summarize that
review to the relevant Agency. The Agencies did not propose specific numerical
thresholds in the proposal because substantial public comment and analysis would be
beneficial prior to formulating and proposing specific numerical thresholds. Instead, the
Agencies intended to carefully consider public comments provided on this issue and to
separately determine whether it would be appropriate to propose, subsequent to finalizing
the current proposal, such numerical thresholds.
Part III of proposed Appendix A defined the scope of the reporting requirements.
The proposed rule adopted a tiered approach that required banking entities with the most
extensive trading activities to report the largest number of quantitative measurements,
while banking entities with smaller trading activities had fewer or no reporting
requirements. This tiered approach was intended to reflect the heightened compliance
risks of banking entities with extensive trading activities and limit the regulatory burden
imposed on banking entities with relatively small or no trading activities, which appear to
pose significantly less compliance risk.
Under the proposal, any banking entity that had, together with its affiliates and
subsidiaries, trading assets and liabilities the average gross sum of which (on a worldwide
consolidated basis), as measured as of the last day of each of the four prior calendar

874

quarters, equals or exceeds $5 billion would be required the banking entity to furnish
quantitative measurements for all trading units of the banking entity engaged in trading
activity subject to §§ __.4, __.5, or __.6(a) of the proposed rule (i.e., permitted
underwriting and market making-related activity, risk-mitigated hedging, and trading in
certain government obligations). The scope of data to be furnished depended on the
activity in which the trading unit was engaged. First, for the trading units of such a
banking entity that are engaged in market making-related activity pursuant to § __.4(b) of
the proposed rule, proposed Appendix A required that a banking entity furnish seventeen
quantitative measurements. 2624 Second, all trading units of such a banking entity engaged
in trading activity subject to §§ __.4(a), __.5, or __.6(a) of the proposed rule were
required to report five quantitative measurements designed to measure the general risk
and profitability of the trading unit. 2625 The Agencies expected that each of these general
types of measurements would be useful in assessing the extent to which any permitted
trading activity involves exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies.
These requirements would apply to all type of trading units engaged in underwriting and
market making-related activity, risk-mitigated hedging, and trading in certain government
obligations. These additional measurements applicable only to trading units engaged in
market making-related activities were designed to help evaluate the extent to which the

2624

See proposed rule Appendix A.III.A. These seventeen quantitative measurements are discussed further
below.

2625

See proposed rule Appendix A.III.A. These five quantitative measurements are: (i) Comprehensive
Profit and Loss; (ii) Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution; (iii) VaR and Stress VaR; (iv) Risk Factor
Sensitivities; and (v) Risk and Position Limits. Each of these and other quantitative measurements
discussed in proposed Appendix A are discussed in detail below.

875

quantitative profile of a trading unit’s activities is consistent with permissible market
making-related activities.
Under the proposal, any banking entity that had, together with its affiliates and
subsidiaries, trading assets and liabilities the average gross sum of which (on a worldwide
consolidated basis), as measured as of the last day of each of the four prior calendar
quarters, equals or exceeds $1 billion but is less than $5 billion would be required to
provide quantitative measurements to be furnished for trading units that engaged in
market making-related activity subject to § __.4(b) of the proposed rule. Trading units of
such banking entities that engaged in market making-related activities needed to report
eight quantitative measurements designed to help evaluate the extent to which the
quantitative profile of a trading unit’s activities is consistent with permissible market
making-related activities. 2626 The proposal applied a smaller number of measurements to
a smaller universe of trading units for this class of banking entities because they are
likely to pose lesser compliance risk and fewer supervisory and examination challenges.
The Agencies noted in the proposal that a less burdensome reporting regime, coupled
with other elements of the proposal (e.g., the compliance program requirement), was
likely to be equally as effective in ensuring compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act
and the proposed rule for banking entities with smaller trading operations.

2626

See proposed rule Appendix A.III.A. These eight quantitative measurements are: (i) Comprehensive
Profit and Loss; (ii) Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution; (iii) Portfolio Profit and Loss; (iv) Fee
Income and Expense; (v) Spread Profit and Loss; (vi) VaR; (vii) Volatility of Comprehensive Profit and
Loss and Volatility of Portfolio Profit and Loss; and (viii) Comprehensive Profit and Loss to Volatility
Ratio and Portfolio Profit and Loss to Volatility Ratio.

876

Section III.B of proposed Appendix A specified the frequency of required
calculation and reporting of quantitative measurements. Under the proposed rule, each
required quantitative measurement needed to be calculated for each trading day.
Required quantitative measurements were required to be reported to the relevant Agency
on a monthly basis, within 30 days of the end of the relevant calendar month, or on such
other reporting schedule as the relevant Agency may require. Section III.C of proposed
Appendix A required a banking entity to create and retain records documenting the
preparation and content of any quantitative measurement furnished by the banking entity,
as well as such information as is necessary to permit the relevant Agency to verify the
accuracy of such measurements, for a period of 5 years. This included records for each
trade and position.
b.

General Comments on the Proposed Metrics
A number of commenters were supportive of metrics. A few commenters argued
that the metrics could reveal prohibited proprietary trading activity and be an appropriate
and valuable tool in analyzing positions. 2627 One commenter argued that metrics are the
single most valuable tool available to the Agencies for distinguishing between prohibited
and permitted activities and recommended the compliance program be structured around
metrics. 2628 Another commenter stated that the identification of metrics is one of the
strengths of the proposed rule and offered great promise for successful implementation of

2627

See, e.g., Paul Volcker; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Invesco; Comm. on Capital Markets
Regulation.

2628

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

877

the rule. 2629 One commenter expressed support for the metrics and argued that there
would be substantial evasion of the rule without reporting of these measurements. 2630
Some commenters proposed a presumption of compliance so long as trading activity is
conducted in a manner consistent with tailored quantitative metrics and related specific
thresholds as coordinated and agreed with the relevant Agency. 2631 A few of commenters
suggested that metrics not be used as a bright-line trigger and recommended flexibility in
the application of metrics for assessing market-making activities. 2632 Two commenters
supported metrics as part of a bright lines approach. 2633
A number of commenters felt that some metrics might be more relevant than
others, depending upon the particular asset class, activity, particular market, and unique
characteristics of each banking entity. 2634 These commenters advocated an approach
where banking entities and examiners would determine over time the usefulness and
relevance of particular metrics. 2635 One commenter expressed support for the 5 metrics
required for trading in U.S. government obligations. 2636 A number of commenters
recommended that metrics be tailored to different asset classes and markets, to avoid the

2629

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

2630

See Occupy.

2631

See Barclays; See also BoA; Invesco; ISDA (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Morgan Stanley; SIFMA et al.
(Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

2632

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); NYSE Euronext; Oliver
Wyman (Feb. 2012); UBS; Western Asset Mgmt.; Goldman (Prop. Trading); Northern Trust.

2633

See John Reed; Public Citizen.

2634

See Morgan Stanley; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Stephen Roach.

2635

See Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); Morgan Stanley; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Stephen
Roach.

2636

See UBS.

878

drawbacks of a one-size-fits-all approach. 2637 One commenter argued that application of
metrics to market-making activities at different firms may produce very different results,
all of which might reflect legitimate market-making. 2638 Commenters also indicated that
not all metrics are meaningful and calculable for all trading units and some would be
unnecessarily burdensome. 2639
Other commenters did not support the use of metrics. These commenters argued
that metrics reporting was one aspect of the complexity of the proposal that increased the
cost and difficulty of distinguishing market-making from prohibited proprietary
trading. 2640 One commenter argued that banking entities may avoid legitimate market
making activities that would produce “worse” metrics results. 2641
Several commenters expressed concern that the costs exceeded the benefits of the
required quantitative metrics in the proposal. In particular, commenters argued that the
17 metrics in the proposal calculated at each trading unit was excessive, would generate
an unmanageable amount of data, would yield numerous false positives, and would
require the construction and programming of highly sophisticated systems that are not
currently employed. 2642 A few commenters suggested that a more limited set of metrics

2637

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Northern Trust; See also UBS.

2638

See Comm. on Capital Markets Regulation.

2639

See Morgan Stanley; See also ISDA (Feb. 2012).

2640

See ABA (Keating); Barclays; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); ISDA (Feb. 2012); UBS; Oliver Wyman (Feb.
2012); Prof. Duffie; Wellington.
2641

See Oliver Wyman (Feb. 2012).

2642

See BoA (expressing concern about the need for new systems to distinguish bid-ask spreads from price
appreciation); UBS; Wellington.

879

would reduce compliance complexity. 2643 Some commenters noted that many of these
metrics have not been historically reported by banking entities and some of the metrics
would require substantial resources and investment infrastructure to produce some of the
metrics without a clear functional purpose. 2644According to other commenters, however,
banking entities currently use all or nearly all of the proposed metrics. 2645 One
commenter urged that it would be good to make metrics consistent with the banking
entities’ internal reporting and control systems. 2646 Some commenters argued it was
critical for the Agencies to get the metrics right, 2647 while others indicated it was unclear
how the Agencies could analyze such information to draw useful conclusions. 2648
Some commenters expressed concern that metrics were vulnerable to
manipulation and arbitrage. 2649 These commenters generally felt that the quantitative
measurements were only appropriate for certain liquid and transparent trading activities
but not meaningful for illiquid markets, including opaque securities and derivatives. 2650
These commenters also argued that the vast majority of proprietary trading would not be

2643

See BoA; Barclays; Citigroup (Feb. 2012).

2644

See Credit Suisse (Seidel); Morgan Stanley; UBS; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); Société Générale
(arguing that many calculation questions need to be resolved before banking entities can create necessary
systems to measure metrics).

2645

See Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Western Asset Mgmt.; Public Citizen. For example, one
commenter cited a study finding that 14 out of 17 of the proposed metrics are either in wide use today or
are possible to implement fairly easily using data already collected for internal risk management and profit
and loss purposes. See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012) (citing John Lester and Dylan Walsh, “The Volcker Rule
Ban On Prop Trading: A Step Closer to Reality, Point of View,” Oliver Wyman Company (Oct. 2011)).

2646

See Paul Volcker.

2647

See, e.g., UBS.

2648

See BoA; UBS; Wellington.

2649

See AFR (Nov. 2012); See also Occupy; Public Citizen.

2650

See Occupy; AFR (Nov. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

880

differentiable through analysis of the data. 2651 Other commenters expressed concern that
the use of metrics not replace regulatory review of actual specific trading positions held
by banking entities. 2652 One commenter argued that in relying on metrics to be
elaborated upon and discussed in the examination process, the proposed rule did not meet
the fundamental fair notice goal of regulation. 2653
A few commenters also recommended creation of a central data repository or data
sharing protocol that would promote consistency and accountability in oversight and
regulation and suggested the Office of Financial Research (“OFR”) be given access to
this data so that it can provide centralized analysis and monitoring to identify any trends
that give rise to systemic risk. 2654 These commenters generally supported compliance
benefits that would result from increased public disclosure of banking entities’ trading
and funds activities, including all of their trading positions, their valuation models, and
their compliance metrics. 2655
Some commenters expressed support for the reporting thresholds contained in
Appendix A. 2656 One commenter suggested that all banking entities that engage in any
trading (regardless of threshold) report certain metrics. 2657 Other commenters supported
metrics reporting, but recommended the threshold for trading assets and liabilities be
2651

See Occupy.

2652

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012).

2653

See ISDA (Feb. 2012) (citing Mason v. Florida Bar, 208 F.3d 952, 958-59 (11th Cir. 2000)).

2654

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); See also Occupy; Public Citizen.

2655

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); See also Public Citizen; John Reed.

2656

See ICBA; Occupy.

2657

See Occupy (suggesting all banking entities that engage in trading be required to provide VaR
Exceedance, Risk Factor Sensitivities and Risk and Position Limits).

881

increased from $1 billion to $10 billion to mitigate any cost and burden impact on smaller
banking entities. 2658 These commenters pointed out that even if the minimum dollar
threshold were raised to $10 billion, an overwhelming percentage of trading assets and
liabilities in the banking industry (approximately 98 percent) would still remain subject to
heightened compliance requirements including Appendix A. 2659 One commenter
suggested the threshold be raised to $50 billion in combined trading assets and
liabilities.2660
Commenters also offered a number of suggestions for modifying the activity that
would be considered in meeting the thresholds for determining which reporting
requirements apply to a banking entity. Several commenters argued that certain types of
trading assets or fund investments should not be included for purposes of determining
whether the relevant dollar threshold for compliance was met, particularly those that are
not prohibited activities or investments. For instance, some commenters urged that
trading in U.S. government obligations should not count toward the calculation of
whether a banking organization meets the trading threshold triggering metrics
reporting. 2661 These commenters also argued that other positions or transactions that do
not involve financial instruments and that may constitute trading assets and liabilities,
such as loans, should be excluded from the thresholds because exempt activities should

2658

See PNC et al.; M&T Bank; See also ABA (Abernathy).

2659

See ABA (Keating); M&T Bank; PNC et al.

2660

See State Street (Feb. 2012).

2661

See PNC et al.

882

not determine the type of compliance program a banking entity must implement. 2662 One
commenter urged that foreign exchange swaps and forwards be excluded from the
definition of a “derivative” and not be subject to compliance requirements as a result. 2663
Conversely, one commenter urged that all assets and liabilities defined as trading assets
for purposes of the Market Risk Capital Rule should be included in the $1 billion
standard for becoming subject to any reporting and record-keeping requirements under
the final rule. 2664
A number of commenters argued that monthly reporting was too frequent because
of the complexity of the process that surrounds generation of regulatory reports and
suggested that the frequency of reporting should be quarterly. 2665 One commenter
supported the reporting frequency as extremely effective and said it should not be
reduced in any way. 2666
A number of comments were received on the implementation timeframe for
metrics reporting. Several commenters urged allowing banking entities the use of the full
conformance period for creating the systems and processes to capture and report the
quantitative metrics. 2667 Some commenters suggested that metrics should not be required
to be reported until one year after adoption of final regulations. 2668 A different

2662

See PNC et al.

2663

See Northern Trust.

2664

See Occupy at 60.

2665

See JPMC; See also Stephen Roach.

2666

See Occupy.

2667

See BoA; Barclays; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); JPMC; Morgan Stanley; SIFMA
et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); UBS; Stephen Roach.

2668

See Credit Suisse (Seidel); JPMC; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

883

commenter suggested that the Agencies provide a one-year period during which they
determine which metrics will be employed for different asset classes and an additional
one-year period during which such metrics could be reviewed so metrics would be a
required component of a banking entity’s compliance program no sooner than 2 years
after issuance of the final rule. 2669 Another commenter suggested that banking entities
and regulators use the first year of the conformance period to consult with one another
and determine the usefulness and relevance of individual metrics for different activities,
asset classes, and markets and the second year of the conformance period to test the
metrics systems to validate the accuracy and relevance of metrics that are agreed upon the
first year. 2670 One commenter suggested a subset of metrics be rolled out gradually
across trading units before implementing the full suite of metrics that are ultimately
adopted or metrics could be rolled out one trading unit at a time. 2671 Another commenter
said the Agencies should identify key metrics that are clearly workable across all ranges
of trading activity and most likely to provide useful data and require those metrics be
implemented first and require other metrics to be phased in over time in consultation with
the banking entity’s primary federal regulator. 2672 One commenter supported the
heuristic approach of the proposal and suggested the Agencies should draw on resources

2669

See BoA.

2670

See Morgan Stanley; See also SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

2671

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

2672

See Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

884

and comment from the public and the industry in continuing the process of developing
and building out metrics. 2673
Another commenter requested that the final rule specify how trading assets and
liabilities should be reported for savings and loan holding companies. 2674 This
commenter requested clarification that positions held for hedging or liquidity
management purposes should not count as trading assets or liabilities for the $5 billion
threshold in Appendix A. Another commenter expressed concern that derivatives
valuation may value derivatives substantially lower than their notional exposure and
thereby make high reporting thresholds not meaningful or reflective of inherent risk. 2675
Many commenters expressed concern that the smallest trading unit level was too
low a level for collecting metrics data and suggested the final rule provide a higher
reporting level. 2676 These commenters stated that calculating at too low of a level would
be more likely to generate false positives 2677 and would be burdensome, particularly for
firms with large trading operations. 2678 In addition, some commenters indicated that it
would be problematic if the definition of “trading unit” is applied at a legal entity level
and cannot be applied across multiple legal entities within the same affiliate group. 2679

2673

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

2674

See GE (Feb. 2012).

2675

See Occupy.

2676

See, e.g., BoA; Goldman (Prop. Trading); JPMC; SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Morgan
Stanley; RBC.
2677

See JPMC; Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); BoA. See also Sen.
Gillibrand.
2678

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); BoA.

2679

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

885

By contrast, two commenters supported the collection of metrics at the trading desk level
and appropriate levels above the trading desk. 2680 One of these commenters expressed
concern that the rule allowed for an inappropriately large trading desk unit that could
combine significantly unrelated trading desks, which would impede detection of
proprietary trading and supported measurements at multiple levels of organization to
combat evasion concerns.
In response to questions in the proposal about whether the Agencies should
establish numerical thresholds for some or all of the proposed quantitative measurements,
a number of commenters expressed opposition to establishing numerical thresholds for
purposes of the rule, 2681 while others stated that thresholds should be established over
time. 2682 In opposition of thresholds, one commenter expressed concern that numerical
thresholds could be easily abused and evaded and may need to be constantly revised and
updated as financial markets evolve. 2683 In addition, another commenter stated that
numerical thresholds should not be imposed because metric levels will differ by asset
class and type of activity. 2684 A few commenters suggested that numerical thresholds,
based on the specific asset class or market, would be useful to provide clarity or
consistency about the types of activity that are permitted under the rule. 2685 Two
commenters expressed support for banking entities establishing numerical thresholds, in

2680

See Sens. Merkley & Levin (Feb. 2012); Occupy.

2681

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); Occupy; Alfred Brock.

2682

See Wellington; Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); CalPERS; John Reed.

2683

See Occupy.

2684

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

2685

See Wellington; CalPERS; John Reed.

886

consultation with the relevant regulator, for different trading units based on differences
between markets and asset classes. 2686
c.

Approach of the Final Rule
As explained below, the Agencies have reduced the number of metrics that
banking entities must report under Appendix A from the 17 metrics in the proposal to 7
metrics in the final rule. The final rule also increases the level of activity that is required
to trigger mandatory reporting of metrics data and phases in the reporting requirement
over time.
Under the final rule, a banking entity engaged in significant trading activity as
defined by §__.20 must furnish the following quantitative measurements for each of its
trading desks engaged in covered trading activity calculated in accordance with Appendix
A:

2686

•

Risk and Position Limits and Usage;

•

Risk Factor Sensitivities;

•

Value-at-Risk and Stress VaR;

•

Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution;

•

Inventory Turnover;

•

Inventory Aging; and

•

Customer Facing Trade Ratio.

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Barclays.

887

In response to comments, the final rule raises the threshold for metrics reporting
from the proposal to capture only firms that engage in significant trading activity,
identified at specified aggregate trading asset and liability thresholds, and delays the
dates for reporting metrics through a phased-in approach based on the size of trading
assets and liabilities. 2687 Banking entities that meet the relevant thresholds must collect
and report metrics for all trading desks engaged in covered trading activity beginning on
the dates established in § __.20 of the final rule. Specifically, the Agencies have delayed
the reporting of metrics until June 30, 2014 for the largest banking entities that, together
with their affiliates and subsidiaries, have trading assets and liabilities the average gross
sum of which equal or exceed $50 billion on a worldwide consolidated basis over the
previous four calendar quarters (excluding trading assets and liabilities involving
obligations of or guaranteed by the United States or any agency of the United States).
Banking entities with less than $50 billion and greater than or equal to $25 billion in
trading assets and liabilities and banking entities with less than $25 billion and greater
than or equal to $10 billion in trading assets and liabilities would also be required to
report these metrics beginning on April 30, 2016, and December 31, 2016, respectively.

2687

As noted above, a number of commenters suggested setting a higher threshold than the proposed $1
billion and $5 billion trading asset and liability thresholds because even thresholds of $10 billion to $50
billion would capture a significant percentage of the total trading assets and liabilities in the banking
system. See ABA (Keating); M&T Bank; PNC et al.; State Street (Feb. 2012). The Agencies believe that
the phase-in approach to the metrics requirement established in the final rule should generally address
commenters’ concerns about the implementation timeframe by providing time for analysis, development of
systems (if needed), and implementation of the quantitative measurements requirement. See, e.g., BoA;
Barclays; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Goldman (Prop. Trading); JPMC; Morgan Stanley; SIFMA et al.
(Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012); UBS; Stephen Roach; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).
The Agencies are establishing a phase-in approach, rather than requiring all banking entities above the $10
billion threshold to report metrics within the same timeframe, to strike a balance between the benefits of
receiving data to help monitor compliance with the rule against the need for time to assess the effectiveness
and usefulness of the quantitative measurements in practice and for some firms to develop additional
systems for purposes of this requirement.

888

The Agencies believe that these delayed dates for reporting metrics should allow firms
adequate time to develop systems to calculate and report the quantitative metrics. The
Agencies will review the data collected and revise this collection requirement as
appropriate based on a review of the data collected prior to September 30, 2015.
Under the final rule, a banking entity required to report metrics must calculate
any applicable quantitative measurement for each trading day. Each banking entity
required to report must report each applicable quantitative measurement to its primary
supervisory Agency on the reporting schedule established in § __.20 unless otherwise
requested by the primary supervisory Agency for the entity. The largest banking entities
with $50 billion or greater in trading assets and liabilities must report the metrics on a
monthly basis. Other banking entities required to report metrics must do so on a
quarterly basis. 2688 All quantitative measurements for any calendar month must be
reported no later than 10 days after the end of the calendar month required by § __.20,
unless another time is requested by the primary supervisory Agency for the entity except
for a preliminary period when reporting will be required no later than 30 days after the
end of the calendar month. Banking entities subject to quarterly reporting will be
required to report quantitative measurements within 30 days of the end of the quarter,

2688

Consistent with certain commenters’ requests, the final rule generally requires less frequent reporting
than was proposed. However, the Agencies continue to believe that monthly reporting is appropriate for
the largest banking entities above the $50 billion threshold. More frequent reporting for these firms is
appropriate to allow for more effective supervision of their large-scale trading operations. See JPMC;
Stephen Roach.

889

unless another time is requested by the primary supervisory Agency for the entity in
writing. 2689
The Agencies believe that together the reduced number of metrics, the higher
thresholds for reporting metrics, delayed reporting dates, and modified reporting
frequency reduce the costs and burden from the proposal while allowing collection of
data to permit better monitoring of compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act. The
Agencies also believe that the delayed dates for reporting quantitative metrics will
provide banking entities with the time to develop systems to calculate and report these
metrics. The Agencies are not applying these reporting and recordkeeping requirements
to banking entities with smaller amounts of trading activity, as it appears that the more
limited benefits of applying these requirements to banking entities with lower levels of
trading activities, which represent entities that are typically small, less complex, and
easier to supervise, would not justify the burden associated with complying with the
reporting and recordkeeping requirements of Appendix A.
The final rule defines “trading desk” to replace the concept of “trading unit” in the
proposal. 2690 Under the final rule, trading desk means the smallest discrete unit of
organization of a banking entity that buys or sells financial instruments for the trading
account of the banking entity or an affiliate thereof. The Agencies believe that applying
quantitative measurements to a level that aggregates a variety of distinct trading

2689

See final rule § __.20(d)(3). The final rule includes a shorter period of time for reporting quantitative
measurements after the end of the relevant period than was proposed for the largest banking entities. Like
the monthly reporting requirement for these firms, this is intended to allow for more effective supervision
of their large-scale trading operations.

2690

See final rule § __.3(e)(13); See also supra Parts IV.A.2.c.1.c.ii. and IV.A.3.c.1.c.i.

890

activities may obscure or “smooth” differences between distinct lines of business, asset
categories and risk management processes in a way that renders the measurement
relatively uninformative because it does not adequately reflect the specific characteristics
of the trading activities being conducted.
While the Agencies recognize that applying quantitative measurements at the
trading desk level may result in some “noise” in the data and false positives, the Agencies
believe it is necessary to apply the quantitative measurements at the trading desk level to
enhance consistency with other provisions of the final rule. For example, because the
requirements of the market-making exemption apply at the trading desk level of
organization, the Agencies believe quantitative measurements used to monitor a banking
entity’s market making-related activities should also calculated, reported, and recorded at
the trading desk level. In response to commenters’ concerns that trading desk level
measurements are more likely to generate false positives, the Agencies emphasize that
quantitative measurements will not be used as a dispositive tool for determining
compliance and, rather, will be used to monitor patterns and identify activity that may
warrant further review.
Like the proposal, the final rule does not include specific numerical thresholds.
Commenters did not suggest specific thresholds for particular metrics or provide data and
analysis that would support particular thresholds. 2691 Given the range of financial
instruments and trading activity covered by the final rule, as well as potential differences
among banking entities’ organizational structures, trading strategies, and level of
2691

See Wellington; CalPERS; John Reed.

891

presence in a particular market, the Agencies are concerned that numerical thresholds for
specific metrics would not account for these differences and could inappropriately
constrain legitimate activity. 2692 Further, mandated thresholds for the metrics would not
recognize the impact changing market conditions may have on a given trading desk’s
quantitative measurements. Consistent with two commenters’ suggested approach,
banking entities will be required to establish their own numerical thresholds for
quantitative measurements under the enhanced compliance program requirement in
Appendix B. 2693
d.

Proposed Quantitative Measurements and Comments on Specific Metrics
Section IV of proposed Appendix A described, in detail, the individual
quantitative measurements that must be furnished. These measurements were grouped
into the following five broad categories, each of which is described in more detail below:
•
Risk-management measurements – VaR, Stress VaR, VaR Exceedance,
Risk Factor Sensitivities, and Risk and Position Limits;
•
Source-of-revenue measurements – Comprehensive Profit and Loss,
Portfolio Profit and Loss, Fee Income and Expense, Spread Profit and Loss, and
Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution;
•
Revenues-relative-to-risk measurements – Volatility of Comprehensive
Profit and Loss, Volatility of Portfolio Profit and Loss, Comprehensive Profit and Loss to
Volatility Ratio, Portfolio Profit and Loss to Volatility Ratio, Unprofitable Trading Days
based on Comprehensive Profit and Loss, Unprofitable Trading Days based on Portfolio
Profit and Loss, Skewness of Portfolio Profit and Loss, and Kurtosis of Portfolio Profit
and Loss;

2692

See SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012).

2693

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Barclays. See also final rule Appendix B.

892

•
Customer-facing activity measurements – Inventory Turnover, Inventory
Aging, and Customer-facing Trade Ratio; and
•
Payment of fees, commissions, and spreads measurements – Pay-toReceive Spread Ratio.
The Agencies proposed these quantitative measurements because, taken together,
these measurements appeared useful for understanding the context in which trading
activities occur and identifying activities that may warrant additional scrutiny to
determine whether these activities involve prohibited proprietary trading because the
trading activity either is inconsistent with permitted market making-related activities or
presents a material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies. As
described below, different quantitative measurements were proposed to identify different
aspects and characteristics of trading activity for the purpose of helping to identify
prohibited proprietary trading, and the Agencies stated in the proposal that they expected
that the quantitative measurements would be most useful for this purpose when
implemented and reviewed collectively, rather than in isolation. The Agencies stated in
the proposal that they believed that, in the aggregate, many banking entities already
collect and review many of these measurements as part of their risk management
activities, and stated that they expected that many of the quantitative measurements
proposed would be readily computed and monitored at the multiple levels of organization
included in proposed Appendix A’s definition of “trading unit,” to which they would
apply.
Under the proposal, the first set of quantitative measurements related to risk
management, and included VaR, Stress VaR, VaR Exceedance, Risk Factor Sensitivities,
and Risk and Position Limits. Commenters generally supported the use of risk-

893

management metrics as the most important measure of compliance, indicating that these
metrics could potentially provide useful supervisory information. 2694
In general, commenters supported the use of the VaR metric. 2695 One of these
commenters argued that VaR was not particularly indicative of proprietary trading, but
could be helpful to reveal a trading unit’s overall size and risk profile. 2696 Another
commenter indicated that significant, abrupt or inconsistent changes to VaR may need to
be absorbed by market makers who absorb large demand and supply shocks into their
inventories. 2697 This commenter contended that the six largest bank holding companies
had proprietary trading losses that frequently exceeded their VaR estimates and the
design and supervision of such risk measures should be revisited.
One commenter argued that the definition of VaR was not made clear in the
proposal and was missing some important information regarding methodology as VaR
methodologies tend to vary among banking entities. 2698 This commenter recommended
the development of a standard methodology by the OFR including a central repository for
historical calculation data for each asset for the purpose of ensuring standard calculation
across the industry. This commenter also expressed concern that VaR calculations are
heavily reliant on the quality of input data and stated that many markets are unable to

2694

See, e.g., AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Barclays; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Prof. Duffie; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); Invesco; JPMC; Occupy; Public Citizen; See also BNY Mellon et al. (suggesting the use of VaR
measures for foreign exchange trading activity).
2695

See, e.g., Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Prof. Duffie; Goldman (Prop. Trading); Invesco; Public Citizen.

2696

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

2697

See Prof. Duffie.

2698

See Occupy.

894

provide sufficient information such that VaR calculations are meaningful, including
markets for illiquid products for which accurate historical price and market information is
sparse and could severely under represent true potential losses under VaR
calculations. 2699
A few commenters expressed concern about the applicability of VaR when
applied to ALM activities. 2700 These commenters argued that risk management metrics
such as VaR would not help to distinguish ALM and valid risk mitigating hedging
activities from prohibited proprietary trading. For instance, one of these commenters
stated that the proposed reliance on VaR and Stress VaR to demonstrate bona fide
hedging is misleading for ALM activities due to the typical accounting asymmetry in
ALM where, for example, managed liabilities such as deposits are not marked to market
but the corresponding hedge may be.
One commenter argued that the use of stress VaR would be important to guard
against excessive risk taking. 2701 A few commenters suggested that additional guidance
be provided for Stress VaR including linking it to the broader stress testing regime and
based on extreme conditions that are not based on historic precedent. 2702 These
commenters also argued that a one-day holding period assumption is inadequate,

2699

See Occupy.

2700

See JPMC; State Street (Feb. 2012); See also BoA; CH/ABASA. For instance, one of these
commenters stated that the proposed reliance on VaR and Stress VaR to demonstrate bona fide hedging is
misleading for ALM activities due to the typical accounting asymmetry in ALM where, for example,
managed liabilities such as deposits are not mark-to-market but the corresponding hedge may be. See State
Street (Feb. 2012).
2701

See Public Citizen.

2702

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.

895

especially for less liquid asset classes, and recommended that stress be measured over a
longer period. One commenter argued that Stress VaR should be removed from the list
of required metrics as it is not in regular use for day-to-day risk management and
provides little relevant information about the intent or proportionality between risk
assumed and client demands. 2703
A number of commenters requested that VaR Exceedance be removed from the
list of metrics. These commenters argued that the primary function of VaR Exceedance
is to analyze the quality of a VaR model and that VaR backtesting is already reported to
regulators as part of the supervisory process. These commenters argued that VaR
Exceedance does not reveal trading intent or actual risk taken. 2704 One commenter
argued that VaR Exceedance may be useful to the Agencies as an indicator of the quality
of the VaR measure relative to the profit and loss of the trading unit but that a more
rigorous back-testing process would serve as a better analytical tool than VaR
Exceedance to evaluate the quality of the VaR model result and should be included as an
additional metric. 2705 One commenter suggested that risk-based metrics should measure
risk as a function of capital. 2706 Another commenter warned that risk metrics could be
significantly higher during times of market stress and volatility than during normal
times. 2707

2703

See JPMC.

2704

See ABA (Keating); Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012);
Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); UBS.

2705

See Occupy.

2706

See Citigroup (Feb. 2012).

2707

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

896

A few commenters expressed support for risk factor sensitivities as useful,
supervisory information. 2708 One of these commenters suggested that risk factor
sensitivities could orient regulators to a trading unit’s overall size and risk profile, 2709
while another commenter stated that risk factor sensitivities would be the most useful tool
for identifying the accumulation of market risk in different areas of a banking entity. 2710
One commenter suggested that several risk factor sensitivity snapshots be taken
throughout the day with an average value reported at the end of day. 2711 This commenter
also recommended that trading strategies that rely heavily on models to calculate risk
exposures (e.g., correlation trading portfolios), should trigger additional disclosures in
risk factor sensitivity reporting. 2712
Commenters also supported risk and position limits as providing useful,
supervisory information. Several commenters indicated that these limits could be helpful
to orient regulators to a trading unit’s overall size and risk profile. 2713 Another
commenter expressed the view risk and position limits are the most comprehensive
measures of risk taking and incorporate VaR, Stress VaR, and Risk Factor
Sensitivities.2714 A different commenter argued it was unclear how position limits are in

2708

See Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Prof. Duffie; Occupy.

2709

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

2710

See Occupy.

2711

See Occupy.

2712

See Occupy.

2713

See, e.g., Barclays; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Prof. Duffie; Goldman (Prop. Trading).

2714

See Barclays.

897

fact a quantitative metric and not a description of a banking entity’s internal risk
policies. 2715
After carefully considering the comments received, the final rule retains the riskmanagement metrics other than VaR Exceedance. The collection of information
regarding Risk and Position Limits, VaR, Stress VaR, and Risk Factor Sensitivities is
consistent with the aim of providing a means of characterizing the overall risk profile of
the trading activities of each trading desk and evaluating the extent to which the
quantitative profile of a trading desk’s activities is consistent with permissible activities.
Moreover, a number of commenters indicated that the risk management measures would
be effective at achieving these goals. 2716 The risk management measure that was not
retained in the final rule, VaR Exceedance, was considered, in light of the comments, as
not offering significant additional information on the overall risk profile and activities of
the trading desk relative to the burden associated with computing, auditing and reporting
it on an ongoing basis. 2717
The risk-management measurements included in the final rule are widely used by
banking entities to measure and manage trading risks and activities. 2718 VaR, Stress VaR,
and Risk Factor Sensitivities provide internal, model-based assessments of overall risk,
stated in terms of large but plausible losses that may occur or changes in revenue that

2715

See Occupy.

2716

See, e.g., AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Barclays; Citigroup (Feb. 2012); Prof. Duffie; Goldman (Prop.
Trading); Invesco; JPMC; Occupy; Public Citizen; See also Northern Trust; State Street (Feb. 2012).

2717

See ABA (Keating); Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop.Trading) (Feb. 2012);
Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); UBS.
2718

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,887.

898

would be expected to result from movements in underlying risk factors. The provided
description and calculation guidance for each of these measures is consistent with both
current market practice and regulatory capital requirements for banks. The final rule does
not provide a prescriptive definition of each of these measurements as these measures
must be flexible enough to be tailored to the specific trading activities of each trading
desk. Supervisory guidance and comparisons of these measures across similarly situated
trading desks at a given entity as well as across entities will be used to ensure that the
provided measurements conform to the description and calculation guidance provided in
Appendix A. Risk and Position Limits and Usage provide an explicit assessment of
management’s expectation of how much risk is required to perform permitted marketmaking, underwriting and hedging activities. The final rule requires that the usage of
each risk and position limit be reported so that the risk taking by each trading desk can be
monitored and assessed on an ongoing basis. 2719
With the exception of Stress VaR, each of these measurements are routinely used
to manage and control risk taking activities, and are also used by some banking entities
for purposes of calculating regulatory capital and allocating capital internally. 2720 In the
context of permitted market making-related activities, these risk management measures
are useful in assessing whether the actual risk taken is consistent with the level of
principal risk that a banking entity must retain in order to service the near-term demands
of customers. Significant, abrupt or inconsistent changes to key risk management

2719

The Agencies believe this clarification responds to one commenter’s question regarding how risk and
position limits will be used and assessed for purposes of the rule. See Occupy.

2720

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,887.

899

measures, such as VaR, that are inconsistent with prior experience, the experience of
similarly situated trading desks and management’s stated expectations for such measures
may indicate impermissible proprietary trading, and may warrant further review. In
addition, indicators of unanticipated or unusual levels of risk taken, such as breaches of
internal Risk and Position Limits, may suggest behavior that is inconsistent with
appropriate levels of risk and may warrant further scrutiny. The limits required under §
__.4(b)(2)(iii) and § __.5(b)(1)(i) must meet the applicable requirements under §
__.4(b)(2)(iii) and § __.5(b)(1)(i) and also must include appropriate metrics for the
trading desk limits including, at a minimum, the “Risk Factor Sensitivities” and “Valueat-Risk and Stress Value-at-Risk” metrics except to the extent any of the “Risk Factor
Sensitivities” or “Value-at-Risk and Stress Value-at-Risk” metrics are demonstrably
ineffective for measuring and monitoring the risks of a trading desk based on the types of
positions traded by, and risk exposures of, that desk.
Under the proposal, the second set of quantitative measurements related to the
source of revenues, and included Comprehensive Profit and Loss, Portfolio Profit and
Loss, Fee Income, Spread Profit and Loss, and Comprehensive Profit and Loss
Attribution. A few commenters expressed support for Comprehensive Profit and Loss as
a reasonable contextual metric and contended that the metric could inform the analysis of
whether market-making revenues are from customer transactions. 2721

2721

See Goldman (Prop.Trading); Japanese Bankers Ass’n; Occupy; See also Barclays.

900

As described above, a number of commenters expressed concern about a focus on
revenues as part of evaluating market-making. 2722 For instance, one commenter argued
that the rule should not require, even in guidance, that market making-related permitted
activities be “designed to generate revenues from fees, commissions, bid-asks spreads or
other income,” arguing that this prejudges appropriate results for revenue metrics and
implies that a bona fide market maker is not permitted to benefit from revenues from
market movements. 2723 One commenter expressed concern that the source-of-revenue
metrics are subject to manipulation as these metrics depend on correctly classifying
revenue into market bid-ask spreads as opposed to other sources of revenue. 2724 One
commenter stated that this metric should serve as a secondary indication of risk levels
because it could be subject to manipulation. 2725 Another commenter recommended use
of the sub-metric in Comprehensive P&L Attribution. 2726 A different commenter
recommended the adoption of clearer metrics to distinguish customer revenues from
revenues from price movements. 2727 One commenter indicated that after-the-fact
application of quantitative measurements such as Comprehensive Profit and Loss may
cause firms to reconsider their commitment to market making and recommended that, to
the extent this metric is used, it should be applied flexibly in light of market conditions

2722

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.7.b.

2723

See SIFMA (May 2012).

2724

See AFR (Nov. 2012).

2725

See Occupy.

2726

See Barclays.

2727

See Public Citizen.

901

prevailing during the relevant time period, and as one of many factors relevant to an
overall assessment of bona fide market making. 2728
A few commenters supported Portfolio Profit and Loss as a reasonable contextual
metric to inform whether revenues from market-making transactions are from customer
transactions. 2729 However, one of these commenters argued that this metric would not
necessarily be indicative of prohibited proprietary trading and profits may reflect bona
fide market making-related, underwriting, and hedging activities. 2730 Another commenter
argued that this metric should serve as a secondary indication of risk levels and may be
subject to manipulation. 2731
Some commenters felt that Fee Income and Expense was a useful metric. 2732 One
of these commenters argued this metric has the potential to help distinguish permitted
activities from prohibited proprietary trading. 2733 Another commenter felt this metric
would be useful in liquid markets that trade with the convention of fees and commissions
but less useful, but still indicative, in other markets that use inter-dealer brokers to
conduct client-related activities. 2734 One commenter argued that it would be

2728

See NYSE Euronext.

2729

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Japanese Bankers Ass’n; Occupy.

2730

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

2731

See Occupy.

2732

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Japanese Bankers Ass’n; Occupy.

2733

See Goldman (Prop. Trading). This commenter urged that fee income and expense should be
considered together with Spread P&L arguing that these two both measures of customer revenues and, in
practice, may function as substitutes for each other.

2734

See Occupy.

902

impracticable to produce Fee Income and Expense data for foreign exchange trading,
which is predominantly based on bid/offer spread. 2735
A few commenters thought that Spread P&L could be useful. 2736 One of these
commenters argued that Spread P&L has the potential to help distinguish permitted
activities from prohibited proprietary trading. 2737 This commenter suggested that the
final rule remove the proposal’s revenue requirement as part of market-making and
instead rely on revenue metrics such as Spread P&L. 2738 This commenter argued,
however, that it will not always be clear how to best calculate Spread P&L and it would
be critical for the Agencies to be flexible and work with banking entities to determine the
appropriate proxies for spreads on an asset-class-by-asset class and trading desk-bytrading-desk basis. One commenter contended that the proposed implementation in the
proposal was more difficult than necessary and suggested End of Day Spread Proxy is
sufficient. Another commenter suggested expanding the flexibility offered in choosing a
bid-offer source to calculate Spread P&L. 2739
However, the majority of commenters recommended removal of Spread P&L as a
metric. 2740 These commenters argued that a meaningful measure for Spread P&L cannot

2735

See Northern Trust.

2736

See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading); JPMC; UBS.

2737

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

2738

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); See also Paul Volcker (supporting a metric considering the extent to
which earnings are generated by pricing spreads rather than changes in price).
2739

See JPMC; UBS; See also SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

2740

See ABA et al.; BoA; Barclays; Credit Suisse (Seidel); Japanese Bankers Ass’n; Northern Trust;
SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop.Trading); See also AFR et al. (Feb. 2012);
Occupy.

903

be calculated in the absence of a continuous bid-ask spread, making this metric
misleading especially for illiquid positions and shallow markets.
A few commenters generally expressed support for the inclusion of
Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution. 2741 One of these commenters stated that this
metric was the most comprehensive metric for measuring sources of revenue and
included other metrics as sub-metrics, such as Comprehensive Profit and Loss, Portfolio
Profit and Loss, and Fee Income and Expense. Another commenter contended the
mention of “customer spreads” and “bid-ask spreads” was unclear and that both of these
terms should be removed from the calculation guidance. Other commenters argued that
the benefits of this metric do not justify the costs of generating a report of
Comprehensive P&L Attribution on a daily basis. 2742 One commenter urged the
Agencies to ensure that each institution be permitted to calculate this metric in a way that
reflects the institution’s unique characteristics. 2743
After carefully considering the comments received, the final rule maintains only a
modified version of Comprehensive P&L Attribution metric and does not retain the
proposed Comprehensive Profit and Loss, Portfolio Profit and Loss, Fee Income, or
Spread Profit and Loss metrics. The final rule also requires volatility of comprehensive
profit and loss to be reported. As pointed out by a number of commenters,
Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution provides a holistic attribution of each trading

2741

See Barclays; Occupy.

2742

See BOK; Goldman (Prop. Trading); SIFMA et al. (Prop Trading) (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop.
Trading).

2743

See SIFMA et al. (Prop Trading) (Feb. 2012).

904

desk’s profit and loss and contains much of the information content that is provided by
many of the other metrics, such as Fee Income and Expense. 2744 Accordingly, the use of
Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution in the final rule greatly simplifies the metric
reporting requirement and reduces burden while retaining much of the information and
analysis that was provided in the full set of five metrics that were contained in the
proposal. In addition, in response to commenters’ concerns about the burdens of
separately identifying specific revenue sources (e.g., revenues from bid-ask spreads,
revenues from price appreciation), the Agencies have modified the focus of the proposed
source of revenue metrics to focus on when revenues are generated, rather than the
specific sources of revenue. 2745 This approach should also help address one commenter’s
concern about the need for new, sophisticated systems to differentiate bid-ask spreads
from price appreciation. 2746 The utility of this modified approach is discussed in more
detail in the discussion of the market-making exemption. 2747 Finally, the Comprehensive
Profit and Loss Attribution metric will ensure that all components of a trading desk’s
profit and loss are measured in a consistent and comprehensive fashion so that each
individual component can be reliably compared against other components of a trading
desk’s profit and loss without being considered in isolation or taken out of context.
This measurement is intended to capture the extent, scope, and type of profits and
losses generated by trading activities and provide important context for understanding

2744

See Barclays.

2745

See JPMC; UBS; SIFMA et al. (Prop Trading) (Feb. 2012); ABA (Keating); BoA; Barclays; Credit
Suisse (Seidel).

2746

See BoA.

2747

See supra Part IV.A.3.c.7.c.

905

how revenue is generated by trading activities. Because permitted market making-related
activities seek to generate profits by providing customers with intermediation and related
services while ,managing, and to the extent practicable minimizing, the risks associated
with any asset or risk inventory required to meet customer demands, these revenue
measurements would appear to provide helpful information to banking entities and the
Agencies regarding whether actual revenues are consistent with these expectations.
Under the proposal, the third set of measurements related to realized risks and
revenue relative to realized risks, and includes Volatility of Profit and Loss,
Comprehensive Profit and Loss to Volatility Ratio and Portfolio Profit and Loss to
Volatility Ratio, Unprofitable Trading Days based on Comprehensive Profit and Loss and
Unprofitable Trading Days based on Portfolio Profit and Loss, and Skewness of Portfolio
Profit and Loss and Kurtosis of Portfolio Profit and Loss.
A few commenters indicated support for these metrics as appropriate, contextual
metrics. 2748 These commenters indicated that these metrics may serve to highlight areas
requiring further investigation, since high P&L volatility may indicate a deviation from
traditional client related activities and that a well-structured trading operation should be
able to obtain relatively high ratios of revenue-to-risk (as measured by various metrics),
low volatility, and relatively high turnover. 2749 One commenter recommended that New
Trades P&L be substituted for Portfolio P&L for purposes of computing Volatility of
P&L because New Trades P&L captures customer revenues more completely and is
2748

See, e.g., Goldman (Prop. Trading); Volcker; John S. Reed; See also AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Sen.
Merkley; Occupy; Public Citizen.
2749

See Occupy; Public Citizen; Sen. Merkley.

906

therefore more useful for distinguishing market making from proprietary trading. 2750
Another commenter indicated that Skewness of Portfolio Profit and Loss and Kurtosis of
Portfolio Profit and Loss incorporates (and therefore obviates the need for a separate
calculation of) the metric Volatility of Portfolio Profit and Loss. 2751
One commenter urged that after-the-fact application of Comprehensive Profit and
Loss to Volatility Ratio may cause firms to reconsider their commitment to market
making and argued that this metric should be applied flexibly in light of market
conditions prevailing during the relevant time period and as one of many factors relevant
to an assessment of overall bona fide market making. 2752 One commenter supported
monitoring Portfolio Profit and Loss to Volatility Ratio and argued that the Agencies
should establish a clear pattern of profit and loss results of individual trading units
through iterative application of the metrics. 2753
One commenter expressed support for Unprofitable Trading Days based on
Comprehensive Profit and Loss and Unprofitable Trading Days based on Portfolio Profit
and Loss indicating that these metrics may serve to highlight areas requiring further
investigation, since a significant number of unprofitable trading days may indicate a
deviation from traditional client-related activities. 2754 Another commenter suggested that

2750

See Goldman (Prop. Trading) (also suggesting that New Trades P&L be substituted for Portfolio P&L
in Comprehensive Profit and Loss to Volatility Ratio and Portfolio Profit and Loss to Volatility Ratio and
Unprofitable Trading Days based on Comprehensive Profit and Loss and Unprofitable Trading Days based
on Portfolio Profit and Loss).

2751

See Barclays.

2752

See NYSE Euronext.

2753

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

2754

See Occupy.

907

these metrics be removed as they would result in market makers being less likely to take
client-facing positions due to reluctance to incur unprofitable trading days that could
indicate the presence of impermissible activity despite the utility of such trades in
providing liquidity to customers. 2755
One commenter requested including Skewness of Portfolio Profit and Loss and
Kurtosis of Portfolio Profit and Loss in the metrics set as the most comprehensive metric
in the revenue-relative-to-risk category making other metrics unnecessary in this area. 2756
Another commenter argued that this metric would produce inconsistent results within and
across trading units and would generally not support any meaningful conclusions
regarding the permissibility or risk of trading activities. 2757
After carefully considering the comments received, the final rule does not include
any of the proposed revenue-relative-to-risk measurements. Each of these measures
provides information that may generally be useful for characterizing the overall risk
profile of the trading activities of each trading unit and evaluating the extent to which the
quantitative profile of a trading unit’s activities is consistent with permissible trading
activities. The broad information content of these measures, however, can largely be
reproduced from transformations of information that will be provided in the
Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution and, as noted above, volatility of
comprehensive profit and loss must be reported. Analogs to the other metrics such as

2755

See Barclays.

2756

See Barclays.

2757

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

908

Skewness of Portfolio Profit and Loss and Kurtosis of Portfolio Profit and Loss can be
computed similarly from information that will be provided in the Comprehensive Profit
and Loss Attribution. Accordingly, the information contained in these metrics is retained
in the final rule while the burden associated with computing, auditing and reporting these
additional metrics on an ongoing basis has been eliminated.
Under the proposal, the fourth set of quantitative measurements related to
customer-facing activity measurements. These metrics include Inventory Risk Turnover,
Inventory Aging, and Customer-facing Trade Ratio.
A few commenters supported the proposal’s Inventory Risk Turnover metric
though some of these commenters suggested modifications to the metric. 2758 One
commenter argued that this metric could indicate whether a given trading unit holds risk
and inventory consistently with the asset class in which such trading unit deals, the types
of trading activity in which the trading unit engages, and the scale and scope of the client
activity that such trading unit serves. 2759 Another commenter argued that the final rule
should explicitly state that a trading unit’s inventory management practices will be
evaluated using this metric. 2760 Some commenters expressed the view that this metric
might be useful in the case of liquid positions but not in the case of illiquid or difficult-to-

2758

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); Barclays; John Reed; JPMC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012);
Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

2759

See Barclays.

2760

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

909

hedge products, which naturally have lower risk turnover. Others noted support for this
metric tailored on an asset-by-asset basis. 2761
A few commenters requested that the final rule clarify that this metric will not be
required to be calculated for every possible Risk Factor Sensitivity measurement for the
applicable portfolio and that a banking entity and its regulator should determine one or
two core risk factors per asset classes with respect to which this metric that will be
calculated to strike a reasonable balance between costs of calculations and benefits of this
metric. 2762 Other commenters argued the Inventory Risk Turnover Metric was difficult to
measure, burdensome, and would create uncertainty for derivatives counterparties. 2763
A few commenters supported the Inventory Aging metric. One commenter
argued it should be included in the metrics set to indicate whether a given trading desk
holds risk and inventory consistently within the asset class in which such trading desk
deals, the type of trading activity in which the trading unit engages, and the scale and
scope of the client activity that such trading desk serves. 2764 This commenter suggested
tailoring the metric based on the market for a particular asset class and market conditions
because aging levels may be higher in less liquid markets. A number of commenters
argued that application of the Inventory Aging metric is only appropriate for cash
products and should not be used for trading units engaged in transactions in financial

2761

See, e.g., Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); JPMC; John Reed.

2762

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); JPMC; SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); See also Morgan
Stanley.

2763

See Japanese Bankers Ass’n; SIFMA (Asset Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012); Morgan Stanley.

2764

See Barclays; See also Invesco.

910

instruments such as derivatives. 2765 Another commenter argued that the Inventory Aging
metric is generally not useful for derivatives, and for non-derivatives it provides
essentially similar information to Inventory Risk Turnover. 2766 One commenter
requested additional guidance on how to calculate this metric. 2767
A few commenters indicated that the Customer-Facing Trade Ratio could be
helpful in distinguishing prohibited proprietary trading from market making and would
be more effective than the proposal’s negative presumption against interdealer trading to
evaluate the amount of interdealer trading that is consistent with market making-related
or hedging activity in a particular business. 2768 Some commenters suggested that the
metric could be improved and argued that the number of transactions executed over a
calculation period does not provide an adequate measure for the level of customer-facing
trading because it does not reflect the size of transactions or the amount of risk. These
commenters suggested replacing the metric with a more risk-sensitive metric or defining
the ratio so that it measures notional principal risk associated with customer transactions
and is appropriately tailored to the relevant asset class or market. 2769
A number of commenters raised concerns about the definition of customer for
purposes of this metric. One commenter argued that a failure to define “customer” to
differentiate between customers and non-customers would render this metric
2765

See Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); Japanese Bankers Ass’n; Morgan Stanley; SIFMA (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012).

2766

See Goldman (Prop. Trading).

2767

See Société Générale.

2768

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); See also Invesco.

2769

See Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading) ; JPMC; SIFMA (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); UBS.

911

meaningless. 2770 Another commenter contended that the metric would be appropriate as
long as banking entities have the flexibility to determine who is a customer. 2771 One
commenter argued that using a definition of “customer” that is different between the
market making-related activity and the reported metric could make legitimate market
making-related activity with customers appear to be prohibited proprietary trading. 2772
This commenter argued that other dealers and other registered market participants should
be recognized as customers of the banking entity. A few commenters contended that this
metric would be burdensome if it required a banking entity to tag individual trades as
customer or non-customer. 2773 A few commenters argued that interdealer trading should
be allowed as part of market making and argued this metric would not provide a useful
measure of customer-facing activity. 2774 Some commenters also expressed concern about
the implications of such a metric for hedging activity, which may involve relatively less
customer-facing activity. 2775
After carefully considering the comments received, the final rule retains all three
of the customer-facing activity measurements from the proposal, though each measure
has been modified. A number of commenters raised issues regarding the complexities
associated with computing the Inventory Risk Turnover metric. In particular, as noted
above, some commenters argued that computing the metric for every reported risk factor
2770

See Occupy.

2771

See Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

2772

See SIFMA (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

2773

See SIFMA (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); See also Goldman (Prop Trading).

2774

See Barclays; Japanese Bankers Ass’n; Oliver Wyman (Dec. 2011); SIFMA (Prop. Trading) (Feb.
2012).

2775

See Barclays; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).

912

sensitivity would be burdensome and would not be informative. 2776 The inventory metric
required in the final rule, Inventory Turnover, is applied at the transaction level and not at
the risk factor sensitivity level. Accordingly, for a given trading desk and calculation
period, e.g., 30 days, there is only one value of the Inventory Turnover metric rather than
one value for each risk factor sensitivity that is managed and reported by the trading desk.
In this sense, the turnover metric required in the final rule is similar to more traditional
and common measures of inventory turnover. Moreover, the required turnover metric is
simpler and less costly to track and record while still providing banking entities and
Agencies with meaningful information regarding the extent to which the size and volume
of trading activities are directed at servicing the demands of customers. In addition, the
description of Inventory Turnover in the final rule provides explicit guidance on how to
apply the metric to derivative positions. 2777
Inventory Aging provides banking entities and Agencies with meaningful
information regarding the extent to which the size and volume of trading activities are
directed at servicing the demands of customers. In the case of Inventory Aging, the
proposal required that the aging schedule be organized according to a specific set of age
ranges (i.e., 0-30 days, 30-60 days, 60-90 days, 90-180 days, 180-360 days, and more
than 360 days). This requirement has not been adopted in the final rule in order to
provide greater flexibility and to recognize that specific age ranges that may be relevant
for one asset class may be less relevant for another asset class. Also, to address
2776

See Goldman (Prop. Trading); JPMC; SIFMA (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

2777

The Agencies believe that this should address commenters’ uncertainty with respect to how the
Inventory Risk Turnover metric would work for derivatives. See Japanese Bankers Ass’n; SIFMA (Asset
Mgmt.) (Feb. 2012) ; Morgan Stanley.

913

commenters’ uncertainty about how this metric would apply to derivatives, the final
rule’s description of the Inventory Aging metric provides guidance on how to apply the
metric to derivative positions. 2778
The Customer Facing Trade Ratio provides directionally useful information
regarding the extent to which trading transactions are conducted with customers. In the
case of the Customer Facing Trade Ratio, the proposal required that customer trades be
measured on a trade count basis. The final rule requires that the Customer Facing Trade
Ratio be computed in two ways. As in the proposal, the metric must be computed by
measuring trades on a trade count basis. Additionally, as suggested by some
commenters, the final rule requires that the metric be computed by measuring trades on a
notional value basis. The value based approach is required to reflect the fact noted by
some commenters, that a trade count based measure may not accurately represent the
amount of customer facing activity if customer trade sizes systematically differ from the
sizes of non-customer trades. In addition, the term “customer” for purposes of the
Customer-Facing Trade Ratio is defined in the same manner as the terms client,
customer, and counterparty used for purposes of the market-making exemption. This will
ensure that the information provided by this metric is useful for purposes of monitoring
compliance with the market-making exemption. 2779
The fifth set of quantitative measurements relates to the payment of fees,
commissions, and spreads, and includes the Pay-to-Receive Spread Ratio. This
2778

See Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading) ; Japanese Bankers Ass’n; Morgan Stanley; SIFMA (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012).

2779

See SIFMA (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012).

914

measurement was intended to measure the extent to which trading activities generate
revenues for providing intermediation services, rather than generate expenses paid to
other intermediaries for such services. Because market making-related activities
ultimately focus on servicing customer demands, they typically generate substantially
more fees, spreads and other sources of customer revenue than must be paid to other
intermediaries to support customer transactions. Proprietary trading activities, however,
that generate almost no customer facing revenue will typically pay a significant amount
of fees, spreads and commissions in the execution of trading strategies that are expected
to benefit from short-term price movements. Accordingly, the Agencies expected that the
proposed Pay-to-Receive Spread Ratio measurement would be useful in assessing
whether permitted market making-related activities are primarily generating, rather than
paying, fees, spreads and other transactional revenues or expenses. A level of fees,
commissions, and spreads paid that is inconsistent with prior experience, the experience
of similarly situated trading desks and management’s stated expectations for such
measures could indicate impermissible proprietary trading.
One commenter expressed concern that after-the-fact application of the Pay-toReceive Spread Ratio could cause firms to reconsider their commitment to market
making. This commenter suggested that if this measure is used, it be applied flexibly, in
light of market conditions prevailing during the relevant time period, and as one of many
factors relevant to an overall assessment of bona fide market making. 2780 Another
commenter suggested expanding the flexibility offered in choosing a bid-offer source to

2780

See NYSE Euronext.

915

the entire process of calculating Pay-to-Receive Spread Ratio. 2781 A number of
commenters argued for removing this metric because its calculation incorporates the
Spread P&L metric. 2782 Some of these commenters argued that the metric requires a
trade-by-trade analysis which would be expensive to compute and would not provide any
additional information that is not available from other metrics. One commenter alleged
that this metric was not calculable by any methodology. 2783
The Pay-to-Receive Spread Ratio has not been retained in the final rule. As noted
by some commenters, the broad information content of this metric will largely be
captured in the Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution measurement. In addition, the
Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution will place such factors that are related to the
proposed Pay-to-Receive Spread Ratio in context with other factors that determine total
profitability. Accordingly, factors relating to the payment of fees, commissions and
spreads will not be considered in isolation but will be viewed in a context that is
appropriate to the entirety of the trading desk’s activities. Finally, using the information
contained in the Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution to holistically assess the
range of factors that determine overall profitability, rather than requiring a large number
of separate and distinct measurements, will reduce the resulting compliance burden while
ensuring an integrated and holistic approach to assessing the activities of each trading
desk.

2781

See UBS.

2782

See CH/ABASA; Goldman (Prop. Trading) ; Japanese Bankers Ass’n; Occupy; SIFMA (Prop.
Trading) (Feb. 2012); Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading).
2783

See Morgan Stanley.

916

Commenters also suggested a number of additional metrics be added to the final
rule that were not contained in the proposal. One commenter, who advocated for an
alternative framework for market making supported by structural and transactional
metrics, suggested that structural metrics could include the ratio of salespeople to traders
and the level of resources devoted to client research and trading content. 2784 Two
commenters supported the use of a counterparty risk exposure measure, not only to the
risk of counterparty default but also to potential gains and losses to major counterparties
for each of a list of systemically important scenarios. 2785 One of these commenters
suggested that entity-wide inflation risk assessments be produced on a daily basis. 2786
This commenter also argued that an important metric that is missing is a Liquidity Gap
Risk metric that estimates the price change that occurs following a sudden disruption in
liquidity for a product, arguing that there needs to be an industry-wide effort to more
accurately measure and account for the significant effect that liquidity and changes in its
prevailing level have on the valuation of each asset.
One commenter argued that the metrics regime was well-designed for marketmaking but lacking in other areas like hedging. This commenter recommended the
addition of additional metrics more applicable to other non-market making activities like
a net profit metric for hedging. 2787 Two commenters argued that quantitative
measurement for underwriting was not included in the proposal and stated that in a bona

2784

See Morgan Stanley.

2785

See Prof. Duffie; Occupy.

2786

See Occupy.

2787

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

917

fide underwriting, unsold balances should be relatively small so a marker for potential
non-bona fide underwriting should be recognized if VaR (unhedged and uncovered) of
the unsold balance that is allocated to a banking entity is large relative to the expected
revenue measured by the pro rata underwriting spread. 2788
After carefully considering the comments received, these and other proposed
metrics have not been included as part of the final rule. One major concern raised by a
range of commenters was the degree of complexity and burden that would be required by
the metrics reporting regime. In light of these comments, the final rule includes a number
of quantitative measurements that are expected to provide a means of characterizing the
overall risk profile of the trading activities of each trading desk and evaluating the extent
to which the quantitative profile of a trading desk’s activities is consistent with
permissible trading activities in a cost effective and efficient manner while being
appropriate for a range of different trading activities. Moreover, while many commenters
suggested a number of different alternative metrics, many of these alternatives are
consistent with the broad themes, risk management, sources of revenues, customer facing
activity, that inform the quantitative measurements that are retained in the final rule.
Finally, banking entities will be expected to develop their own metrics, as appropriate, to
further inform and improve their own monitoring and understanding of their trading
activities. Many of the alternative metrics that were suggested by commenters, especially
those that relate to a specific market or type of instrument, may be used by banking
entities as they develop their own quantitative measurements.

2788

See AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); See also Public Citizen.

918

For each individual quantitative measurement in the final rule, Appendix A
describes the measurement, provides general guidance regarding how the measurement
should be calculated and specifies the period over which each calculation should be
made. The proposed quantitative measurements attempt to incorporate, wherever
possible, measurements already used by banking entities to manage risks associated with
their trading activities. Of the measurements proposed, the Agencies expect that a large
majority of measurements proposed are either (i) already routinely calculated by banking
entities or (ii) based solely on underlying data that are already routinely calculated by
banking entities. However, calculating these measurements according to the
specifications described in Appendix A and at the trading desk level mandated by the
final rule may require banking entities to implement new processes to calculate and
furnish the required data. 2789
The extent of the burden associated with calculating and reporting quantitative
measurements will likely vary depending on the particular measurements and differences
in the sophistication of management information systems at different banking entities.
As noted, the proposal tailored these data collections to the size and type of activity
conducted by each banking entity in an effort to minimize the burden in particular on
firms that engage in few or no trading activities subject to the proposed rule.
The Agencies have also attempted to provide, to the extent possible, a
standardized description and general method of calculating each quantitative

2789

See Credit Suisse (Seidel) ; Morgan Stanley; UBS; Wells Fargo (Prop. Trading); Société Générale;
Occupy; Paul Volcker; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Western Asset Mgmt.; Public Citizen.

919

measurement that, while taking into account the potential variation among trading
practices and asset classes, would facilitate reporting of sufficiently uniform information
across different banking entities so as to permit horizontal reviews and comparisons of
the quantitative profile of trading desks across firms.
The Agencies expect to evaluate the data collected during the compliance period
both for its usefulness as a barometer of impermissible trading activity and excessive
risk-taking and for its costs. This evaluation will consider, among other things, whether
all of the quantitative measurements are useful for all asset classes and markets, as well
as for all the trading activities subject to the metrics requirement, or if further tailoring is
warranted. 2790 The Agencies propose to revisit the metrics and determine, based on a
review of the data collected by September 30, 2015, whether to modify, retain or replace
the metrics. To allow firms to develop systems to calculate and report these metrics, the
Agencies have delayed all reporting of the metrics until July 2014, phased in the
reporting requirements over a multi-year period, and reduced the category of banking
entities that must report the metrics to a smaller number of firms that engage in
significant trading activity. These steps, combined with the reduction in the number of
metrics required to be reported, are designed to reduce the cost and burden associated
with compiling and reporting the metrics while retaining the usefulness of this data
collection in helping to ensure that trading activities are conducted in compliance with

2790

The Agencies believe this review, along with the fact that quantitative measurements will not be used
as a dispositive tool for determining compliance and the removal of many of the proposed metrics, should
help address commenters’ concerns that some of the proposed quantitative measurements will not be as
relevant for certain asset classes, markets, and activities. See Morgan Stanley; SIFMA et al. (Prop.
Trading); Stephen Roach.

920

section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule and in a manner that monitors, assesses and
controls the risks associated with these activities.
4.

Section __.21: Termination of Activities or Investments; Authorities for
Violations
Section __.21 implements section 13(e)(2) of the BHC Act, which authorizes an

Agency to order a banking entity subject to its jurisdiction to terminate activities or
investments that violate or function as an evasion of section 13 of the Act. 2791 Section
13(e)(2) further provides that this paragraph shall not be construed to limit the inherent
authority of any Federal agency or State regulatory authority to further restrict any
investments or activities under otherwise applicable provisions of law. 2792
The proposed rule implemented section 13(e)(2) in two parts. First, § __.21(a) of
the proposal required any banking entity that engages in an activity or makes an
investment in violation of section 13 of the BHC Act or the proposed rule, or in a manner
that functions as an evasion of the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or the
proposed rule, including through an abuse of any activity or investment permitted under
subparts B or C, or otherwise violates the restrictions and requirements of section 13 of
the BHC Act or the proposed rule, to terminate the activity and, as relevant, dispose of
the investment. 2793 Second, § __.21(b) of the proposal provided that if, after due notice
and an opportunity for hearing, the respective Agency finds reasonable cause to believe

2791

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(e)(2).

2792

Id.

2793

See proposed rule § __.21(a). The proposal noted that the Agencies included §__.21(a), in addition to
the provisions of § __.21(b) of the proposed rule, to clarify that the requirement to terminate an activity or,
as relevant, dispose of an investment would be triggered when a banking entity discovers the violation or
evasion, regardless of whether an Agency order has been issued.

921

that any banking entity has engaged in an activity or made an investment described in
paragraph (a), the Agency may, by order, direct the entity to restrict, limit, or terminate
the activity and, as relevant, dispose of the investment. 2794
Several commenters urged the Agencies to strengthen the authorities provided for
under § __.21, 2795 with some commenters expressing concern that the proposed rule does
not establish sufficient enforcement mechanisms and penalties for violations of the rule’s
requirements. 2796 Some commenters suggested the Agencies add language in § __.21
authorizing the imposition of automatic and significant financial penalties – as significant
as the potential gains from illegal proprietary trading – on traders, supervisors,
executives, and firms for violating section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule. 2797
These commenters suggested the Agencies incorporate reference to the Board’s authority
under section 8 of the BHC Act into the rule, 2798 and others encouraged the Agencies to
rely on their inherent authority to impose automatic penalties and fines. 2799 A few
commenters stated that traders, management, and banking entities should be held

2794

See proposed rule § __.21(b).

2795

See Sen. Merkley; Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012); Public Citizen.

2796

See, e.g., BEC et al. (Jan. 2012); John Reed; Better Markets (Feb. 2012); AFR et al. (Feb. 2012);
Occupy; Sen. Merkley; Public Citizen.

2797

See, e.g., Form Letter Type A; Form Letter Type B; Sarah McKee; David R. Wilkes; Ben Leet; Karen
Michaelis; Barry Rein; Allan Richardson; Ronald Gedrim; Susan Pashkoff; Joan Budd; Frances Vreman;
Lisa Kazmier; Michael Wenger; Dyanne DiRosario; Alexander Clayton; James Ofsink; Richard Leining
(arguing that violators should face penalties such as seizure and discharge of the board and executives); Lee
Smith; See also Occupy; Public Citizen.

2798

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012) (contending that penalties should include specific administrative
penalties, including monetary penalties, bars, cease and desist orders, strengthened penalties for recurring
violations, and sanctioning of employees involved in the violation and public reporting of such sanctions);
AFR et al. (arguing that section 8 of the BHC Act provides civil penalties for violations by a company or
individual and criminal penalties for willful violations of the BHC Act). See also Occupy (requesting the
Agencies provide penalties that are specific to this rule in addition to the general framework for criminal
and civil penalties in section 8 of the BHC Act).
2799

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Occupy; AFR et al. (Feb. 2012).

922

responsible for violations under certain circumstances. 2800 Finally, another commenter
recommended that officers and directors of a banking entity be removed from office, be
prohibited from being affiliated with a banking entity, and be subject to salary clawbacks
for violations of section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule. 2801
The Agencies note that the authorities provided for in § __.21 are not exclusive.
The Agencies have a number of enforcement tools at their disposal to carry out their
obligations to ensure compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule, and
need not reference them expressly in § __.21 in order to exercise them. Specifically, the
Agencies may rely on their inherent authorities under otherwise applicable provisions of
banking, securities, and commodities laws to bring enforcement actions against banking
entities, their officers and directors, and other institution-affiliated parties for violations
of law. 2802 For example, a banking entity that violates section 13 of the BHC Act and the
final rule may be subject to criminal and civil penalties under section 8 of the BHC Act.
Banking entities may also be subject to formal enforcement actions under section 8 of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), such as cease and desist orders or civil money
penalty actions, 2803 or safety and soundness orders under section 39 of the FDIA which
may be enforceable through assessment of civil money penalties and through the federal

2800

See John Reed; Better Markets (Feb. 2012). See also BEC et al. (Jan. 2012) (arguing that CEOs and
CFOs should be held fully responsible for any violations of the rule by any employees above the clerical
level); Occupy (recommending that traders relying on an exemption in the proposed rule be held personally
liable for any losses on trading positions).
2801

See Occupy.

2802

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(g)(3).

2803

See, e.g., 12 U.S.C. 1818(i) (authorizing imposition of civil money penalties up to the maximum daily
amount of $1,000,000 for, among other things, knowing violations of law or regulation).

923

court system. In addition, officers, directors, and other institution-affiliated parties 2804
may be subject to civil money penalties, prohibition or removal actions, and personal
cease and desist orders under section 8 of the FDIA. Submission of late, false, or
misleading reports, including false statements on compliance with section 13 of the BHC
Act or the final rule, may also result in actions under applicable securities, commodities,
banking, and criminal laws, including imposition of civil money and criminal
penalties. 2805 Therefore, the final rule is consistent with the proposal and does not
mention other enforcement actions available to address violations of section 13 of the
BHC Act and this final rule.
Section 13 of the BHC Act and the final rule do not limit the reach or applicability
of the antifraud and other provisions of the federal laws to banking entities, including, for
example, section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 or section 10(b) and 15(c) of the
Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder.
One commenter also suggested that the Agencies use their authority under section
13(d)(3) of the BHC Act to impose additional capital requirements and quantitative
limitations on banking entities for repeat violations of the prohibition on proprietary
trading. 2806 The Agencies believe they can rely on other inherent enforcement authorities
to address repeat violations. The Agencies note that several other commenters also

2804

See 12 U.S.C. 1813(u) (defining “institution-affiliated party”).

2805

See, e.g., 12 U.S.C. 164 (authorizing imposition of civil money penalties for, among other things,
submitting false or misleading reports or information to the OCC); 18 U.S.C. 1005 (authorizing imposition
of fines of not more than $1,000,000 or imprisonment not more than 30 years, or both, for, among other
things, making a false entry in the books, reports or statements of a bank with intent to injure, defraud or
deceive).

2806

See Better Markets (Feb. 2012).

924

requested the Agencies to exercise their authority under section 13(d)(3). 2807 The
Agencies do not believe that it is appropriate to exercise their authority under this section
at this time, primarily because the capital treatment of banking entities’ trading activities
is currently being addressed through the Agencies’ risk-based capital rulemakings. 2808
Additionally, the Agencies believe Congress intended section 13(d)(3) to serve the
prudential purposes of bolstering the safety and soundness of individual banking entities
and the wider U.S. financial system. To the extent commenters suggested section
13(d)(3) be employed for a punitive purpose, the Agencies do not believe the provision
was designed to serve such a purpose nor do the Agencies believe that would be an
appropriate use of the provision. Thus, the Agencies believe section 13(d)(3) is more
appropriately employed for the prudential purposes of bolstering the safety and
soundness of individual banking entities and the wider financial stability of the U.S.
financial system.
Commenters also urged the Agencies to clearly delineate in the final rule the
jurisdictional authority of each of the Agencies to enforce compliance with section 13 of
the BHC Act and the implementing final rule. A number of commenters recommended
approaches to coordinating examinations and enforcement among the Agencies, as well
as to providing interpretive guidance. 2809 For example, some commenters observed that
more than one Agency would have jurisdiction over a given banking entity, and
2807

See Sen. Merkley; Public Citizen; Better Markets (Feb. 2012); Profs. Admati & Pfleiderer.

2808

See Regulatory Capital Rules: Regulatory Capital, Implementation of Basel III, Capital Adequacy,
Transition Provisions, Prompt Corrective Action, Standardized Approach for Risk-weighted Assets, Market
Discipline and Disclosure Requirements, Advanced Approaches Risk-Based Capital Rule, and Market Risk
Capital Rule; Final Rule, 78 FR 62,017 (Friday, October 11, 2013).

2809

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); JPMC; Barclays; Goldman (Prop. Trading); BoA; ABA
(Keating); Comm. on Capital Market Regulation; BEC et al.; ISDA (Apr. 2012).

925

recommended that supervision and enforcement of the final rule for all entities within a
banking enterprise remain completely with one Agency. 2810 Further, some commenters
recommended that a single Agency be appointed to provide interpretations, supervision,
and enforcement of section 13 and the rules thereunder for all banking entities. 2811
Similarly, one commenter suggested that the Board be given initial authority to supervise
the implementation of the rule because it is the primary enforcer of the BHC Act and the
single regulator that can currently look across a banking group’s entire global businesses,
regardless of legal entity. This commenter stated that the Board could then determine
whether an activity should be delegated to one of the other Agencies for further
examination or enforcement. 2812 In addition, with respect to interpretive authority, some
commenters indicated that the Board should be given sole interpretive authority of the
statute and the rules thereunder. 2813 Other commenters urged the Agencies to supervise

2810

See Barclays (arguing that ideally the umbrella federal regulator of the enterprise should take this role);
Goldman (Prop. Trading).

2811

See BoA; BEC et al.

2812

See Comm. on Capital Market Regulation.

2813

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); BoA (recommending that the Board be responsible for
resolving potentially conflicting supervisory recommendations or matters requiring attention arising from
examinations as well); ISDA (Apr. 2012). See also ABA (Keating) (arguing that the Agencies should defer
to the Board’s sole authority to interpret provisions of Volcker that intersect with other statutory provisions
subject to the Board’s jurisdictional authority, such as Super 23A); JPMC (contending that the Agencies
should adopt and Seek comment on a protocol for supervision and enforcement that will ensure a given
banking entity will face one set of rules and different banking entities will face the same set of rules). The
Agencies decline to adopt the commenter’s suggested approach of deferring to the Board’s sole interpretive
authority with respect to the provisions of the final rule. The Agencies believe at this time that such an
approach would be neither appropriate nor effective given the different authorities and expertise of each
Agency. See Part IV.C (discussing the Agencies’ decision not to adopt some commenters’ requests that a
single agency be responsible for determining compliance with section 13).

926

and enforce the rule on a coordinated basis so as to minimize duplicative enforcement
efforts, reduce costs, and promote certainty. 2814
Section 13(e)(2) mandates that each Agency enforce compliance of section 13
with respect to a banking entity “under the respective [A]gency’s jurisdiction.” 2815 This
section provides the Agencies with the authority to order a banking entity to terminate
activities or investments that violate or function as an evasion of section 13 of the BHC
Act. 2816 Decisions about whether to issue such orders could be made after examinations
or otherwise. Nothing in the final rule limits an Agency’s inherent authority to conduct
examinations or otherwise inspect banking entities to ensure compliance with the final
rule. Section __.1 of each Agency’s proposed rule described the specific types of
banking entities to which that Agency’s rule applies. The Agencies acknowledge
commenters’ concerns about overlapping jurisdictional authority. The Agencies
recognize that, on occasion, a banking entity may be subject to jurisdiction by more than
one Agency. As is customary, the Agencies plan to coordinate their examination and
enforcement proceedings under section 13, to the extent possible and practicable, so as to
limit duplicative actions and undue costs and burdens for banking entities. 2817
The Agencies are adopting § __.21 substantially as proposed. Accordingly,
§__.21(a) of the final rule provides that any banking entity that engages in an activity or

2814

See SIFMA et al. (Prop. Trading) (Feb. 2012); BoA (stating that the Agencies should issue one set of
exam findings under these circumstances); ISDA (Apr. 2012).

2815

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(c)(2).

2816

See 12 U.S.C. 1851(e)(2) (requiring “due notice and opportunity for hearing”).

2817

See 12 U.S.C. 1844 (establishing jurisdictional boundaries for regulation of bank holding companies);
See also 12 U.S.C. 1828a (antievasion statute empowering OCC, FDIC, and the Board to impose
restrictions on relationships or transactions between banks and their subsidiaries and affiliates).

927

makes an investment in violation of section 13 of the BHC Act or the final rule or acts in
a manner that functions as an evasion of the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act
or the final rule, including through an abuse of any activity or investment permitted or
expressly excluded by the terms of the final rule, or otherwise violates the restrictions and
requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or the final rule, shall, upon discovery,
promptly terminate the activity and, as relevant, dispose of the investment. This
provision allows the Agencies to enforce the rule’s prohibitions against proprietary
trading and sponsoring or owning interests in covered funds regardless of how banking
entities classify their actions, while also providing banking entities the freedom to
legitimately engage in those banking activities which are outside the scope of the statute.
V.

Administrative Law Matters

A.

Use of Plain Language
Section 722 of the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (Pub L. 106-102, 113 Stat. 1338, 1471,

12 U.S.C. 4809) requires the Federal banking agencies to use plain language in all
proposed and final rules published after January 1, 2000. The OCC, Board and FDIC
invited comment on whether the proposed rule was written plainly and clearly, or
whether there were ways the Federal banking agencies could make the rule easier to
understand. The Federal banking agencies received no comments on these matters and
believe that the final rule is written plainly and clearly.
B.

Paperwork Reduction Act Analysis
Certain provisions of the final rule contain “collection of information”

requirements within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) of 1995 (44

928

U.S.C. 3501-3521). In accordance with the requirements of the PRA, the Agencies may
not conduct or sponsor, and a respondent is not required to respond to, an information
collection unless it displays a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
control number. The OCC, FDIC, and Board will obtain OMB control numbers. The
information collection requirements contained in this joint final rule, to the extent they
apply to insured financial institutions that are not under a holding company, have been
submitted to OMB for review and approval by the OCC and FDIC under section 3507(d)
of the PRA and § 1320.11 of OMB’s implementing regulations (5 CFR 1320). The
Board reviewed the final rule under the authority delegated to the Board by OMB.
PRA Submission to OMB
The Board will submit information collection burden estimates to OMB and the
submission will include burden for Federal Reserve-supervised institutions, as well as
burden for OCC-, FDIC-, SEC-, and CFTC-supervised institutions under a holding
company. The OCC and the FDIC will take burden for banking entities that are not
under a holding company.
The FDIC and OCC submitted these information collection estimates to OMB at
the proposed rule stage as well. OMB filed comments instructing the OCC and FDIC to
examine public comment in response to the notice of proposed rulemaking and include in
the supporting statement of the next Information Collection Request (ICR), to be
submitted to OMB at the final rule stage, a description of how the OCC and FDIC have
responded to any public comments in response to the ICR.

929

Provisions Requiring PRA Clearance
The final rule contains requirements subject to the PRA. The reporting
requirements are found in §§ __.12(e) and __.20(d); the recordkeeping requirements are
found in §§ __.3(d)(3), __.4(b)(3)(i)(A), __.5(c), __.11(a)(2), and __.20(b)-(f); and the
disclosure requirements are found in § __.11(a)(8)(i). The recordkeeping burden for §§
__.4(a)(2)(iii), __.4(b)(2)(iii), __.5(b)(1), __.5(b)(2)(i), __.5(b)(2)(iv), __.13(a)(2)(i), and
__.13(a)(2)(ii)(A) is accounted for in § __.20(b); the recordkeeping burden for Appendix
B is accounted for in § __.20(c); the reporting and recordkeeping burden for Appendix A
is accounted for in § __.20(d); and the recordkeeping burden for §§ __.10(c)(12)(i) and
__.10(c)(12)(iii) is accounted for in § __.20(e). These information collection
requirements would implement section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, as mentioned in the
Abstract below. The respondent/recordkeepers are for-profit financial institutions,
including small businesses. A covered entity must retain these records for a period that is
no less than 5 years in a form that allows it to promptly produce such records to [the
Agency] on request.
Comments Received on PRA
Of the comments received in response to the proposed rule, three specifically
referenced the PRA. 2818 They were received from five industry trade groups and focused
on the analysis of the regulatory burden imposed by regulation. They referenced the
PRA burden as an example of the significance of the burden imposed by the regulation

2818

See BoA (acknowledging that the Agencies performed an analysis of the information costs as required
by the Paperwork Reduction Act); SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012) (noting that the Agencies
conducted a limited cost/benefit analysis of the information requirements of the proposed rules under the
PRA); Chamber (Nov. 2013) (noting that the burden estimates for the proposed rule stand at almost
6,600,000 hours per year).

930

but did not address burden in the context of the PRA. A number of other comments
addressed reporting and recordkeeping requirements and the utility of the information to
be collected outside the context of the PRA. As a result of these and other comments, the
Agencies made changes to the rule. These comments are discussed throughout the
release.
Proposed Information Collection
Title of Information Collection: Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Disclosure Requirements
Associated with Proprietary Trading and Certain Interests in and Relationships with
Covered Funds.
Frequency of Response: Annual, monthly, quarterly, and on occasion.
Affected Public: Businesses or other for-profit.
Respondents:
Board: State member banks, bank holding companies, savings and loan holding
companies, mutual holding companies, foreign banking organizations, U.S. branches or
agencies of foreign banks, and other holding companies that control an insured
depository institution. The Board will take burden for all institutions under a holding
company including:
•

OCC-supervised institutions,

•

FDIC-supervised institutions,

•

Banking entities for which the CFTC is the primary financial regulatory agency,
as defined in section 2(12)(C) of the Dodd-Frank Act, and

•

Banking entities for which the SEC is the primary financial regulatory agency, as
defined in section 2(12)(B) of the Dodd-Frank Act.

931

OCC: National banks, federal savings associations, federal savings banks not
under a holding company, and their respective subsidiaries, and their affiliates not under
a holding company, and U.S. branches or agencies of foreign banks. The OCC will take
the burden with respect to registered investment advisers and commodity trading advisers
and commodity pool operators that are subsidiaries of national banks, federal savings
associations, and federal savings banks not under a bank holding company.
FDIC: Insured state nonmember banks not under a holding company; state
savings associations and state savings banks not under a holding company; subsidiaries of
state nonmember banks, state savings associations, and state savings banks not under a
holding company; and foreign banks having an insured branch and their branches and
agencies.
Abstract:
Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act added a new section 13 to the BHC Act (to be
codified at 12 U.S.C. 1851) that generally prohibits any banking entity from engaging in
proprietary trading or from investing in, sponsoring, or having certain relationships with a
hedge fund or private equity fund, subject to certain exemptions. As noted above, the
final rule contains requirements subject to the PRA. The Agencies believe that the
reporting, recordkeeping, and disclosure requirements associated with the rule will permit
banking entities and the Agencies to enforce compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act
and the final rule and to identify, monitor and limit risks of activities permitted under
section 13, particularly involving banking entities posing the greatest risk to financial
stability. Compliance with the information collections would be mandatory. As noted
above, a number of commenters addressed reporting and recordkeeping requirements and

932

the utility of the information to be collected outside the context of the PRA. As a result
of these comments, the Agencies made changes to the rule, which are discussed
throughout the release. The final burden estimates take these changes into account and
reflect the anticipated burden under the final rules. As discussed in the release, in brief,
the purpose for the recordkeeping, disclosure, and reporting requirements contained
within the rule is to facilitate compliance with section 13 of the BHC and implementing
rules.
Section-by-Section Analysis
PRA Reporting Requirements
Section __.12(e) states that, upon application by a banking entity, the Board may
extend the period of time to meet the requirements on ownership limitations in this
section for up to 2 additional years, if the Board finds that an extension would be
consistent with safety and soundness and not detrimental to the public interest. An
application for extension must (1) be submitted to the Board at least 90 days prior to
expiration, (2) provide the reasons for application including information that addresses
the factors in paragraph (e)(2) of § __.12, and (3) explain the banking entity’s plan for
reducing the permitted investment in a covered fund through redemption, sale, dilution or
other methods.
Section __.20(d) provides that a banking entity engaged in proprietary trading
activity must comply with the reporting requirements described in Appendix A, if (1) the
banking entity has, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, trading assets and
liabilities the average gross sum of which over the previous consecutive four quarters, as
measured as of the last day of each of the four prior calendar quarters, equals or exceeds

933

the established threshold; (2) in the case of a foreign banking entity, the average gross
sum of the trading assets and liabilities of the combined U.S. operations of the foreign
banking entity (including all subsidiaries, affiliates, branches and agencies of the foreign
banking entity operating, located or organized in the United States and excluding trading
assets and liabilities involving obligations of or guaranteed by the United States or any
agency of the United States) over the previous consecutive four quarters, as measured as
of the last day of each of the four prior calendar quarters, equals or exceeds the
established threshold; or (3) the appropriate agency notifies the banking entity in writing
that it must satisfy the reporting requirements contained in Appendix A of this part. The
threshold for reporting is $50 billion beginning on June 30, 2014; $25 billion beginning
on April 30, 2016; and $10 billion beginning on December 31, 2016. Unless the
appropriate agency notifies the banking entity in writing that it must report on a different
basis, a banking entity with $50 billion or more in trading assets and liabilities shall
report the information required by Appendix A for each calendar month within 30 days of
the end of the relevant calendar month; beginning with information for the month of
January 2015, such information shall be reported within 10 days of the end of that
calendar month. Any other banking entity subject to Appendix A shall report the
information required by Appendix A for each calendar quarter within 30 days of the end
of that calendar quarter unless the appropriate agency notifies the banking entity in
writing that it must report on a different basis. Appendix A requires banking entities to
furnish the following quantitative measurements for each trading desk of the banking
entity: (1) risk and position limits and usage; (2) risk factor sensitivities; (3) Value-at-

934

Risk and stress VaR; (4) comprehensive profit and loss attribution; (5) inventory
turnover; (6) inventory aging; and (7) customer facing trade ratio.
Recordkeeping Requirements
Section __.3(d)(3) specifies that proprietary trading does not include any purchase
or sale of a security by a banking entity for the purpose of liquidity management in
accordance with a documented liquidity management plan of the banking entity that (1)
specifically contemplates and authorizes the particular securities to be used for liquidity
management purposes, the amount, types, and risks of these securities that are consistent
with liquidity management, and the liquidity circumstances in which the particular
securities may or must be used; (2) requires that any purchase or sale of securities
contemplated and authorized by the plan be principally for the purpose of managing the
liquidity of the banking entity, and not for the purpose of short-term resale, benefitting
from actual or expected short-term price movements, realizing short-term arbitrage
profits, or hedging a position taken for such short-term purposes; (3) requires that any
securities purchased or sold for liquidity management purposes be highly liquid and
limited to securities the market, credit and other risks of which the banking entity does
not reasonably expect to give rise to appreciable profits or losses as a result of short-term
price movements; (4) limits any securities purchased or sold for liquidity management
purposes, together with any other instruments purchased or sold for such purposes, to an
amount that is consistent with the banking entity’s near-term funding needs, including
deviations from normal operations of the banking entity or any affiliate thereof, as
estimated and documented pursuant to methods specified in the plan; (5) includes written
policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis and independent testing to ensure that

935

the purchase and sale of securities that are not permitted under § __.6(a) or (b) of this part
are for the purpose of liquidity management and in accordance with the liquidity
management plan described in this paragraph; and (6) is consistent with the appropriate
agency’s supervisory requirements, guidance and expectations regarding liquidity
management.
Section __.4(b)(3)(i)(A) provides that a trading desk or other organizational unit
of another entity with more than $50 billion in trading assets and liabilities is not a client,
customer, or counterparty unless the trading desk documents how and why a particular
trading desk or other organizational unit of the entity should be treated as a client,
customer, or counterparty of the trading desk for purposes of § __.4(b). This
modification responds to comments received on the proposal regarding the definition of
client, customer, or counterparty for purposes of the market making exemption.
Section __.5(c) requires documentation for any purchase or sale of a financial
instrument for risk-mitigating hedging purposes that is: (1) not established by the specific
trading desk establishing the underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings the risks of
which the hedging activity is designed to reduce; (2) established by the specific trading
desk establishing or responsible for the underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings
but that is not specifically identified in the trading desk’s written policies and procedures;
or (3) established to hedge aggregated positions across two or more trading desks. In
connection with any purchase or sale that meets these specified circumstances, a banking
entity must, at a minimum and contemporaneously with the purchase or sale, document
(1) the specific, identifiable risk(s) of the identified positions, contracts, or other holdings
of the banking entity that the purchase or sale is designed to reduce; (2) the specific risk-

936

mitigating strategy that the purchase or sale is designed to fulfill; and (3) the trading
desks or other business unit that is establishing and responsible for the hedge. The
banking entity must also create and retain records sufficient to demonstrate compliance
with this section for at least 5 years in a form that allows the banking entity to promptly
produce such records to the appropriate agency on request, or such longer period as
required under other law or this part.
Section __.11(a)(2) requires that covered funds generally must be organized and
offered only in connection with the provision of bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment
advisory, or commodity trading advisory services and only to persons that are customers
of such services of the banking entity, pursuant to a written plan or similar documentation
outlining how the banking entity intends to provide advisory or other similar services to
its customers through organizing and offering the covered fund.
Section __.20(b) specifies the contents of the compliance program for a banking
entity with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. It includes: (1) written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to document, describe, monitor and limit
trading activities, including setting and monitoring required limits set out in § __.4 and §
__.5 and activities and investments with respect to a covered fund (including those
permitted under §§ __.3 through __.6 or §§ __.11 through __.14) to ensure that all
activities and investments conducted by the banking entity that are subject to section 13
of the BHC Act and this part comply with section 13 of the BHC Act and applicable
regulations; (2) a system of internal controls reasonably designed to monitor compliance
with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and to prevent the occurrence of activities or
investments that are prohibited by section 13 of the BHC Act and applicable regulations;

937

(3) a management framework that clearly delineates responsibility and accountability for
compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and includes appropriate
management review of trading limits, strategies, hedging activities, investments,
incentive compensation and other matters identified in this part or by management as
requiring attention; (4) independent testing and audit of the effectiveness of the
compliance program conducted periodically by qualified personnel of the banking entity
or by a qualified outside party; (5) training for trading personnel and managers, as well as
other appropriate personnel, to effectively implement and enforce the compliance
program; and (6) records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with section 13 of the
BHC Act and applicable regulations, which a banking entity must promptly provide to
the [Agency] upon request and retain for a period of no less than 5 years or such longer
period as required by [Agency].
Section __.20(c) specifies that the compliance program of a banking entity must
satisfy the requirements and other standards contained in Appendix B, if (1) the banking
entity engages in proprietary trading permitted under subpart B and is required to comply
with the reporting requirements of § __.20(d); (2) the banking entity has reported total
consolidated assets as of the previous calendar year end of $50 billion or more or, in the
case of a foreign banking entity, has total U.S. assets as of the previous calendar year end
of $50 billion or more (including all subsidiaries, affiliates, branches and agencies of the
foreign banking entity operating, located or organized in the United States); or (3) the
[Agency] notifies the banking entity in writing that it must satisfy the requirements and
other standards contained in Appendix B. Appendix B provides enhanced minimum
standards for compliance programs for banking entities that meet the thresholds in §

938

__.20(c) as described above. These include the establishment, maintenance, and
enforcement of the enhanced compliance program and meeting the minimum written
policies and procedures, internal controls, management framework, independent testing,
training, and recordkeeping. The program must: (1) be reasonably designed to identify,
document, monitor and report the permitted trading and covered fund activities and
investments; identify, monitor and promptly address the risk of these covered activities
and investments and potential areas of noncompliance; and prevent activities or
investments prohibited by, or that do not comply with, section 13 of the BHC Act and
this part; (2) establish and enforce appropriate limits on covered activities and
investments, including limits on size, scope, complexity, and risks of individual activities
or investments consistent with the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act and this
part; (3) subject the effectiveness of the compliance program to periodic independent
review and testing, and ensure that internal audit, corporate compliance and internal
control functions involved in review and testing are effective and independent; (4) make
senior management and others accountable for effective implementation of compliance
program and ensure that board of directors and chief executive officer (or equivalent) of
the banking entity review effectiveness of the compliance program; and (5) facilitate
supervision and examination by Agencies of permitted trading and covered fund
activities and investments.
Section __.20(d) provides that certain banking entities engaged in certain
proprietary trading activities must comply with the reporting requirements described in
Appendix A. A banking entity must also, for any quantitative measurement furnished to
the appropriate agency pursuant to § __.20(d) and Appendix A, create and maintain

939

records documenting the preparation and content of these reports, as well as such
information as is necessary to permit the appropriate agency to verify the accuracy of
such reports, for a period of 5 years from the end of the calendar year for which the
measurement was taken.
Section __.20(e) specifies additional documentation required for covered funds.
Any banking entity that has more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets as reported
on December 31 of the previous two calendar years shall maintain records that include:
(1) documentation of the exclusions or exemptions other than sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7)
of the Investment Company Act of 1940 relied on by each fund sponsored by the banking
entity (including all subsidiaries and affiliates) in determining that such fund is not a
covered fund; (2) for each fund sponsored by the banking entity (including all
subsidiaries and affiliates) for which the banking entity relies on one or more of the
exclusions from the definition of covered fund provided by §§ __.10(c)(1),__.10(c)(5),
__.10(c)(8), __.10(c)(9), or __.10(c)(10) of subpart C, documentation supporting the
banking entity’s determination that the fund is not a covered fund pursuant to one or
more of those exclusions; (3) for each seeding vehicle described in §§ __.10(c)(12)(i) or
__.10(c)(12)(iii) of subpart C that will become a registered investment company or SECregulated business development company, a written plan documenting the banking
entity’s determination that the seeding vehicle will become a registered investment
company or SEC-regulated business development company; the period of time during
which the vehicle will operate as a seeding vehicle; and the banking entity’s plan to
market the vehicle to third-party investors and convert it into a registered investment
company or SEC-regulated business development company within the time period

940

specified in § __.12(a)(2)(i)(B) of subpart C; and (4) for any banking entity that is, or is
controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under
the laws of the United States or of any State, if the aggregate amount of ownership
interests in foreign public funds that are described in §__.10(c)(1) of subpart C owned by
such banking entity (including ownership interests owned by any affiliate that is
controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is located in or organized under
the laws of the United States or of any State) exceeds $50 million at the end of two or
more consecutive calendar quarters, beginning with the next succeeding calendar quarter,
documentation of the value of the ownership interests owned by the banking entity (and
such affiliates) in each foreign public fund and each jurisdiction in which any such
foreign public fund is organized, calculated as of the end of each calendar quarter, which
documentation must continue until the banking entity’s aggregate amount of ownership
interests in foreign public funds is below $50 million for two consecutive calendar
quarters.
Section __.20(f)(1) applies to banking entities with no covered activities. A
banking entity that does not engage in activities or investments pursuant to subpart B or
subpart C (other than trading activities permitted pursuant to §__.6(a) of subpart B) may
satisfy the requirements of this section by establishing the required compliance program
prior to becoming engaged in such activities or making such investments (other than
trading activities permitted pursuant to §__.6(a) of subpart B).
Section __.20(f)(2) applies to banking entities with modest activities. A banking
entity with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or less as reported on December 31 of
the previous two calendar years that engages in activities or investments pursuant to

941

subpart B or subpart C of this part (other than trading activities permitted under section
__.6(a)) may satisfy the requirements of this section by including in its existing
compliance policies and procedures appropriate references to the requirements of section
13 and this part and adjustments as appropriate given the activities, size, scope and
complexity of the banking entity.
Disclosure Requirements
Section __.11(a)(8)(i) requires that a banking entity must clearly and
conspicuously disclose, in writing, to any prospective and actual investor in the covered
fund (such as through disclosure in the covered fund’s offering documents) (1) that “any
losses in [such covered fund] will be borne solely by investors in [the covered fund] and
not by [the banking entity]; therefore, [the banking entity’s] losses in [such covered fund]
will be limited to losses attributable to the ownership interests in the covered fund held
by [the banking entity] in its capacity as investor in the [covered fund] or as beneficiary
of a restricted profit interest held by [the banking entity]”; (2) that such investor should
read the fund offering documents before investing in the covered fund; (3) that the
“ownership interests in the covered fund are not insured by the FDIC, and are not
deposits, obligations of, or endorsed or guaranteed in any way, by any banking entity”
(unless that happens to be the case); and (4) the role of the banking entity and its affiliates
and employees in sponsoring or providing any services to the covered fund.
PRA Burden Estimates
In determining the method for estimating the paperwork burden, the Agencies
made the assumption that affiliated entities under a holding company would act in
concert with one another to take advantage of efficiencies that may exist.

942

Estimated PRA Burden per Response:
Reporting Burden
§ __.12(e) – 20 hours (Initial set up 50 hours).
§ __.20(d) – 2 hours (Initial setup 6 hours).

PRA Recordkeeping Burden
§ __.3(d)(3) – 1 hour (Initial setup 3 hours).
§ __.4(b)(3)(i)(A) – 2 hours.
§ __.5(c) – 100 hours (Initial setup 50 hours).
§ __.11(a)(2) – 10 hours.
§ __.20(b) – 265 hours (Initial setup 795 hours).
§ __.20(c) – 1,200 hours (Initial setup 3,600 hours).
§ __.20(d) – 440 hours for entities with $50 billion or more in trading assets/liabilities;
350 hours for entities with $10 to $50 billion in trading assets/liabilities.
§ __.20(e) – 200 hours.
§ __.20(f)(1) – 8 hours.
§ __.20(f)(2) – 40 (Initial setup 100 hours).

PRA Disclosure Burden
§ __.11(a)(8)(i) – 0.1 hours.

Board

943

Number of respondents: 5,027.
Total estimated annual burden: 2,336,190 hours (968,488 hours for initial setup and
1,367,702 hours for ongoing compliance).
FDIC
Number of respondents: 797.
Total estimated annual burden: 28,234 hours (14,165 hours for initial setup and 14,069
hours for ongoing compliance).
OCC
Number of respondents: 381.
Total estimated annual burden: 28,016 hours (14,386 hours for initial setup and 13,630
hours for ongoing compliance).
C.

Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis
In general, section 4 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 604) (RFA)

requires an agency to prepare a final regulatory flexibility analysis (FRFA) for a final rule
unless the agency certifies that the rule will not, if promulgated, have a significant
economic impact on a substantial number of small entities (defined as of July 22, 2013, to
include banking entities with total assets of $500 million or less (“small banking
entities”). 2819 Pursuant to section 605(b) of the RFA, a FRFA is not required if an agency
certifies that the final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial
number of small entities. The Agencies have considered the potential economic impact

2819

See 13 CFR 121.201; See also 13 CFR § 121.103(a)(6) (noting factors that the Small Business
Administration considers in determining whether an entity qualifies as a small business, including receipts,
employees, and other measures of its domestic and foreign affiliates).

944

of the final rule on small banking entities in accordance with the RFA. The Agencies
believe that the final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial
number of small banking entities for the reasons described below.
The Agencies previously considered the impact of the proposed rule for purposes
of the RFA and concluded that the proposed rule would not appear to have a significant
economic impact on a substantial number of small banking entities. In support of this
conclusion, the proposed rule, among other things, noted that the thresholds for the
metrics reporting requirements under §_.7 and Appendix A and for the enhanced and core
compliance program requirements under §_.20 and Appendix C of the proposed rule
would not capture small banking entities. 2820
The Agencies received several comments on the impact of the proposed rule on
small entities. Commenters argued that the Agencies incorrectly concluded that the
proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of
small entities. 2821 Commenters asserted that the proposed rule would have a significant
economic impact on numerous small non-banking entities by restricting their access to a
variety of products and services, including covered fund-linked products for investment
and hedging purposes and underwriting and market-making related services. 2822
The Agencies have carefully considered these comments in developing a final
rule. To minimize burden on small banking entities, section __.20(f)(1) of the final rule
provides that a banking entity that does not engage in covered trading activities (other

2820

See Joint Proposal, 76 FR at 68,938-68,939.

2821

See BoA; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012); ABA (Keating).

2822

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012).

945

than trading in U.S. government or agency obligations, obligations of specified
government sponsored entities, and state and municipal obligations) or covered fund
activities and investments need only establish a compliance program prior to becoming
engaged in such activities or making such investments. In addition, to minimize the
burden on small banking entities, a banking entity with total consolidated assets of $10
billion or less that engages in covered trading activities and/or covered fund activities
may satisfy the requirements of the final rule by including in its existing compliance
policies and procedures appropriate references to the requirements of section 13 and the
final rule and adjustments as appropriate given the activities, size, scope and complexity
of the banking entity. Only those banking entities with total assets of greater than $10
billion will need to adopt more detailed or enhanced compliance requirements under the
final rule. (For purposes of the enhanced compliance program in Appendix B of the final
rule, the threshold for banking entities is total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more.)
Accordingly, the compliance requirements under the final rule do not have a significant
economic impact on a substantial number of small banking entities.
Likewise, the final rule raises the threshold for metrics reporting from the
proposed rule to capture only firms that engage in significant trading activities.
Specifically, the metrics reporting requirements under § _.20 and Appendix A of the final
rule apply only to banking entities with average trading assets and liabilities on a
consolidated, worldwide basis for the preceding year equal to or greater than $10 billion.
Accordingly, the metrics reporting requirements under the final rule do not impact small
banking entities.

946

Moreover, the Agencies have revised the definition of covered fund in the final
rule to address many of the concerns raised by commenters regarding the unintended
consequences of the proposed definition. 2823 The definition of covered fund under the
final rule contains a number of exclusions for entities that may rely on exclusions from
the Investment Company Act of 1940 contained in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act
but that are not engaged in investment activities of the type contemplated by section 13 of
the BHC Act. These include, for example, exclusions for wholly owned subsidiaries,
joint ventures, acquisition vehicles, insurance company separate accounts, registered
investments companies, and public welfare investment funds. The Agencies believe that
these changes will further minimize the burden for small banking entities such as those
that may use wholly owned subsidiaries for organizational convenience or make public
welfare investments to achieve their financial and Community Reinvestment Act goals.
Finally, in response to commenters’ assertion that the proposed rule would have
had a significant economic impact on numerous small non-banking entities by restricting
their access to a variety of products and services, 2824 the Agencies note that the RFA does
not require the Agencies to consider the impact of the final rule, including its indirect

2823

See Part IV.B.1. of this Supplementary Information.

2824

See SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds) (Feb. 2012); Chamber (Feb. 2012).

947

economic effects, on small entities that are not subject to the requirements of the final
rule. 2825
For the reasons stated above, the OCC, FDIC, SEC, and CFTC certify, for the
banking entities subject to each such Agency’s jurisdiction, that the final rule will not
result in a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. In light
of the foregoing, the Board does not believe, for the banking entities subject to the
Board’s jurisdiction, that the final rule would have a significant economic impact on a
substantial number of small entities.
D.

OCC Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 Determination
The Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995, Pub. L. 104-4 (2 U.S.C. 1532)

(UMRA) requires a Federal agency to prepare a budgetary impact statement before
promulgating any rule likely to result in a Federal mandate that may result in the
expenditure by State, local, and tribal governments, in the aggregate, or by the private
sector of $100 million or more (adjusted annually for inflation) in any one year. If a
budgetary impact statement is required, Section 205 of the UMRA also requires an
agency to identify and consider a reasonable number of regulatory alternatives before
promulgating a rule.

2825

See e.g., In Mid-Tex Electric Cooperative v. FERC, 773 F.2d 327 (D.C. Cir. 1985); United Distribution
Cos. v. FERC, 88 F.3d 1105, 1170 (D.C. Cir. 1996); Cement Kiln Recycling Coalition v. EPA, 255 F.3d
855 (D.C. Cir. 2001). Commenters relied on Aeronautical Repair Station Association v. Federal Aviation
Administration, 494 F.3d 161 (D.C. Cir 2007) to argue that the Agencies must consider the indirect
economic effects of the final rule on small non-banking entities. This case is inapposite, however, because
there the agency’s own rulemaking release expressly stated that the rule imposed responsibilities directly
on certain small business contractors. The court reaffirmed its prior holdings that the RFA limits its
application to small entities “which will be subject to the proposed regulation – that is, those small entities
to which the proposed rule will apply.” Id. at 176 (emphasis and internal quotations omitted).

948

The OCC previously determined that the proposed rule would not impose any
Federal mandates resulting in expenditures by State, local, and tribal governments, in the
aggregate, or by the private sector of $100 million or more (adjusted annually for
inflation) in any one year. Several commenters argued that the OCC failed to consider all
relevant expenditures and that that the proposed rule should have qualified as a
significant regulatory action under UMRA. 2826
The OCC has carefully considered these comments in completing its UMRA
analysis of the final rule. The OCC has determined that the final rule qualifies as a
significant regulatory action under the UMRA because its Federal mandates may result in
expenditures by the private sector in excess of $100 million or more (adjusted annually
for inflation) in any one year.

2826

See BoA; SIFMA et al. (Covered Funds); Chamber.

949

Text of Common Rule

PART [ ] PROPRIETARY TRADING AND CERTAIN INTERESTS IN AND
RELATIONSHIPS WITH COVERED FUNDSSec.
Subpart A

Authority and Definitions

Sec.
___.1 Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities [Reserved].
___.2 Definitions.
Subpart B

Proprietary Trading

___.3 Prohibition on proprietary trading.
___.4 Permitted underwriting and market making-related activities.
___.5 Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
___.6 Other permitted proprietary trading activities.
___.7 Limitations on permitted proprietary trading activities.
___.8 [Reserved]
___.9 [Reserved]
Subpart C

Covered Fund Activities and Investments

___.10 Prohibition on acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in and having certain
relationships with a covered fund.
___.11 Permitted organizing and offering, underwriting, and market making with respect
to a covered fund.
___.12 Permitted investment in a covered fund.
___.13 Other permitted covered fund activities and investments.
___.14 Limitations on relationships with a covered fund.
950

___.15 Other limitations on permitted covered fund activities and investments.
___.16 [Reserved]
___.17 [Reserved]
___.18 [Reserved]
___.19 [Reserved]
Subpart D

Compliance Program Requirement; Violations

___.20 Program for compliance; reporting.
___.21 Termination of activities or investments; penalties for violations.
Appendix A

Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements for Covered Trading Activities

Appendix B

Enhanced Minimum Standards for Compliance Programs

Subpart A – Authority and Definitions
§ ___.1 Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities [Reserved]
§ ___.2 Definitions.
Unless otherwise specified, for purposes of this part:
(a)

Affiliate has the same meaning as in section 2(k) of the Bank Holding

Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(k)).
(b)

Bank holding company has the same meaning as in section 2 of the Bank

Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841).
(c)

Banking entity. (1)

Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this

section, banking entity means:
(i)

Any insured depository institution;

(ii)

Any company that controls an insured depository institution;

951

(iii)

Any company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of

section 8 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106); and
(iv)

Any affiliate or subsidiary of any entity described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i),

(ii), or (iii) of this section.
(2)

Banking entity does not include:

(i)

A covered fund that is not itself a banking entity under paragraphs

(c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section;
(ii)

A portfolio company held under the authority contained in section

4(k)(4)(H) or (I) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(H), (I)), or any portfolio concern,
as defined under 13 CFR 107.50, that is controlled by a small business investment
company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15
U.S.C. 662), so long as the portfolio company or portfolio concern is not itself a banking
entity under paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section; or
(iii)

The FDIC acting in its corporate capacity or as conservator or receiver

under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(d)

Board means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.

(e)

CFTC means the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

(f)

Dealer has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(5) of the Exchange Act (15

U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)).
(g)

Depository institution has the same meaning as in section 3(c) of the

Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)).

952

(h)

Derivative. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section,

derivative means:
(i)

Any swap, as that term is defined in section 1a(47) of the Commodity

Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)), or security-based swap, as that term is defined in section
3(a)(68) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68));
(ii)

Any purchase or sale of a commodity, that is not an excluded commodity,

for deferred shipment or delivery that is intended to be physically settled;
(iii) Any foreign exchange forward (as that term is defined in section 1a(24) of
the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(24)) or foreign exchange swap (as that term
is defined in section 1a(25) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(25));
(iv) Any agreement, contract, or transaction in foreign currency described in
section 2(c)(2)(C)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(C)(i));
(v)

Any agreement, contract, or transaction in a commodity other than foreign

currency described in section 2(c)(2)(D)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C.
2(c)(2)(D)(i)); and
(vi) Any transaction authorized under section 19 of the Commodity Exchange
Act (7 U.S.C. 23(a) or (b));
(2) A derivative does not include:
(i) Any consumer, commercial, or other agreement, contract, or transaction that
the CFTC and SEC have further defined by joint regulation, interpretation, guidance, or
other action as not within the definition of swap, as that term is defined in section 1a(47)
of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)), or security-based swap, as that term
is defined in section 3(a)(68) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68)); or

953

(ii) Any identified banking product, as defined in section 402(b) of the Legal
Certainty for Bank Products Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 27(b)), that is subject to section
403(a) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 27a(a)).
(i) Employee includes a member of the immediate family of the employee.
(j) Exchange Act means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.).
(k)

Excluded commodity has the same meaning as in section 1a(19) of the

Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(19)).
(l)

FDIC means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

(m) Federal banking agencies means the Board, the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, and the FDIC.
(n)

Foreign banking organization has the same meaning as in section 211.21(o)

of the Board’s Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21(o)), but does not include a foreign bank, as
defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7)),
that is organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American
Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
Islands.
(o)

Foreign insurance regulator means the insurance commissioner, or a similar

official or agency, of any country other than the United States that is engaged in the
supervision of insurance companies under foreign insurance law.
(p)

General account means all of the assets of an insurance company except

those allocated to one or more separate accounts.
(q)

Insurance company means a company that is organized as an insurance

company, primarily and predominantly engaged in writing insurance or reinsuring risks

954

underwritten by insurance companies, subject to supervision as such by a state insurance
regulator or a foreign insurance regulator, and not operated for the purpose of evading the
provisions of section 13 of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1851).
(r)

Insured depository institution has the same meaning as in section 3(c) of the

Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)), but does not include an insured
depository institution that is described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C.
1841(c)(2)(D)).
(s)

Loan means any loan, lease, extension of credit, or secured or unsecured

receivable that is not a security or derivative.
(t)

Primary financial regulatory agency has the same meaning as in section

2(12) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C.
5301(12)).
(u)

Purchase includes any contract to buy, purchase, or otherwise acquire. For

security futures products, purchase includes any contract, agreement, or transaction for
future delivery. With respect to a commodity future, purchase includes any contract,
agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a derivative, purchase
includes the execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date), assignment,
exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations
under, a derivative, as the context may require.
(v)

Qualifying foreign banking organization means a foreign banking

organization that qualifies as such under section 211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board’s
Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c), or (e)).
(w)

SEC means the Securities and Exchange Commission.

955

(x)

Sale and sell each include any contract to sell or otherwise dispose of. For

security futures products, such terms include any contract, agreement, or transaction for
future delivery. With respect to a commodity future, such terms include any contract,
agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a derivative, such terms
include the execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date), assignment,
exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations
under, a derivative, as the context may require.
(y)

Security has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(10) of the Exchange

Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)).
(z)

Security-based swap dealer has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(71) of

the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71)).
(aa)

Security future has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(55) of the

Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(55)).
(bb)

Separate account means an account established and maintained by an

insurance company in connection with one or more insurance contracts to hold assets that
are legally segregated from the insurance company’s other assets, under which income,
gains, and losses, whether or not realized, from assets allocated to such account, are, in
accordance with the applicable contract, credited to or charged against such account
without regard to other income, gains, or losses of the insurance company.
(cc)

State means any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of

Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

956

(dd)

Subsidiary has the same meaning as in section 2(d) of the Bank Holding

Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(d)).
(ee)

State insurance regulator means the insurance commissioner, or a similar

official or agency, of a State that is engaged in the supervision of insurance companies
under State insurance law.
(ff)

Swap dealer has the same meaning as in section 1(a)(49) of the

Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(49)).
Subpart B – Proprietary Trading
§ ___.3

Prohibition on proprietary trading.
(a)

Prohibition. Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a banking entity

may not engage in proprietary trading. Proprietary trading means engaging as principal
for the trading account of the banking entity in any purchase or sale of one or more
financial instruments.
(b)

Definition of trading account. (1)

Trading account means any account

that is used by a banking entity to:
(i)

Purchase or sell one or more financial instruments principally for the purpose of:

(A)

Short-term resale;

(B)

Benefitting from actual or expected short-term price movements;

(C)

Realizing short-term arbitrage profits; or

(D)

Hedging one or more positions resulting from the purchases or sales of

financial instruments described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section;
(ii)

Purchase or sell one or more financial instruments that are both market

risk capital rule covered positions and trading positions (or hedges of other market risk

957

capital rule covered positions), if the banking entity, or any affiliate of the banking entity,
is an insured depository institution, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding
company, and calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule; or
(iii)

Purchase or sell one or more financial instruments for any purpose, if the

banking entity:
(A)

Is licensed or registered, or is required to be licensed or registered, to

engage in the business of a dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer, to the
extent the instrument is purchased or sold in connection with the activities that require the
banking entity to be licensed or registered as such; or
(B)

Is engaged in the business of a dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap

dealer outside of the United States, to the extent the instrument is purchased or sold in
connection with the activities of such business.
(2)

Rebuttable presumption for certain purchases and sales. The purchase (or

sale) of a financial instrument by a banking entity shall be presumed to be for the trading
account of the banking entity under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section if the banking
entity holds the financial instrument for fewer than sixty days or substantially transfers
the risk of the financial instrument within sixty days of the purchase (or sale), unless the
banking entity can demonstrate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances, that the
banking entity did not purchase (or sell) the financial instrument principally for any of the
purposes described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(c)

Financial instrument. (1) Financial instrument means:

(i)

A security, including an option on a security;

(ii)

A derivative, including an option on a derivative; or

958

(iii)

A contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or option on a

contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery.
(2)

A financial instrument does not include:

(i)

A loan;

(ii)

A commodity that is not:

(A)

An excluded commodity (other than foreign exchange or currency);

(B)

A derivative;

(C)

A contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery; or

(D)

An option on a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery; or

(iii)

Foreign exchange or currency.

(d)

Proprietary trading. Proprietary trading does not include:

(1)

Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking

entity that arises under a repurchase or reverse repurchase agreement pursuant to which
the banking entity has simultaneously agreed, in writing, to both purchase and sell a
stated asset, at stated prices, and on stated dates or on demand with the same
counterparty;
(2)

Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking

entity that arises under a transaction in which the banking entity lends or borrows a
security temporarily to or from another party pursuant to a written securities lending
agreement under which the lender retains the economic interests of an owner of such
security, and has the right to terminate the transaction and to recall the loaned security on
terms agreed by the parties;

959

(3)

Any purchase or sale of a security by a banking entity for the purpose of

liquidity management in accordance with a documented liquidity management plan of the
banking entity that:
(i)

Specifically contemplates and authorizes the particular securities to be

used for liquidity management purposes, the amount, types, and risks of these securities
that are consistent with liquidity management, and the liquidity circumstances in which
the particular securities may or must be used;
(ii)

Requires that any purchase or sale of securities contemplated and

authorized by the plan be principally for the purpose of managing the liquidity of the
banking entity, and not for the purpose of short-term resale, benefitting from actual or
expected short-term price movements, realizing short-term arbitrage profits, or hedging a
position taken for such short-term purposes;
(iii)

Requires that any securities purchased or sold for liquidity management

purposes be highly liquid and limited to securities the market, credit, and other risks of
which the banking entity does not reasonably expect to give rise to appreciable profits or
losses as a result of short-term price movements;
(iv)

Limits any securities purchased or sold for liquidity management

purposes, together with any other instruments purchased or sold for such purposes, to an
amount that is consistent with the banking entity’s near-term funding needs, including
deviations from normal operations of the banking entity or any affiliate thereof, as
estimated and documented pursuant to methods specified in the plan;
(v)

Includes written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and

independent testing to ensure that the purchase and sale of securities that are not

960

permitted under §§ __.6(a) or (b) of this subpart are for the purpose of liquidity
management and in accordance with the liquidity management plan described in
paragraph (d)(3) of this section; and
(vi)

Is consistent with [Agency]’s supervisory requirements, guidance, and

expectations regarding liquidity management;
(4)

Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking

entity that is a derivatives clearing organization or a clearing agency in connection with
clearing financial instruments;
(5)

Any excluded clearing activities by a banking entity that is a member of a

clearing agency, a member of a derivatives clearing organization, or a member of a
designated financial market utility;
(6)

Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking

entity, so long as:
(i)

The purchase (or sale) satisfies an existing delivery obligation of the

banking entity or its customers, including to prevent or close out a failure to deliver, in
connection with delivery, clearing, or settlement activity; or
(ii)

The purchase (or sale) satisfies an obligation of the banking entity in

connection with a judicial, administrative, self-regulatory organization, or arbitration
proceeding;
(7)

Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking

entity that is acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian;
(8)

Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking

entity through a deferred compensation, stock-bonus, profit-sharing, or pension plan of

961

the banking entity that is established and administered in accordance with the law of the
United States or a foreign sovereign, if the purchase or sale is made directly or indirectly
by the banking entity as trustee for the benefit of persons who are or were employees of
the banking entity; or
(9)

Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking

entity in the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith,
provided that the banking entity divests the financial instrument as soon as practicable,
and in no event may the banking entity retain such instrument for longer than such period
permitted by the [Agency].
(e)

Definition of other terms related to proprietary trading. For purposes of

this subpart:
(1)

Anonymous means that each party to a purchase or sale is unaware of the

identity of the other party(ies) to the purchase or sale.
(2)

Clearing agency has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(23) of the

Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)).
(3)

Commodity has the same meaning as in section 1a(9) of the Commodity

Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(9)), except that a commodity does not include any security;
(4)

Contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery means a contract of

sale (as that term is defined in section 1a(13) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C.
1a(13)) for future delivery (as that term is defined in section 1a(27) of the Commodity
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(27))).
(5)

Derivatives clearing organization means:

962

(i)

A derivatives clearing organization registered under section 5b of the

Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1);
(ii)

A derivatives clearing organization that, pursuant to CFTC regulation, is

exempt from the registration requirements under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange
Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1); or
(iii)

A foreign derivatives clearing organization that, pursuant to CFTC

regulation, is permitted to clear for a foreign board of trade that is registered with the
CFTC.
(6)

Exchange, unless the context otherwise requires, means any designated

contract market, swap execution facility, or foreign board of trade registered with the
CFTC, or, for purposes of securities or security-based swaps, an exchange, as defined
under section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1)), or security-based swap
execution facility, as defined under section 3(a)(77) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(77)).
(7)

Excluded clearing activities means:

(i)

With respect to customer transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing

organization, a clearing agency, or a designated financial market utility, any purchase or
sale necessary to correct trading errors made by or on behalf of a customer provided that
such purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with, for transactions cleared on a
derivatives clearing organization, the Commodity Exchange Act, CFTC regulations, and
the rules or procedures of the derivatives clearing organization, or, for transactions
cleared on a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the clearing agency, or, for
transactions cleared on a designated financial market utility that is neither a derivatives

963

clearing organization nor a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the designated
financial market utility;
(ii)

Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of

a default or threatened imminent default of a customer provided that such purchase or
sale is conducted in accordance with, for transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing
organization, the Commodity Exchange Act, CFTC regulations, and the rules or
procedures of the derivatives clearing organization, or, for transactions cleared on a
clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the clearing agency, or, for transactions
cleared on a designated financial market utility that is neither a derivatives clearing
organization nor a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the designated financial
market utility;
(iii)

Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of

a default or threatened imminent default of a member of a clearing agency, a member of a
derivatives clearing organization, or a member of a designated financial market utility;
(iv)

Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of

the default or threatened default of a clearing agency, a derivatives clearing organization,
or a designated financial market utility; and
(v)

Any purchase or sale that is required by the rules or procedures of a

clearing agency, a derivatives clearing organization, or a designated financial market
utility to mitigate the risk to the clearing agency, derivatives clearing organization, or
designated financial market utility that would result from the clearing by a member of
security-based swaps that reference the member or an affiliate of the member.

964

(8)

Designated financial market utility has the same meaning as in section

803(4) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5462(4)).
(9)

Issuer has the same meaning as in section 2(a)(4) of the Securities Act of

1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(4)).
(10)

Market risk capital rule covered position and trading position means a

financial instrument that is both a covered position and a trading position, as those terms
are respectively defined:
(i)

In the case of a banking entity that is a bank holding company, savings

and loan holding company, or insured depository institution, under the market risk capital
rule that is applicable to the banking entity; and
(ii)

In the case of a banking entity that is affiliated with a bank holding

company or savings and loan holding company, other than a banking entity to which a
market risk capital rule is applicable, under the market risk capital rule that is applicable
to the affiliated bank holding company or savings and loan holding company.
(11)

Market risk capital rule means the market risk capital rule that is contained

in subpart F of 12 CFR part 3, 12 CFR parts 208 and 225, or 12 CFR part 324, as
applicable.
(12)

Municipal security means a security that is a direct obligation of or issued

by, or an obligation guaranteed as to principal or interest by, a State or any political
subdivision thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of a State or any political
subdivision thereof, or any municipal corporate instrumentality of one or more States or
political subdivisions thereof.

965

(13)

Trading desk means the smallest discrete unit of organization of a banking

entity that purchases or sells financial instruments for the trading account of the banking
entity or an affiliate thereof.
§ ___.4

Permitted underwriting and market making-related activities.
(a)

Underwriting activities—(1) Permitted underwriting activities. The

prohibition contained in § __.3(a) does not apply to a banking entity’s underwriting
activities conducted in accordance with this paragraph (a).
(2)

Requirements. The underwriting activities of a banking entity are

permitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section only if:
(i)

The banking entity is acting as an underwriter for a distribution of

securities and the trading desk’s underwriting position is related to such distribution;
(ii)

The amount and type of the securities in the trading desk’s underwriting

position are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients,
customers, or counterparties, and reasonable efforts are made to sell or otherwise reduce
the underwriting position within a reasonable period, taking into account the liquidity,
maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant type of security;
(iii)

The banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and

enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is
reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity’s compliance with the requirements of
paragraph (a) of this section, including reasonably designed written policies and
procedures, internal controls, analysis and independent testing identifying and
addressing:

966

(A)

The products, instruments or exposures each trading desk may purchase,

sell, or manage as part of its underwriting activities;
(B)

Limits for each trading desk, based on the nature and amount of the

trading desk’s underwriting activities, including the reasonably expected near term
demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, on the:
(1)

Amount, types, and risk of its underwriting position;

(2)

Level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its underwriting

position; and
(3)

Period of time a security may be held;

(C)

Internal controls and ongoing monitoring and analysis of each trading

desk’s compliance with its limits; and
(D)

Authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require

review and approval of any trade that would exceed a trading desk’s limit(s),
demonstrable analysis of the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading
desk’s limit(s), and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval;
(iv)

The compensation arrangements of persons performing the activities

described in this paragraph (a) are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited
proprietary trading; and
(v)

The banking entity is licensed or registered to engage in the activity

described in this paragraph (a) in accordance with applicable law.
(3)

Definition of distribution. For purposes of this paragraph (a), a

distribution of securities means:

967

(i)

An offering of securities, whether or not subject to registration under the

Securities Act of 1933, that is distinguished from ordinary trading transactions by the
presence of special selling efforts and selling methods; or
(ii)

An offering of securities made pursuant to an effective registration

statement under the Securities Act of 1933.
(4)

Definition of underwriter. For purposes of this paragraph (a), underwriter

(i)

A person who has agreed with an issuer or selling security holder to:

(A)

Purchase securities from the issuer or selling security holder for

means:

distribution;
(B)

Engage in a distribution of securities for or on behalf of the issuer or

selling security holder; or
(C)

Manage a distribution of securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling

security holder; or
(ii)

A person who has agreed to participate or is participating in a distribution

of such securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling security holder.
(5)

Definition of selling security holder. For purposes of this paragraph (a),

selling security holder means any person, other than an issuer, on whose behalf a
distribution is made.
(6)

Definition of underwriting position. For purposes of this paragraph (a),

underwriting position means the long or short positions in one or more securities held by
a banking entity or its affiliate, and managed by a particular trading desk, in connection

968

with a particular distribution of securities for which such banking entity or affiliate is
acting as an underwriter.
(7)

Definition of client, customer, and counterparty. For purposes of this

paragraph (a), the terms client, customer, and counterparty, on a collective or individual
basis, refer to market participants that may transact with the banking entity in connection
with a particular distribution for which the banking entity is acting as underwriter.
(b)

Market making-related activities—(1) Permitted market making-related

activities. The prohibition contained in § __.3(a) does not apply to a banking entity’s
market making-related activities conducted in accordance with this paragraph (b).
(2)

Requirements. The market making-related activities of a banking entity

are permitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section only if:
(i)

The trading desk that establishes and manages the financial exposure

routinely stands ready to purchase and sell one or more types of financial instruments
related to its financial exposure and is willing and available to quote, purchase and sell,
or otherwise enter into long and short positions in those types of financial instruments for
its own account, in commercially reasonable amounts and throughout market cycles on a
basis appropriate for the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types
of financial instruments;
(ii)

The amount, types, and risks of the financial instruments in the trading

desk’s market-maker inventory are designed not to exceed, on an ongoing basis, the
reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, based
on:

969

(A)

The liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of

financial instrument(s); and
(B)

Demonstrable analysis of historical customer demand, current inventory of

financial instruments, and market and other factors regarding the amount, types, and
risks, of or associated with financial instruments in which the trading desk makes a
market, including through block trades;
(iii)

The banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and

enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is
reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity’s compliance with the requirements of
paragraph (b) of this section, including reasonably designed written policies and
procedures, internal controls, analysis and independent testing identifying and
addressing:
(A)

The financial instruments each trading desk stands ready to purchase and

sell in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section;
(B)

The actions the trading desk will take to demonstrably reduce or otherwise

significantly mitigate promptly the risks of its financial exposure consistent with the
limits required under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(C) of this section; the products, instruments,
and exposures each trading desk may use for risk management purposes; the techniques
and strategies each trading desk may use to manage the risks of its market making-related
activities and inventory; and the process, strategies, and personnel responsible for
ensuring that the actions taken by the trading desk to mitigate these risks are and continue
to be effective;

970

(C)

Limits for each trading desk, based on the nature and amount of the

trading desk’s market making-related activities, that address the factors prescribed by
paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, on:
(1)

The amount, types, and risks of its market-maker inventory;

(2)

The amount, types, and risks of the products, instruments, and exposures

the trading desk may use for risk management purposes;
(3)

The level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its financial

exposure; and
(4)

The period of time a financial instrument may be held;

(D)

Internal controls and ongoing monitoring and analysis of each trading

desk’s compliance with its limits; and
(E)

Authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require

review and approval of any trade that would exceed a trading desk’s limit(s),
demonstrable analysis that the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading
desk’s limit(s) is consistent with the requirements of this paragraph (b), and independent
review of such demonstrable analysis and approval;
(iv)

To the extent that any limit identified pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(C)

of this section is exceeded, the trading desk takes action to bring the trading desk into
compliance with the limits as promptly as possible after the limit is exceeded;
(v)

The compensation arrangements of persons performing the activities

described in this paragraph (b) are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited
proprietary trading; and

971

(vi) The banking entity is licensed or registered to engage in activity described in
this paragraph (b) in accordance with applicable law.
(3)

Definition of client, customer, and counterparty. For purposes of

paragraph (b) of this section, the terms client, customer, and counterparty, on a collective
or individual basis refer to market participants that make use of the banking entity’s
market making-related services by obtaining such services, responding to quotations, or
entering into a continuing relationship with respect to such services, provided that:
(i)

A trading desk or other organizational unit of another banking entity is not

a client, customer, or counterparty of the trading desk if that other entity has trading
assets and liabilities of $50 billion or more as measured in accordance with § __.20(d)(1)
of subpart D, unless:
(A)

The trading desk documents how and why a particular trading desk or

other organizational unit of the entity should be treated as a client, customer, or
counterparty of the trading desk for purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(B)

The purchase or sale by the trading desk is conducted anonymously on an

exchange or similar trading facility that permits trading on behalf of a broad range of
market participants.
(4)

Definition of financial exposure. For purposes of this paragraph (b),

financial exposure means the aggregate risks of one or more financial instruments and
any associated loans, commodities, or foreign exchange or currency, held by a banking
entity or its affiliate and managed by a particular trading desk as part of the trading desk’s
market making-related activities.

972

(5)

Definition of market-maker inventory. For the purposes of this paragraph

(b), market-maker inventory means all of the positions in the financial instruments for
which the trading desk stands ready to make a market in accordance with paragraph
(b)(2)(i) of this section, that are managed by the trading desk, including the trading desk’s
open positions or exposures arising from open transactions.
§ ___.5

Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
(a)

Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities. The prohibition contained in

§ __.3(a) does not apply to the risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity in
connection with and related to individual or aggregated positions, contracts, or other
holdings of the banking entity and designed to reduce the specific risks to the banking
entity in connection with and related to such positions, contracts, or other holdings.
(b)

Requirements. The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity

are permitted under paragraph (a) of this section only if:
(1)

The banking entity has established and implements, maintains and

enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is
reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity’s compliance with the requirements of
this section, including:
(i)

Reasonably designed written policies and procedures regarding the

positions, techniques and strategies that may be used for hedging, including
documentation indicating what positions, contracts or other holdings a particular trading
desk may use in its risk-mitigating hedging activities, as well as position and aging limits
with respect to such positions, contracts or other holdings;

973

(ii)

Internal controls and ongoing monitoring, management, and authorization

procedures, including relevant escalation procedures; and
(iii)

The conduct of analysis, including correlation analysis, and independent

testing designed to ensure that the positions, techniques and strategies that may be used
for hedging may reasonably be expected to demonstrably reduce or otherwise
significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risk(s) being hedged, and such correlation
analysis demonstrates that the hedging activity demonstrably reduces or otherwise
significantly mitigates the specific, identifiable risk(s) being hedged;
(2)

The risk-mitigating hedging activity:

(i)

Is conducted in accordance with the written policies, procedures, and

internal controls required under this section;
(ii)

At the inception of the hedging activity, including, without limitation, any

adjustments to the hedging activity, is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly
mitigate and demonstrably reduces or otherwise significantly mitigates one or more
specific, identifiable risks, including market risk, counterparty or other credit risk,
currency or foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, basis risk, or
similar risks, arising in connection with and related to identified positions, contracts, or
other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and circumstances of the
identified underlying and hedging positions, contracts or other holdings and the risks and
liquidity thereof;
(iii)

Does not give rise, at the inception of the hedge, to any significant new or

additional risk that is not itself hedged contemporaneously in accordance with this
section;

974

(iv)

Is subject to continuing review, monitoring and management by the

banking entity that:
(A)

Is consistent with the written hedging policies and procedures required

under paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(B)

Is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate and demonstrably

reduces or otherwise significantly mitigates the specific, identifiable risks that develop
over time from the risk-mitigating hedging activities undertaken under this section and
the underlying positions, contracts, and other holdings of the banking entity, based upon
the facts and circumstances of the underlying and hedging positions, contracts and other
holdings of the banking entity and the risks and liquidity thereof; and
(C)

Requires ongoing recalibration of the hedging activity by the banking

entity to ensure that the hedging activity satisfies the requirements set out in paragraph
(b)(2) of this section and is not prohibited proprietary trading; and
(3)

The compensation arrangements of persons performing risk-mitigating

hedging activities are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary
trading.
(c)

Documentation requirement—(1)

A banking entity must comply with

the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section with respect to any purchase
or sale of financial instruments made in reliance on this section for risk-mitigating
hedging purposes that is:
(i)

Not established by the specific trading desk establishing or responsible for

the underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings the risks of which the hedging
activity is designed to reduce;

975

(ii)

Established by the specific trading desk establishing or responsible for the

underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings the risks of which the purchases or sales
are designed to reduce, but that is effected through a financial instrument, exposure,
technique, or strategy that is not specifically identified in the trading desk’s written
policies and procedures established under paragraph (b)(1) of this section or under §
__.4(b)(2)(iii)(B) of this subpart as a product, instrument, exposure, technique, or strategy
such trading desk may use for hedging; or
(iii)

Established to hedge aggregated positions across two or more trading

(2)

In connection with any purchase or sale identified in paragraph (c)(1) of

desks.

this section, a banking entity must, at a minimum, and contemporaneously with the
purchase or sale, document:
(i)

The specific, identifiable risk(s) of the identified positions, contracts, or

other holdings of the banking entity that the purchase or sale is designed to reduce;
(ii)

The specific risk-mitigating strategy that the purchase or sale is designed

to fulfill; and
(iii)

The trading desk or other business unit that is establishing and responsible

for the hedge.
(3)

A banking entity must create and retain records sufficient to demonstrate

compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (c) for a period that is no less than
five years in a form that allows the banking entity to promptly produce such records to
[Agency] on request, or such longer period as required under other law or this part.
§ ___.6

Other permitted proprietary trading activities.

976

(a)

Permitted trading in domestic government obligations. The prohibition

contained in § __.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale by a banking entity of a
financial instrument that is:
(1)

An obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, the United States;

(2)

An obligation, participation, or other instrument of, or issued or

guaranteed by, an agency of the United States, the Government National Mortgage
Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation, a Federal Home Loan Bank, the Federal Agricultural Mortgage
Corporation or a Farm Credit System institution chartered under and subject to the
provisions of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.);
(3)

An obligation of any State or any political subdivision thereof, including

any municipal security; or
(4)

An obligation of the FDIC, or any entity formed by or on behalf of the

FDIC for purpose of facilitating the disposal of assets acquired or held by the FDIC in its
corporate capacity or as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(b)

Permitted trading in foreign government obligations—(1) Affiliates of

foreign banking entities in the United States. The prohibition contained in § __.3(a) does
not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument that is an obligation of, or
issued or guaranteed by, a foreign sovereign (including any multinational central bank of
which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of such
foreign sovereign, by a banking entity, so long as:

977

(i)

The banking entity is organized under or is directly or indirectly controlled

by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of a foreign sovereign and is not
directly or indirectly controlled by a top-tier banking entity that is organized under the
laws of the United States;
(ii)

The financial instrument is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by,

the foreign sovereign under the laws of which the foreign banking entity referred to in
paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section is organized (including any multinational central bank
of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of
that foreign sovereign; and
(iii)

The purchase or sale as principal is not made by an insured depository

institution.
(2)

Foreign affiliates of a U.S. banking entity. The prohibition contained in §

__.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument that is an
obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, a foreign sovereign (including any
multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or
political subdivision of that foreign sovereign, by a foreign entity that is owned or
controlled by a banking entity organized or established under the laws of the United
States or any State, so long as:
(i)

The foreign entity is a foreign bank, as defined in section 211.2(j) of the

Board’s Regulation K (12 CFR 211.2(j)), or is regulated by the foreign sovereign as a
securities dealer;
(ii)

The financial instrument is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by,

the foreign sovereign under the laws of which the foreign entity is organized (including

978

any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any
agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign; and
(iii)

The financial instrument is owned by the foreign entity and is not financed

by an affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the
United States or of any State.
(c)

Permitted trading on behalf of customers—(1) Fiduciary transactions.

The prohibition contained in § __.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial
instruments by a banking entity acting as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity, so long
as:
(i)

The transaction is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, a

customer; and
(ii)

The banking entity does not have or retain beneficial ownership of the

financial instruments.
(2)

Riskless principal transactions. The prohibition contained in § __.3(a)

does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity acting
as riskless principal in a transaction in which the banking entity, after receiving an order
to purchase (or sell) a financial instrument from a customer, purchases (or sells) the
financial instrument for its own account to offset a contemporaneous sale to (or purchase
from) the customer.
(d)

Permitted trading by a regulated insurance company. The prohibition

contained in § __.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a
banking entity that is an insurance company or an affiliate of an insurance company if:

979

(1)

The insurance company or its affiliate purchases or sells the financial

instruments solely for:
(i)

The general account of the insurance company; or

(ii)

A separate account established by the insurance company;

(2)

The purchase or sale is conducted in compliance with, and subject to, the

insurance company investment laws, regulations, and written guidance of the State or
jurisdiction in which such insurance company is domiciled; and
(3)

The appropriate Federal banking agencies, after consultation with the

Financial Stability Oversight Council and the relevant insurance commissioners of the
States and foreign jurisdictions, as appropriate, have not jointly determined, after notice
and comment, that a particular law, regulation, or written guidance described in
paragraph (d)(2) of this section is insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the
covered banking entity, or the financial stability of the United States.
(e)

Permitted trading activities of foreign banking entities. (1) The

prohibition contained in § __.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial
instruments by a banking entity if:
(i)

The banking entity is not organized or directly or indirectly controlled by a

banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii)

The purchase or sale by the banking entity is made pursuant to paragraph

(9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act; and
(iii)

The purchase or sale meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this

section.

980

(2)

A purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity is made

pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act for purposes of
paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section only if:
(i)

The purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with the requirements of

paragraph (e) of this section; and
(ii)(A) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization, the
banking entity meets the qualifying foreign banking organization requirements of section
211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board’s Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c) or (e)), as
applicable; or
(B) With respect to a banking entity that is not a foreign banking organization, the
banking entity is not organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and the
banking entity, on a fully-consolidated basis, meets at least two of the following
requirements:
(1)

Total assets of the banking entity held outside of the United States exceed

total assets of the banking entity held in the United States;
(2)

Total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity outside of

the United States exceed total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity in
the United States; or
(3)

Total net income derived from the business of the banking entity outside

of the United States exceeds total net income derived from the business of the banking
entity in the United States.
(3)

A purchase or sale by a banking entity is permitted for purposes of this

paragraph (e) if:

981

(i)

The banking entity engaging as principal in the purchase or sale (including

any personnel of the banking entity or its affiliate that arrange, negotiate or execute such
purchase or sale) is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the
United States or of any State;
(ii)

The banking entity (including relevant personnel) that makes the decision

to purchase or sell as principal is not located in the United States or organized under the
laws of the United States or of any State;
(iii)

The purchase or sale, including any transaction arising from risk-

mitigating hedging related to the instruments purchased or sold, is not accounted for as
principal directly or on a consolidated basis by any branch or affiliate that is located in
the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(iv)

No financing for the banking entity’s purchases or sales is provided,

directly or indirectly, by any branch or affiliate that is located in the United States or
organized under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(v)

The purchase or sale is not conducted with or through any U.S. entity,

other than:
(A)

A purchase or sale with the foreign operations of a U.S. entity if no

personnel of such U.S. entity that are located in the United States are involved in the
arrangement, negotiation, or execution of such purchase or sale;
(B)

A purchase or sale with an unaffiliated market intermediary acting as

principal, provided the purchase or sale is promptly cleared and settled through a clearing
agency or derivatives clearing organization acting as a central counterparty; or

982

(C)

A purchase or sale through an unaffiliated market intermediary acting as

agent, provided the purchase or sale is conducted anonymously on an exchange or similar
trading facility and is promptly cleared and settled through a clearing agency or
derivatives clearing organization acting as a central counterparty,.
(4)

For purposes of this paragraph (e), a U.S. entity is any entity that is, or is

controlled by, or is acting on behalf of, or at the direction of, any other entity that is,
located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any
State.
(5)

For purposes of this paragraph (e), a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of

a foreign banking entity is considered to be located in the United States; however, the
foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered
to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S.
branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(6)

For purposes of this paragraph (e), unaffiliated market intermediary means

an unaffiliated entity, acting as an intermediary, that is:
(i)

A broker or dealer registered with the SEC under section 15 of the

Exchange Act or exempt from registration or excluded from regulation as such;
(ii)

A swap dealer registered with the CFTC under section 4s of the

Commodity Exchange Act or exempt from registration or excluded from regulation as
such;
(iii)

A security-based swap dealer registered with the SEC under section 15F

of the Exchange Act or exempt from registration or excluded from regulation as such; or

983

(iv)

A futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC under section 4f

of the Commodity Exchange Act or exempt from registration or excluded from regulation
as such.
§ ___.7

Limitations on permitted proprietary trading activities.
(a)

No transaction, class of transactions, or activity may be deemed

permissible under §§ __.4 through __.6 if the transaction, class of transactions, or activity
would:
(1)

Involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking

entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties;
(2)

Result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity

to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy; or
(3)

Pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the

financial stability of the United States.
(b)

Definition of material conflict of interest. (1) For purposes of this section,

a material conflict of interest between a banking entity and its clients, customers, or
counterparties exists if the banking entity engages in any transaction, class of
transactions, or activity that would involve or result in the banking entity’s interests being
materially adverse to the interests of its client, customer, or counterparty with respect to
such transaction, class of transactions, or activity, and the banking entity has not taken at
least one of the actions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) Prior to effecting the specific transaction or class or type of transactions, or engaging
in the specific activity, the banking entity:

984

(i)

Timely and effective disclosure. (A) Has made clear, timely, and effective

disclosure of the conflict of interest, together with other necessary information, in
reasonable detail and in a manner sufficient to permit a reasonable client, customer, or
counterparty to meaningfully understand the conflict of interest; and
(B) Such disclosure is made in a manner that provides the client, customer, or
counterparty the opportunity to negate, or substantially mitigate, any materially adverse
effect on the client, customer, or counterparty created by the conflict of interest; or
(ii)

Information barriers. Has established, maintained, and enforced

information barriers that are memorialized in written policies and procedures, such as
physical separation of personnel, or functions, or limitations on types of activity, that are
reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of the banking entity’s business,
to prevent the conflict of interest from involving or resulting in a materially adverse
effect on a client, customer, or counterparty. A banking entity may not rely on such
information barriers if, in the case of any specific transaction, class or type of transactions
or activity, the banking entity knows or should reasonably know that, notwithstanding the
banking entity’s establishment of information barriers, the conflict of interest may
involve or result in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty.
(c)

Definition of high-risk asset and high-risk trading strategy. For purposes

of this section:
(1)

High-risk asset means an asset or group of related assets that would, if

held by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity
would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of
the United States.

985

(2)

High-risk trading strategy means a trading strategy that would, if engaged

in by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would
incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the
United States.
§ __.8

[Reserved]

§ __.9

[Reserved]

Subpart C – Covered Funds Activities and Investments
§ __.10

Prohibition on acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in and
having certain relationships with a covered fund.
(a)

Prohibition. (1) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a banking

entity may not, as principal, directly or indirectly, acquire or retain any ownership interest
in or sponsor a covered fund.
(2)

Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not include acquiring or retaining an

ownership interest in a covered fund by a banking entity:
(i)

Acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian, so long as;

(A)

The activity is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, a customer;

(B)

The banking entity and its affiliates do not have or retain beneficial

and

ownership of such ownership interest;
(ii)

Through a deferred compensation, stock-bonus, profit-sharing, or pension

plan of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) that is established and administered in
accordance with the law of the United States or a foreign sovereign, if the ownership
interest is held or controlled directly or indirectly by the banking entity as trustee for the

986

benefit of persons who are or were employees of the banking entity (or an affiliate
thereof);
(iii)

In the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good

faith, provided that the banking entity divests the ownership interest as soon as
practicable, and in no event may the banking entity retain such ownership interest for
longer than such period permitted by the [Agency]; or
(iv)

On behalf of customers as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity for a

customer that is not a covered fund, so long as:
(A)

The activity is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, the customer; and

(B)

The banking entity and its affiliates do not have or retain beneficial

ownership of such ownership interest.
(b)

Definition of covered fund. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this

section, covered fund means:
(i)

An issuer that would be an investment company, as defined in the

Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.), but for section 3(c)(1) or
3(c)(7) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) or (7));
(ii)

Any commodity pool under section 1a(10) of the Commodity Exchange

Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(10)) for which:
(A)

The commodity pool operator has claimed an exemption under 17 CFR 4.7; or

(B)(1) A commodity pool operator is registered with the CFTC as a commodity pool
operator in connection with the operation of the commodity pool;
(2)

Substantially all participation units of the commodity pool are owned by

qualified eligible persons under 17 CFR 4.7(a)(2) and (3); and

987

(3)

Participation units of the commodity pool have not been publicly offered

to persons who are not qualified eligible persons under 17 CFR 4.7(a)(2) and (3); or
(iii)

For any banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a

banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of
any State, an entity that:

(A)

Is organized or established outside the United States and the ownership

interests of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States;
(B)

Is, or holds itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money

from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for resale or other
disposition or otherwise trading in securities; and
(C)(1) Has as its sponsor that banking entity (or an affiliate thereof); or
(2)

Has issued an ownership interest that is owned directly or indirectly by

that banking entity (or an affiliate thereof).
(2)

An issuer shall not be deemed to be a covered fund under paragraph

(b)(1)(iii) of this section if, were the issuer subject to U.S. securities laws, the issuer
could rely on an exclusion or exemption from the definition of “investment company”
under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.) other than the
exclusions contained in section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of that Act.
(3)

For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency,

or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is located in the United States; however, the
foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered

988

to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S.
branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(c)

Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, unless the appropriate

Federal banking agencies, the SEC, and the CFTC jointly determine otherwise, a covered
fund does not include:

(1)

Foreign public funds. (i) Subject to paragraphs (ii) and (iii) below, an

issuer that:
(A)

Is organized or established outside of the United States;

(B)

Is authorized to offer and sell ownership interests to retail investors in the

issuer’s home jurisdiction; and
(C)

Sells ownership interests predominantly through one or more public

offerings outside of the United States.
(ii)

With respect to a banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or

indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United
States or of any State and any issuer for which such banking entity acts as sponsor, the
sponsoring banking entity may not rely on the exemption in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this
section for such issuer unless ownership interests in the issuer are sold predominantly to
persons other than
(A) Such sponsoring banking entity;
(B) Such issuer;
(C) Affiliates of such sponsoring banking entity or such issuer; and
(D) Directors and employees of such entities.

989

(iii)

For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section, the term “public

offering” means a distribution (as defined in § __.4(a)(3) of subpart B) of securities in
any jurisdiction outside the United States to investors, including retail investors, provided
that:
(A)

The distribution complies with all applicable requirements in the

jurisdiction in which such distribution is being made;
(B)

The distribution does not restrict availability to investors having a

minimum level of net worth or net investment assets; and
(C)

The issuer has filed or submitted, with the appropriate regulatory authority

in such jurisdiction, offering disclosure documents that are publicly available.
(2)

Wholly-owned subsidiaries. An entity, all of the outstanding ownership

interests of which are owned directly or indirectly by the banking entity (or an affiliate
thereof), except that:
(i)

Up to five percent of the entity’s outstanding ownership interests, less any

amounts outstanding under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, may be held by employees
or directors of the banking entity or such affiliate (including former employees or
directors if their ownership interest was acquired while employed by or in the service of
the banking entity); and
(ii)

Up to 0.5 percent of the entity’s outstanding ownership interests may be

held by a third party if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by the third party for
the purpose of establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency,
or similar concerns.

990

(3)

Joint ventures. A joint venture between a banking entity or any of its

affiliates and one or more unaffiliated persons, provided that the joint venture:
(i)

Is comprised of no more than 10 unaffiliated co-venturers;

(ii)

Is in the business of engaging in activities that are permissible for the

banking entity or affiliate, other than investing in securities for resale or other disposition;
and
(iii)

Is not, and does not hold itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that

raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for resale
or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities.
(4)

Acquisition vehicles. An issuer:

(i)

Formed solely for the purpose of engaging in a bona fide merger or

acquisition transaction; and
(ii)

That exists only for such period as necessary to effectuate the transaction.

(5)

Foreign pension or retirement funds. A plan, fund, or program providing

pension, retirement, or similar benefits that is:
(i)

Organized and administered outside the United States;

(ii)

A broad-based plan for employees or citizens that is subject to regulation

as a pension, retirement, or similar plan under the laws of the jurisdiction in which the
plan, fund, or program is organized and administered; and
(iii)

Established for the benefit of citizens or residents of one or more foreign

sovereigns or any political subdivision thereof.

991

(6)

Insurance company separate accounts. A separate account, provided that

no banking entity other than the insurance company participates in the account’s profits
and losses.
(7)

Bank owned life insurance. A separate account that is used solely for the

purpose of allowing one or more banking entities to purchase a life insurance policy for
which the banking entity or entities is beneficiary, provided that no banking entity that
purchases the policy:
(i)

Controls the investment decisions regarding the underlying assets or

holdings of the separate account; or
(ii)

Participates in the profits and losses of the separate account other than in

compliance with applicable supervisory guidance regarding bank owned life insurance.
(8)

Loan securitizations. (i) Scope. An issuing entity for asset-backed

securities that satisfies all the conditions of this paragraph (c)(8) and the assets or
holdings of which are comprised solely of:
(A)

Loans as defined in § __.2(s) of subpart A;

(B)

Rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely

distribution of proceeds to holders of such securities and rights or other assets that are
related or incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring and holding the loans, provided
that each asset meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(iii) of this section;
(C)

Interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives that meet the requirements of

paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section; and
(D)

Special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates that meet the

requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(v) of this section.

992

(ii)

Impermissible assets. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(8), the assets or

holdings of the issuing entity shall not include any of the following:
(A)

A security, including an asset-backed security, or an interest in an equity

or debt security other than as permitted in paragraph (c)(8)(iii) of this section;
(B)

A derivative, other than a derivative that meets the requirements of

paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section; or
(C)

A commodity forward contract.

(iii)

Permitted securities. Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(8)(ii)(A) of this

section, the issuing entity may hold securities if those securities are:
(A)

Cash equivalents for purposes of the rights and assets in paragraph

(c)(8)(i)(B) of this section; or
(B)

Securities received in lieu of debts previously contracted with respect to

the loans supporting the asset-backed securities.
(iv)

Derivatives. The holdings of derivatives by the issuing entity shall be

limited to interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives that satisfy all of the following
conditions:
(A)

The written terms of the derivative directly relate to the loans, the asset-

backed securities, or the contractual rights of other assets described in paragraph
(c)(8)(i)(B) of this section; and
(B)

The derivatives reduce the interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks

related to the loans, the asset-backed securities, or the contractual rights or other assets
described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section.

993

(v)

Special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates. The assets or

holdings of the issuing entity may include collateral certificates and special units of
beneficial interest issued by a special purpose vehicle, provided that:
(A)

The special purpose vehicle that issues the special unit of beneficial

interest or collateral certificate meets the requirements in this paragraph (c)(8);
(B)

The special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate is used for

the sole purpose of transferring to the issuing entity for the loan securitization the
economic risks and benefits of the assets that are permissible for loan securitizations
under this paragraph (c)(8) and does not directly or indirectly transfer any interest in any
other economic or financial exposure;
(C)

The special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate is created

solely to satisfy legal requirements or otherwise facilitate the structuring of the loan
securitization; and
(D)

The special purpose vehicle that issues the special unit of beneficial

interest or collateral certificate and the issuing entity are established under the direction
of the same entity that initiated the loan securitization.
(9)

Qualifying asset-backed commercial paper conduits. (i) An issuing entity

for asset-backed commercial paper that satisfies all of the following requirements:
(A) The asset-backed commercial paper conduit holds only:
(1)

Loans and other assets permissible for a loan securitization under

paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section; and
(2)

Asset-backed securities supported solely by assets that are permissible for

loan securitizations under paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section and acquired by the asset-

994

backed commercial paper conduit as part of an initial issuance either directly from the
issuing entity of the asset-backed securities or directly from an underwriter in the
distribution of the asset-backed securities;
(B)

The asset-backed commercial paper conduit issues only asset-backed

securities, comprised of a residual interest and securities with a legal maturity of 397
days or less; and
(C)

A regulated liquidity provider has entered into a legally binding

commitment to provide full and unconditional liquidity coverage with respect to all of the
outstanding asset-backed securities issued by the asset-backed commercial paper conduit
(other than any residual interest) in the event that funds are required to redeem maturing
asset-backed securities.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (c)(9), a regulated liquidity provider means:
(A)

A depository institution, as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit

Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c));
(B)

A bank holding company, as defined in section 2(a) of the Bank Holding

Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)), or a subsidiary thereof;
(C)

A savings and loan holding company, as defined in section 10a of the

Home Owners’ Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a), provided all or substantially all of the
holding company’s activities are permissible for a financial holding company under
section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)), or a
subsidiary thereof;
(D)

A foreign bank whose home country supervisor, as defined in § 211.21(q)

of the Board’s Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21(q)), has adopted capital standards consistent

995

with the Capital Accord for the Basel Committee on banking Supervision, as amended,
and that is subject to such standards, or a subsidiary thereof; or
(E)

The United States or a foreign sovereign.

(10)

Qualifying covered bonds—(i) Scope. An entity owning or holding a

dynamic or fixed pool of loans or other assets as provided in paragraph (c)(8) of this
section for the benefit of the holders of covered bonds, provided that the assets in the
pool are comprised solely of assets that meet the conditions in paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this
section.
(ii)

Covered bond. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(10), a covered bond

(A)

A debt obligation issued by an entity that meets the definition of foreign

means:

banking organization, the payment obligations of which are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed by an entity that meets the conditions set forth in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this
section; or
(B)

A debt obligation of an entity that meets the conditions set forth in

paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section, provided that the payment obligations are fully and
unconditionally guaranteed by an entity that meets the definition of foreign banking
organization and the entity is a wholly-owned subsidiary, as defined in paragraph (c)(2)
of this section, of such foreign banking organization.
(11)

SBICs and public welfare investment funds. An issuer:

(i)

That is a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3)

of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662), or that has received from

996

the Small Business Administration notice to proceed to qualify for a license as a small
business investment company, which notice or license has not been revoked; or
(ii)

The business of which is to make investments that are:

(A)

Designed primarily to promote the public welfare, of the type permitted

under paragraph (11) of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (12
U.S.C. 24), including the welfare of low- and moderate-income communities or families
(such as providing housing, services, or jobs); or
(B)

Qualified rehabilitation expenditures with respect to a qualified

rehabilitated building or certified historic structure, as such terms are defined in section
47 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or a similar State historic tax credit program.
(12)

Registered investment companies and excluded entities. An issuer:

(i)

That is registered as an investment company under section 8 of the

Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), or that is formed and operated
pursuant to a written plan to become a registered investment company as described in §
__.20(e)(3) of subpart D and that complies with the requirements of section 18 of the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-18);
(ii)

That may rely on an exclusion or exemption from the definition of

“investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et
seq.) other than the exclusions contained in section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of that Act; or
(iii)

That has elected to be regulated as a business development company

pursuant to section 54(a) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-53) and has not withdrawn its
election, or that is formed and operated pursuant to a written plan to become a business
development company as described in § __.20(e)(3) of subpart D and that complies with

997

the requirements of section 61 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a60).
(13)

Issuers in conjunction with the FDIC’s receivership or conservatorship

operations. An issuer that is an entity formed by or on behalf of the FDIC for the purpose
of facilitating the disposal of assets acquired in the FDIC’s capacity as conservator or
receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(14)

Other excluded issuers. (i)

Any issuer that the appropriate Federal

banking agencies, the SEC, and the CFTC jointly determine the exclusion of which is
consistent with the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act.
(ii)

A determination made under paragraph (c)(14)(i) of this section will be

promptly made public.
(d)

Definition of other terms related to covered funds. For purposes of this

subpart:
(1)

Applicable accounting standards means U.S. generally accepted

accounting principles, or such other accounting standards applicable to a banking entity
that the [Agency] determines are appropriate and that the banking entity uses in the
ordinary course of its business in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
(2)

Asset-backed security has the meaning specified in Section 3(a)(79) of the

Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79).
(3)

Director has the same meaning as provided in section 215.2(d)(1) of the

Board’s Regulation O (12 CFR 215.2(d)(1)).

998

(4)

Issuer has the same meaning as in section 2(a)(22) of the Investment

Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(22)).
(5)

Issuing entity means with respect to asset-backed securities the special

purpose vehicle that owns or holds the pool assets underlying asset-backed securities and
in whose name the asset-backed securities supported or serviced by the pool assets are
issued.
(6)

Ownership interest—(i) Ownership interest means any equity, partnership,

or other similar interest. An “other similar interest” means an interest that:
(A)

Has the right to participate in the selection or removal of a general partner,

managing member, member of the board of directors or trustees, investment manager,
investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor of the covered fund (excluding the
rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an
acceleration event);
(B)

Has the right under the terms of the interest to receive a share of the

income, gains or profits of the covered fund;
(C)

Has the right to receive the underlying assets of the covered fund after all

other interests have been redeemed and/or paid in full (excluding the rights of a creditor
to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an acceleration event);
(D)

Has the right to receive all or a portion of excess spread (the positive

difference, if any, between the aggregate interest payments received from the underlying
assets of the covered fund and the aggregate interest paid to the holders of other
outstanding interests);

999

(E)

Provides under the terms of the interest that the amounts payable by the

covered fund with respect to the interest could be reduced based on losses arising from
the underlying assets of the covered fund, such as allocation of losses, write-downs or
charge-offs of the outstanding principal balance, or reductions in the amount of interest
due and payable on the interest;
(F)

Receives income on a pass-through basis from the covered fund, or has a

rate of return that is determined by reference to the performance of the underlying assets
of the covered fund; or
(G)

Any synthetic right to have, receive, or be allocated any of the rights in

paragraphs (d)(6)(i)(A) through (F) of this section.
(ii)

Ownership interest does not include: Restricted profit interest. An interest

held by an entity (or an employee or former employee thereof) in a covered fund for
which the entity (or employee thereof) serves as investment manager, investment adviser,
commodity trading advisor, or other service provider so long as:
(A)

The sole purpose and effect of the interest is to allow the entity (or

employee or former employee thereof) to share in the profits of the covered fund as
performance compensation for the investment management, investment advisory,
commodity trading advisory, or other services provided to the covered fund by the entity
(or employee or former employee thereof), provided that the entity (or employee or
former employee thereof) may be obligated under the terms of such interest to return
profits previously received;
(B)

All such profit, once allocated, is distributed to the entity (or employee or

former employee thereof) promptly after being earned or, if not so distributed, is retained

1000

by the covered fund for the sole purpose of establishing a reserve amount to satisfy
contractual obligations with respect to subsequent losses of the covered fund and such
undistributed profit of the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) does not share
in the subsequent investment gains of the covered fund;
(C)

Any amounts invested in the covered fund, including any amounts paid by

the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) in connection with obtaining the
restricted profit interest, are within the limits of § __.12 of this subpart; and
(D)

The interest is not transferable by the entity (or employee or former

employee thereof) except to an affiliate thereof (or an employee of the banking entity or
affiliate), to immediate family members, or through the intestacy, of the employee or
former employee, or in connection with a sale of the business that gave rise to the
restricted profit interest by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) to an
unaffiliated party that provides investment management, investment advisory, commodity
trading advisory, or other services to the fund.
(7)

Prime brokerage transaction means any transaction that would be a

covered transaction, as defined in section 23A(b)(7) of the Federal Reserve Act (12
U.S.C. 371c(b)(7)), that is provided in connection with custody, clearance and settlement,
securities borrowing or lending services, trade execution, financing, or data, operational,
and administrative support.
(8)

Resident of the United States means a person that is a “U.S. person” as

defined in rule 902(k) of the SEC’s Regulation S (17 CFR 230.902(k)).
(9)

Sponsor means, with respect to a covered fund:

1001

(i)

To serve as a general partner, managing member, or trustee of a covered

fund, or to serve as a commodity pool operator with respect to a covered fund as defined
in (b)(1)(ii) of this section;
(ii)

In any manner to select or to control (or to have employees, officers, or

directors, or agents who constitute) a majority of the directors, trustees, or management
of a covered fund; or
(iii)

To share with a covered fund, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or

other purposes, the same name or a variation of the same name.
(10)

Trustee. (i)

For purposes of paragraph (d)(9) of this section and § __.11

of subpart C, a trustee does not include:
(A)

A trustee that does not exercise investment discretion with respect to a

covered fund, including a trustee that is subject to the direction of an unaffiliated named
fiduciary who is not a trustee pursuant to section 403(a)(1) of the Employee’s Retirement
Income Security Act (29 U.S.C. 1103(a)(1)); or
(B)

A trustee that is subject to fiduciary standards imposed under foreign law

that are substantially equivalent to those described in paragraph (d)(10)(i)(A) of this
section;
(ii)

Any entity that directs a person described in paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this

section, or that possesses authority and discretion to manage and control the investment
decisions of a covered fund for which such person serves as trustee, shall be considered
to be a trustee of such covered fund.
§ __.11

Permitted organizing and offering, underwriting, and market making
with respect to a covered fund.

1002

(a)

Organizing and offering a covered fund in general. Notwithstanding

§ __.10(a) of this subpart, a banking entity is not prohibited from acquiring or retaining
an ownership interest in, or acting as sponsor to, a covered fund in connection with,
directly or indirectly, organizing and offering a covered fund, including serving as a
general partner, managing member, trustee, or commodity pool operator of the covered
fund and in any manner selecting or controlling (or having employees, officers, directors,
or agents who constitute) a majority of the directors, trustees, or management of the
covered fund, including any necessary expenses for the foregoing, only if:
(1)

The banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) provides bona fide trust,

fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services;
(2)

The covered fund is organized and offered only in connection with the

provision of bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading
advisory services and only to persons that are customers of such services of the banking
entity (or an affiliate thereof), pursuant to a written plan or similar documentation
outlining how the banking entity or such affiliate intends to provide advisory or similar
services to its customers through organizing and offering such fund;
(3)

The banking entity and its affiliates do not acquire or retain an ownership

interest in the covered fund except as permitted under § __.12 of this subpart;
(4)

The banking entity and its affiliates comply with the requirements of

§ __.14 of this subpart;
(5)

The banking entity and its affiliates do not, directly or indirectly,

guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the covered
fund or of any covered fund in which such covered fund invests;

1003

(6)

The covered fund, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other

purposes:
(i)

Does not share the same name or a variation of the same name with the

banking entity (or an affiliate thereof); and
(ii)

Does not use the word “bank” in its name;

(7)

No director or employee of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof)

takes or retains an ownership interest in the covered fund, except for any director or
employee of the banking entity or such affiliate who is directly engaged in providing
investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the covered fund at
the time the director or employee takes the ownership interest; and
(8)

The banking entity:

(i)

Clearly and conspicuously discloses, in writing, to any prospective and

actual investor in the covered fund (such as through disclosure in the covered fund’s
offering documents):
(A)

That “any losses in [such covered fund] will be borne solely by investors

in [the covered fund] and not by [the banking entity] or its affiliates; therefore, [the
banking entity’s] losses in [such covered fund] will be limited to losses attributable to the
ownership interests in the covered fund held by [the banking entity] and any affiliate in
its capacity as investor in the [covered fund] or as beneficiary of a restricted profit
interest held by [the banking entity] or any affiliate”;
(B)

That such investor should read the fund offering documents before

investing in the covered fund;

1004

(C)

That the “ownership interests in the covered fund are not insured by the

FDIC, and are not deposits, obligations of, or endorsed or guaranteed in any way, by any
banking entity” (unless that happens to be the case); and
(D)

The role of the banking entity and its affiliates and employees in

sponsoring or providing any services to the covered fund; and
(ii)

Complies with any additional rules of the appropriate Federal banking

agencies, the SEC, or the CFTC, as provided in section 13(b)(2) of the BHC Act,
designed to ensure that losses in such covered fund are borne solely by investors in the
covered fund and not by the covered banking entity and its affiliates.
(b)

Organizing and offering an issuing entity of asset-backed securities. (1)

Notwithstanding § __.10(a) of this subpart, a banking entity is not prohibited from
acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, or acting as sponsor to, a covered fund
that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities in connection with, directly or
indirectly, organizing and offering that issuing entity, so long as the banking entity and its
affiliates comply with all of the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) through (8) of this
section.
(2)

For purposes of this paragraph (b), organizing and offering a covered fund

that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities means acting as the securitizer, as that
term is used in section 15G(a)(3) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(a)(3)) of the
issuing entity, or acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in the issuing entity as
required by section 15G of that Act (15 U.S.C.78o-11) and the implementing regulations
issued thereunder.

1005

(c)

Underwriting and market making in ownership interests of a covered fund.

The prohibition contained in § __.10(a) of this subpart does not apply to a banking
entity’s underwriting activities or market making-related activities involving a covered
fund so long as:
(1)

Those activities are conducted in accordance with the requirements of

§__.4(a) or § __.4(b) of subpart B, respectively;
(2)

With respect to any banking entity (or any affiliate thereof) that: acts as a

sponsor, investment adviser or commodity trading advisor to a particular covered fund or
otherwise acquires and retains an ownership interest in such covered fund in reliance on
paragraph (a) of this section; acquires and retains an ownership interest in such covered
fund and is either a securitizer, as that term is used in section 15G(a)(3) of the Exchange
Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(a)(3)), or is acquiring and retaining an ownership interest in such
covered fund in compliance with section 15G of that Act (15 U.S.C.78o-11) and the
implementing regulations issued thereunder each as permitted by paragraph (b) of this
section; or, directly or indirectly, guarantees, assumes, or otherwise insures the
obligations or performance of the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such
fund invests, then in each such case any ownership interests acquired or retained by the
banking entity and its affiliates in connection with underwriting and market making
related activities for that particular covered fund are included in the calculation of
ownership interests permitted to be held by the banking entity and its affiliates under the
limitations of § __.12(a)(2)(ii) and § __.12(d) of this subpart; and
(3)

With respect to any banking entity, the aggregate value of all ownership

interests of the banking entity and its affiliates in all covered funds acquired and retained

1006

under § __.11 of this subpart, including all covered funds in which the banking entity
holds an ownership interest in connection with underwriting and market making related
activities permitted under this paragraph (c), are included in the calculation of all
ownership interests under § __.12(a)(2)(iii) and § __.12(d) of this subpart.
§ __.12

Permitted investment in a covered fund.
(a)

Authority and limitations on permitted investments in covered funds. (1)

Notwithstanding the prohibition contained in § __.10(a) of this subpart, a banking entity
may acquire and retain an ownership interest in a covered fund that the banking entity or
an affiliate thereof organizes and offers pursuant to § __.11, for the purposes of:
(i)

Establishment. Establishing the fund and providing the fund with

sufficient initial equity for investment to permit the fund to attract unaffiliated investors,
subject to the limits contained in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section; or
(ii)

De minimis investment. Making and retaining an investment in the

covered fund subject to the limits contained in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this
section.
(2)

Investment limits—(i) Seeding period. With respect to an investment in

any covered fund made or held pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the banking
entity and its affiliates:
(A)

Must actively seek unaffiliated investors to reduce, through redemption,

sale, dilution, or other methods, the aggregate amount of all ownership interests of the
banking entity in the covered fund to the amount permitted in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of
this section; and

1007

(B)

Must, no later than 1 year after the date of establishment of the fund (or

such longer period as may be provided by the Board pursuant to paragraph (e) of this
section), conform its ownership interest in the covered fund to the limits in paragraph
(a)(2)(ii) of this section;
(ii)

Per-fund limits. (A) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this

section, an investment by a banking entity and its affiliates in any covered fund made or
held pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section may not exceed 3 percent of the total
number or value of the outstanding ownership interests of the fund.
(B)

An investment by a banking entity and its affiliates in a covered fund that

is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities may not exceed 3 percent of the total fair
market value of the ownership interests of the fund measured in accordance with
paragraph (b)(3) of this section, unless a greater percentage is retained by the banking
entity and its affiliates in compliance with the requirements of section 15G of the
Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder, in
which case the investment by the banking entity and its affiliates in the covered fund may
not exceed the amount, number, or value of ownership interests of the fund required
under section 15G of the Exchange Act and the implementing regulations issued
thereunder.
(iii)

Aggregate limit. The aggregate value of all ownership interests of the

banking entity and its affiliates in all covered funds acquired or retained under this
section may not exceed 3 percent of the tier 1 capital of the banking entity, as provided
under paragraph (c) of this section, and shall be calculated as of the last day of each
calendar quarter.

1008

(iv)

Date of establishment. For purposes of this section, the date of

establishment of a covered fund shall be:
(A)

In general. The date on which the investment adviser or similar entity to

the covered fund begins making investments pursuant to the written investment strategy
for the fund;
(B)

Issuing entities of asset-backed securities. In the case of an issuing entity

of asset-backed securities, the date on which the assets are initially transferred into the
issuing entity of asset-backed securities.
(b)

Rules of construction—(1)

covered banking entity. (i)

Attribution of ownership interests to a

For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the amount

and value of a banking entity’s permitted investment in any single covered fund shall
include any ownership interest held under § __.12 directly by the banking entity,
including any affiliate of the banking entity.
(ii)

Treatment of registered investment companies, SEC-regulated business

development companies and foreign public funds. For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of
this section, a registered investment company, SEC-regulated business development
companies or foreign public fund as described in §__.10(c)(1) of this subpart will not be
considered to be an affiliate of the banking entity so long as the banking entity:
(A)

Does not own, control, or hold with the power to vote 25 percent or more

of the voting shares of the company or fund; and
(B)

Provides investment advisory, commodity trading advisory,

administrative, and other services to the company or fund in compliance with the
limitations under applicable regulation, order, or other authority.

1009

(iii)

Covered funds. For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, a

covered fund will not be considered to be an affiliate of a banking entity so long as the
covered fund is held in compliance with the requirements of this subpart.
(iv)

Treatment of employee and director investments financed by the banking

entity. For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, an investment by a director or
employee of a banking entity who acquires an ownership interest in his or her personal
capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the banking entity will be attributed to the
banking entity if the banking entity, directly or indirectly, extends financing for the
purpose of enabling the director or employee to acquire the ownership interest in the fund
and the financing is used to acquire such ownership interest in the covered fund.
(2)

Calculation of permitted ownership interests in a single covered fund.

Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) or (4), for purposes of determining whether an
investment in a single covered fund complies with the restrictions on ownership interests
under paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section:
(i)

The aggregate number of the outstanding ownership interests held by the

banking entity shall be the total number of ownership interests held under this section by
the banking entity in a covered fund divided by the total number of ownership interests
held by all entities in that covered fund, as of the last day of each calendar quarter (both
measured without regard to committed funds not yet called for investment);
(ii)

The aggregate value of the outstanding ownership interests held by the

banking entity shall be the aggregate fair market value of all investments in and capital
contributions made to the covered fund by the banking entity, divided by the value of all
investments in and capital contributions made to that covered fund by all entities, as of

1010

the last day of each calendar quarter (all measured without regard to committed funds not
yet called for investment). If fair market value cannot be determined, then the value shall
be the historical cost basis of all investments in and contributions made by the banking
entity to the covered fund;
(iii)

For purposes of the calculation under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section,

once a valuation methodology is chosen, the banking entity must calculate the value of its
investment and the investments of all others in the covered fund in the same manner and
according to the same standards.
(3)

Issuing entities of asset-backed securities. In the case of an ownership

interest in an issuing entity of asset-backed securities, for purposes of determining
whether an investment in a single covered fund complies with the restrictions on
ownership interests under paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section:
(i)

For securitizations subject to the requirements of section 15G of the

Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11), the calculations shall be made as of the date and
according to the valuation methodology applicable pursuant to the requirements of
section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11) and the implementing regulations
issued thereunder; or
(ii)

For securitization transactions completed prior to the compliance date of

such implementing regulations (or as to which such implementing regulations do not
apply), the calculations shall be made as of the date of establishment as defined in
paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(B) of this section or such earlier date on which the transferred assets
have been valued for purposes of transfer to the covered fund, and thereafter only upon

1011

the date on which additional securities of the issuing entity of asset-backed securities are
priced for purposes of the sales of ownership interests to unaffiliated investors.
(iii)

For securitization transactions completed prior to the compliance date of

such implementing regulations (or as to which such implementing regulations do not
apply), the aggregate value of the outstanding ownership interests in the covered fund
shall be the fair market value of the assets transferred to the issuing entity of the
securitization and any other assets otherwise held by the issuing entity at such time,
determined in a manner that is consistent with its determination of the fair market value
of those assets for financial statement purposes.
(iv)

For purposes of the calculation under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section,

the valuation methodology used to calculate the fair market value of the ownership
interests must be the same for both the ownership interests held by a banking entity and
the ownership interests held by all others in the covered fund in the same manner and
according to the same standards.
(4)

Multi-tier fund investments—(i) Master-feeder fund investments. If the

principal investment strategy of a covered fund (the “feeder fund”) is to invest
substantially all of its assets in another single covered fund (the “master fund”), then for
purposes of the investment limitations in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii) of this
section, the banking entity’s permitted investment in such funds shall be measured only
by reference to the value of the master fund. The banking entity’s permitted investment
in the master fund shall include any investment by the banking entity in the master fund,
as well as the banking entity’s pro-rata share of any ownership interest of the master fund
that is held through the feeder fund; and

1012

(ii)

Fund-of-funds investments. If a banking entity organizes and offers a

covered fund pursuant to §__.11 of this subpart for the purpose of investing in other
covered funds (a “fund of funds”) and that fund of funds itself invests in another covered
fund that the banking entity is permitted to own, then the banking entity’s permitted
investment in that other fund shall include any investment by the banking entity in that
other fund, as well as the banking entity’s pro-rata share of any ownership interest of the
fund that is held through the fund of funds. The investment of the banking entity may not
represent more than 3 percent of the amount or value of any single covered fund.
(c)

Aggregate permitted investments in all covered funds. (1) For purposes

of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the aggregate value of all ownership interests held
by a banking entity shall be the sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking
entity in connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in covered funds
(together with any amounts paid by the entity (or employee thereof) in connection with
obtaining a restricted profit interest under § __.10(d)(6)(ii) of this subpart), on a historical
cost basis.
(2)

Calculation of tier 1 capital. For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this

section:
(i)

Entities that are required to hold and report tier 1 capital. If a banking

entity is required to calculate and report tier 1 capital, the banking entity’s tier 1 capital
shall be equal to the amount of tier 1 capital of the banking entity as of the last day of the
most recent calendar quarter, as reported to its primary financial regulatory agency; and
(ii)

If a banking entity is not required to calculate and report tier 1 capital, the

banking entity’s tier 1 capital shall be determined to be equal to:

1013

(A)

In the case of a banking entity that is controlled, directly or indirectly, by a

depository institution that calculates and reports tier 1 capital, be equal to the amount of
tier 1 capital reported by such controlling depository institution in the manner described
in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section;
(B)

In the case of a banking entity that is not controlled, directly or indirectly,

by a depository institution that calculates and reports tier 1 capital:
(1)

Bank holding company subsidiaries. If the banking entity is a subsidiary

of a bank holding company or company that is treated as a bank holding company, be
equal to the amount of tier 1 capital reported by the top-tier affiliate of such covered
banking entity that calculates and reports tier 1 capital in the manner described in
paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section; and
(2)

Other holding companies and any subsidiary or affiliate thereof. If the

banking entity is not a subsidiary of a bank holding company or a company that is treated
as a bank holding company, be equal to the total amount of shareholders’ equity of the
top-tier affiliate within such organization as of the last day of the most recent calendar
quarter that has ended, as determined under applicable accounting standards.
(iii)

Treatment of foreign banking entities—(A) Foreign banking entities.

Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, with respect to a banking
entity that is not itself, and is not controlled directly or indirectly by, a banking entity that
is located or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, the tier 1
capital of the banking entity shall be the consolidated tier 1 capital of the entity as
calculated under applicable home country standards.

1014

(B)

U.S. affiliates of foreign banking entities. With respect to a banking entity

that is located or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and is
controlled by a foreign banking entity identified under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this
section, the banking entity’s tier 1 capital shall be as calculated under paragraphs (c)(2)(i)
or (ii) of this section.
(d)

Capital treatment for a permitted investment in a covered fund. For

purposes of calculating compliance with the applicable regulatory capital requirements, a
banking entity shall deduct from the banking entity’s tier 1 capital (as determined under
paragraph (c)(2) of this section) the greater of:
(1)

The sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking entity in

connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest (together with any amounts
paid by the entity (or employee thereof) in connection with obtaining a restricted profit
interest under § __.10(d)(6)(ii) of subpart C), on a historical cost basis, plus any earnings
received; and
(2)

The fair market value of the banking entity’s ownership interests in the

covered fund as determined under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) or (b)(3) of this section (together
with any amounts paid by the entity (or employee thereof) in connection with obtaining a
restricted profit interest under § __.10(d)(6)(ii) of subpart C), if the banking entity
accounts for the profits (or losses) of the fund investment in its financial statements.
(e)

Extension of time to divest an ownership interest. (1) Upon application

by a banking entity, the Board may extend the period under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this
section for up to 2 additional years if the Board finds that an extension would be

1015

consistent with safety and soundness and not detrimental to the public interest. An
application for extension must:
(i)

Be submitted to the Board at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the

applicable time period;
(ii)

Provide the reasons for application, including information that addresses

the factors in paragraph (e)(2) of this section; and
(iii)

Explain the banking entity’s plan for reducing the permitted investment in

a covered fund through redemption, sale, dilution or other methods as required in
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)

Factors governing Board determinations. In reviewing any application

under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the Board may consider all the facts and
circumstances related to the permitted investment in a covered fund, including:
(i)

Whether the investment would result, directly or indirectly, in a material

exposure by the banking entity to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies;
(ii)

The contractual terms governing the banking entity’s interest in the

covered fund;
(iii)

The date on which the covered fund is expected to have attracted sufficient

investments from investors unaffiliated with the banking entity to enable the banking
entity to comply with the limitations in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;
(iv)

The total exposure of the covered banking entity to the investment and the

risks that disposing of, or maintaining, the investment in the covered fund may pose to
the banking entity and the financial stability of the United States;

1016

(v)

The cost to the banking entity of divesting or disposing of the investment

within the applicable period;
(vi)

Whether the investment or the divestiture or conformance of the

investment would involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking
entity and unaffiliated parties, including clients, customers or counterparties to which it
owes a duty;
(vi)

The banking entity’s prior efforts to reduce through redemption, sale,

dilution, or other methods its ownership interests in the covered fund, including activities
related to the marketing of interests in such covered fund;
(viii) Market conditions; and
(ix)

Any other factor that the Board believes appropriate.

(3)

Authority to impose restrictions on activities or investment during any

extension period. The Board may impose such conditions on any extension approved
under paragraph (e)(1) of this section as the Board determines are necessary or
appropriate to protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity or the financial
stability of the United States, address material conflicts of interest or other unsound
banking practices, or otherwise further the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act and
this part.
(4)

Consultation. In the case of a banking entity that is primarily regulated by

another Federal banking agency, the SEC, or the CFTC, the Board will consult with such
agency prior to acting on an application by the banking entity for an extension under
paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
§ __.13

Other permitted covered fund activities and investments.

1017

(a)

Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities. (1)

The prohibition

contained in § ___.10(a) of this subpart does not apply with respect to an ownership
interest in a covered fund acquired or retained by a banking entity that is designed to
demonstrably reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risks to
the banking entity in connection with a compensation arrangement with an employee of
the banking entity or an affiliate thereof that directly provides investment advisory,
commodity trading advisory or other services to the covered fund.
(2)

Requirements. The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity

are permitted under this paragraph (a) only if:
(i)

The banking entity has established and implements, maintains and

enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is
reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity’s compliance with the requirements of
this section, including:
(A)

Reasonably designed written policies and procedures; and

(B)

Internal controls and ongoing monitoring, management, and authorization

procedures, including relevant escalation procedures; and
(ii)

The acquisition or retention of the ownership interest:

(A)

Is made in accordance with the written policies, procedures and internal

controls required under this section;
(B)

At the inception of the hedge, is designed to reduce or otherwise

significantly mitigate and demonstrably reduces or otherwise significantly mitigates one
or more specific, identifiable risks arising in connection with the compensation

1018

arrangement with the employee that directly provides investment advisory, commodity
trading advisory, or other services to the covered fund;
(C)

Does not give rise, at the inception of the hedge, to any significant new or

additional risk that is not itself hedged contemporaneously in accordance with this
section; and
(D)

Is subject to continuing review, monitoring and management by the

banking entity.
(iii)

The compensation arrangement relates solely to the covered fund in which

the banking entity or any affiliate has acquired an ownership interest pursuant to this
paragraph and such compensation arrangement provides that any losses incurred by the
banking entity on such ownership interest will be offset by corresponding decreases in
amounts payable under such compensation arrangement.
(b)

Certain permitted covered fund activities and investments outside of the

United States. (1)

The prohibition contained in § __.10(a) of this subpart does not

apply to the acquisition or retention of any ownership interest in, or the sponsorship of, a
covered fund by a banking entity only if:
(i)

The banking entity is not organized or directly or indirectly controlled by a

banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more
States;
(ii)

The activity or investment by the banking entity is pursuant to paragraph

(9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act;
(iii)

No ownership interest in the covered fund is offered for sale or sold to a

resident of the United States; and

1019

(iv)

The activity or investment occurs solely outside of the United States.

(2)

An activity or investment by the banking entity is pursuant to paragraph

(9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this
section only if:
(i)

The activity or investment is conducted in accordance with the

requirements of this section; and
(ii) (A) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization,
the banking entity meets the qualifying foreign banking organization requirements of
section 211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board’s Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c) or (e)),
as applicable; or
(B)

With respect to a banking entity that is not a foreign banking organization,

the banking entity is not organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more
States and the banking entity, on a fully-consolidated basis, meets at least two of the
following requirements:
(1)

Total assets of the banking entity held outside of the United States exceed

total assets of the banking entity held in the United States;
(2)

Total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity outside of

the United States exceed total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity in
the United States; or
(3)

Total net income derived from the business of the banking entity outside

of the United States exceeds total net income derived from the business of the banking
entity in the United States.

1020

(3)

An ownership interest in a covered fund is not offered for sale or sold to a

resident of the United States for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section only if it
is sold or has been sold pursuant to an offering that does not target residents of the United
States.
(4)

An activity or investment occurs solely outside of the United States for

purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section only if:
(i)

The banking entity acting as sponsor, or engaging as principal in the

acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in the covered fund, is not itself, and is
not controlled directly or indirectly by, a banking entity that is located in the United
States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii)

The banking entity (including relevant personnel) that makes the decision

to acquire or retain the ownership interest or act as sponsor to the covered fund is not
located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any
State;
(iii)

The investment or sponsorship, including any transaction arising from

risk-mitigating hedging related to an ownership interest, is not accounted for as principal
directly or indirectly on a consolidated basis by any branch or affiliate that is located in
the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(iv)

No financing for the banking entity’s ownership or sponsorship is

provided, directly or indirectly, by any branch or affiliate that is located in the United
States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(5)

For purposes of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a

foreign bank, or any subsidiary thereof, is located in the United States; however, a

1021

foreign bank of which that branch, agency, or subsidiary is a part is not considered to be
located in the United States solely by virtue of operation of the U.S. branch, agency, or
subsidiary.
(c)

Permitted covered fund interests and activities by a regulated insurance

company. The prohibition contained in § __.10(a) of this subpart does not apply to the
acquisition or retention by an insurance company, or an affiliate thereof, of any
ownership interest in, or the sponsorship of, a covered fund only if:
(1)

The insurance company or its affiliate acquires and retains the ownership

interest solely for the general account of the insurance company or for one or more
separate accounts established by the insurance company;
(2)

The acquisition and retention of the ownership interest is conducted in

compliance with, and subject to, the insurance company investment laws, regulations,
and written guidance of the State or jurisdiction in which such insurance company is
domiciled; and
(3)

The appropriate Federal banking agencies, after consultation with the

Financial Stability Oversight Council and the relevant insurance commissioners of the
States and foreign jurisdictions, as appropriate, have not jointly determined, after notice
and comment, that a particular law, regulation, or written guidance described in
paragraph (c)(2) of this section is insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the
banking entity, or the financial stability of the United States.
§ __.14
(a)

Limitations on relationships with a covered fund.
Relationships with a covered fund. (1)

Except as provided for in

paragraph (a)(2) of this section, no banking entity that serves, directly or indirectly, as the

1022

investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or sponsor to a
covered fund, that organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § __.11 of this subpart,
or that continues to hold an ownership interest in accordance with § __.11(b) of this
subpart, and no affiliate of such entity, may enter into a transaction with the covered
fund, or with any other covered fund that is controlled by such covered fund, that would
be a covered transaction as defined in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C.
371c(b)(7)), as if such banking entity and the affiliate thereof were a member bank and
the covered fund were an affiliate thereof.
(2)

Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a banking entity may:

(i)

Acquire and retain any ownership interest in a covered fund in accordance

with the requirements of § __.11, § __.12, or § __.13 of this subpart; and
(ii)

Enter into any prime brokerage transaction with any covered fund in

which a covered fund managed, sponsored, or advised by such banking entity (or an
affiliate thereof) has taken an ownership interest, if:
(A)

The banking entity is in compliance with each of the limitations set forth

in § __.11 of this subpart with respect to a covered fund organized and offered by such
banking entity (or an affiliate thereof);
(B)

The chief executive officer (or equivalent officer) of the banking entity

certifies in writing annually to [Agency] (with a duty to update the certification if the
information in the certification materially changes) that the banking entity does not,
directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or
performance of the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such covered fund
invests; and

1023

(C)

The Board has not determined that such transaction is inconsistent with

the safe and sound operation and condition of the banking entity.
(b)

Restrictions on transactions with covered funds. A banking entity that

serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity
trading advisor, or sponsor to a covered fund, or that organizes and offers a covered fund
pursuant to § __.11 of this subpart, or that continues to hold an ownership interest in
accordance with § __.11(b) of this subpart, shall be subject to section 23B of the Federal
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c-1), as if such banking entity were a member bank and such
covered fund were an affiliate thereof.
(c)

Restrictions on prime brokerage transactions. A prime brokerage

transaction permitted under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section shall be subject to section
23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c-1) as if the counterparty were an affiliate
of the banking entity.
§ __.15

Other limitations on permitted covered fund activities.
(a)

No transaction, class of transactions, or activity may be deemed

permissible under §§ __.11 through __.13 of this subpart if the transaction, class of
transactions, or activity would:
(1)

Involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking

entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties;
(2)

Result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity

to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy; or
(3)

Pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the

financial stability of the United States.

1024

(b)

Definition of material conflict of interest. (1) For purposes of this

section, a material conflict of interest between a banking entity and its clients, customers,
or counterparties exists if the banking entity engages in any transaction, class of
transactions, or activity that would involve or result in the banking entity’s interests being
materially adverse to the interests of its client, customer, or counterparty with respect to
such transaction, class of transactions, or activity, and the banking entity has not taken at
least one of the actions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2)

Prior to effecting the specific transaction or class or type of transactions,

or engaging in the specific activity, the banking entity:
(i)

Timely and effective disclosure. (A) Has made clear, timely, and effective

disclosure of the conflict of interest, together with other necessary information, in
reasonable detail and in a manner sufficient to permit a reasonable client, customer, or
counterparty to meaningfully understand the conflict of interest; and
(B) Such disclosure is made in a manner that provides the client, customer, or
counterparty the opportunity to negate, or substantially mitigate, any materially adverse
effect on the client, customer, or counterparty created by the conflict of interest; or
(ii)

Information barriers. Has established, maintained, and enforced

information barriers that are memorialized in written policies and procedures, such as
physical separation of personnel, or functions, or limitations on types of activity, that are
reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of the banking entity’s business,
to prevent the conflict of interest from involving or resulting in a materially adverse
effect on a client, customer, or counterparty. A banking entity may not rely on such
information barriers if, in the case of any specific transaction, class or type of transactions

1025

or activity, the banking entity knows or should reasonably know that, notwithstanding the
banking entity’s establishment of information barriers, the conflict of interest may
involve or result in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty.
(c)

Definition of high-risk asset and high-risk trading strategy. For purposes

of this section:
(1)

High-risk asset means an asset or group of related assets that would, if

held by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity
would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of
the United States.
(2)

High-risk trading strategy means a trading strategy that would, if engaged

in by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would
incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the
United States.
§ __.16

[Reserved]

§ __.17

[Reserved]

§ __.18

[Reserved]

§ __.19

[Reserved]

Subpart D – Compliance Program Requirement; Violations
§ __.20

Program for compliance; reporting
(a)

Program requirement. Each banking entity shall develop and provide for

the continued administration of a compliance program reasonably designed to ensure and
monitor compliance with the prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and
covered fund activities and investments set forth in section 13 of the BHC Act and this

1026

part. The terms, scope and detail of the compliance program shall be appropriate for the
types, size, scope and complexity of activities and business structure of the banking
entity.
(b)

Contents of compliance program. Except as provided in paragraph (f) of

this section, the compliance program required by paragraph (a) of this section, at a
minimum, shall include:
(1)

Written policies and procedures reasonably designed to document,

describe, monitor and limit trading activities subject to subpart B (including those
permitted under §§ __.3 to __.6 of subpart B), including setting, monitoring and
managing required limits set out in §_4 and §_5, and activities and investments with
respect to a covered fund subject to subpart C (including those permitted under §§ __.11
through __.14 of subpart C) conducted by the banking entity to ensure that all activities
and investments conducted by the banking entity that are subject to section 13 of the
BHC Act and this part comply with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part;
(2)

A system of internal controls reasonably designed to monitor compliance

with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and to prevent the occurrence of activities or
investments that are prohibited by section 13 of the BHC Act and this part;
(3)

A management framework that clearly delineates responsibility and

accountability for compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and includes
appropriate management review of trading limits, strategies, hedging activities,
investments, incentive compensation and other matters identified in this part or by
management as requiring attention;

1027

(4)

Independent testing and audit of the effectiveness of the compliance

program conducted periodically by qualified personnel of the banking entity or by a
qualified outside party;
(5)

Training for trading personnel and managers, as well as other appropriate

personnel, to effectively implement and enforce the compliance program; and
(6)

Records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with section 13 of the BHC

Act and this part, which a banking entity must promptly provide to [Agency] upon
request and retain for a period of no less than 5 years or such longer period as required by
[Agency].
(c)

Additional standards. In addition to the requirements in paragraph (b) of

this section, the compliance program of a banking entity must satisfy the requirements
and other standards contained in Appendix B, if:
(1)

The banking entity engages in proprietary trading permitted under subpart

B and is required to comply with the reporting requirements of paragraph (d) of this
section;
(2)

The banking entity has reported total consolidated assets as of the previous

calendar year end of $50 billion or more or, in the case of a foreign banking entity, has
total U.S. assets as of the previous calendar year end of $50 billion or more (including all
subsidiaries, affiliates, branches and agencies of the foreign banking entity operating,
located or organized in the United States); or
(3)

[Agency] notifies the banking entity in writing that it must satisfy the

requirements and other standards contained in Appendix B to this part.

1028

(d)

Reporting requirements under Appendix A to this part. (1) A banking

entity engaged in proprietary trading activity permitted under subpart B shall comply
with the reporting requirements described in Appendix A, if:
(i)

The banking entity (other than a foreign banking entity as provided in

paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section) has, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries,
trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities involving obligations
of or guaranteed by the United States or any agency of the United States) the average
gross sum of which (on a worldwide consolidated basis) over the previous consecutive
four quarters, as measured as of the last day of each of the four prior calendar quarters,
equals or exceeds the threshold established in paragraph (d)(2) of this section;
(ii)

In the case of a foreign banking entity, the average gross sum of the

trading assets and liabilities of the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking entity
(including all subsidiaries, affiliates, branches and agencies of the foreign banking entity
operating, located or organized in the United States and excluding trading assets and
liabilities involving obligations of or guaranteed by the United States or any agency of
the United States) over the previous consecutive four quarters, as measured as of the last
day of each of the four prior calendar quarters, equals or exceeds the threshold
established in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; or
(iii)

[Agency] notifies the banking entity in writing that it must satisfy the

reporting requirements contained in Appendix A.
(2)

The threshold for reporting under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be

$50 billion beginning on June 30, 2014; $25 billion beginning on April 30, 2016; and $10
billion beginning on December 31, 2016.

1029

(3)

Frequency of reporting: Unless [Agency] notifies the banking entity in

writing that it must report on a different basis, a banking entity with $50 billion or more
in trading assets and liabilities (as calculated in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this
section) shall report the information required by Appendix A for each calendar month
within 30 days of the end of the relevant calendar month; beginning with information for
the month of January 2015, such information shall be reported within 10 days of the end
of each calendar month. Any other banking entity subject to Appendix A shall report the
information required by Appendix A for each calendar quarter within 30 days of the end
of that calendar quarter unless [Agency] notifies the banking entity in writing that it must
report on a different basis.
(e)

Additional documentation for covered funds. Any banking entity that has

more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets as reported on December 31 of the
previous two calendar years shall maintain records that include:
(1)

Documentation of the exclusions or exemptions other than sections 3(c)(1)

and 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 relied on by each fund sponsored by
the banking entity (including all subsidiaries and affiliates) in determining that such fund
is not a covered fund;
(2)

For each fund sponsored by the banking entity (including all subsidiaries

and affiliates) for which the banking entity relies on one or more of the exclusions from
the definition of covered fund provided by §§ __.10(c)(1),__.10(c)(5), __.10(c)(8),
__.10(c)(9), or __.10(c)(10) of subpart C, documentation supporting the banking entity’s
determination that the fund is not a covered fund pursuant to one or more of those
exclusions;

1030

(3)

For each seeding vehicle described in § __.10(c)(12)(i) or (iii) of subpart

C that will become a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business
development company, a written plan documenting the banking entity’s determination
that the seeding vehicle will become a registered investment company or SEC-regulated
business development company; the period of time during which the vehicle will operate
as a seeding vehicle; and the banking entity’s plan to market the vehicle to third-party
investors and convert it into a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business
development company within the time period specified in § __.12(a)(2)(i)(B) of subpart
C;
(4)

For any banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a

banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of
any State, if the aggregate amount of ownership interests in foreign public funds that are
described in §__.10(c)(1) of subpart C owned by such banking entity (including
ownership interests owned by any affiliate that is controlled directly or indirectly by a
banking entity that is located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any
State) exceeds $50 million at the end of two or more consecutive calendar quarters,
beginning with the next succeeding calendar quarter, documentation of the value of the
ownership interests owned by the banking entity (and such affiliates) in each foreign
public fund and each jurisdiction in which any such foreign public fund is organized,
calculated as of the end of each calendar quarter, which documentation must continue
until the banking entity’s aggregate amount of ownership interests in foreign public funds
is below $50 million for two consecutive calendar quarters; and

1031

(5)

For purposes of paragraph (e)(4) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or

subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is located in the United States; however, the
foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered
to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S.
branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(f)

Simplified programs for less active banking entities—(1)

Banking

entities with no covered activities. A banking entity that does not engage in activities or
investments pursuant to subpart B or subpart C (other than trading activities permitted
pursuant to §__.6(a) of subpart B) may satisfy the requirements of this section by
establishing the required compliance program prior to becoming engaged in such
activities or making such investments (other than trading activities permitted pursuant to
§__.6(a) of subpart B).
(2)

Banking entities with modest activities. A banking entity with total

consolidated assets of $10 billion or less as reported on December 31 of the previous two
calendar years that engages in activities or investments pursuant to subpart B or subpart C
(other than trading activities permitted under § __.6(a) of subpart B) may satisfy the
requirements of this section by including in its existing compliance policies and
procedures appropriate references to the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act and
this part and adjustments as appropriate given the activities, size, scope and complexity
of the banking entity.
§ __.21

Termination of activities or investments; penalties for violations.
(a)

Any banking entity that engages in an activity or makes an investment in

violation of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, or acts in a manner that functions as

1032

an evasion of the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, including
through an abuse of any activity or investment permitted under subparts B or C, or
otherwise violates the restrictions and requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this
part, shall, upon discovery, promptly terminate the activity and, as relevant, dispose of
the investment.
(b)

Whenever [Agency] finds reasonable cause to believe any banking entity

has engaged in an activity or made an investment in violation of section 13 of the BHC
Act or this part, or engaged in any activity or made any investment that functions as an
evasion of the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, [Agency] may take
any action permitted by law to enforce compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and
this part, including directing the banking entity to restrict, limit, or terminate any or all
activities under this part and dispose of any investment.

1033

Appendix A to Part __--Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements for Covered Trading
Activities
I.

Purpose
a. This appendix sets forth reporting and recordkeeping requirements that certain

banking entities must satisfy in connection with the restrictions on proprietary trading set
forth in subpart B (“proprietary trading restrictions”). Pursuant to § __.20(d), this
appendix generally applies to a banking entity that, together with its affiliates and
subsidiaries, has significant trading assets and liabilities. These entities are required to (i)
furnish periodic reports to [Agency] regarding a variety of quantitative measurements of
their covered trading activities, which vary depending on the scope and size of covered
trading activities, and (ii) create and maintain records documenting the preparation and
content of these reports. The requirements of this appendix must be incorporated into the
banking entity’s internal compliance program under § __.20 and Appendix B.
b. The purpose of this appendix is to assist banking entities and [Agency] in:
(i)

Better understanding and evaluating the scope, type, and profile of the

banking entity’s covered trading activities;
(ii)

Monitoring the banking entity’s covered trading activities;

(iii)

Identifying covered trading activities that warrant further review or

examination by the banking entity to verify compliance with the proprietary trading
restrictions;
(iv)

Evaluating whether the covered trading activities of trading desks engaged

in market making-related activities subject to § __.4(b) are consistent with the
requirements governing permitted market making-related activities;

1034

(v)

Evaluating whether the covered trading activities of trading desks that are

engaged in permitted trading activity subject to §§ __.4, __.5, or __.6(a)-(b) (i.e.,
underwriting and market making-related related activity, risk-mitigating hedging, or
trading in certain government obligations) are consistent with the requirement that such
activity not result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure to high-risk assets or highrisk trading strategies;
(vi)

Identifying the profile of particular covered trading activities of the

banking entity, and the individual trading desks of the banking entity, to help establish
the appropriate frequency and scope of examination by [Agency] of such activities; and
(vii)

Assessing and addressing the risks associated with the banking entity’s

covered trading activities.
c. The quantitative measurements that must be furnished pursuant to this appendix
are not intended to serve as a dispositive tool for the identification of permissible or
impermissible activities.
d. In order to allow banking entities and the Agencies to evaluate the effectiveness
of these metrics, banking entities must collect and report these metrics for all trading
desks beginning on the dates established in §__.20 of the final rule. The Agencies will
review the data collected and revise this collection requirement as appropriate based on a
review of the data collected prior to September 30, 2015.
e. In addition to the quantitative measurements required in this appendix, a banking
entity may need to develop and implement other quantitative measurements in order to
effectively monitor its covered trading activities for compliance with section 13 of the BHC
Act and this part and to have an effective compliance program, as required by § __.20 and

1035

Appendix B to this part. The effectiveness of particular quantitative measurements may
differ based on the profile of the banking entity’s businesses in general and, more
specifically, of the particular trading desk, including types of instruments traded, trading
activities and strategies, and history and experience (e.g., whether the trading desk is an
established, successful market maker or a new entrant to a competitive market). In all cases,
banking entities must ensure that they have robust measures in place to identify and monitor
the risks taken in their trading activities, to ensure that the activities are within risk
tolerances established by the banking entity, and to monitor and examine for compliance
with the proprietary trading restrictions in this part.
f. On an ongoing basis, banking entities must carefully monitor, review, and
evaluate all furnished quantitative measurements, as well as any others that they choose
to utilize in order to maintain compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part.
All measurement results that indicate a heightened risk of impermissible proprietary
trading, including with respect to otherwise-permitted activities under §§ __.4 through
__.6(a) and (b), or that result in a material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk
trading strategies, must be escalated within the banking entity for review, further
analysis, explanation to [Agency], and remediation, where appropriate. The quantitative
measurements discussed in this appendix should be helpful to banking entities in
identifying and managing the risks related to their covered trading activities.
II.

Definitions
The terms used in this appendix have the same meanings as set forth in §§ __.2

and __.3. In addition, for purposes of this appendix, the following definitions apply:

1036

Calculation period means the period of time for which a particular quantitative
measurement must be calculated.
Comprehensive profit and loss means the net profit or loss of a trading desk’s
material sources of trading revenue over a specific period of time, including, for example,
any increase or decrease in the market value of a trading desk’s holdings, dividend
income, and interest income and expense.
Covered trading activity means trading conducted by a trading desk under §§
__.4, __.5, __.6(a), or __.6(b). A banking entity may include trading under §§ __.3(d),
__.6(c), __.6(d) or __.6(e).
Measurement frequency means the frequency with which a particular quantitative
metric must be calculated and recorded.
Trading desk means the smallest discrete unit of organization of a banking entity
that purchases or sells financial instruments for the trading account of the banking entity
or an affiliate thereof.

III.

Reporting and Recordkeeping of Quantitative Measurements

a.

Scope of Required Reporting
General scope. Each banking entity made subject to this part by §__.20 must

furnish the following quantitative measurements for each trading desk of the banking
entity, calculated in accordance with this appendix:
•

Risk and Position Limits and Usage;

•

Risk Factor Sensitivities;

•

Value-at-Risk and Stress VaR;

1037

b.

•

Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution;

•

Inventory Turnover;

•

Inventory Aging; and

•

Customer-Facing Trade Ratio

Frequency of Required Calculation and Reporting
A banking entity must calculate any applicable quantitative measurement for each

trading day. A banking entity must report each applicable quantitative measurement to
[Agency] on the reporting schedule established in §__.20 unless otherwise requested by
[Agency]. All quantitative measurements for any calendar month must be reported
within the time period required by §__.20.
c.

Recordkeeping
A banking entity must, for any quantitative measurement furnished to [Agency]

pursuant to this appendix and § __.20(d), create and maintain records documenting the
preparation and content of these reports, as well as such information as is necessary to
permit [Agency] to verify the accuracy of such reports, for a period of 5 years from the
end of the calendar year for which the measurement was taken.
IV.

Quantitative Measurements

a.

Risk-Management Measurements

1.

Risk and Position Limits and Usage
i. Description: For purposes of this appendix, Risk and Position Limits are the

constraints that define the amount of risk that a trading desk is permitted to take at a point
in time, as defined by the banking entity for a specific trading desk. Usage represents the
portion of the trading desk’s limits that are accounted for by the current activity of the

1038

desk. Risk and position limits and their usage are key risk management tools used to
control and monitor risk taking and include, but are not limited, to the limits set out in § __.4 and § __.5. A number of the metrics that are described below, including “Risk
Factor Sensitivities” and “Value-at-Risk and Stress Value-at-Risk,” relate to a trading
desk’s risk and position limits and are useful in evaluating and setting these limits in the
broader context of the trading desk’s overall activities, particularly for the market making
activities under § __.4(b) and hedging activity under § __.5. Accordingly, the limits
required under § __.4(b)(2)(iii) and § __.5(b)(1)(i) must meet the applicable
requirements under § __.4(b)(2)(iii) and § __.5(b)(1)(i) and also must include appropriate
metrics for the trading desk limits including, at a minimum, the “Risk Factor
Sensitivities” and “Value-at-Risk and Stress Value-at-Risk” metrics except to the extent
any of the “Risk Factor Sensitivities” or “Value-at-Risk and Stress Value-at-Risk”
metrics are demonstrably ineffective for measuring and monitoring the risks of a trading
desk based on the types of positions traded by, and risk exposures of, that desk.
ii. General Calculation Guidance: Risk and Position Limits must be reported in
the format used by the banking entity for the purposes of risk management of each
trading desk. Risk and Position Limits are often expressed in terms of risk measures,
such as VaR and Risk Factor Sensitivities, but may also be expressed in terms of other
observable criteria, such as net open positions. When criteria other than VaR or Risk
Factor Sensitivities are used to define the Risk and Position Limits, both the value of the
Risk and Position Limits and the value of the variables used to assess whether these
limits have been reached must be reported.
iii. Calculation Period: One trading day.

1039

iv. Measurement Frequency: Daily.
2.

Risk Factor Sensitivities
i. Description: For purposes of this appendix, Risk Factor Sensitivities are

changes in a trading desk’s Comprehensive Profit and Loss that are expected to occur in
the event of a change in one or more underlying variables that are significant sources of
the trading desk’s profitability and risk.
ii. General Calculation Guidance: A banking entity must report the Risk Factor
Sensitivities that are monitored and managed as part of the trading desk’s overall risk
management policy. The underlying data and methods used to compute a trading desk’s
Risk Factor Sensitivities will depend on the specific function of the trading desk and the
internal risk management models employed. The number and type of Risk Factor
Sensitivities that are monitored and managed by a trading desk, and furnished to
[Agency], will depend on the explicit risks assumed by the trading desk. In general,
however, reported Risk Factor Sensitivities must be sufficiently granular to account for a
preponderance of the expected price variation in the trading desk’s holdings.
A. Trading desks must take into account any relevant factors in calculating Risk
Factor Sensitivities, including, for example, the following with respect to particular asset
classes:
•

Commodity derivative positions: risk factors with respect to the related

commodities set out in 17 CFR §20.2, the maturity of the positions, volatility and/or
correlation sensitivities (expressed in a manner that demonstrates any significant nonlinearities), and the maturity profile of the positions;

1040

•

Credit positions: risk factors with respect to credit spreads that are

sufficiently granular to account for specific credit sectors and market segments, the
maturity profile of the positions, and risk factors with respect to interest rates of all
relevant maturities;
•

Credit-related derivative positions: risk factor sensitivities, for example

credit spreads, shifts (parallel and non-parallel) in credit spreads -- volatility, and/or
correlation sensitivities (expressed in a manner that demonstrates any significant nonlinearities), and the maturity profile of the positions;
•

Equity derivative positions: risk factor sensitivities such as equity positions,

volatility, and/or correlation sensitivities (expressed in a manner that demonstrates any
significant non-linearities), and the maturity profile of the positions;
•

Equity positions: risk factors for equity prices and risk factors that

differentiate between important equity market sectors and segments, such as a small
capitalization equities and international equities;
•

Foreign exchange derivative positions: risk factors with respect to major

currency pairs and maturities, exposure to interest rates at relevant maturities, volatility,
and/or correlation sensitivities (expressed in a manner that demonstrates any significant
non-linearities), as well as the maturity profile of the positions; and
•

Interest rate positions, including interest rate derivative positions: risk

factors with respect to major interest rate categories and maturities and volatility and/or
correlation sensitivities (expressed in a manner that demonstrates any significant nonlinearities), and shifts (parallel and non-parallel) in the interest rate curve, as well as the
maturity profile of the positions.

1041

B. The methods used by a banking entity to calculate sensitivities to a common
factor shared by multiple trading desks, such as an equity price factor, must be applied
consistently across its trading desks so that the sensitivities can be compared from one
trading desk to another.
iii. Calculation Period:

One trading day.

iv. Measurement Frequency: Daily.
3.

Value-at-Risk and Stress Value-at-Risk
i. Description: For purposes of this appendix, Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) is the

commonly used percentile measurement of the risk of future financial loss in the value of
a given set of aggregated positions over a specified period of time, based on current
market conditions. For purposes of this appendix, Stress Value-at-Risk (“Stress VaR”) is
the percentile measurement of the risk of future financial loss in the value of a given set
of aggregated positions over a specified period of time, based on market conditions
during a period of significant financial stress.
ii. General Calculation Guidance: Banking entities must compute and report VaR
and Stress VaR by employing generally accepted standards and methods of calculation.
VaR should reflect a loss in a trading desk that is expected to be exceeded less than one
percent of the time over a one-day period. For those banking entities that are subject to
regulatory capital requirements imposed by a Federal banking agency, VaR and Stress
VaR must be computed and reported in a manner that is consistent with such regulatory
capital requirements. In cases where a trading desk does not have a standalone VaR or
Stress VaR calculation but is part of a larger aggregation of positions for which a VaR or
Stress VaR calculation is performed, a VaR or Stress VaR calculation that includes only

1042

the trading desk’s holdings must be performed consistent with the VaR or Stress VaR
model and methodology used for the larger aggregation of positions.
iii. Calculation Period:

One trading day.

iv. Measurement Frequency: Daily.

b.

Source-of-Revenue Measurements

1.

Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution
i. Description: For purposes of this appendix, Comprehensive Profit and Loss

Attribution is an analysis that attributes the daily fluctuation in the value of a trading
desk’s positions to various sources. First, the daily profit and loss of the aggregated
positions is divided into three categories: (i) profit and loss attributable to a trading desk’s
existing positions that were also positions held by the trading desk as of the end of the
prior day (“existing positions”); (ii) profit and loss attributable to new positions resulting
from the current day’s trading activity (“new positions”); and (iii) residual profit and loss
that cannot be specifically attributed to existing positions or new positions. The sum of
(i), (ii), and (iii) must equal the trading desk’s comprehensive profit and loss at each point
in time. In addition, profit and loss measurements must calculate volatility of
comprehensive profit and loss (i.e., the standard deviation of the trading desk’s one-day
profit and loss, in dollar terms) for the reporting period for at least a 30-, 60- and 90-day
lag period, from the end of the reporting period, and any other period that the banking
entity deems necessary to meet the requirements of the rule.

1043

A. The comprehensive profit and loss associated with existing positions must
reflect changes in the value of these positions on the applicable day. The comprehensive
profit and loss from existing positions must be further attributed, as applicable, to
changes in (i) the specific Risk Factors and other factors that are monitored and managed
as part of the trading desk’s overall risk management policies and procedures; and (ii)
any other applicable elements, such as cash flows, carry, changes in reserves, and the
correction, cancellation, or exercise of a trade.

B. The comprehensive profit and loss attributed to new positions must reflect
commissions and fee income or expense and market gains or losses associated with
transactions executed on the applicable day. New positions include purchases and sales
of financial instruments and other assets/liabilities and negotiated amendments to existing
positions. The comprehensive profit and loss from new positions may be reported in the
aggregate and does not need to be further attributed to specific sources.

C. The portion of comprehensive profit and loss that cannot be specifically
attributed to known sources must be allocated to a residual category identified as an
unexplained portion of the comprehensive profit and loss. Significant unexplained profit
and loss must be escalated for further investigation and analysis.

ii. General Calculation Guidance: The specific categories used by a trading desk
in the attribution analysis and amount of detail for the analysis should be tailored to the
type and amount of trading activities undertaken by the trading desk. The new position

1044

attribution must be computed by calculating the difference between the prices at which
instruments were bought and/or sold and the prices at which those instruments are
marked to market at the close of business on that day multiplied by the notional or
principal amount of each purchase or sale. Any fees, commissions, or other payments
received (paid) that are associated with transactions executed on that day must be added
(subtracted) from such difference. These factors must be measured consistently over time
to facilitate historical comparisons.

iii. Calculation Period:

One trading day.

iv. Measurement Frequency: Daily.

c.

Customer-Facing Activity Measurements

1.

Inventory Turnover
i. Description: For purposes of this appendix, Inventory Turnover is a ratio that

measures the turnover of a trading desk’s inventory. The numerator of the ratio is the
absolute value of all transactions over the reporting period. The denominator of the ratio
is the value of the trading desk’s inventory at the beginning of the reporting period.
ii. General Calculation Guidance: For purposes of this appendix, for derivatives,
other than options and interest rate derivatives, value means gross notional value, for
options, value means delta adjusted notional value, and for interest rate derivatives, value
means 10-year bond equivalent value.
iii. Calculation Period:

30 days, 60 days, and 90 days.

iv. Measurement Frequency: Daily.

1045

2.

Inventory Aging
i. Description: For purposes of this appendix, Inventory Aging generally

describes a schedule of the trading desk’s aggregate assets and liabilities and the amount
of time that those assets and liabilities have been held. Inventory Aging should measure
the age profile of the trading desk’s assets and liabilities.
ii. General Calculation Guidance: In general, Inventory Aging must be computed
using a trading desk’s trading activity data and must identify the value of a trading desk’s
aggregate assets and liabilities. Inventory Aging must include two schedules, an assetaging schedule and a liability-aging schedule. Each schedule must record the value of
assets or liabilities held over all holding periods. For derivatives, other than options, and
interest rate derivatives, value means gross notional value, for options, value means delta
adjusted notional value and, for interest rate derivatives, value means 10-year bond
equivalent value.
iii. Calculation Period:

One trading day.

iv. Measurement Frequency: Daily.

3.

Customer-Facing Trade Ratio – Trade Count Based and Value Based
i. Description: For purposes of this appendix, the Customer-Facing Trade Ratio is

a ratio comparing (i) the transactions involving a counterparty that is a customer of the
trading desk to (ii) the transactions involving a counterparty that is not a customer of the
trading desk. A trade count based ratio must be computed that records the number of
transactions involving a counterparty that is a customer of the trading desk and the

1046

number of transactions involving a counterparty that is not a customer of the trading
desk. A value based ratio must be computed that records the value of transactions
involving a counterparty that is a customer of the trading desk and the value of
transactions involving a counterparty that is not a customer of the trading desk.
ii. General Calculation Guidance: For purposes of calculating the CustomerFacing Trade Ratio, a counterparty is considered to be a customer of the trading desk if
the counterparty is a market participant that makes use of the banking entity’s market
making-related services by obtaining such services, responding to quotations, or entering
into a continuing relationship with respect to such services. However, a trading desk or
other organizational unit of another banking entity would not be a client, customer, or
counterparty of the trading desk if the other entity has trading assets and liabilities of $50
billion or more as measured in accordance with §__.20(d)(1) unless the trading desk
documents how and why a particular trading desk or other organizational unit of the
entity should be treated as a client, customer, or counterparty of the trading desk.
Transactions conducted anonymously on an exchange or similar trading facility that
permits trading on behalf of a broad range of market participants would be considered
transactions with customers of the trading desk. For derivatives, other than options, and
interest rate derivatives, value means gross notional value, for options, value means delta
adjusted notional value, and for interest rate derivatives, value means 10-year bond
equivalent value.
iii. Calculation Period:

30 days, 60 days, and 90 days.

iv. Measurement Frequency: Daily.

1047

Appendix B to Part __--Enhanced Minimum Standards for Compliance Programs
I. Overview
Section __.20(c) requires certain banking entities to establish, maintain, and
enforce an enhanced compliance program that includes the requirements and standards in
this Appendix as well as the minimum written policies and procedures, internal controls,
management framework, independent testing, training, and recordkeeping provisions
outlined in § __.20. This Appendix sets forth additional minimum standards with respect
to the establishment, oversight, maintenance, and enforcement by these banking entities
of an enhanced internal compliance program for ensuring and monitoring compliance
with the prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and covered fund activities
and investments set forth in section 13 of the BHC Act and this part.
a. This compliance program must:
1. Be reasonably designed to identify, document, monitor, and report the permitted
trading and covered fund activities and investments of the banking entity;
identify, monitor and promptly address the risks of these covered activities and
investments and potential areas of noncompliance; and prevent activities or
investments prohibited by, or that do not comply with, section 13 of the BHC Act
and this part;
2. Establish and enforce appropriate limits on the covered activities and investments
of the banking entity, including limits on the size, scope, complexity, and risks of
the individual activities or investments consistent with the requirements of section
13 of the BHC Act and this part;

1048

3. Subject the effectiveness of the compliance program to periodic independent
review and testing, and ensure that the entity’s internal audit, corporate
compliance and internal control functions involved in review and testing are
effective and independent;
4. Make senior management, and others as appropriate, accountable for the effective
implementation of the compliance program, and ensure that the board of directors
and chief executive officer (or equivalent) of the banking entity review the
effectiveness of the compliance program; and
5. Facilitate supervision and examination by the Agencies of the banking entity’s
permitted trading and covered fund activities and investments.

II. Enhanced Compliance Program
a. Proprietary Trading Activities. A banking entity must establish, maintain and
enforce a compliance program that includes written policies and procedures that are
appropriate for the types, size, and complexity of, and risks associated with, its permitted
trading activities. The compliance program may be tailored to the types of trading
activities conducted by the banking entity, and must include a detailed description of
controls established by the banking entity to reasonably ensure that its trading activities
are conducted in accordance with the requirements and limitations applicable to those
trading activities under section 13 of the BHC Act and this part, and provide for
appropriate revision of the compliance program before expansion of the trading activities
of the banking entity. A banking entity must devote adequate resources and use
knowledgeable personnel in conducting, supervising and managing its trading activities,

1049

and promote consistency, independence and rigor in implementing its risk controls and
compliance efforts. The compliance program must be updated with a frequency
sufficient to account for changes in the activities of the banking entity, results of
independent testing of the program, identification of weaknesses in the program, and
changes in legal, regulatory or other requirements.
1. Trading Desks: The banking entity must have written policies and procedures
governing each trading desk that include a description of:
i. The process for identifying, authorizing and documenting financial instruments
each trading desk may purchase or sell, with separate documentation for market
making-related activities conducted in reliance on § __.4(b) and for hedging activity
conducted in reliance on § __.5;
ii. A mapping for each trading desk to the division, business line, or other
organizational structure that is responsible for managing and overseeing the
trading desk’s activities;
iii. The mission (i.e., the type of trading activity, such as market-making, trading
in sovereign debt, etc.) and strategy (i.e., methods for conducting authorized
trading activities) of each trading desk;
iv. The activities that the trading desk is authorized to conduct, including (i)
authorized instruments and products, and (ii) authorized hedging strategies,
techniques and instruments;

v. The types and amount of risks allocated by the banking entity to each trading
desk to implement the mission and strategy of the trading desk, including an
enumeration of material risks resulting from the activities in which the trading
1050

desk is authorized to engage (including but not limited to price risks, such as
basis, volatility and correlation risks, as well as counterparty credit risk). Risk
assessments must take into account both the risks inherent in the trading activity
and the strength and effectiveness of controls designed to mitigate those risks;

vi. How the risks allocated to each trading desk will be measured;
vii. Why the allocated risks levels are appropriate to the activities authorized for
the trading desk;
viii. The limits on the holding period of, and the risk associated with, financial
instruments under the responsibility of the trading desk;
ix. The process for setting new or revised limits, as well as escalation procedures
for granting exceptions to any limits or to any policies or procedures governing
the desk, the analysis that will be required to support revising limits or granting
exceptions, and the process for independently reviewing and documenting those
exceptions and the underlying analysis;
x. The process for identifying, documenting and approving new products, trading
strategies, and hedging strategies;
xi. The types of clients, customers, and counterparties with whom the trading desk
may trade; and
xii. The compensation arrangements, including incentive arrangements, for
employees associated with the trading desk, which may not be designed to

1051

reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading or excessive or imprudent
risk-taking.

2. Description of risks and risk management processes: The compliance program
for the banking entity must include a comprehensive description of the risk management
program for the trading activity of the banking entity. The compliance program must
also include a description of the governance, approval, reporting, escalation, review and
other processes the banking entity will use to reasonably ensure that trading activity is
conducted in compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. Trading activity
in similar financial instruments should be subject to similar governance, limits, testing,
controls, and review, unless the banking entity specifically determines to establish
different limits or processes and documents those differences. Descriptions must include,
at a minimum, the following elements:
i. A description of the supervisory and risk management structure governing all
trading activity, including a description of processes for initial and senior-level
review of new products and new strategies;
ii. A description of the process for developing, documenting, testing, approving and
reviewing all models used for valuing, identifying and monitoring the risks of trading
activity and related positions, including the process for periodic independent testing
of the reliability and accuracy of those models;
iii. A description of the process for developing, documenting, testing, approving and
reviewing the limits established for each trading desk;
iv. A description of the process by which a security may be purchased or sold
pursuant to the liquidity management plan, including the process for authorizing and
1052

monitoring such activity to ensure compliance with the banking entity’s liquidity
management plan and the restrictions on liquidity management activities in this part;
v. A description of the management review process, including escalation procedures,
for approving any temporary exceptions or permanent adjustments to limits on the
activities, positions, strategies, or risks associated with each trading desk; and
vi. The role of the audit, compliance, risk management and other relevant units for
conducting independent testing of trading and hedging activities, techniques and
strategies.
3. Authorized risks, instruments, and products. The banking entity must
implement and enforce limits and internal controls for each trading desk that are
reasonably designed to ensure that trading activity is conducted in conformance with
section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and with the banking entity’s written policies and
procedures. The banking entity must establish and enforce risk limits appropriate for the
activity of each trading desk. These limits should be based on probabilistic and nonprobabilistic measures of potential loss (e.g., Value-at-Risk and notional exposure,
respectively), and measured under normal and stress market conditions. At a minimum,
these internal controls must monitor, establish and enforce limits on:
i. The financial instruments (including, at a minimum, by type and exposure) that
the trading desk may trade;
ii. The types and levels of risks that may be taken by each trading desk; and
iii. The types of hedging instruments used, hedging strategies employed, and the
amount of risk effectively hedged.

1053

4. Hedging policies and procedures. The banking entity must establish, maintain,
and enforce written policies and procedures regarding the use of risk-mitigating hedging
instruments and strategies that, at a minimum, describe:
i. The positions, techniques and strategies that each trading desk may use to hedge
the risk of its positions;
ii. The manner in which the banking entity will identify the risks arising in
connection with and related to the individual or aggregated positions, contracts or
other holdings of the banking entity that are to be hedged and determine that those
risks have been properly and effectively hedged;
iii. The level of the organization at which hedging activity and management will
occur;
iv. The manner in which hedging strategies will be monitored and the personnel
responsible for such monitoring;
v. The risk management processes used to control unhedged or residual risks; and
vi. The process for developing, documenting, testing, approving and reviewing all
hedging positions, techniques and strategies permitted for each trading desk and
for the banking entity in reliance on § __.5.
5. Analysis and quantitative measurements. The banking entity must perform
robust analysis and quantitative measurement of its trading activities that is reasonably
designed to ensure that the trading activity of each trading desk is consistent with the
banking entity’s compliance program; monitor and assist in the identification of potential
and actual prohibited proprietary trading activity; and prevent the occurrence of
prohibited proprietary trading. Analysis and models used to determine, measure and limit

1054

risk must be rigorously tested and be reviewed by management responsible for trading
activity to ensure that trading activities, limits, strategies, and hedging activities do not
understate the risk and exposure to the banking entity or allow prohibited proprietary
trading. This review should include periodic and independent back-testing and revision
of activities, limits, strategies and hedging as appropriate to contain risk and ensure
compliance. In addition to the quantitative measurements reported by any banking entity
subject to Appendix A to this part, each banking entity must develop and implement, to
the extent appropriate to facilitate compliance with this part, additional quantitative
measurements specifically tailored to the particular risks, practices, and strategies of its
trading desks. The banking entity’s analysis and quantitative measurements must
incorporate the quantitative measurements reported by the banking entity pursuant to
Appendix A (if applicable) and include, at a minimum, the following:
i. Internal controls and written policies and procedures reasonably designed to
ensure the accuracy and integrity of quantitative measurements;
ii. Ongoing, timely monitoring and review of calculated quantitative
measurements;
iii. The establishment of numerical thresholds and appropriate trading measures
for each trading desk and heightened review of trading activity not consistent with
those thresholds to ensure compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this
part, including analysis of the measurement results or other information,
appropriate escalation procedures, and documentation related to the review; and
iv. Immediate review and compliance investigation of the trading desk’s
activities, escalation to senior management with oversight responsibilities for the

1055

applicable trading desk, timely notification to [Agency], appropriate remedial
action (e.g., divesting of impermissible positions, cessation of impermissible
activity, disciplinary actions), and documentation of the investigation findings and
remedial action taken when quantitative measurements or other information,
considered together with the facts and circumstances, or findings of internal audit,
independent testing or other review suggest a reasonable likelihood that the
trading desk has violated any part of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part.
6. Other Compliance Matters. In addition to the requirements specified above, the
banking entity’s compliance program must:
i. Identify activities of each trading desk that will be conducted in reliance on
exemptions contained in §§ __.4 through __.6, including an explanation of:
A. How and where in the organization the activity occurs; and
B. Which exemption is being relied on and how the activity meets the specific
requirements for reliance on the applicable exemption;
ii. Include an explanation of the process for documenting, approving and reviewing
actions taken pursuant to the liquidity management plan, where in the organization
this activity occurs, the securities permissible for liquidity management, the process
for ensuring that liquidity management activities are not conducted for the purpose of
prohibited proprietary trading, and the process for ensuring that securities purchased
as part of the liquidity management plan are highly liquid and conform to the
requirements of this part;
iii. Describe how the banking entity monitors for and prohibits potential or actual
material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies presented by each

1056

trading desk that relies on the exemptions contained in §§ __.3(d)(3), and __.4
through __.6 , which must take into account potential or actual exposure to:
A. Assets whose values cannot be externally priced or, where valuation is
reliant on pricing models, whose model inputs cannot be externally validated;
B. Assets whose changes in value cannot be adequately mitigated by effective
hedging;
C. New products with rapid growth, including those that do not have a market
history;
D. Assets or strategies that include significant embedded leverage;
E. Assets or strategies that have demonstrated significant historical volatility;
F. Assets or strategies for which the application of capital and liquidity
standards would not adequately account for the risk; and
G. Assets or strategies that result in large and significant concentrations to
sectors, risk factors, or counterparties;
iv. Establish responsibility for compliance with the reporting and recordkeeping
requirements of subpart B and § __.20; and
v. Establish policies for monitoring and prohibiting potential or actual material
conflicts of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, or
counterparties.
7. Remediation of violations. The banking entity’s compliance program must be
reasonably designed and established to effectively monitor and identify for further
analysis any trading activity that may indicate potential violations of section 13 of the
BHC Act and this part and to prevent actual violations of section 13 of the BHC Act and

1057

this part. The compliance program must describe procedures for identifying and
remedying violations of section 13 of the BHC Act and this part, and must include, at a
minimum, a requirement to promptly document, address and remedy any violation of
section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, and document all proposed and actual remediation
efforts. The compliance program must include specific written policies and procedures
that are reasonably designed to assess the extent to which any activity indicates that
modification to the banking entity’s compliance program is warranted and to ensure that
appropriate modifications are implemented. The written policies and procedures must
provide for prompt notification to appropriate management, including senior management
and the board of directors, of any material weakness or significant deficiencies in the
design or implementation of the compliance program of the banking entity.
b. Covered Fund Activities or Investments. A banking entity must establish,
maintain and enforce a compliance program that includes written policies and procedures
that are appropriate for the types, size, complexity and risks of the covered fund and
related activities conducted and investments made, by the banking entity.
1. Identification of covered funds. The banking entity’s compliance program
must provide a process, which must include appropriate management review and
independent testing, for identifying and documenting covered funds that each unit within
the banking entity’s organization sponsors or organizes and offers, and covered funds in
which each such unit invests. In addition to the documentation requirements for covered
funds, as specified under § __.20(e), the documentation must include information that
identifies all pools that the banking entity sponsors or has an interest in and the type of
exemption from the Commodity Exchange Act (whether or not the pool relies on section

1058

4.7 of the regulations under the Commodity Exchange Act), and the amount of ownership
interest the banking entity has in those pools.

2. Identification of covered fund activities and investments. The banking entity’s
compliance program must identify, document and map each unit within the organization
that is permitted to acquire or hold an interest in any covered fund or sponsor any covered
fund and map each unit to the division, business line, or other organizational structure
that will be responsible for managing and overseeing that unit’s activities and
investments.
3. Explanation of compliance. The banking entity’s compliance program must
explain how:
i. The banking entity monitors for and prohibits potential or actual material
conflicts of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, or
counterparties related to its covered fund activities and investments;
ii. The banking entity monitors for and prohibits potential or actual
transactions or activities that may threaten the safety and soundness of the
banking entity related to its covered fund activities and investments; and
iii. The banking entity monitors for and prohibits potential or actual material
exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies presented by its
covered fund activities and investments, taking into account potential or actual
exposure to:

1059

A. Assets whose values cannot be externally priced or, where
valuation is reliant on pricing models, whose model inputs cannot be
externally validated;
B. Assets whose changes in values cannot be adequately mitigated
by effective hedging;
C. New products with rapid growth, including those that do not have
a market history;
D. Assets or strategies that include significant embedded leverage;
E. Assets or strategies that have demonstrated significant historical
volatility;
F. Assets or strategies for which the application of capital and
liquidity standards would not adequately account for the risk; and
G. Assets or strategies that expose the banking entity to large and
significant concentrations with respect to sectors, risk factors, or
counterparties;
4. Description and documentation of covered fund activities and investments.
For each organizational unit engaged in covered fund activities and investments, the
banking entity’s compliance program must document:
i. The covered fund activities and investments that the unit is authorized to
conduct;
ii. The banking entity’s plan for actively seeking unaffiliated investors to ensure
that any investment by the banking entity conforms to the limits contained in §

1060

__.12 or registered in compliance with the securities laws and thereby exempt
from those limits within the time periods allotted in§ __.12; and
iii. How it complies with the requirements of subpart C.
5. Internal Controls. A banking entity must establish, maintain, and enforce
internal controls that are reasonably designed to ensure that its covered fund activities or
investments comply with the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and
are appropriate given the limits on risk established by the banking entity. These written
internal controls must be reasonably designed and established to effectively monitor and
identify for further analysis any covered fund activity or investment that may indicate
potential violations of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part. The internal controls must,
at a minimum require:
i. Monitoring and limiting the banking entity’s individual and aggregate
investments in covered funds;
ii. Monitoring the amount and timing of seed capital investments for
compliance with the limitations under subpart C (including but not limited to
the redemption, sale or disposition requirements) of § __.12, and the
effectiveness of efforts to seek unaffiliated investors to ensure compliance
with those limits;
iii. Calculating the individual and aggregate levels of ownership interests in
one or more covered fund required by § __.12;
iv. Attributing the appropriate instruments to the individual and aggregate
ownership interest calculations above;

1061

v. Making disclosures to prospective and actual investors in any covered fund
organized and offered or sponsored by the banking entity, as provided under §
__.11(a)(8);
vi Monitoring for and preventing any relationship or transaction between the
banking entity and a covered fund that is prohibited under § __.14, including
where the banking entity has been designated as the sponsor, investment
manager, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor to a covered fund
by another banking entity; and
vii. Appropriate management review and supervision across legal entities of
the banking entity to ensure that services and products provided by all
affiliated entities comply with the limitation on services and products
contained in § __.14.
6. Remediation of violations. The banking entity’s compliance program must be
reasonably designed and established to effectively monitor and identify for further
analysis any covered fund activity or investment that may indicate potential violations of
section 13 of the BHC Act or this part and to prevent actual violations of section 13 of the
BHC Act and this part. The banking entity’s compliance program must describe
procedures for identifying and remedying violations of section 13 of the BHC Act and
this part, and must include, at a minimum, a requirement to promptly document, address
and remedy any violation of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, including § __.21,
and document all proposed and actual remediation efforts. The compliance program
must include specific written policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to
assess the extent to which any activity or investment indicates that modification to the

1062

banking entity’s compliance program is warranted and to ensure that appropriate
modifications are implemented. The written policies and procedures must provide for
prompt notification to appropriate management, including senior management and the
board of directors, of any material weakness or significant deficiencies in the design or
implementation of the compliance program of the banking entity.

III. Responsibility and Accountability for the Compliance Program
a. A banking entity must establish, maintain, and enforce a governance and
management framework to manage its business and employees with a view to preventing
violations of section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. A banking entity must have an
appropriate management framework reasonably designed to ensure that: appropriate
personnel are responsible and accountable for the effective implementation and
enforcement of the compliance program; a clear reporting line with a chain of
responsibility is delineated; and the compliance program is reviewed periodically by
senior management. The board of directors (or equivalent governance body) and senior
management should have the appropriate authority and access to personnel and
information within the organizations as well as appropriate resources to conduct their
oversight activities effectively.
1. Corporate governance. The banking entity must adopt a written compliance
program approved by the board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board, or
equivalent governance body, and senior management.

1063

2. Management procedures. The banking entity must establish, maintain, and
enforce a governance framework that is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
section 13 of the BHC Act and this part, which, at a minimum, provides for:
i. The designation of appropriate senior management or committee of senior
management with authority to carry out the management responsibilities of the
banking entity for each trading desk and for each organizational unit engaged in
covered fund activities;
ii. Written procedures addressing the management of the activities of the banking
entity that are reasonably designed to achieve compliance with section 13 of the
BHC Act and this part, including:
A. A description of the management system, including the titles,
qualifications, and locations of managers and the specific responsibilities
of each person with respect to the banking entity’s activities governed by
section 13 of the BHC Act and this part; and
B. Procedures for determining compensation arrangements for traders
engaged in underwriting or market making-related activities under § __.4
or risk-mitigating hedging activities under § __.5 so that such
compensation arrangements are designed not to reward or incentivize
prohibited proprietary trading and appropriately balance risk and financial
results in a manner that does not encourage employees to expose the
banking entity to excessive or imprudent risk.

1064

3. Business line managers. Managers with responsibility for one or more trading
desks of the banking entity are accountable for the effective implementation and
enforcement of the compliance program with respect to the applicable trading desk(s).
4. Board of directors, or similar corporate body, and senior management. The
board of directors, or similar corporate body, and senior management are responsible for
setting and communicating an appropriate culture of compliance with section 13 of the
BHC Act and this part and ensuring that appropriate policies regarding the management
of trading activities and covered fund activities or investments are adopted to comply
with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. The board of directors or similar corporate
body (such as a designated committee of the board or an equivalent governance body)
must ensure that senior management is fully capable, qualified, and properly motivated to
manage compliance with this part in light of the organization’s business activities and the
expectations of the board of directors. The board of directors or similar corporate body
must also ensure that senior management has established appropriate incentives and
adequate resources to support compliance with this part, including the implementation of
a compliance program meeting the requirements of this appendix into management goals
and compensation structures across the banking entity.
5. Senior management. Senior management is responsible for implementing and
enforcing the approved compliance program. Senior management must also ensure that
effective corrective action is taken when failures in compliance with section 13 of the
BHC Act and this part are identified. Senior management and control personnel charged
with overseeing compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part should review
the compliance program for the banking entity periodically and report to the board, or an

1065

appropriate committee thereof, on the effectiveness of the compliance program and
compliance matters with a frequency appropriate to the size, scope, and risk profile of the
banking entity’s trading activities and covered fund activities or investments, which shall
be at least annually.
6. CEO attestation. Based on a review by the CEO of the banking entity, the
CEO of the banking entity must, annually, attest in writing to [Agency] that the banking
entity has in place processes to establish, maintain, enforce, review, test and modify the
compliance program established under this Appendix and § __.20 of this part in a manner
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part.
In the case of a U.S. branch or agency of a foreign banking entity, the attestation may be
provided for the entire U.S. operations of the foreign banking entity by the senior
management officer of the United States operations of the foreign banking entity who is
located in the United States.
IV. Independent Testing
a. Independent testing must occur with a frequency appropriate to the size, scope,
and risk profile of the banking entity’s trading and covered fund activities or investments,
which shall be at least annually. This independent testing must include an evaluation of:
1. The overall adequacy and effectiveness of the banking entity’s compliance
program, including an analysis of the extent to which the program contains all the
required elements of this appendix;
2. The effectiveness of the banking entity’s internal controls, including an analysis
and documentation of instances in which such internal controls have been breached,
and how such breaches were addressed and resolved; and
3. The effectiveness of the banking entity’s management procedures.

1066

b. A banking entity must ensure that independent testing regarding the
effectiveness of the banking entity’s compliance program is conducted by a qualified
independent party, such as the banking entity’s internal audit department, compliance
personnel or risk managers independent of the organizational unit being tested, outside
auditors, consultants, or other qualified independent parties. A banking entity must
promptly take appropriate action to remedy any significant deficiencies or material
weaknesses in its compliance program and to terminate any violations of section 13 of the
BHC Act or this part.
V. Training
Banking entities must provide adequate training to personnel and managers of the
banking entity engaged in activities or investments governed by section 13 of the BHC
Act or this part, as well as other appropriate supervisory, risk, independent testing, and
audit personnel, in order to effectively implement and enforce the compliance program.
This training should occur with a frequency appropriate to the size and the risk profile of
the banking entity’s trading activities and covered fund activities or investments.
VI. Recordkeeping
Banking entities must create and retain records sufficient to demonstrate
compliance and support the operations and effectiveness of the compliance program. A
banking entity must retain these records for a period that is no less than 5 years or such
longer period as required by [Agency] in a form that allows it to promptly produce such
records to [Agency] on request.
End of Common Rule
List of Subjects
12 CFR Part 44
1067

Banks, Banking, Capital Compensation, Credit, Derivatives, Government
securities, Insurance, Investments, National banks, Federal savings associations,
Federal branches and agencies, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping
requirements, Risk, Risk retention, Securities, Trusts and trustees
12 CFR Part 248
Administrative practice and procedure, Banks and banking, Capital,
Compensation, Conflict of interests, Credit, Derivatives, Foreign banking,
Government securities, Holding companies, Insurance, Insurance companies,
Investments, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Risk, Risk
retention, Securities, Trusts and trustees.
12 CFR Part 351
Banks, Banking, Capital, Compensation, Conflicts of interest, Credit, Derivatives,
Government securities, Insurance, Insurance companies, Investments, Penalties,
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Risk, Risk retention, Securities, State
nonmember banks, State savings associations, Trusts and trustees.
17 CFR Part 255
Banks, Brokers, Dealers, Investment advisers, Recordkeeping, Reporting,
Securities.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
Authority and Issuance
For the reasons stated in the Common Preamble, the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency hereby amends chapter I of Title 12, Code of Federal Regulations as
follows:
1068

PART 44 – PROPRIETARY TRADING AND CERTAIN INTERESTS IN AND
RELATIONSHIPS WITH COVERED FUNDS
1. The authority for part 44 is added to read as follows:
Authority: 7 U.S.C. 27 et seq., 12 U.S.C. 1, 24, 92a, 93a, 161, 1461, 1462a,
1463, 1464, 1467a, 1813(q), 1818, 1851, 3101 3102, 3108, 5412.
2. Part 44 is added as set forth at the end of the Common Preamble.
3. Part 44 is amended by:
a. Removing “[Agency]” wherever it appears and adding in its place “the OCC”;
and
b. Removing “the [Agency]” wherever it appears and adding in its place “the
OCC”.
4. Section 44.1 is revised to read as follows:
§ 44.1 Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities.
(a)

Authority. This part is issued by the OCC under section 13 of the Bank

Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1851).
(b)

Purpose. Section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act establishes

prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and on investments in or relationships
with covered funds by certain banking entities, including national banks, Federal
branches and agencies of foreign banks, Federal savings associations, and certain
subsidiaries thereof. This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act
by defining terms used in the statute and related terms, establishing prohibitions and
restrictions on proprietary trading and on investments in or relationships with covered
funds, and explaining the statute’s requirements.
(c)

Scope. This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company

Act with respect to banking entities for which the OCC is authorized to issue regulations
under section 13(b)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1851(b)(2)) and
1069

take actions under section 13(e) of that Act (12 U.S.C. 1851(e)). These include national
banks, Federal branches and Federal agencies of foreign banks, Federal savings
associations, Federal savings banks, and any of their respective subsidiaries (except a
subsidiary for which there is a different primary financial regulatory agency, as that term
is defined in this part).
(d)

Relationship to other authorities. Except as otherwise provided under

section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act or this part, and notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the prohibitions and restrictions under section 13 of the Bank Holding
Company Act and this part shall apply to the activities and investments of a banking
entity identified in paragraph (c) of this section, even if such activities and investments
are authorized for the banking entity under other applicable provisions of law.
(e)

Preservation of authority. Nothing in this part limits in any way the

authority of the OCC to impose on a banking entity identified in paragraph (c) of this
section additional requirements or restrictions with respect to any activity, investment, or
relationship covered under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act or this part, or
additional penalties for violation of this part provided under any other applicable
provision of law.
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE
Authority and Issuance
For the reasons set forth in the Supplementary Information, the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System is adding the text of the common rule as set forth at the end
of the Supplementary Information as Part 248 to 12 CFR Chapter II as follows:

1070

PART 248—PROPRIETARY TRADING AND CERTAIN INTERESTS IN AND
RELATIONSHIPS WITH COVERED FUNDS (Regulation VV)
5. The authority for part 248 is added to read as follows:
Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1851, 12 U.S.C. 221 et seq., 12 U.S.C. 1818, 12 U.S.C. 1841 et
seq., and 12 U.S.C. 3103 et seq.
6. Part 248 is added as set forth at the end of the Common Preamble.
7. Part 248 is amended by removing “[Agency]” wherever it appears and adding in its
place “the Board.”
8. Part 248 is amended by removing “the [Agency]” wherever it appears and adding in its
place “the Board.”
9. Section 248.1 is revised to read as follows:
§ 248.1 Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities.
(a) Authority. This part (Regulation VV) is issued by the Board under section 13
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1851), as well as
under the Federal Reserve Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 221 et seq.); section 8 of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1818); the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1841 et seq.); and the International
Banking Act of 1978, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.).
(b) Purpose. Section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act establishes
prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and on investments in or relationships
with covered funds by certain banking entities, including state member banks, bank
holding companies, savings and loan holding companies, other companies that control an
insured depository institution, foreign banking organizations, and certain subsidiaries

1071

thereof. This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act by defining
terms used in the statute and related terms, establishing prohibitions and restrictions on
proprietary trading and on investments in or relationships with covered funds, and
explaining the statute’s requirements.
(c) Scope. This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act
with respect to banking entities for which the Board is authorized to issue regulations
under section 13(b)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1851(b)(2)) and
take actions under section 13(e) of that Act (12 U.S.C. 1851(e)). These include any state
bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, any company that controls an
insured depository institution (including a bank holding company and savings and loan
holding company), any company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes
of section 8 of the International Banking Act (12 U.S.C. 3106), and any subsidiary of the
foregoing other than a subsidiary for which the OCC, FDIC, CFTC, or SEC is the
primary financial regulatory agency (as defined in section 2(12) of the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5301(12)).
(d) Relationship to other authorities. Except as otherwise provided under section
13 of the BHC Act or this part, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
prohibitions and restrictions under section 13 of BHC Act and this part shall apply to the
activities of a banking entity, even if such activities are authorized for the banking entity
under other applicable provisions of law.
(e) Preservation of authority. Nothing in this part limits in any way the authority
of the Board to impose on a banking entity identified in paragraph (c) of this section
additional requirements or restrictions with respect to any activity, investment, or

1072

relationship covered under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act or this part, or
additional penalties for violation of this part provided under any other applicable
provision of law.
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
Authority and Issuance
For the reasons set forth in the Supplementary Information, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation is adding the text of the common rule as set forth at the end of the
Supplementary Information as Part 351 to chapter III of Title 12, Code of Federal
Regulations, modified as follows:
PART 351 — PROPRIETARY TRADING AND CERTAIN INTERESTS IN AND
RELATIONSHIPS WITH COVERED FUNDS
10. The authority for part 351 is added to read as follows:
Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1851; 1811 et seq.; 3101 et seq.; and 5412.
11. Part 351 is added as set forth at the end of the Common Preamble.
12. Part 351 is amended by:
a. Removing “[Agency]” wherever it appears and adding in its place “the FDIC;” and
b. Removing “the [Agency]” wherever it appears and adding in its place “the FDIC.”
13. Section 351.1 is revised to read as follows:
§ 351.1 Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities.
(a) Authority. This part is issued by the FDIC under section 13 of the Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1851).
(b) Purpose. Section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act establishes
prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and investments in or relationships

1073

with covered funds by certain banking entities, including any insured depository
institution as defined in section 3(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1813(c)(2)) and certain subsidiaries thereof for which the FDIC is the appropriate Federal
banking agency as defined in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
U.S.C. 1813(q)). This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act by
defining terms used in the statute and related terms, establishing prohibitions and
restrictions on proprietary trading and investments in or relationships with covered funds,
and explaining the statute’s requirements.
(c) Scope. This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act
with respect to insured depository institutions for which the FDIC is the appropriate
Federal banking agency, as defined in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act,
and certain subsidiaries of the foregoing.
(d) Relationship to other authorities. Except as otherwise provided in under
section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act, and notwithstanding any other provision
of law, the prohibitions and restrictions under section 13 of Bank Holding Company Act
shall apply to the activities and investments of a banking entity, even if such activities
and investments are authorized for a banking entity under other applicable provisions of
law.
(e) Preservation of authority. Nothing in this part limits in any way the authority
of the FDIC to impose on a banking entity identified in paragraph (c) of this section
additional requirements or restrictions with respect to any activity, investment, or
relationship covered under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act or this part, or

1074

additional penalties for violation of this part provided under any other applicable
provision of law.
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Authority and Issuance
For the reasons stated in the Common Preamble, the Securities and Exchange
Commission is adding the text of the common rule as set forth at the end of the
Supplementary Information as Part 255 to chapter II of Title 17, Code of Federal
Regulations, modified as follows:
PART 255—PROPRIETARY TRADING AND CERTAIN INTERESTS IN AND
RELATIONSHIPS WITH COVERED FUNDS
14. The authority for part 255 is added to read as follows:
Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1851.
15. Part 255 is added as set forth at the end of the Common Preamble.
16. Part 255 is amended by:
a. Removing “[Agency]” wherever it appears and adding in its place “the SEC;” and
b. Removing “the [Agency]” wherever it appears and adding in its place “the SEC.”
17. Section 255.1 is revised to read as follows:
§ 255.1 Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities.
(a)

Authority. This part is issued by the SEC under section 13 of the Bank

Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1851).
(b)

Purpose. Section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act establishes

prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and investments in or relationships
with covered funds by certain banking entities, including registered broker-dealers,

1075

registered investment advisers, and registered security-based swap dealers, among others
identified in section 2(12)(B) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5301(12)(B)). This part implements section 13 of the
Bank Holding Company Act by defining terms used in the statute and related terms,
establishing prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and investments in or
relationships with covered funds, and explaining the statute’s requirements.
(c)

Scope. This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company

Act with respect to banking entities for which the SEC is the primary financial regulatory
agency, as that term is defined in this part.
(d)

Relationship to other authorities. Except as otherwise provided under

section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act, and notwithstanding any other provision
of law, the prohibitions and restrictions under section 13 of Bank Holding Company Act
shall apply to the activities and investments of a banking entity identified in paragraph (c)
of this section, even if such activities and investments are authorized for the banking
entity under other applicable provisions of law.
(e)

Preservation of authority. Nothing in this part limits in any way the

authority of the SEC to impose on a banking entity identified in paragraph (c) of this
section additional requirements or restrictions with respect to any activity, investment, or
relationship covered under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act or this part, or
additional penalties for violation of this part provided under any other applicable
provision of law.
Dated: December 10, 2013

1076

Thomas J. Curry,
Comptroller of the Currency.

By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, December 23, 2013.

Robert deV. Frierson,
Secretary of the Board.

By order of the Board of Directors.
Dated at Washington, DC this 10th day of December, 2013.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Robert E. Feldman,
Executive Secretary

By the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

Date: December 10, 2013

1077

