UN I TED STA TES

S ECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASH I N G TON ,

D . C . 2 05 49

T HE CHAIR

November 20, 2013

Joseph Dear 

Chairman 

Investor Advisory Committee
400 Q Street 

Lincoln Plaza East, Suite 4800 

Sacramento, CA 95814 

Dear Chairman Dear and Members of the Investor Advisory Committee:
Thank yo u for the recommendations regarding target date funds that were adopted
by the Investor Advisory Committee on April II , 2013. Given the increasing size of
target date fund assets and their prevalence as investment options in 40 I (k) and other
retirement plans, the Committee' s views on ways to improve the information investors
receive about these funds are greatly appreciated.
As the Committee knows, in 2010, the Commission proposed rule amendments
intended to provide enhanced information to investors concerning target date funds and
reduce the potential for investors to be confused or misled regarding these and other
investment companies (" 2010 Proposal"). Because the Committee's recommendations
relate to a pending rulemaking, we have placed your recommendations in the public
comment file. These recommendations, along with all other comments received in
connection with the 2010 Proposal, will be considered as part of any future rulemaking.
The Division of Investment Management believes that it would be helpful for the
Commission to request additional comment on standardized risk-based glide path
illustrations for target date funds, as recommended by the Committee. 1 have been
informed that the other Commissioners support obtaining this additional public comment,
as do I. I therefore have asked the staff to develop for the Commission's consideration a
draft request for additional comment, and I would look forward to constructive public
feedback.
I want to take this opportunity to thank the members of the Committee for their
service, and I look forward to working with the Committee in the future as it continues its
important work on behalf of investors.
Sincerely,

~ ~C..JL..:A..
Mary~ite
Chair

