Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 1 of 19

Amy J. Oliver (8785)
olivera@sec.gov
Daniel J. Wadley (10358)
wadleyd@sec.gov
Cheryl M. Mori (8887)
moric@sec.gov
Attorneys for Plaintiff
Securities and Exchange Commission
351 South West Temple, Suite 6.100
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101
Tel. 801-524-5796
Fax: 801-524-3558

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF UTAH, CENTRAL DIVISION

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION,

COMPLAINT

PLAINTIFF,
Case No.: 2:16-cv-00040-JNP
v.
Judge Jill N. Parrish
MARQUIS PROPERTIES, LLC, a Utah
Limited Liability Company, CHAD
DEUCHER, an individual and RICHARD
CLATFELTER, an individual,
DEFENDANTS;
and
JESSICA DEUCHER, an individual,
RELIEF DEFENDANT.

Plaintiff, Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”), for its Complaint
against Defendants Marquis Properties, LLC, Chad Deucher, and Richard Clatfelter
(collectively, “Defendants”) alleges as follows:

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 2 of 19

INTRODUCTION
1.

This matter involves an ongoing offering fraud and Ponzi scheme operated by

Chad Deucher (“Deucher”) and Richard Clatfelter (“Clatfelter”) through Marquis Properties,
LLC (“Marquis”), an entity they control that is headquartered in Orem, Utah. Since at least
March 2010, Deucher and Clatfelter have raised approximately $28 million from over 250
investors in Marquis.
2.

Deucher and Clatfelter represent to investors that Marquis offers investments in

turnkey real estate properties, promissory notes secured by real properties, and joint venture
agreements to purchase real properties. Deucher and Clatfelter represent that Marquis locates,
purchases, renovates, and sells single family and small multi-family homes in lucrative areas of
the country. Deucher and Clatfelter tell investors that Marquis has proven renovation crews,
property managers and realtors on the ground to assist with all stages of the project, eliminating
the need for direct involvement.
3.

Deucher and Clatfelter represent to investors that they will receive guaranteed

return of principal and returns on their investment in the form of rental income, interest
payments, and/or profits from the sale of properties.
4.

Deucher and Clatfelter represent that investments with Marquis are safe, low-risk,

or risk-free because investment proceeds will be secured by a first deed of trust on property
wholly owned by Marquis, and that investments will be “over-collateralized.”
5.

Deucher and Clatfelter omit to disclose to investors, however, that the properties

Marquis offers as collateral are not owned by Marquis, are substantially encumbered, and/or are
in uninhabitable or blighted condition; that Marquis itself is insolvent and unable to make

2

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 3 of 19

investor interest and principal payments according to terms of agreements; and that investor
returns are being paid from the funds of new investors.
6.

Because investors are being repaid from new investor funds, Marquis’ operation

is a classic Ponzi scheme.
JURISDICTION AND VENUE
7.

This Court has subject matter jurisdiction by authority of Sections 20 and 22 of

the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) [15 U.S.C. §§ 77t and 77v] and Sections 21 and
Section 27 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u and
78aa].
8.

Defendants, directly and indirectly, singly and in concert, have made use of the

means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce and the mails in connection with the
transactions, acts and courses of business alleged herein, certain of which have occurred within
the District of Utah.
9.

Venue for this action is proper in the District of Utah under Section 22(a) of the

Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77v(a)] and under Section 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §
78aa] because certain of the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged in this
Complaint took place in this district and because certain of the defendants reside in and transact
business in this district.
10.

Defendants, unless restrained and enjoined by this Court, will continue to engage

in the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged herein and in transactions,
acts, practices, and courses of business of similar purport and object.
11.

Defendants’ conduct took place in connection with the offer, purchase and/or sale

of promissory notes and investment contracts issued by Marquis, which are securities.

3

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 4 of 19

DEFENDANTS
12.

Marquis Properties, LLC (“Marquis”) is a Utah limited liability company

organized in April 2010 to engage in real estate activity. Marquis’ principal place of business is
in Orem, Utah. Marquis is owned and controlled by Deucher.
13.

Chad Deucher, 42, is the sole and managing member of Marquis and is the

President/CEO of Marquis. Deucher resides in Orem, Utah.
14.

Richard Clatfelter, 42, is the Executive Vice President of Marquis. Clatfelter

resides in Phoenix, Arizona.
RELIEF DEFENDANT
15.

Jessica Deucher, 43, is Chad Deucher’s wife and received at least $376,300 in

payments from Marquis for no apparent consideration. Most or all of this money came from
investor funds paid to Marquis. Jessica Deucher resides in Orem, Utah.
STATEMENT OF FACTS
Background
16.

Marquis, through Deucher and Clatfelter, claims to be “a company of experienced

property professionals specializing in acquiring, repairing, and managing high quality, cashflowing properties in several markets across the country.” Marquis, through Deucher and
Clatfelter, claims that Marquis owns and manages investment properties in desirable investment
areas, such as Indiana, Missouri, and Ohio.
17.

Marquis, through Deucher and Clatfelter, offers three types of investment options:

(1) turnkey cash flow real estate investments; (2) promissory notes purportedly secured by real
properties; and (3) purported joint ventures.

4

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 5 of 19

18.

Marquis, Deucher, and Clatfelter seek investors through direct solicitation, radio

advertisements, a website, presentations at real estate and retirement seminars, and by soliciting
financial advisors or others to refer their clients to Marquis.
19.

Deucher and Clatfelter meet and speak individually with investors and potential

investors in-person or by telephone and also communicate with investors and potential investors
through the use of e-mail. Deucher and Clatfelter have made and continue to make oral and
written misrepresentations and omissions to investors and potential investors to induce them to
purchase Marquis securities.
20.

Deucher and Clatfelter have provided written sales materials to potential investors

and investors. The written sales materials claim:
Our key focus is Cash Flow Real Estate. Our niche is the location, purchase, and
renovation of single family homes and multi-family homes with 4 units or less,
(although we do occasionally work with larger unit buildings), that create
opportunity for immediate as well as long-term profit potential to both the
company and the investors. The properties are sold to investors for either a shortterm retail sale or a long-term buy and hold strategy for cash flow or estate
planning purposes. In addition we offer select Joint Ventures on projects for the
investors who want to be more “hands on” with the process. Finally, we offer
Secured Promissory Notes that allow for the “passive” investor to create an above
average return for their portfolios through deferral or compounding of their
interest or creating an income stream.
Marquis Properties provides mitigated risk and security as a professional
intermediary company which sources, analyzes and manages on behalf of its
investors. This professional approach to participating in Turnkey Cash Flow Real
Estate, Secured Promissory Notes and Joint Venture investments provides peace
of mind and freedom to enjoy other pursuits.
MARQUIS OFFERS AND SELLS SECURITIES
Turnkey Real Estate Investments
21.

Marquis, through Deucher and Clatfelter, offers and sells investments in turnkey

real estate. Deucher and Clatfelter claim that Marquis owns or will locate, purchase, renovate,

5

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 6 of 19

and manage turnkey investment property with the opportunity for short-term resale, from a few
months to a few years and collecting cash flow from rents. Deucher and Clatfelter claim that
Marquis will manage the properties, collect the rents, and pay monthly rental income to
investors, thereby providing passive investments in real estate. The investments in turnkey real
estate are investment contracts.
Promissory Notes
22.

Marquis, through Deucher and Clatfelter, represents that Marquis finances its

operations with private short-term loans from individuals in the form of secured promissory
notes secured by first deeds of trust on property wholly owned by Marquis. Deucher and
Clatfelter claim that investor funds will be used to purchase specific properties and that Marquis
will handle all aspects of the transaction.
23.

Marquis, through Deucher and Clatfelter, offers and sells the promissory notes,

under which Deucher and Clatfelter represent that Marquis will pay a guaranteed fixed annual
interest rate of between 8% and 12% or more. The promissory notes carry a term from two
months to five years and are to pay full return of principal at the end of the term. Deucher and
Clatfelter promise that promissory notes are at least 100% collateralized by specific real
properties.
Joint Ventures
24.

Marquis, through Deucher and Clatfelter, offers and sells joint venture

agreements, under which Marquis is supposed to purchase a specific property, renovate the
property, sell the property at retail value, and split the profits with the joint venture partner.
Deucher and Clatfelter have offered and sold purported joint venture agreements that are
supposed to be tied to specific properties and secured by a first trust deed with respect to each

6

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 7 of 19

property. The joint venture agreements provide that the joint venture partner will receive 50% of
the profits from the sale of the property and return of principal at the time of sale.
25.

Marquis, through Deucher and Clatfelter, represents that joint venture partners

will have participation and involvement in the process and selection of properties. In reality,
however, Marquis, Deucher, and/or Clatfelter have made all decisions related to selection and
management of subject properties in the joint venture agreements. Joint venture investors have
had no participation in management or decision-making for the joint venture and have relied
solely on Marquis’ efforts to locate and purchase properties, renovate, and sell the properties to
earn a profit on their investments. The joint venture agreements are investment contracts.
26.

Deucher and Clatfelter sign promissory notes, joint venture agreements, and other

investment contracts related to turnkey property investments on behalf of Marquis.
27.

The turnkey real estate investments, promissory notes, and joint venture

agreements offered by Marquis are securities.
MISREPRESENTATIONS AND OMISSIONS
28.

Marquis, through Deucher and Clatfelter, has made and continues to make

material misrepresentations and omissions in the offer and sale of securities and in connection
with the purchase or sale of securities. The misrepresentations and omissions relate to the
following areas: (1) ownership and value of real properties promised for investment or
collateral; (2) safety of the investment; (3) guaranteed profits and return of principal; and (4) use
of investor funds.
Ownership and Value of Real Properties
29.

Marquis, through Deucher and Clatfelter, represents that investor funds will be

used to purchase specific real properties wholly-owned by Marquis.

7

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 8 of 19

30.

After purchasing securities from Marquis, investors learned that properties

specified in their agreements were not owned by Marquis, and/or trust deeds were not provided,
as represented. In addition, properties that were provided by Marquis as collateral were not
rented or in rentable condition as represented, but were blighted, uninhabitable, and/or
encumbered by tax liens and/or other assessments.
Safety of the Investment
31.

Marquis, through Deucher and Clatfelter, assures potential investors that

investments with Marquis are safe, low-risk, or risk-free because investment proceeds will be
secured by a first deed of trust on property wholly owned by Marquis, and that investments will
be “over-collateralized.”
32.

Many of the properties offered as collateral were not owned by Marquis, were

substantially encumbered, and/or were in uninhabitable or blighted condition. Thus, the
investments are not safe or low-risk as represented because the value of collateralized properties
is often far below the amount invested, or no collateral is actually provided.
33.

Marquis, Deucher, and Clatfelter failed to provide first trust deeds on many of the

properties offered as collateral for investments.
Guaranteed Profits and Return of Principal
34.

Marquis, through Deucher and Clatfelter, promises monthly rental income for

turnkey investment properties. Marquis, through Deucher and Clatfelter, promises monthly
interest income at rates ranging from 8% to 12% or more per annum for secured promissory
notes and full return of principal upon the end of the term of the note. Marquis, through Deucher
and Clatfelter, promises joint venture partners they will receive 50% of sale profits and return of
principal upon sale of specified properties.

8

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 9 of 19

35.

Contrary to their representations, Defendants failed to pay monthly interest and

rental payments to turnkey property investors and promissory note investors and failed to pay
sale profits to joint venture investors. Defendants also failed to repay principal to many
investors, as promised.
Use of Investor Funds
36.

Marquis, through Deucher and Clatfelter, represents that monies invested with

Marquis will be used to purchase real properties.
37.

Rather than purchasing properties with investor funds, Marquis, through Deucher

and Clatfelter, has used investor funds to pay purported returns to earlier investors and for
personal expenses. Marquis did not purchase properties with investor funds, contrary to
representations by Deucher and Clatfelter.
38.

Deucher and Clatfelter are or were owners and have or had signatory authority

over Marquis’ bank accounts. Deucher and/or Clatfelter controlled Marquis’ bank accounts and
handled investor funds.
39.

From August 5, 2010 to March 30, 2015, Deucher caused Marquis to direct at

least $376,300 to Deucher’s wife, Jessica Deucher. Most or all of these funds came from
investor deposits into Marquis’ bank accounts. Jessica Deucher did not perform work for
Marquis and has no legitimate claim to those funds.
40.

In January 2015, Deucher solicited an investor to invest $92,000 with Marquis to

purchase a specific investment property. The next business day, Deucher caused Marquis to
direct $84,320 of those investor funds to a title company to fund a mortgage for a personal
residence owned by Deucher.

9

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 10 of 19

PONZI PAYMENTS
41.

Deucher directed investors to transfer investment funds to Marquis’ bank account

or to a purported escrow account. Deucher was an owner and signatory for Marquis’ bank
accounts while investor funds were received, and he controlled the accounts and directed
transactions. The purported escrow account was merely a commercial bank account. Deucher
controlled all investor funds deposited into the purported escrow account and directed and
authorized all transactions involving investor funds.
42.

Clatfelter directed investors to transfer investment funds to Marquis’ bank

account or to the purported escrow account. Clatfelter had access to Marquis’ bank accounts
from March 13, 2012 and was an owner of at least two Marquis bank accounts from September
2012 through at least July 2014.
43.

From April 2010 through November 2013, Marquis received approximately $21.6

million in its bank accounts. Most or all of this amount came from investor funds for the
purchase of Marquis securities.
44.

From March 2010 to December 2013, Marquis used investor funds to make

purported principal and interest payments to earlier investors.
45.

From December 2013 through June 2015, Marquis received approximately $6.6

million in funds in its bank accounts. Approximately $6.3 million (95%) of those receipts came
from investors for the purchase of Marquis securities.
46.

From December 2013 through June 2015, Marquis used approximately $5 million

(75%) of investor funds to make purported principal and interest payments to earlier investors.
47.

Marquis does not appear to have legitimate business operations. Marquis has had

little income, if any, from business operations.

10

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 11 of 19

48.

Since at least 2013, Marquis would not have been able to survive or make

purported principal and interest payments to investors, as promised, without the influx of new
investor funds. The only way Marquis has been able to repay earlier investors is by bringing in
new investor money.
49.

In July 2015, the bank accounts used by Marquis to that date were closed with no

balance remaining in the accounts. Defendants are now using accounts at other banks to conduct
transactions with investors.
50.

Since at least 2015, Marquis has failed to make promised principal and interest or

rental payments to many investors. While some investors have received payments, those
payments were funded by monies invested by other investors.
51.

Since at least 2015, investors have complained to Deucher and Clatfelter about

late or missing payments of returns, rents, and/or principal. However, Deucher and Clatfelter
urge the investors to be patient and promise that payments will be made soon due to expected
income from pending deals.
52.

Deucher e-mailed at least one investor as late as January 5, 2016 representing that

the investor would be repaid as Deucher is getting things going again and people are moving.
53.

Marquis has failed and/or been unable to make payments according to the terms

of the investment agreements. In spite of this, Deucher has continued to solicit new investors,
while not disclosing that Marquis has failed to make promised payments to current investors.
Materiality
54.

The misrepresentations and omissions detailed above are material to a reasonable

investor. Most or all of Marquis investors would not have invested or purchased securities from

11

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 12 of 19

Marquis if they had known the true nature of the ownership and value of properties, safety of the
investment, profits and returns, and use of investor proceeds.
Scienter
55.

Deucher acted with scienter. Deucher has been the owner, managing member,

CEO and President of Marquis since its inception. Deucher owned and controlled Marquis’ bank
accounts and a purported escrow account that received investor funds. Deucher directed all
financial and operational aspects of Marquis and handled and directed investor monies. Deucher
knew investors were not being repaid as promised and directed that new investor funds received
by Marquis be used to pay purported returns to earlier investors. Deucher knew that properties
were not owned or purchased by Marquis as promised and failed to provide trust deeds to
investors. Deucher knew he used investor funds for personal expenses, including the purchase of
a personal residence.
56.

Clatfelter acted with scienter. Clatfelter is the Executive Vice President of

Marquis and represented himself as such to investors, both orally and in writing. Clatfelter was
an owner and signatory on Marquis’ bank accounts while soliciting investors, thus he knew or
was reckless in not knowing that Marquis used new investor funds to pay returns to earlier
investors, rather than for the purchase of properties as promised in agreements with investors.
Clatfelter knew or was reckless in not knowing that Marquis did not purchase or own properties
promised to investors. Clatfelter knew that investors were not being paid pursuant to the terms
of their agreements.
57.

Deucher’s and Clatfelter’s scienter is imputed to Marquis because they are or

were officers of Marquis at the time they were soliciting investors.

12

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 13 of 19

UNREGISTERED TRANSACTIONS
58.

Marquis’ sales materials state that investments with Marquis are for “Qualified

Accredited Investors.” However, Deucher and Clatfelter did nothing to assure investors were
accredited.
59.

No registration statement has been filed with the Commission as to any offering

of promissory notes or other securities offered by Marquis.
UNREGISTERED BROKERS OR DEALERS
60.

Deucher and Clatfelter are not registered as broker-dealers and are not affiliated

with any registered broker-dealer.
61.

Deucher and Clatfelter are or were acting as unregistered brokers in connection

with the offers and sales of securities in the form of notes and investment contracts by actively
soliciting investors, handling investor funds, and by paying commissions to third parties who
solicited investors on behalf of Marquis.
62.

Deucher and Clatfelter have made transaction-based payments in the form of

commissions, bonuses, and/or referral fees to others for referring investors who have purchased
Marquis securities.
63.

Deucher and Clatfelter have received transaction-based payments from Marquis

in the form of commissions and/or bonuses after Marquis completed securities transactions with
investors.
FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION
FRAUD IN CONNECTION WITH THE PURCHASE AND SALE OF SECURITIES
Violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78j(b)] and Rule 10b-5
thereunder [17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5]
64.

The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference the allegations contained

in Paragraphs 1 through 63, above.

13

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 14 of 19

65.

Defendants, and each of them, by engaging in the conduct described above,

directly or indirectly, by the use of means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce or use of
the mails, in connection with the purchase or sale of securities, with scienter, (1) employed
devices, schemes, or artifices to defraud; (2) made untrue statements of material fact or omitted
to state a material fact necessary in order to make statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which they were made not misleading; or (3) engaged in acts, practices, or courses of
business that operated or would operate as a fraud and deceit upon other persons.
66.

By reason of the foregoing, Defendants, and each of them, violated, and unless

restrained and enjoined will continue to violate, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.
§78j(b)] and Rule 10b-5 thereunder [17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5].
SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION
EMPLOYMENT OF A DEVICE, SCHEME OR ARTIFICE TO DEFRAUD
Violation of Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77q(a)(1)]
67.

The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference the allegations contained

in Paragraphs 1 through 63, above.
68.

Defendants, and each of them, by engaging in conduct described above, directly

or indirectly, in the offer or sale of securities, by the use of the means or instruments of
transportation or communication in interstate commerce or by use of the mails, with scienter,
employed devices, schemes, or artifices to defraud.
69.

By reason of the foregoing, Defendants, and each of them, directly or indirectly,

violated, and unless restrained and enjoined by this Court, will continue to violate, Section
17(a)(1) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77q(a)(1)].

14

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 15 of 19

THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION
FRAUD IN THE OFFER AND SALE OF SECURITIES
Violations of Section 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act
[15 U.S.C. § 77q(a)(2) and (3)]
70.

The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference the allegations contained

in Paragraphs 1 through 63, above.
71.

Defendants, and each of them, by engaging in the conduct described above,

directly and indirectly, in the offer and sale of securities, by the use of the means or instruments
of transportation or communication in interstate commerce or by use of the mails, obtained
money or property by means of untrue statements of material fact or by omitting to state a
material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which they were made, not misleading, and engaged in transactions, practices, or courses of
business which operate or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser.
72.

By reason of the foregoing, Defendants, and each of them, directly or indirectly,

violated, and unless restrained and enjoined will continue to violate, Section 17(a)(2) and
17(a)(3) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 77q(a)(2) and 77q(a)(3)].
FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION
OFFER AND SALE OF UNREGISTERED SECURITIES
Violation of Sections 5(a) and (c) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77e(a) and (c)]

73.

The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference the allegations contained

in Paragraphs 1 through 63, above.
74.

Defendants, and each of them, by engaging in the conduct described above, directly

or indirectly, through use of the means or instruments of transportation or communication in
interstate commerce or the mails, offered to sell or sold securities or, directly or indirectly, or carried

15

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 16 of 19

such securities through the mails or in interstate commerce, for the purpose of sale or delivery after
sale.
75.

No registration statement has been filed with the Commission or has been in

effect with respect to these securities.
76.

By reason of the foregoing, Defendants, directly or indirectly violated, and unless

enjoined will continue to violate, Sections 5(a) and 5(c) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. §§
77e(a) and 77e(c)].
FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION
OFFER AND SALE OF SECURITIES BY AN
UNREGISTERED BROKER OR DEALER
Violation of Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78o(a)]
77.

The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference the allegations contained

in Paragraphs 1 through 63, above.
78.

Defendants Deucher and Clatfelter, directly or indirectly, made use of the mails or

the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce to effect transactions in, or to induce or
attempt to induce the purchase and sale of, securities without being registered as a broker or
dealer with the Commission or associated with a broker-dealer registered with the Commission.
79.

By reason of the foregoing, Defendants Deucher and Clatfelter violated, and

unless restrained and enjoined will continue to violate, Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act [15
U.S.C. 78o(a)].
RELIEF REQUESTED
WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court:
I
Issue findings of fact and conclusions of law that Defendants committed the violations
charged herein.

16

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 17 of 19

II
Issue in a form consistent with Rule 65(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure orders
that temporarily, preliminarily and permanently enjoin Marquis, Deucher, and Clatfelter and
their officers, agents, servants, employees, attorneys, and accountants, and those persons in
active concert or participation with any of them, who receive actual notice of the order by
personal service or otherwise, and each of them, from engaging in transactions, acts, practices,
and courses of business described herein, and from engaging in conduct of similar purport and
object in violation of Sections 5(a), 5(c) and 17(a) of the Securities Act, and Section 10(b) of the
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
III
Issue in a form consistent with Rule 65(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure orders
that temporarily, preliminarily and permanently enjoin Deucher and Clatfelter and their officers,
agents, servants, employees, attorneys, and accountants, and those persons in active concert or
participation with any of them, who receive actual notice of the order by personal service or
otherwise, and each of them, from engaging in transactions, acts, practices, and courses of
business described herein, and from engaging in conduct of similar purport and object in
violation of Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act.
IV
Issue, in a form consistent with Rule 65(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,
orders that temporarily, preliminarily and permanently enjoin Defendants, and their officers,
agents, servants, employees, attorneys, and accountants, and those persons in active concert or
participation with any of them, who receive actual notice of the order by personal service or
otherwise, and each of them, from: (A) transferring, changing, wasting, dissipating, converting,

17

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 18 of 19

concealing, or otherwise disposing of, in any manner, any funds, assets, claims, or other property
or assets owned or controlled by, or in the possession or custody of these Defendants; and (B)
transferring, assigning, selling, hypothecating, or otherwise disposing of any assets of Marquis or
related entities, including but not limited to those entities identified in accompanying pleadings.
V
Issue in a form consistent with Rule 65(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure orders
that temporarily, preliminarily and permanently restrain and enjoin Defendants, and each of
them, and their officers, agents, servants, employees, attorneys, and accountants, and those
persons in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive actual notice of the order
by personal service or otherwise, and each of them, from destroying, mutilating, concealing,
transferring, altering, or otherwise disposing of, in any manner, books, records, computer
programs, computer files, computer printouts, correspondence, including e-mail, whether stored
electronically or in hard copy, memoranda, brochures, or any other documents of any kind that
pertain in any manner to the business of Defendants.
VI
Enter an order directing Defendants, and each of them, to pay civil money penalties
pursuant to Section 20(d) of the Securities Act and Section 21(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
VII
Enter an order directing Defendants to disgorge all ill-gotten gains received during the
period of violative conduct and pay prejudgment interest on such ill-gotten gains.
VI I I
Grant such further equitable relief as this Court deems just, appropriate, and necessary,
including, but not limited to, a freeze of assets and the appointment of a receiver.

18

Case 2:16-cv-00040-JNP Document 2 Filed 01/19/16 Page 19 of 19

IX
Retain jurisdiction of this action in accordance with the principles of equity and the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in order to implement and carry out the terms of all orders and
decrees that may be entered, or to entertain any suitable application or motion for additional
relief within the jurisdiction of this Court.
Dated January 19, 2016.
Respectfully submitted,

/s/Amy J. Oliver
Amy J. Oliver (8785)
olivera@sec.gov
Daniel Wadley (10358)
wadleyd@sec.gov
Cheryl M. Mori (8887)
moric@sec.gov
Attorneys for Plaintiff
Securities and Exchange Commission
351 S. West Temple, Suite 6.100
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101
Tel: 801-524-5796
Fax: 801-524-5262

19

