IN THE UNITED ST ATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXA~u iii j;\r
DALLAS DIVISION
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION, 	
Plaintiff,
v. 	

KENNETH W. CRUMBLEY, JR., and
SEDONA OIL & GAS CORPORATION

§
§

§
§

§
§
§
§

L.C:?U iY

2 l AM 8: 52

CLERK_+A~---

Civil Action No.: 


FILED UNDER SEAL

~ 8•16CV·017 2L
§

Defendants 	

COMPLAINT
Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") files this Complaint
against Defendants Kenneth W. Crumbley, Jr. ("Crumbley") and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation
("Sedona") (collectively, "Defendants") and would respectfully show the Comi as follows:
I.
SUMMARY

1.

From at least June 2013 to the present, Defendants have carried on a fraudulent

scheme, and made materially false and misleading statements and omissions to potential and
actual investors, in connection with the offer and sale of investments in six investment programs
involving oil and gas wells in Kentucky, Termessee, and Texas.
2.

Through their fraudulent offerings, Defendants raised at least $3.3 million from at

least 55 investors located across the United States. In offering documents and other
communications with investors, they, among other things:
• 	 Falsely represented that investors' funds would be spent to drill, test, and complete oil
and gas wells when in fact nearly 63% of such funds were misappropriated on
undisclosed expenditures;

• 	 Touted overly optimistic and unfounded anticipated oil and gas production from the
subject wells while omitting to disclose the non-production of surrounding and
nearby wells;
• 	 Falsely represented that investors could expect annual returns ranging from 37% to
276%; and
• 	 Misrepresented monthly investment revenue sums paid to investors.
3.

Crumbley and Sedona continue to raise funds from new investors. Additionally,

they are actively obstructing the Commission's ability to gather relevant information by (a)
destroying and disposing of relevant evidence; and (b) threatening Sedona employees with
termination should they speak with Commission staff.
4.

Defendants have offered and sold securities in violation of the antifraud

provisions of the federal securities laws, specifically Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (
"Securities Act") and Section 1O(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( "Exchange Act")
and Rule 1Ob-5 thereunder. Additionally, Crumbley violated Section 20(b) of the Exchange Act
and Rule 21F-17 thereunder and is further liable under Exchange Act Section 20(a) as a Sedona
control person. Unless Defendants are temporarily, preliminarily, and permanently enjoined by
the Court, they will continue to violate the federal securities laws.
5.

To protect the public from any further fraudulent activity and harm, the

Commission brings this action against Defendants seeking: (i) temporary emergency and
preliminary relief; (ii) permanent injunctive relief; (iii) disgorgement of ill-gotten gains resulting
from Defendants' violations of the federal securities laws; (iv) accrued prejudgment interest on
those ill-gotten gains; and (v) civil monetary penalties.

SEC v. Kenneth W. Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation

Page2 ofl7
Complaint

II.
JURISDICTION AND VENUE

6.

Defendants offered and sold purported oil and gas joint venture interests, which

investments constitute securities, and/or did offer and sell investment contracts, under Section
2(a)(l) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77b(a)(l)] and Section 3(a)(10) of the Exchange Act
[15 U.S.C. § 78c(a)(10)].
7.

The Commission brings this action under Section 20(b) of the Securities Act [15

U.S.C. § 77t(b)] and Section 2l(d) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)]. The Commission
seeks the imposition of civil penalties pursuant to Section 20(d)(2)(C) of the Securities Act [15
U.S.C. §77t(d)] and Section 2l(d)(3)(B)(iii) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d)].
8.

This Court has jurisdiction over this action under Sections 20(b) and 22( a) of the

Securities Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 77t(b) and 77v(a)] and Sections 21 and 27 of the Exchange Act [15
U.S.C. §§ 78u and 78aa] because Defendants directly or indirectly made use of the means or
instrumentalities of commerce and/or the mails in connection with the transactions described
herein. Venue is proper under Section 22(a) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77v(a)] and
Section 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78aa], because certain of Defendants' acts,
practices, transactions, and courses of business alleged herein occurred within this judicial
district.

III.
DEFENDANTS
9.

Sedona is a Texas corporation with its principle place of business in Dallas,

Texas. Sedona sponsors oil and gas production and drilling programs. Neither Sedona nor its
securities are registered with the Commission in any capacity. It is the subject of numerous state
regulatory orders for offering unregistered securities in Virginia, Utah, California, Pennsylvania,
SEC v. Kenneth W. Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation
Page 3of17
Complaint

and Wisconsin. See Virginia, ex rel., State Corp. Comm 'r v. Sedona Oil and Gas Corp. and
Kenneth W. Crumbley, Settlement Order, Commonwealth of Virginia, State Corporation

Commission, Case No. SEC-2009-00124 (Apr. 9, 2010); In Re Sedona Oil & Gas Corp., et al.,
Stipulation and Consent Order, Division of Securities of the Department of Commerce of the
State of Utah, Docket Nos. 50033-50037 (June 13, 2007); Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation, et al.,
Desist an Refrain Order, State of California, Business, Transportation and Housing Agency,
Department of Corporations, (Mar. 30, 2007); Sedona Oil & Gas Corp., et al., Findings of Fact,
Conclusions of Law and Order, Pennsylvania Securities Commission (Mar. 14, 2006); In Re
Sedona Oil & Gas Corp., et al., Petition for Order, Division of Securities Department of

Financial Institutions, State of Wisconsin. File No.: S-01056(EX) (June 14, 2001). Among these
prior proceedings, Utah's Division of Securities determined in 2007 that Sedona committed
securities fraud by offering and selling securities while failing to inform an investor of
administrative actions against the company and its officers.
10.

Kenneth W. Crumbley, Jr., age 55, resides in Dallas, Texas. He founded Sedona

in August 1992, serves as its President, and controls its operations. Before founding Sedona,
Crumbley held various positions at public and private oil and gas companies from 1989 through
1992. Crumbley previously held Series 22 and 63 FINRA qualifications.
IV. 

FACTS 

A. 	

DEFENDANTS OFFERED AND SOLD SECURITIES IN CONNECTION WITH SIX OIL AND GAS
INVESTMENT PROGRAMS.

11.

Since at least June 2013, Sedona has offered and sold securities in six oil and gas

investment offerings (collectively, "Sedona Offerings"), representing that investors will profit
from the sale of oil and gas from the subject wells and obtain various tax benefits.
SEC v. Kenneth W Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation
Page 4of17
Complaint

12.

Through the Sedona Offerings -individually known as Crossroads Joint Venture

("Crossroads"), Sells #2K Melton Joint Venture ("Sells #2K"), Roy Rauch #2 Joint Venture
("Roy Rauch #2), Roy Rauch #3 Joint Venture ("Roy Rauch #3"), Sells #3K and #4K Joint
Venture ("Sells #3K"), and Collins Joint Venture ("Collins")-Defendants raised approximately
$3.3 million through October 2015 from at least 55 investors located across the United States.
13.

Defendants identified prospective investors through lead lists Crumbley

purchased, targeting elderly male investors. Sedona's sales staff, the majority of whom have
extensive criminal backgrounds, solicited investments through cold calls using scripts prepared,
and provided to them, by Crumbley.
14.

Acting under Crumbley's supervision and direction, Sedona sent potential Sedona

Offerings' investors offering documents, including private placement memoranda ("PPMs") and
brochures describing the Sedona Offerings, identifying the location of each proposed well and
emphasizing potential profits.
15.

Sedona required investors in the Sedona Offerings to sign joint venture

agreements ("JVAs") appointing Sedona managing venture. The JVAs purport to give investors
control over the affairs, property, business, and operations of the Sedona Offerings, but such
control was illusory. In reality, investors signed turnkey contracts while Sedona (a) did not
discuss the nature of the JV As or joint ventures with investors; (b) retained and exercised day-to­
day control of the Sedona Offerings; (c) invited, and expected investors to rely upon, Crumbley' s
over 30 years of experience in the oil and gas industry and his unique experience and aptitude;
(d) did not provide a way for investors to communicate with, or even identify, each other.

SEC v. Kenneth W Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation
Page 5of17
Complaint
I

B. 	

DEFENDANTS MADE MATERIAL MISREPRESENTATIONS AND OMISSIONS IN
CONNECTION WITH THE OFFER, PURCHASE, AND SALE OF SECURITIES.

16.

Defendants' made materially false and misleading statements and omissions

orally and in writing in connection with the Sedona Offerings.
i. 	

Defendants Made Material Misrepresentations and Omissions Regarding
Their Use of Investor Funds and Misappropriated Investor Funds.

17.

In PP Ms for the Sedona Offerings, Defendants presented a chart showing that all

investor funds would be used to drill, test, and complete subject wells.
18.

In recorded telephone calls with potential investors in the Sedona Offerings,

Sedona sales personnel stated, using scripts or other information provided by Crumbley, and
Crumbley himself reiterated, that investor funds would be used to drill, test, and complete wells.
Sedona staff further falsely claimed that Sedona's mark-up on such costs was as low as 10%.
19.

In reality, of the $3 .3 million Defendants raised in the Sedona Offerings, they

only spent approximately $1 million on well-related expenses. They transferred the remainder,
more than $2.1 million, into Sedona's operating and revenue bank accounts. In those accounts,
Sedona commingled investor funds received across all six Sedona Offerings along with funds
Sedona obtained from other sources. Defendants never disclosed to investors that they
aggregated and commingled their funds.
20.

Contrary to their written and oral promises to commit investor funds to drilling,

testing, and completing wells in the Sedona Offerings, Defendants misappropriated commingled
investor funds to pay for, among other things: Sedona's daily expenses (at least $930,000),
repayment of an undisclosed loan from another entity controlled by Crumbley ($344,000),
personal expenses of Crumbley and his family ($790,000), Sedona's legal expenses ($295,000),

SEC v. Kenneth W. Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation
Page 6of17
Complaint

and to pay "returns" to investors in projects other than the Sedona Offerings (at least $35,000).
Defendants well knew that none of these expenditures were disclosed to investors.
21.

Crumbley admitted under oath that it is "possible" he used Sedona credit cards

and funds in the company's operating account to cover non-business expenses including travel
for him and his family, which type of expenditures were confirmed by Sedona's bank records.
22.

CTX Energy LLC ("CTX"), formed in Texas in August 2012, is controlled and

operated by Crumbley. Between December 2012 and October 2015, CTX expended
approximately $327,000 in (a) direct transfers from a CTX Energy bank account to Sedona's
operating account; and (b) paying bills on Sedona's behalf. This was done purportedly to permit
Sedona to cover certain business and legal expenses. Sedona later transferred approximately
$344,000 back to CTX between July 2013 and June 2015, resulting in an over-repayment of
approximately $17,000. Investors in the Sedona Offerings were never told that Sedona could not
meet its own expenses or that their funds would be used, in part, to repay undisclosed loans from
CTX.
23.

Sedona's credit card statements show that a significant portion of the credit card

charges were for personal expenses, including restaurants, grocery, medical, dry cleaning, auto
and retail expenses and for travel for Crumbley and his family. For example, there were airfare
charges for Crumbley's family to Caho San Lucas, charges to Beauty Comer, Park Cities Ford,
Jos A Bank, and Neiman Marcus.
24.

The terms of the Sedona Offerings' PPMs and JVAs permit Sedona to charge a

monthly "administrative fee," ranging from $1,000 to $2,000, and to retain as "additional
compensation" - its profit - the difference between investors' "turnkey" drilling and completion
costs presented to investors and the "actual" costs of drilling, testing and completing the subject
SEC v. Kenneth W. Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation

Page 7of17
Complaint

wells. Unbeknownst to investors and to glean more money from them, Crumbley arbitrarily
established inflated turnkey prices across all six Sedona Offerings, which were not based on any
contract or other agreement with well operators.
25.

Additionally, Defendants spent investor funds before incurring the actual costs to

drill, test, and complete well projects in the Sedona Offerings. Because the relevant PPMs define
"additional compensation" as the difference between turnkey drilling and completion prices and
the actual cost of drilling and completion operations, there was no way for Sedona to calculate
its profit until it actually incurred all such costs. Defendants never informed investors that they
routinely spent their funds on costs unrelated to drilling, testing, completing, or any other wellrelated work- or that they began spending their funds before they had even started paying the
actual well operators.
ii.

Misrepresentations and Omissions Regarding Mineral Production and
Investment Returns.

26.

Along with PPMs, Defendants provided marketing materials regarding the Sedona

Offerings to potential investors. Defendants knew that these materials falsely touted (1) potential
annual returns between 37% and 276%; (2) successful production from nearby wells; (3) reserve
potential of up to 100,000 to 150,000 barrels of oil per project; (4) anticipated production rates of
25 to 150 barrels of oil per day; and (5) geologist reports endorsed each prospect.

SEC v. Kenneth W. Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation

Page 8 of17
Complaint

27.

For example, in touting the Roy Rauch #2 and Roy Rauch #3, for which Sedona

sought to raise $600,000 and $768,000 respectively, Sedona projected production rates from 25
to 75 barrels per day (with an additional 50 to 300 Mcf1 of natural gas per day at #3).
28.

In reality, as Crumbley and Sedona knew, the Roy Rauch wells were surrounded

by dry holes. The immediate area was home to 13 additional wells, 11 of which had shown
absolutely no production.· Defendants failed to disclose the abysmal results of the nearest
neighbors of the Roy Rauch wells to any investors.
29.

Similarly, in touting the six wells associated with the Collins Joint Venture, for

which Sedona sought to raise $628,992, Sedona projected production rates from 50 to 75 barrels
per day and claimed the wells had a reserve potential of 50,000 to 150,000 barrels of oil. Such
reserve and production, Sedona told investors, would earn annual rates of return between 37%
and 75% for investors.
30.

But as Crumbley and Sedona knew, 11 dry wells already stood on the areas

immediately surrounding the Collins Joint Venture wells. Further, Crumbley and Sedona knew
that the production rates were overstated compared to actual well production. From February 3,
2015 to November 11, 2015, the Collins project, consisting of at least 4 wells, produced a
maximum amount of approximately 933.53 barrels of oil over a period of approximately 282
days. This equates into a daily production from Collins of approximately 3 .31 barrels of oil per
day. Evenly distributing the oil production between four wells yields approximately 0.827
barrels of oil per well per day. Defendants never disclosed these material facts to investors in the
Sedona Offerings.

Mcfis a unit of volume equal to 1,000 cubic feet.
SEC v. Kenneth W Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation
Page 9of17
Complaint
1

iii.

Defendants Reiterated and Added to Their Misrepresentations and
Omissions in Recorded Calls.

31.

Among more than 71,000 incoming and outgoing telephone calls Sedona recorded

between July 2014 and May 2015, Sedona employees acting under Crumbley's direction used
high pressure sales tactics with potential investors, including claims that the projects had few
remaining interests, and adopted fake accents, aliases, and titles in an effort to take on greater
importance, or establish rapport, with prospective investors.
32.

Sedona's recorded calls also establish that Crumbley personally misled potential

investors by, among other things, falsely (a) claiming that Sedona paid over $200,000 a month in
revenues to investors; (b) stating that all investor funds would go into the well projects; (c)
overstating potential production; (d) making unfounded and baseless assertions that the drilling
projects would make money; and (e) minimizing prior actions brought by state securities
regulators against Sedona and himself. None of these material statements were true.
33.

Defendants knew these statements were false when they made them. For

instance, while Sedona and Crumbley told investors that Sedona paid in excess of $200,000 a
month in revenues to investors, they were aware that between June 2013 and Octoher 2015
Sedona only distributed approximately $39,400 to all investors in the Sedona Offerings.
Including proceeds distributed to investors in earlier offerings, Sedona only distributed a total of
approximately $458,000 to all investors between June 2013 and October 2015.
34.

Despite this awareness, in recorded calls, Sedona's sales staff, under the close

supervision of Crumbley, also told investors they would "absolutely" make a profit, were
"guaranteed" to obtain production, and the Sedona Offerings were "slam dunks" and "like
shooting fish in a barrel." They compared Sedona Offerings to the "Beverly Hillbillies" because,
they claimed, oil seeped out of the ground and into nearby creeks.
SEC v. Kenneth W Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation
Page 10of17
Complaint

35.

Sedona's sales staff also falsely claimed they invested in the Sedona Offerings,

including one salesman who falsely claimed he invested $100,000 of his own money in the
Collins offering.

iv.

Ongoing Fraud, Destruction of Evidence and Efforts to Impede the SEC.

36.

On May 21, 2015, the staff of the Commission served an investigative subpoena

on Sedona and Crumbley. That subpoena called for the production of documents relevant to
Sedona's Oil and Gas business since January 1, 2010.
37.

On May 21, 2015, the staff of the Commission also sent Crumbley a letter

directing Sedona to preserve and retain documents and data relevant to the investigation being
conducted by the staff, including documents created on or after January 1, 2010 relating to all
offerings of oil and gas interests conducted by Sedona.
38.

On June 9, 2015, Crumbley testified under oath before the Commission and

claimed that he was preserving, and would continue to preserve, relevant documents.
39.

On June 29, 2015 Crumbley acknowledged receipt of the Commission's May 21,

2015 document preservation letter by signing it and returning a copy to Commission staff.
40.

On January 5, 2016, the Commission received information that Sedona and

Crumbley were actively destroying documents called for by the Commission's subpoena and
covered by its May 21, 2015 document preservation letter.
41.

On January 12, 2016 and January 13, 2016, staff of the Commission confirmed

that Sedona has in fact destroyed and discarded documents relevant to the Commission's
investigation, including bank records, investor lists, sales pitch scripts, and other relevant
documents.

SEC v. Kenneth W Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation
Page 11of17
Complaint

42.

On January 13, 2016, Crumbley convened a meeting of Sedona employees during

which he threatened to fire those who spoke with, or in the future speak with, Commission staff.

v.
CLAIMS FOR RELIEF 

FIRST CLAIM 

Violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act 

(against Sedona and Crumbley) 


43.

The Commission repeats and re-alleges Paragraphs 1through42 of the Complaint

as if fully set forth herein.
44.

By engaging in the conduct described herein, Defendants directly or indirectly,

singly or in concert, in the offer or sale of securities, by use of the means and instrumentalities of
interstate commerce or of the mails:
(a) 	

employed devices, schemes or artifices to defraud;

(b) 	

obtained money or property by means of untrue statements of material fact or
omissions to state material facts necessary in order to make the statements made,
in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and

(c) 	

engaged in transactions, practices, or courses of business which operated or would
operate as a fraud or deceit upon purchasers of securities.

45.

With regard to their violations of Section l 7(a)(l) of the Securities Act,

Defendants acted intentionally, knowingly or with severe recklessness with respect to the truth.
With regard to their violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act,
Defendants acted at least negligently.
46.

By engaging in this conduct, Defendants violated, and unless enjoined will

continue to violate, Section 17(a) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 77q].

SEC v. Kenneth W Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation

Page 12 ofl7
Complaint

SECOND CLAIM 

Violations of Section 1 O(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 1Ob-5 thereunder 

(against Sedona and Crumbley) 


47.

The Commission repeats and re-alleges Paragraphs 1 through 42 of the Complaint

as if fully set forth herein.
48.

By engaging in the conduct described herein, Defendants directly or indirectly,

singly or in concert, by the use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, or of the
mails, or of the facilities of a national securities exchange, in connection with the purchase or
sale of securities, knowingly or recklessly:
(a) 	

employed devices, schemes, and artifices to defraud;

(b) 	

made untrue statements of material fact or omitted to state material facts
necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances
under which they were made, not misleading; and

(c) 	

engaged in acts, practices, or courses of business which operated or would operate
as a fraud or deceit upon purchasers of securities and upon other persons.

49.

Defendants engaged in this conduct intentionally, knowingly or with severe

recklessness with respect to the truth.
50.

By engaging in this conduct, Defendants violated, and unless enjoined will

continue to violate, Section IO(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78j(b)] and Exchange Act
Rule IOb-5 [17 C.F.R. § 240.IOb-5].

SEC v. Kenneth W. Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation
Page 13 of17
Complaint

THIRD CLAIM 

Control Person Liability Under Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act 

(against Crumbley) 

51.

The Commission repeats and re-alleges Paragraphs 1through 42 of the Complaint

as if fully set forth herein.
52.

Defendant Sedona violated and Section 1O(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 1Ob­

5 thereunder as alleged above.
53.

At all relevant times, Defendant Crumbley directed and controlled Sedona's

management and policies, including the conduct of its other representatives, and was a
controlling person of Sedona and its representatives under Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act [15
U.S.C. § 78t(a)]. Defendant Crumbley was a culpable participant in the fraudulent conduct
described above and knowingly or recklessly induced many of the material misrepresentations
and misstatements alleged herein.
54.

Defendant Crumbley is liable as a controlling person under Section 20(a) of the

Exchange Act for Sedona's violations of Section lO(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule lOb-5
thereunder, and unless enjoined will again violate this provision and rule.
FOURTH CLAIM
Violations of Section 20(b) of the Securities Exchange Act
(against Crumbley)
55.

The Commission repeats and re-alleges Paragraphs 1through42 of the Complaint

as if fully set forth herein.
56.

By his conduct as alleged above, Defendant Crumbley, directly and indirectly,

acted through and used another person or entity to violate Section 1O(b) of the Exchange Act and
Rule 1Ob-5 thereunder.

SEC v. Kenneth W. Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation
Page 14 ofl7
Complaint

57.

In acting through and using another person or entity to violate Section 1O(b) of the

Exchange Act and Rule 1Ob-5 thereunder, Defendant Crumbley acted intentionally, knowingly
or with severe recklessness with respect to the truth.
58.

By engaging in this conduct, Defendant Crumbley violated, and unless enjoined

will continue to violate, Sections lO(b) and 20(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule lOb-5
thereunder.
FIFTH CLAIM 

Violations of Rule 21F-17 of the Securities Exchange Act 

(against Crumbley) 


59.

The Commission repeats and re-alleges Paragraphs 1 through 42 of the Complaint

as if fully set forth herein.
60.

While staff of the Commission was investigating Crumbley and Sedona in

connection with possible securities violations, Crumbley threatened to terminate Sedona
employees who spoke with, or in the future speak with, regulatory authorities including the
Commission.
61.

By his conduct as alleged above, Defendant Crumbley took action to impede his

employees from communicating directly with the Commission staff about a possible securities
law violation.
62.

By engaging in this conduct, Defendant Crumbley violated Rule 21 F-17 of the

Exchange Act.
VI. 

RELIEF REQUESTED 


For these reasons, the Commission respectfully requests that the Court enter a judgment:
(a)

Temporarily, preliminarily, and permanently enjoining Defendants and their

agents, servants, employees, attorneys and all persons in active concert or participation with
SEC v. Kenneth W Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation
Page 15 ofl7
Complaint

them who receive actual notice of the injunction by personal service or otherwise, from violating,
directly or indirectly Section 17(a) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 5 U.S.C. § 77q(a)] and
Section lO(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78j(b), 78t(a) and 78t(b)], and Rule lOb-5
thereunder [17 C.F.R. § 240.1 Ob-5] and temporarily, preliminarily, and permanently enjoining
Defendant Crumbley and his agents, servants, employees, attorneys and all persons in active
concert or participation with them who receive actual notice of the injunction by personal service
or otherwise, from violating, directly or indirectly, Section 20(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.
§§ 78j(b), 78t(a) and 78t(b)].
(b)

Temporarily, preliminarily, and permanently enjoining Crumbley from directly or

indirectly, including but not limited to, through any entity owned or controlled by him,
participating in the issuance, purchase, offer, or sale of any security provided, however that such
injunction shall not prevent him from purchasing or selling securities for his own personal
account;
(c)

Permanently enjoining Crumbley from directly or indirectly violating Exchange

Act Rule 21F-17.
(d)

Ordering Defendants to disgorge all ill-gotten gains and/or unjust enrichment

realized by each of them, plus prejudgment interest;
(e)

Ordering each Defendant to pay an appropriate civil monetary penalty pursuant to

Section 20(d) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77t(d)] and Section 21(d)(3) of the Exchange
Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)];
(f)

Retaining jurisdiction over this action to implement and carry out the terms of all

orders and decrees that may be entered; and
(g)

Granting all other relief to which the Commission may be entitled.

SEC v. Kenneth W. Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation
Page 16of17
Complaint

Dated: January 21, 2016

Illinois Bar No. 6272325
DAVID REECE
Texas Bar No. 24002810
United States Securities and Exchange Commission
Fort Worth Regional Office
Burnett Plaza, Suite 1900
801 Cherry Street, Unit #18
Fort Worth, TX 76102-6882
Ph: 817-978-1410
Fax: 917-978-4927
guldem@sec.gov
COUNSEL FOR PLAINTIFF UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SEC v. Kenneth W. Crumbley, Jr. and Sedona Oil & Gas Corporation
Page 17 of17
Complaint

