Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 1 of 28

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION,

COMPLAINT

Plaintiff,
Civil Action No. 16-CV-2733
ECF CASE
(Jury Trial Demanded)

v.

KHALED "KAL" BASSTLY,
Defendant.

Plaintiff, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"),
alleges for its Complaint as follows against Khaled "Ka1" Bassily:
SUMMARY OF ALLEGATIONS
This is a securities fraud ei7forcement action arising out of a fraudulent scheme to
conceal from brokerage customers the practice of regularly charging hidden mark-ups and markdowns on top of agreed-upon commissions on securities trades placed with a New York-based
brokerage firm. For years, Defendant Bassily, the head of the tine's transition management
group, engaged in a pattern of deceptive conduct, and repeatedly directed and encouraged other
employees to engage in deceptive conduct, all aimed at creating a false irnpressic~n about the
customers' true costs of executing securities trades, Bassily's participatiotl in this scheme
included making and directing false statements and misleading half-truths about customers' true
trade costs, coaching traders on the amount of hidden charges that could be taken without
customers noticing, and encouraging the use of technological tools, false business cards, and
other deceptive devices to hide the truth from customers. The scheme resulted iia millions of

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 2 of 28

dollars in hidden charges, dwarfing the commissions that customers had negotiated and paid, and
directly enriched Bassily, who received millions of dollars in bonuses.
2.

The hidden charges at issue ti~+ere referred to in the scheme as "trading profits," or

mire commonly, as "TP," and were in addition to the disclosed commissions paid by customers.
Bassily headed the Global Transition Management group("GTM")of ConvergEx
Execution Solutions LLC. GTM advertised itself as operating on an "agency only' basis with a
transparent fee structure and no conflicts ofinterest.
4.

GTM,however, routinely routed transition management orders, including orders to

buy and sell securities listed on U.S. exchanges, to its offshore affiliate. The offshore affiliate took
hidden TP on trades, which was in addition to, and often tar more than, the disclosed commission
that the customer agreed to pay GTM. GTM's profitability largely depended on the hidden TP
taken on trades for its customers.
Bassily knew that customers likely were unaware that they paid TP in addition to the
agreed-upon commission and would fire GTM if they learned the truth. He also knew that
prospective customers would be less likely to do business with GTM if they la~ew that GTM
regularly would take si~mifica~it TP on their trades.
6.

Accordingly, during the relevant period of October 2006 until December• 2011,

Bassily knowingly or recklessly participated in a fraudulent scheme by engaging in, aid directing
and encouraging others to engage in, repeated deceptive acts desi~zed to hide the practice of
taking TP ai7d maximize the amount of TP that could be taken without detection by transition
management customers. By engaging in the transactions, practices, or courses of business set forth
herein, Bassily also failed to conform his conduct to a standard of reasonable care.

2

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 3 of 28

Specifically, Bassily drafted, approved and, throubh his subordinates, made material
misrepresentations to customers and prospective customers that created a false impression regarding
the true costs ofexecuting transition management orders through GTM.
Bassily also regularly communicated with ConvergEx traders at GTM's offshore
afFliate to share customer information in order to maximize TP, while minimizing the risk that the
customer would detect the hidden charges. Bassily often set TP goals for trades and pressured
ConvergEx traders to meet those goals. Bassily even authorized traders to take TP in an amount
that resulted in the customer unnecessarily buying at the market high ofthe day and selling at the
market low ofthe day.
9.

Moreover, Bassily approved of and encouraged the use of a technological tool to

trade in a transparent forei~l market without exposing the taking of TP and helped to procure false
business cards for a trader to use when soliciting business from a prospective customer to avoid
questions that ultimately could reveal the practice oftaking TP.
10.

By engaging in the misconduct described herein, Bassily directly or indirectly

violated Section 10(b) ofthe Securities Exchange Act of 1934(the "Exchange Act")[15 U.S.C. §
7$j{b)] and Rule lOb-5 thereunder [17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5]; and alternatively, violated Section 10(b)
and Rule l Ob-5(b) through or by means of any other person, pursuant to Section 20(b)ofthe
Exchange Act[15 U.S.C. § 78t(b)]; aided and abetted v7olatic~ns of Sections 15(c)(1) and 10(b) of
the Exchange Act and Rule l Ob-5 thereunder, pursuant to Section 20(e) ofthe Exchange Act[15
U.S.C. ~ 78t(e)]; and violated Sections 1~(a)(1) and 17(a)(3) ofthe Securities Act of 1933 (the
"Securities Act")[15 U.S.C. § 77q(a)].

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 4 of 28

JURISDICTION AND VENUE
11.

This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 20(b) and (d) and

22(a) of the Securities Act[15 U.S.C. § 77t(b) and (d); 15 U.S.C. § 77v(a)] and Sections 21(d),
21(e), and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e), and 78aa] and 28 U.S.0
1331.
12.

Venue is proper in this Court pursuant to Section 22(a) of the Securities Act

[15 U.S.C. ~ 77v(a)] and Section 27 of the Exchange Act[15 U.S.C. § 78aa] because acts or
transactions constituting the violations of law alleged herein occurred within this judicial District
and Bassily can be found, is an inhabit~lt of, or transacts business in this judicial District.
13.

Bassily, directly or indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities of

interstate commerce, or of the mails, or the facilities of a national securities exchange in
corulection with the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged herein.
DEFENDANT
14.

Defendant Khaled "Kal" Bassily is 50 years old and resides in New York, New

15.

At all times relevant to this Complaint, Bassily was the head of the Global

York.

Transition Ma1la~ement business unit of ConvergEx Execution Solutions LLC(`CES"), and also
a managing director of CES. Bassily was fired from CES in 2013. At all times relevant to this
Complaint, Bassily worked in GTM's offices in New York, New York.
16.

from '1998 through 2013, Bassily was associated with broker-dealers registered

with the Commission. During the relevant period of October 2006 until December 2011, Bassily
was a registered representative associated wit11 CES a~1d held various securities industry licenses,

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 5 of 28

including ~ Series 7(General Securities Representative) and Series 24(General Securities
Principal).
17.

Bassily has a Master of Business Administration(".MBA")degree ti-om Columbia

University and is a Chartered Financial Analyst.
RELEVANT ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS
18.

ConvergEx Execution Solutions LLC(
"CES")is a registered broker-

dealer and investment adviser and awholly-owned subsidiary of ConvergEx Group, LLC
{"ConvergEx"), a global investment services and technology firm headquartered in New York,
New York. CES also is headquartered in New York, New York. CES has been registered with
the Commission as abroker-dealer since January 1994, and as an investment adviser since
September 2006. During the relevant period, CES offered global transition management
services, as we11 as other order execution services. CES has been a lnernber of the New York
Stock Exchange since January 1994. In December 2013, CES settled the Commission's claims
against it for its role in the scheme described in this Complaint in an administrative proceeding.
See SEC ReL No. 34-71128 (Dec. 18, 2013)
19.

ConverbEx Global Markets Limited("CG1VI Limited") was a Bermuda

broker-dealer and awholly-owned subsidiary of ConvergEx. CGM Limited was regulated by the
Bermuda Monetary Authority unti120~12 when it voluntarily relinquished its securities license.
In January 2012, it ceased executing trades in equities. In December 2013, CGM Limited settled
the Commission's claims against it for its role in the scheme described in this Complaint in an
administrative proceeding, see SEC ReL No. 34-71 128 (Dec. 18, 2013), and entered a guilty plea
in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey to one count of conspiracy to

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 6 of 28

commit wire and securities fraud and one count of wire fraud in a para11e1 criiniilal proceeding
instituted by the United States Department of Justice.
20.

Jonathan Daspin was the global head of trading of CGM Limited in Bermuda

from October ?006 until his discharge in 2011. In December ?013, Daspin settled the
Commission's claims against him for his role in the scheme described in this Complaint in an
administrative proceeding, see SEC Rel. 34-71126(Dec. 18, 2013), and entered a guilty plea in
the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey to one count of conspiracy to
commit wire and securities fraud in a parallel criminal proceeding instituted by the United States
Department of Justice.
THE GTM BUSINESS MODEL
21.

During the relevant period of October 2006 through December 2011, Defendant

Bassily was in charge of GTM,a former, unincorporated business division of CES. GTM
offered global trai7sition management services, which involved executing large orders to buy and
se11 foreign and/or domestic securities, including securities listed on U.S. exchanges, for
customers who were changing fund managers or investment strategies. Customers seek out
transition management services in order to minimize risks and preserve the value of their
portfolios while in transition. The cost paid to execute trades is a matter of importance to
reasonable investors. Many of GTM's customers shopped around to compare transition
management services providers, including comparing the costs associated with executing their
securities transactions.
22.

GTM provided transition management services to U.S. and international

institutional customers, including funds managed on behalf of charities, religious organizations,
~-etirelnent plans, universities, and governments.

6

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 7 of 28

23.

GTM acted as an agent on behalf of customers and charged a disclosed

commission. Customer orders were entered into an order management system, which allowed
GTM to route orders offshore to its affiliate, CGM Limited. These customer orders often
included securities listed on U.S. exchanges. Most of these orders were received in the New
York office of CES, which was ConvergEx's U.S. trading ann and a member of U.S. exchanges.
Instead of allowing CES to execute the orders, Bassily a~1d others at GTM,including those under
Bassily's supervision, unnecessarily routed the orders to CGM Limited in Bermuda in order to
take hidden TP on the trades, only to have those trades routed to a U.S. broker for execution.
24.

To take TP on a customer order, CGM Limited acted in a riskless principal

capacity. In general, a "riskless principal" trade occurs when abroker-dealer, after receiving a
customer order to buy (or sell) a security, buys (or sells) the security for its own account from (or
to) another party in a contemporaneous offsetting transaction and then allocates the shares to the
customer order.
25.

CGM Limited was not a market maker, and generally did not commit its own

capital to facilitate customer executions or offer customers guaranteed prices. CGM Limited
thus assumed little, if any, market risk when handling and executing customer orders.
26.

With a GTM customer order in hand, CGM Limited bought or sold the secuz-ities

in the customer's order for its own account through a local broker in the relevant market. Bassily
and others at GTM then advised CGM Limited's traders whether, and to what extent, they could
add amark-up or mark-down to the price received by the local broker without detection by the
customer.
27.

CGM Limned marked up or marked dowel the price received from the local

broker and kept the difference as TP. CGM Limited then delivered t11e execution back to GTM,

17

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 8 of 28

which confirmed the trade to the customer only at the marked-up or marked-down price, which
embedded the undisclosed TP amount. As a result, when CGM Limited took TP on a customer's
trade, the price reported to the customer by GTM was worse than the price that CGM Limited
had received from t11e local broker. Customers on whose orders TP had been taken received
information that included the amount of commission charged, but were not informed that any
mark-ups, mark-downs, or other compensation also had been taken. When a customer requested
"fiduciary" treatment, CGM Limited generally did not take TP on the customer's trades, but
GTM usually charged a higher commission.
28.

GTM's customers typically signed transition management agreements, which

generally included boilerplate language to the effect that GTM ``may" effect transactions through
affiliates and take a "spread.'' The transition management agreements gave no indication that
this was in fact done routinely, including on orders involving U.S. securities. These transition
management agreements also included are "Exhibit A" disclosiizg fees that GTM would charge.
Exhibit A listed the commission rates, but did not include mark-ups or mark-downs to be taken
on trades. Exhibit A typically stated that "[t]he commission schedule includes all of our charges.
There are no additional management fees for our services."
29.

The amount ofTP taken on trades for customers often tar exceeded. the agreed-

upon commission. It was not uncommon for the amount of TP to be several tunes the amount of
the commission that the customer had paid GTM. For example, during the relevant period, GTM
conducted. securities transactions for a university, which paid GTM approximately $93,000 in
disclosed commissions, but also paid approximately $543,000 in undisclosed TP. Similarly,
during the relevant period, GTM conducted securities transactions on behalf of a charitable
organization, which paid approximately $33,000 in disclosed commissions, but also paid

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 9 of 28

ap~roxiinately $283,000 in undisclosed TP. In both cases, the transactions involved trades in
only U.S. equities, yet GTM unnecessarily routed the customers' orders offshore to CGM
Limited in order to take TP, even though CGM Limited had to route orders back to a U.S. broker
for execution.
30.

GTM received credit within ConvergEx for the TP taken by CGM Limited on

GTM customer trades. TP was important to GTM's profitability as a business unit, which in turn
was a significant factor in snaking employee compensation determinations, including Bassily's
annual bonus amounts, which were several times his base salary and totaled over $7 million
during the relevant period.
'I'~-IE FRAUDULENT SCHEME TO HIDE THE PRACTICE OF TAKING TP
31.

Bassily understood that customers often were unaware of the practice of regularly

taking TP and would fire GTM if they learned the truth. Bassily knew or was reckless in not
knowing this from, among other things, an incident he was aware of that occurred near• the start
of his employment with GTM in or about 2004, when a customer learned that TP had been taken
on its securities transactions, promptly demanded a refund, and never used GTM again because
cif the undisclosed charges.
32.

Consequently, throughout the relevant period, Bassily k~iowingly or recklessly

participated in a fraudulent scheme to conceal fi-om customers the practice of regularly taking
TP. This scheme involved a number of different types of deceptive conduct designed to avoid
raising questions t17at could lead customers to discover the practice ofroutinely taking T~' on
their trades and the use of affii~native misrepresentations and misleading statements to customers
who did ask questions. This deceptive conduct left customers with a false impression with
respect to the nature az~d amount of the costs they paid to have their trades executed, which is a

9

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 10 of 28

matter of importance to a reasonable investor. As a result of the deception, GTM was able to
continue doing business with these customers, including continuing to take TP on their trades,
and GTM was able to solicit new customers and take TP on their trades.
MisrepYesentations to Customers Who Inquired About the G~'M Business Model
33.

To conceal the practice of routinely taking TP, Bassily helped to draft, explicitly

approved, and ultimately directed subordinate employees to make, certain misrepresentations and
material omissions to customers who asked how ConvergEx was compensated for transition
services after TP had been taken on their trades. The objective and result of these
misrepresentations was to keep the practice of regularly taking TP concealed from the customer
and the market in general so that GTM could continue t~ obtain orders for securities transactions,
which in turn could be routed to CGM Limited in order to take TP.
Custoyraer A
34.

Customer Ahad along-standing relationship with GTM pursua~lt to a transition

management agreement that required GTM to obtain Customer A's agreement to effect
transactions on a principal basis and take a "spread"(TP).
35.

In July 2010, a representative of Customer A sent an e-mail to Bassily's

subordinate, Employee 1, and asked "ifBNY Convergex is currently engaged in earning a spread
on a principal basis." Employee 1 responded that "some asset classes require trading to be
undertaken on a principal basis, for example, Forei~m Excha~ilge." This response, however, did
not satisfy the representative of Customer A, and she persisted in her questions by asking,
"[o]ther than FX transactions, is there anything else that BNY Convergex can engage] on a
principal basis?"

10

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 11 of 28

36.

Employee 1 consulted Bassily and sought Bassily's approval on her proposed

response to the customer.
37.

In an email, Bassily approved of Employee 1 ~s proposed response to Customer

A's inquiry and. directed Employee 1 "[p]lease send on to" Customer A. Pursuant to Bassily's
direction, Employee 1 ernailed the response to Customer A's representative on or about July 24,
2010, which stated in part:
We have the ability to engage in principal trading, however this is rarely used in
our transition business ... ,anal we can assure you that no principal trading has
been carried out in any transition for [Customer A].
Should it ever be necessary, prudent or strategically important to do so, we would
always discuss and seek your- approval.
38.

As Bassily was aware, this statement was false and misleading. At the time of

this misrepresentation, CGM Limited, GTM's affiliate, had taken approximately $9.6 million in
undisclosed TP on trades effected on a riskless principal basis for this customer.
39.

The representative for Customer A believed that Customer A only paid

commissions when GTM executed its transition inanageinent orders and it was important to the
representative for Customer- A to know whether GTM or its affiliates took mark-ups or markdowns in addition to that. Commissions, however, were only a small fraction of the charges that
Customer A paid to execute trades through GTM. Indeed, for the trades Customer A placed with
GTM prior to July 24, 2010, Customer A paid approximately $600,000 in commissions, which
was dwarfed by the hidden TP taken on these trades, totaling well over $9 million.
40.

Following this misrepresentation, Customer A paid GTM an additional $118,000

in agreed-upon commissions, while CGM Limited took. approximately $4.5 million in additional
concealed TP on Customer A's grades routed from GTM (of which approximately $1.7 million
was taken on securities listed on U.S. exchanges).
11

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 12 of 28

Custonzer.B
41.

Between May and June 2008, Bassily drafted and/or approved misrepresentations

and misleading statements that were communicated to a transition management consultant who
represented Customer B. Customer B's consultant made specific and repeated inquiries to
Bassily's subordinate, Employee 2, asking whether GTM — or any ConvergEx company —
earned remuneration from transitions other than commissions.
42.

The misrepresentations drafted and/or approved by Bassily created a false

impression that routing orders to an affiliate and taking TP was a possibility only under certain
limited circumstances when needed to facilitate the execution of a difficult order and that it was
difficult to determine the amount of TP taken in these circumstances.
43.

In an e-mail dated May 23, 2008, Customer B's consultant asked Employee 2 if

he would confirm that GTM and its related parties had not received "any income or remuneration
in excess of the agreed upon commission." Knowing that a truthful response would reveal TP,
Employee 2 wrote to Bassily that. t11is inquiry was "my worst fear. What do we say now?"
44.

Employee 2 further wrote that telling the customer the truth would be a problem

because ConvergEx recently took "significant" TP on a transition for Custo7~ler B a11d if the
consultant found out, he "would be unhappy, ruin the relationship ...and kill [GTM's]
developing ...business" in a particular foreign market.
45.

After Customer B's consultant again asked Employee 2 "if related parties ean~ed

any reinuner•ation and how such remuneration would arise," and then requested "information of
any additional remuneration earned," Bassily helped to draft and approved the following false
and misleading statement, which was emailed to Customer B's consultant on or about June 10,
►11..

12

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 13 of 28

It appears that one of our related parties, depending on the 1oca1 market, can act in
a principal capacity to facilitate our transition executions in a timely manner. In
such cases, the party takes some positions onto its own inventory and unwinds
them later. Since the unwinding is done over a period of time and `piecemeal', I
am told it is very difficult, if not impossible to determine the profit or loss that
may have resulted.... .
46.

The statement went on to explain that with respect to Customer B's transition

between November and December 2007:
... In order to complete and to avoid possibly incurring a large opportunity cost
[CGM Limited] facilitated execution as above. In fact, due to the lengthy actual
settlement process, they had open positions for a long tune. These positions were
their exposure and [Customer B] did not incur the impact of that.
47.

Bassily knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that these statements were false or

misleading because:(a) Bassily was aware that TP was taken frequently as part of the GTM
business model, and not on a limited basis to facilitate a trade;(b) Bassily knew that it was not
difficult to track TP because he tracked TP taken on customer trades on a regular basis;(c)
Bassily was aware that Customer B's transition between November and December 2007 was
GTM's most profitable transition during that period and that CGM Limited had taken more than
$3.2 million in TP in that transition alone because these facts wez•e included in the TP reports that
were received by and written by Bassily; and (d) CGM Limited traded on a riskless principal
basis and did not take trades into "inventory" or have ``exposure" as a result of these trades.
48.

If Customer B's transition management consultant had known that CGM Limited

was taking large amoutlts of TP in addition to the commission, the consultant would not have
considered using GTM for Customer B's transition and would have stopped using GTM for its
transition customers' business.
49.

After the misleading statement was made, Customer B continued to place orders

for securities transactions with GTM. GTM also continued to develop its business in that foreign

13

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 14 of 28

market, obtaining new transition management orders for securities transactions, which resulted in
millions of dollars of hidden TP.
Custo~raer C
50.

On or about March 14, 2011, ConvergEx executed a buy order for Customer C for

a German exchange traded fund("ETF"), for which Customer C paid GTM approximately
$3,700 in disclosed commission. CGM Limited bought the ETF in the relevant market for
approximately 63.76 Euro per share and then marked up the price and sold the ETF to Customer
C for approximately b3.80 Euro per share, which resulted in CGM Limited taking $53,039.04 in
undisclosed TP in addition to the disclosed commission that Customer C paid to GTM.
51.

On or about March 15 and 17, ?011, one of Bassily's subordinates, Employee 3,

notified Bassily by email that Customer C was "really unhappy" with the execution on this trade
and that Employee 3 needed "to explain briefly but convincingly what happened."
52.

Employee 3, who did not know about CGM Limited's practice of taking TP and

did not know that TP had been taken on Customer C's order, asked Bassily:
Do you think the trading desk could have made a spread on the trade without us
knowing? ... I know we are agency brokers and we are not snaking money on these
trades but at the same tune I want to make sure that we sort the issue with [Customer C's
representative] without it affecting our transition business.
53.

Bassily responded by email, asking for the source of Employes 3's information.

54.

Employee 3 then copied Bassily on an e-mail in which Employee 3 wrote that

"we need to convince [Customer C]that we are not skimming off the top and that we just had a
bad execution day."
55.

Bassily did. not correct Employee 3's false understanding about "spread"(TP)or

advise Employee 3 that he should not be trying to convince the customer that ConvergEx was not
"skimming off tl~e top'' because CGM Limited had, in fact, marked up the execution price
14

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 15 of 28

received from the local broker. Rather, Bassily emailed Employee 3 and stated that this "might
contaminate our business on the manager transitions side" which "would be a tragedy." Bassily
authorized Employee 3 to "level" with the customer by explaining the execution with detailed
information regarding the nature of the market and ConvergEx's trading capabilities. The
explanation that Bassily authorized Employee 3 to provide to Customer C omitted any reference
to the $53,039.04 in TP as a factor in the price the customer received. Bassily, who tracked TP
on a daily basis, knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that TP had been taken on Customer C's
trade and that TP impacted the price received by Customer C.
56.

Employee 3 communicated the misleading explanation approved by Bassily to

Customer C's relationship managers at a bank for the purpose of communicating the information
to Customer C.
57.

CGM Limited subsequently took approximately $3.5 million in additional TP on

trades for Customer C, of which approximately $600,000 was taken on trades in securities listed
on U.S. exchanges. This was in addition to approximately X346,000 in agreed upon
commissions that Customer C paid to GTM.
TP Taken Opportunistically t~ Avoi~f Detection
58.

Bassily took further steps to conceal the practice of ti-equently taking TP by

coar~znunicating with CGM Limited traders to provide guidance on opportunistically taking TP in
order to minimize the risk that customers would detect the charge and maximize the amount of
TP that could be taken without detection.
59.

To this end, Bassily and others at GTM generally assessed the sensitivity of their

customers to determine whether a particular customer was paying attention to price —that is,
how the prices the customers were paying far trades compared to prices available in the market

15

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 16 of 28

and communicated that information to the CGM Limited traders. CGM Limited then took
less TP, or did not take TP at all, on trades for sensitive customers.
60.

For example, in a recorded call on or about March 1, 2011, Daspin explained to

Bassily that a customer — Customer C, described above —was monitoring a trade by asking for
periodic updates on trade execution throughout the trading day, which meant the customer would
likely be able to detect that TP was being taken on its trades. As Daspin put it, this would
prevent Bassily from "raping" the customer by taking large amounts of TP.
Daspin: ... yes, it's a big piece of the liquidity, but that's not going to prevent me
from completing [the trade], but it does prevent you from raping if you know
what I mean.
Bassily: Why?
Daspin: ....First of all, the client according to your guy is asking for update.
61.

Later in the same reco7-ded call, Bassily informed Daspin about an upcoming

transition that "would be probably the biggest transition of the year." Bassily said "I have to
have this conversation with you offline," and that. even though he and Daspin would be speaking
with other colleagues about the trading strategy,"I'm just having this conversation just you and
me," Bassily then informed Daspin "I'm looking to get 101nillion out of this trade." Bassily
then explained to Daspin which transition consultants on the upcoming transition did and did not
make a practice of requesting post-trade details that could reveal that CGM Limited had taken
TP. Daspin responded "when we take TP at the end of the day we know which names to focus
less on." Bassily agreed and reiterated, "I just want to have the ten million conversation just
one-on-one with you." After Bassily and Daspin further discussed ways of achieving Bassily's
goal of taking $10 million in TP on the transition, Daspin said "Let's make a ton of money....I'm
excited. You're excited. This is great." Bassily responded: "I am. I am. Great."

16

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 17 of 28

62.

In certain instances when Bassily and others perceived the risk of detection to be

low, they communicated that information to traders at CGM Limited and directed them to take
snore TP,in some cases even advising traders that they could mark up the customer's trade so
that the customer's price was the market high of the day (for a buy order) or the market low of
the day (for a sell order), where better prices could have been provided. Bassily also directed
Daspin to take TP in a manner that would avoid customer scrutiny. The end result of the
collaboration between Bassily and CGM Limited traders on customer sensitivity was that some
customers received worse execution prices than they would have received if the information
about the customers had not been shared.
63.

Similarly, p~r~iar tc~ CGiv1 Limited executing a trade, Bassily set goals for how

much TP he wanted to take on the trade and 11e communicated that to the traders in Bermuda. In
this regard, the amount of TP taken was not necessarily based on the customer receiving better
performance, and Bassily pressured CGM Limited to take TP to meet his goals as much as
possible.
64.

For example, in a recorded call on or about June 23, 2011, Daspin stated. that

volatility in the market helps for the "real plan" of taking TP and that a flat or "slightly up
market with better performance" would not help reach ~Bassily's goals for TP. Bassily told
Daspin that Daspin could take more TP if he was able to explain the marked up price to the
customer by "just framing] that basically in the context of the market behavior." Daspin said
"I'll leave that for you to worry about. How much do you want me to take?"
65.

Similarly, in a recorded call on or about August 2, 201 1, Bassily and Daspin

discussed how much TP could be taken on upcoming trades, and Daspin rioted that CGM
Limited had been taking about 30 basis points in TP oia trades involved in that transition. Bassily

17

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 18 of 28

asked "[i]s there any room we can take some more today without looking. very ugly?" When
Daspin said "I'll check ... "[w]e're still working on it," Bassily reminded Daspin "[w]e'll need
to have a good story, right?"
Deceptive Conduct to Hzde TP zn a Transparent Market
66.

Bassily also helped to hide TP by approving and encouraging Daspin to use a

technological tool to hide broker identification for trades executed in a transparent foreign
market in order to take TP while minimizing the risk of detection by Customer D. Customer D
had not requested anonymity in the execution of its trades.
67.

Specifically, in a recorded call on or about June 17, 2011, Daspin explained to

Bassily that he was concerned about a GTM trade because, "[i]t's all Canada and it's all
transparent," meaning that for trades on the Canadian Securities Exchange, unlike most securities
exchanges, real-time trade execution data, including the identity ofthe broker executing the
trade, is available to the general public. This meant that GTM customers would be able to see
the real prices obtained on their trades. Daspin told Bassily that "focusing on how to hide myself
best...is my priority. Not anything else. Not cost, nothing. I have to figure c ut how to hide
myself." Daspin explained that a ConvergEx subsidiary had an algorithm that randomized trades
between local Canadian brokers and ghat Daspin also could present himself as "anonymous,"
both of which would impede GTM customers from learning that TP was being added to the
prices obtained in their securities transactions. ~Bassily responded enthusiastically to the use of
the randomizer to execute the trade, saying, among other things,"Wow,'' and after discussing
Daspin's plan for the transition and Bassily's goals for the amount of TP to be taken, Bassily
ended the call by saying ``Great plan. I love it."

1$

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 19 of 28

68.

CGM Limited took approximately $1.3 million in undisclosed TP on this trade for

Customer D (in addition to disclosed commissions in the amount of about $43,000).
69.

After CGM Limited executed these trades for Customer D, Daspin reported to

Bassily in a recorded call that one of the stocks did not perform well, but that he had an idea for
how they still could take TP.
70.

Specifically, Daspin told Bassily that even though the stock did not perform well,

since CGM Limited had executed a portion of the order earlier in the day when the price was
better, they could falsely tell Customer D that they waited until the end of the day to execute the
trade, hoping for a rebound in the price.
71.

Bassily expressed excitement, saying "I love this brilliant idea," and he urged

Daspin to make sure that he was telling the other CGM Limited traders about ideas like this one.
Bassily then told Daspin that ConvergEx senior management had reminded him that June 2011
was a critical month for GTM revenue and Bassily had promised management that he would not
leave a "penny on the table" and that "we ~o to the edge." Daspin replied that he would "push
the envelope." CGM Limited took approximately $47,000 in undisclosed TP on that trade for
Customer D.
72.

CGM later took approximately $225,000 in additional TP on this customer's

subsequezlt trades, in additiola to over $70,000 iii agreed-upon commissions Customer ~D paid to
GTIvI.
73.

A representative of Customer D believed that ConvergEx earned only the stated

commissions on open market trades and there were no other• fees. If Customer D had known
about ConvergEx's practice of routinely faking TP on such trades, that information would have
affected its decision to hire GTM.

19

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 20 of 28

Deceptive Conduct to Prevent a Prospective Customerfro~ri Leaf~izing About GTM's Use ofAn
Offshore Trader
74.

Bassily also engaged in deceptive conduct to prevent a prospective transition

management customer from discovering that its trades would be executed by CGM Limited in
Bernluda. Revealing this could have led to questions to which truthful answers would have
revealed that GTM was routing trades offshore in order to take TP. The prospective customer
asked to meet with the trader• who would be handling its trades if it hired GTM,and Daspin was
selected to accompairy Bassily on tl~e trip to meet the prospective customer.
75.

Bassily, however, did nat want Daspin to provide the prospective customer with

business cards that truthfully indicated that he was employed by CGM Limited in Bermuda, so
Bassily and another member of senior management sought to order new business cards that
falsely stated that Daspin was employed by ConvergEx Group in New York.
76.

Bassily provided Daspin with the cards, which were provided to the prospective

customer oi~ the trip.
77.

In a recorded phone call on or about April 8, 2011, while preparing for the trip,

Daspin explained to Bassily that the prospective customer might be able to look him up and see
that he worked in Bermuda.
78.

Bassily responded by proposinb a false statement that they could tell the

customer:
Let me think about that. I mean, we could very well- we could say that we have
a, you know, trading operation down iz1 Bermuda. You used to be based in
Bermuda, right, but now you're based in New York... we ca~1 come up with
something ...most likely we'll go with the New York business card ... I'd rather
go with the New York business card and spin it....

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 21 of 28

Misleading Marketing 11~aterials
79.

As set forth above, GTM routinely routed transition management customer- orders

to its affiliate, CGM Limited. which charged undisclosed TP in addition to GTM's disclosed
commission. Despite this, from at least 2006 to 201 1, GTM marketed itself as an '`agency-only
brokerage" that was "free of conflicts" and had a "very transparent" compensation structure.
GTM represented that it "charges a stated agency brokerage commission, agreed with our client
in advance," which ``covers all functions of our transition management service," and it did not
"charge any additional project management, operational or reporting fees."
80.

Bassily was well aware of how GTM marketed its services because he reviewed

and approved many of GTM's marketing materials that contained these representations,
including those set forth in the preceding paragraph.
81.

Bassily also personally drafted and communicated these statements to prospective

customers. For example, on October 13, 2010, Bassily sent an email to a prospective customer
who had asked Bassily what features differentiated GTM from other transition managers. In
response, Bassily stated:
... I also believe that we, ConvergEx, can add value because we can provide
everything you mentioned and do i~ in an agency manner. The fact that we are an
agency-only brokerage tirtn aligns our interests with those of our clients. This is
a big differentiating factor....
82.

Bassily knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that this statement was false or

misleading. Despite claiming that ConvergeEx was an "agency-only brokerage," Bassily knew
that orders were routinely routed to GTM's affiliate, CGM Limited, which traded on a riskless
principal basis and added an undisclosed mark-up or mark-down to the price of the security.

21

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 22 of 28

83.

In addition, on June 1 1, 2010, Bassily emailed language containing

misrepresentations to a colleague for use in response to an inquiry from a prospective customer.
The language provided by Bassily stated, in part:
...all our trading activity is carried out on an agency basis whereby we trade on
behalf of customers. We are bound by the guidelines governing best execution.
The risks that a fiduciary contract safeguards against do not exist in an agencyonlybusiness model. In fact, we have chosen that model to operate our business
because it is free of conflicts and aligns us totally with our customers. Our
behavior does not change depending on the type of contract we enter.
84.

This misrepresentation was communicated to the prospective customer on or

about June 15, 2010.
85.

Bassily knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that this statement was false or

misleading. Bassily knew that customers who requested "fiduciary" treatment received different
treafznent from GTM,as TP was not taken on trades for these customers. Bassily also knew that
trades for non-fiduciary customers were routinely routed to CGM Limited, wliicll traded on a
~~isklcss principal basis and added an undisclosed mark-up or mark-down to the price of the
security.
46.

Similarly, on Novel~nber 11, 2010, Bassily elnailcd language containing

misrepresentations to a colleague for use in response to an inquiry from a prospective customer,
who lead asked whether ConvergEx "wi11 utilize its affiliates and are the cost of these affiliates
accounted for- and disclosed?" Bassily provided the following misleading response to his
colleague:
We operate a global trading platform whereby we do not outsource trading to third
parties. We trade through our own execution desks. Our execution desks utilize a mix of
algorithms that are designed to minimize iTnplementation shortfall and access global
markets in the most efficient and timely manner. We are an agency-only brokerage firm.
We only trade on behalf of our clients and our mandate is to get best execution. All the
costs are accounted for in the form of the commission rate eve have quoted.

?~

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 23 of 28

87.

This misrepresentation was communicated to the prospective customer by email

on or about November 16, 2010.
88.

Bassily knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that this statement was false or

misleading. Despite representing that ConvergEx acted on an agency-only basis, Bassily knew
that GTM routinely routed orders to CGM Limited, which traded on a riskless principal basis and
added an undisclosed mark-up or mark-down to the price of the security, resulting in customers
receiving different prices for securities than those obtained by the local broker in the relevant
market. Further, Bassily knew that undisclosed TP was routinely taken on transition
management trades, such that "[a]il the costs" were not in fact "accounted for in the fornl of the
coinz~~ission rate."
FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF
Violation of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act[15 U.S.C.§ 78j(b)] and Rule lOb-5
Thereunder [17 C.F.R. ~ 240.1Ob-5]
89.

Para~aphs 1 through 88 are i•e-alleged and incorporated herein by reference.

90.

Through the conduct described above, Bassily violated Section 10(b) of the

Exchange Act[15 U.S.0 § 78j(b)] and Rule lOb-5 thereunder [17 C.F.R. § 240.1Ob-5~.
91.

Bassily, directly or indirectly, in connection with the purchase or sale of any

security by use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, or of the mails, or of
airy facility of any national securities exchange, directly or indirectly, knowingly or recklessly:
{a) employed a device, scheme, or artifice to defraud;(b) made an untrue statement of material
fact or omitted a material fact necessary to make the statement not misleading; or(c) engaged in
an act, practice, or course of business which operated or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon
any person.

23

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 24 of 28

92.

By reason of the forgoing, Bassily has violated, and unless enjoined will again

violate, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. ~ 78j(b)] and Rule l Ob-5 thereunder [17
C.F.R. § 240.1Ob-5].

SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF
In the Alternative with Respect to Section 10{b) and Rule lOb-5(b):
Violation of Sections 10(b)[15 U.S.C.§ 78j(b)) and 20{b) of the Exchange Act[15 U.S.C.
§78t(b)] and Rule lOb-5{b) Thereunder [17 C.F.R.§ 240.1Ob-5(b)]
93.

Paragraphs 1 through 88 are re-alleged and incorporated herein by reference.

94.

Bassily violated Section 20(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78t(b)] by

knowingly or recklessly drafting, approving and/or directing the communication of materially
false and misleading information throug~~ or by means of employees under his management that
were intended to be, and were, coininunicated to brokerage customers in violation of Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78j(b)~ and Rule 10b-5(b) thereunder [17 C.F.R.
240.l Ob-5(b)].
95.

By knowingly or recklessly communicating materially false and misleading

information through. or by means of employees under his management, Bassily, directly or
indirectly, engaged in acts through or by means of any other person or persons that would have
been unlawful for ~Bassily to do himself under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.
78j(b)] and Rule 10b-5(b) thereunder [17 C.F.R. ~ 240.1 Ob-5(b)].
96.

Unless restrained and enjoined, Bassily will. continue to engage in acts throu€;h or

by means of third parties that would have been unlawful for Bassily to do himself under Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. ~ 78j(b)] anti Rule lOb-5(b) thereunder [17 C.F.R.

24

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 25 of 28

THIRD CLAIM FOR RELIEF
Aiding and Abetting Violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act(15 U.S.C.§ 78j(b))
and Rule lOb-5 Thereunder [17 C.F.R. § 240.1Ob-5~ Pursuant to Section 20(e) of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.§ 78t(e)]
97.

Paragraphs 1 through 88 are re-alleged and incorporated herein by reference.

98.

Through the conduct described above, CES, CGM Limited and Daspin, in

connection with the purchase or sale of any security by use of the means or instrumentalities of
interstate commerce, the mails, or any facility of any national securities exchange, directly or
indirectly, knowingly or recklessly: (a) employed a device, scheme, or artifice to defraud; (b)
made an untrue statement of material fact or omitted a material fact necessary to make the
statement not misleading; or(c) engaged in an act, practice, or course of business which operated
or would operate as a fraud or deceit in violation of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act [15
U.S.C. § 78j(b)] and Rule IOb-5 thereunder[17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5].
99.

Bassily knowingly or recklessly provided substantial assistance to CES, CGM

Limited and Daspin in their violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule lOb-5.
Pursua~zt to Section 20(e) of the Excl7an~e Act [15 U.S.C. ~ 78t(e)], Bassily is deemed to be in
violation of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule l Ob-5 to the same extent as CES, CGM
Limited and Daspin, and unless enjoined, will again aid and abet violations of those provisions.

FOURTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF
Aiding and Abetting Violations of Section 15(c)(1) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.§
7$o(c)(1)] Pursuant to Section 20(e) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.§ 78t(e)]
100.

Para~n-aphs 1 through 88 are re-alleged and incorporated herein by reference.

101.

At all relevant times, CES was a registered broker-dealer pursuant to Section

15(b) of the Exchange Act[15 U.S.C.~~' 7$o(b)].

LL

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 26 of 28

102.

Through the conduct alleged above, CES by use of the mails or any means or

instrumentality of interstate commerce effected any transaction in, or induced or attempted to
induce the purchase or sale of, any security (other than commercial paper, bankers' acceptances,
or commercial bills) by means ofany manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or
contrivance in violation of Section 15(c)(1) of the Exchange Act[15 U.S.C. § 78o(c)(1)].
103.

Bassily knowingly or recklessly provided substantial assistance to CES in its

violations of Section 15(c)(1) of the Exchange Act.
104.

Pursuant to Section 20(e) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. ~ 78t(e)], Bassily is

deemed to be in violation of Section 15(c)(1) of the Exchange Act to the same extent as CES,
and unless enjoined, will again aid and abet violations of that provision.
FIFTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF
Violations of Section 17(a)(1) and (3) of the Securities Act (.15 U.S.C.§ 77q(a)(1),(3)J
105.

Paragraphs 1 through 88 are re-alleged and incorporated herein by reference.

106.

Through the conduct described above, Bassily, directly or indirectly, in the offer

or sale of any security by use of the means or instruments of interstate commerce, or by use of
the mails,(a) knowingly or recklessly employed a device, scheme, or artifice to defraud; and (b)
knowingly, recklessly, or negligently engaged in a transaction, practice, or course of business
which operated or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser.
107.

By reason of the foregoing, Bassily has violated, and unless enjoined will main

violate, Section 17(a)(1) and (3)of the Securities Act[15 U.S.C. ~ 77g(a)(1) and (3)].

26

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 27 of 28

PRAYER FOR RELIEF
WHEREFORE,the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a judgment:
A.

Finding that Defendant Bassily violated the federal securities laws and the

Commission Rule alleged in this Complaint;
B.

Pezmanently restraining and enjoining Defendant Bassily from violating, directly or

indirectly, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. ~ 78j(b)] and Rule lOb-5 [17 C.F.R. §
240.1 Ob-5] thereunder, from violating, directly or indirectly, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act
and Rule lOb-5 thereunder through or by means of any other person, as prohibited by Section
20(b) of the Exchange Act, from aiding and abetting any violatioi7 of Section 15(c)(1) of the
Exchange Act ['15 U.S.C. § 78o(c)], and from violating, directly or indirectly, Section 17(a) of
the Securities Act[15 U.S.C. ~ 77q(a)].
C.

Ordering Defendant Bassily to disgorge all illegal profits obtained as a result of

his fraudulent misconduct, acts, or courses of conduct described in this Complaint, and to pay
prejudgment interest thereon;
D.

Imposing civil monetary penalties on Defenda~7t Bassily puzsuant to Section 20 of

the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77t] and Section 21(d) of the Exch~lge Act [15 U.S.C. ~ 78u(d)~;
and
E.

Granting such equitable relief as may be appropriate or necessary for the benefit of

investors pursuant to Sections 21(4)(5) ofthe Exchange Act[15 U.S.C. ~ 78u(d)(5)].

27

Case 1:16-cv-02733 Document 1 Filed 04/12/16 Page 28 of 28

Dated: April 12,2016

Respectfully submitted,

..,_.. _.. __ _ >. /~ <
:Derek S. Bentsen (Bar o. DB8369)
Thomas A. Bednar
Sarah L. Allgeier
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION
100 F St., N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20549-5985
202-551-6426(Bentsen)
202-551-6218 (Bednar)
202-772-9245 (Fax)
BentsenD@sec.gov
BednarT~cr~,sec.gov
AllgeierS@sec.gov

28

