March 21, 2005
Roseann B. MacKechnie, Esq.
Clerk, United States Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit
Thurgood Marshall U.S. Courthouse
40 Foley Square
New York, New York 10007
Re:

Response to Court=s invitation to file letter brief in Billing v. Credit Suisse
First Boston, Nos. 03-9284 and 03-9288 (2d Cir.).

Dear Ms. MacKechnie:
By letter of January 4, 2005, the Court invited the Securities and Exchange
Commission to submit a letter brief to address three questions in the above-numbered
cases.1 The Commission responds to those questions as follows.
1.

Does the SEC have the authority, under its enabling statutes, to
allow underwriters to engage in the alleged conduct, including a
conspiracy to inflate aftermarket securities prices?

The federal securities laws and the Commission=s regulations generally prohibit
market manipulation, including the types of tie-in and laddering agreements alleged in
the complaints in these actions. The Commission does not now have pending before it,
nor does it currently anticipate any proposals that would permit that sort of conduct.
Indeed, as we discuss below, the Commission has brought several recent enforcement
actions under its existing prohibitions and, as the Court notes, the Commission has also
proposed amending Regulation M, 17 C.F.R. 240.100-105, to strengthen those
prohibitions.
The Court has asked, however, whether the Commission would have the
authority to permit the alleged conduct, including a conspiracy to inflate aftermarket
securities prices. As the Commission explained in its Memorandum amicus curiae in
the district court, it has broad authority over the registered securities offering process,
including authority to permit at least some agreements among underwriters that can
1

The Court=s letter asks the Commission to respond on behalf of the United
States. As an independent regulatory agency, the Commission is not authorized to
respond on behalf of the United States.

have the effect of increasing the aftermarket price over the price that would prevail in
the absence of those agreements, and which therefore could be viewed as coming
within the terms of the question raised by the Court. The Commission=s authority rests
not only on Section 9(a) of the Securities Exchange Act, the provision on which plaintiffs
have focused, but on other provisions as well. 2 In addition, the Commission has
oversight responsibility for the rules of self-regulatory organizations, which can also
affect market prices and conditions. 3
Thus, as this Court discussed in its decision in Friedman v. Salomon/Smith
Barney, Inc., 313 F.3d 796 (2d Cir. 2002), the Commission has permitted underwriters
to enter into agreements that can have the effect of restricting the resale of newly
offered securities in the days immediately following the onset of trading, a practice
known as Aflipping.@ Plaintiffs in that case alleged that defendant firms violated the
antitrust laws by denying or restricting stock allocations or commissions to brokers
whose retail customers engage in flipping. The Court acknowledged that Aflipping
causes stock prices to fluctuate - usually downward - and aftermarket sales restrictions
are a form of price stabilization.@ 313 F.3d at 797. Despite the fact that the challenged
restrictions could have an upward effect on aftermarket prices, the Court agreed with
the Commission=s view that agreements among underwriters to impose them were
immune from antitrust challenge because the antitrust laws conflicted with the
regulatory provisions of the federal securities laws.
In short, the Commission has the authority to allow aftermarket conduct by
underwriters conducting registered offerings, including IPOs, that may have the effect of
maintaining aftermarket prices at a level higher than would be realized in a market
subject to no regulation other than the antitrust laws. That result is inherent in a
regulatory system such as the one established by the federal securities laws, which
requires the Commission to weigh in the balance other important public interest
considerations in addition to concerns about competition. While the Commission can
and has approved conduct that affects aftermarket prices following registered offerings,
2

These include, inter alia, Sections 2(a)(3), 5, and 28 of the Securities Act, as
well as rules adopted under that Act, as well as Sections 10(b), 15(c), and 36 of the
Exchange Act, and rules and regulations adopted under that Act. See, generally,
Comm. Mem. At 8-11, 28-29.
3

These include, inter alia, NASD Rules 2110, 2110-1, 2710. See, generally,
Comm. Mem. 12-13. SRO rules may not be approved by the Commission unless the
Commission determines that the rules Ado not impose any burden on competition not
necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of@ the Exchange Act. See
Sections 6(b)(8) and 15A(b)(9) of the Exchange Act.

it can do so only where it is persuaded by substantial evidence that the conduct will
have other important beneficial effects on the functioning of the securities markets. The
Commission may authorize conduct that has anti-competitive effects if the Commission
concludes that countervailing benefits demonstrate that such action is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
The precise scope of the Commission=s authority to adopt rules or to grant
exemptions in this area is difficult to delineate in the abstract because it is impossible to
foresee what future developments in the offering process or the Commission=s
understanding of the public interest and investor protection may require, a difficulty that
the district court discussed at the argument in this case. JA 1129-30. Current
precedent does not, however, foreclose the Commission=s ability in response to future
developments to authorize conduct by underwriters that could be characterized as a tiein or laddering. For example, while it is difficult to envision the circumstances under
which the Commission would do so, the Commission could approve an SRO rule that
permitted such conduct, assuming the statutory requirements under the Exchange Act
were met, including the requirements that the rule be designed to protect investors and
the public interest, and that it not impose any burden on competition not necessary or
appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. (As noted above, that conduct, at
present, is prohibited, and the Commission is not contemplating that it should be
permitted.)
2.

If not, how B if at all B could judgment for plaintiffs in this case
impede the SEC=s ability to regulate or exempt from regulation any
underwriters, securities, or transactions?

The Court=s second question requires a response only if the Commission
concludes it does not have the authority to permit the conduct alleged in the complaint.
Nevertheless, it may be useful to outline why, in the Commission=s view, analysis of the
question of implied repeal may entail consideration of issues beyond an assessment of
the outer limits of the agency=s authority to permit particular conduct. As this Court has
recognized, Aantitrust immunity is not to be presumed from the mere existence of
overlapping authority.@ In re: Stock Exchanges Options Trading Antitrust Litigation, 317
F.3d 134, 148 (2d Cir. 2003). In this case, however, we believe that antitrust immunity
is appropriate in the intensely regulated area of registered offering underwriting to
protect the effectiveness of the regulatory regime established by Congress, even in
some cases where it may not be clear that the Commission could (or ever would)
authorize the specific conduct alleged by particular plaintiffs.
The foundation of the Commission=s position, as explained at greater length in its
Memorandum, is that syndicate underwriting of public offerings inherently involves
agreements and joint actions among potential competitors, including agreements about

price, that, but for the securities regulatory regime, would raise substantial antitrust
concern. The Commission, and the NASD subject to Commission oversight,
comprehensively and actively regulate the offering process under a set of rules and
regulations that have evolved through time to adjust to changes in the market and to
regulatory understanding of what is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and
for the protection of investors. Under this regulatory regime, competition is one factor
that must be weighed in the balance, but it is not necessarily given the predominant
weight, nor is the Commission required to adopt the least anti-competitive alternative.
See Bradford National Clearing Corp. v. SEC, 590 F.2d 1085, 1104 (D.C. Cir. 1978).
While the Supreme Court has observed that intent to repeal the antitrust laws is
Amuch clearer when a regulatory agency has been empowered to authorize or require
the type of conduct under antitrust challenge,@ National Gerimedical Hospital and
Gerontology Center v. Blue Cross of Kansas City, 452 U.S. 378, 388-89 (1981)
(emphasis added, citations omitted), that is not the only circumstance under which
immunity is appropriate. Rather, the ultimate issue is whether permitting antitrust
liability is clearly repugnant to the Aregulatory system.@ Id., 452 U.S. at 389 (emphasis
added). As the Supreme Court phrased the issue in Gordon v. NYSE, 422 U.S. 659,
688 (1975), the question is Awhether allowance of an antitrust suit would conflict with the
operation of the regulatory scheme which specifically authorizes the SEC to oversee@
the conduct that is the basis of the antitrust claim (emphasis added). Thus, the Court
explained that the issue was not whether the fixed-commission system challenged in
that case was necessary to the operation of the exchanges, but whether immunity
should be implied Ain order to permit the Exchange Act to function as envisioned by
Congress.@ 422 U.S. at 688; see also United States v. NASD, 422 U.S. 694, 730, 734
(1975) (upholding immunity in light of Commission=s actively exercised oversight
authority under the securities laws); In re: Stock Exchanges Options Trading Antitrust
Litigation, 317 F.3d 134, 148-50 (2d Cir. 2003) (same). See Silver v. NYSE, 373 U.S.
341, 358 (1963) (no immunity found when there was nothing Abuilt into the regulatory
scheme which performs the antitrust function of insuring that@ regulated entities will not
unjustifiably limit competition).
The Exchange Act charges the Commission with broad regulatory authority to
oversee the underwriting of registered offerings. While tie-ins and laddering are
prohibited by the existing regulatory regime, other cases could involve conduct
presenting closer questions. Underwriters and other participants in the underwriting
process should not be subjected to the fear that in interpreting and applying the
comprehensive governing body of securities laws rules, they could find themselves not
only liable for violating the securities laws, but also in an antitrust treble damages
action. By discouraging useful interactions among participants in the offering process
that are permitted under the securities laws, the fear of potentially crippling treble
damages awards could over-deter conduct that would serve the interests of the markets

and the capital formation process. In other words, absent a holding of immunity in this
case, rather than being one factor to be weighed by the Commission along with other
investor protection factors, antitrust concerns will become the predominant
considerations in the underwriting process. Nor should the Commission=s ability to
interpret, apply, and revise the governing law be displaced by introduction of the
antitrust laws as an alternative, potentially competing regulatory scheme.
Not only is the Commission=s authority here comprehensive; the Commission has
been actively exercising that authority, both in the rulemaking and in the enforcement
areas. We advised the district court (Comm. Mem. 13-17) of specific steps being taken
by the Commission to investigate the alleged misconduct that forms the basis for this
case, and to remedy any violations that it found. Since December 2002, when we filed
that Memorandum, the Commission has continued its activities.
On May 29, 2003, the NYSE/NASD IPO Advisory Committee, formed in October
2002 at the request of the Commission=s then-Chairman, issued its final report and
recommendations, which address the problems evidenced during the hot IPO market of
the late 1990s and 2000. See NYSE/NASD IPO Advisory Committee, Report and
Recommendations (May 2003).
As the Court notes in its letter to us, on October 13, 2004, the Commission
proposed amendments to Regulation M (the anti-manipulation rule governing securities
offerings). The proposed amendments are intended to prohibit certain activities by
underwriters and other distribution participants that can undermine the integrity and
fairness of the offering process, particularly with respect to allocations of offered
securities. Among other things, the proposed amendments would add a new Rule 106
to expressly prohibit distribution participants, issuers, and their affiliated purchasers,
directly or indirectly, from demanding, soliciting, attempting to induce, or accepting from
their customers any consideration in addition to the stated offering price of the security.
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 50831 (December 9, 2004), 69 FR 75774
(December 17, 2004).
On December 20, 2004, the Commission published for comment proposed rule
changes by the NASD and NYSE arising from recommendations of the IPO Advisory
Committee regarding the allocation and distribution of IPOs. See "Notice of Filing of
Proposed Rule Changes by the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. and the National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to the Prohibition of Certain Abuses in
the Allocation and Distribution of Shares in Initial Public Offerings," Securities Exchange
Act Release No. 50896 (December 20, 2004), 69 FR 77804 (December 28, 2004) [SRNYSE-2004-12 and SR-NASD-2003-140]. The SRO proposed rule changes include
proposals regarding, among other things, quid pro quo allocations, Aspinning,@ and
penalty bids.

These proposals, like the enforcement proceedings and other steps discussed
below, reflect the Commission=s comprehensive authority to regulate the underwriting
process, and its continued active exercise of that authority. They are additional
evidence that Commission regulation of the offering process during the last seventy
years has involved a continual adjustment of previous rules to newly emerging or
identified problems, balancing and re-balancing relevant factors to protect investors and
the public interest. The Commission should be free to revise the applicable regulations
to meet new issues as they emerge, giving competitive concerns their due weight under
the statutory scheme. See Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78c(f).
Further, the Commission has recently completed three enforcement injunctive
actions involving underwriters’ violations of Regulation M. The Commission’s
complaints allege that the underwriters attempted to induce customers who received
IPO allocations to place purchase orders for additional shares in the aftermarket. See
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Lit. Rel. 19050 (January 25, 2005); Goldman
Sachs & Co., Lit. Rel. 19051 (January 25, 2005); J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Lit. Rel.
18385 (October 1, 2003) (Commission Litigation Releases are available at
SEC.gov/litigation). The Commission also brought an injunction action alleging that an
underwriter violated the federal securities laws and NASD rules by allocating shares of
“hot” IPOs to customers and receiving, in return, profits – in the form of excessive
commissions or markdowns – mace by the customers on their IPO stock. See
Robertson Stephens, Inc., Lit. Rel. 17923 (January 9, 2003).
In addition, private class actions under the securities laws are proceeding in the
district court. See In re Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation, 2005 U.S. Dist.
LEXIS 2121 (S.D.N.Y. February 15, 2005); In re Initial Public Offering Securities
Litigation, 241 F. Supp.2d 281 (S.D.N.Y. 2003).
These steps are the appropriate responses to any alleged securities law
violations. They should not be effectively supplanted by an antitrust action which does
not take into account the sensitive countervailing considerations that the securities laws,
and the Commission=s expert administration, are charged with weighing in the balance.
Finally, we note another possible harmful effect of allowing these actions to
proceed. While our response has focused to this point on alleged conduct that the
Commission does not allow, the complaint in this case goes further. Plaintiffs= antitrust
claims combine Aallegations@ that defendants engaged in collective conduct permitted
under the securities regulatory regime (Comm. Mem. 34-36) with conclusory allegations
that in the course of doing so they engaged in impermissible anti-competitive conduct.
If this action is permitted to go forward, it could force participants in the securities
markets to focus not on complying with the securities laws, but predominantly on

avoiding antitrust liability. Thus, as we noted in the district court (Comm. Mem. at 38),
one of the claims raised by plaintiffs is that defendants failed to make certain prospectus
disclosure, which defendants argue is not required by the applicable Commission
regulation and NASD rules. The Commission has not had occasion to address this
particular disclosure issue, yet plaintiffs now ask this Court to interpret those provisions
as part of the determination of whether defendants violated the antitrust laws, to lift the
antitrust immunity if defendants= interpretation is incorrect, and to hold defendants liable
for treble damages. The in terrorem effect of that sort of liability could distort market
participant behavior in ways that are harmful to the overall securities markets. The
issue should be addressed under the securities laws, not the antitrust law.
3.

In light of your answers to (1) and (2), are defendants-appellees
entitled to implied antitrust immunity in this action?

Based on how judgment for the plaintiffs could impede the Commission=s ability
to regulate underwriting in registered offerings, as explained in the preceding
discussion, we believe that the defendants in this case are entitled to antitrust immunity.
We emphasize that a different analysis, and a different result, might be required with
respect to conduct that, unlike underwriting in registered offerings, has not been subject
to comprehensive and active Commission oversight and regulation.
Enclosed please find three copies of this letter for distribution to the panel
considering this case. If you have any questions, please call Mark Pennington,
Assistant General Counsel, at 202-942-0928.
Respectfully submitted,
Giovanni P. Prezioso
General Counsel
Cc:

(by fax and overnight delivery):
Christopher Lovell, Esq.
Robert B. McCaw, Esq.

(by fax and messenger)
Makan Delrahim, Esq., Deputy Assistant Attorney General, United States Dept.
of Justice

