THE ROLE OF HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
IN CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ISSUE BRIEF AND ROADMAP

REPORT FOR

PREPARED BY:
Coro Strandberg
Principal, Strandberg Consulting

MAY 2009

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

ISSUE BRIEF AND ROADMAP

OBJECTIVE
• To understand the foundational elements that need to be in place to foster a high
performance CSR (corporate social responsibility) organization and develop a
framework or roadmap for firms wishing to become a high performing CSR
organization.
AT A GLANCE
• Human resource professionals have a key role to play to help a company achieve its
CSR objectives. Employee involvement is a critical success factor for CSR
performance. Human resource managers have the tools and the opportunity to
leverage employee commitment to, and engagement in, the firm’s CSR strategy.
• High performing CSR organizations foster a culture of CSR and fully integrate CSR
throughout their operations, rewarding and incentivizing CSR decisions and
initiatives.
• Employees prefer to work for organizations aligned with their values; thus,
incorporating CSR into the employee brand can enhance recruitment and retention,
particularly in tight labour markets.
• CSR can be applied to the HR toolkit, resulting in a roadmap or pathway for human
resource practitioners to follow who wish to contribute to the achievement of their
organization’s sustainability and business aspirations, thereby improving social and
environmental conditions locally and globally.

2

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

3

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

4

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

INTRODUCTION
Human resource managers are well positioned to play an instrumental role in helping
their organization achieve its goals of becoming a socially and environmentally
responsible firm – one which reduces its negative and enhances its positive impacts on
society and the environment. Further, human resource (HR) professionals in
organizations that perceive successful corporate social responsibility (CSR) as a key
driver of their financial performance, can be influential in realizing on that objective.
While there is considerable guidance to firms who wish to be the best place to work and
for firms who seek to manage their employee relationships in a socially responsible way,
there is a dearth of information for the HR manager who sees the importance of
embedding their firm’s CSR values throughout the organization, who wish to assist the
executive team in integrating CSR into the company’s DNA. And as high profile
corporate failures such as Enron make all too clear, organizations that pay lip-service to
CSR while neglecting to foster a CSR culture run the risk of damaging their corporate
reputation if not their demise. Indeed, HR’s mandate to communicate and implement
ideas, policies, and cultural and behavioural change in organizations makes it central to
fulfilling an organization’s objectives to “integrate CSR in all that we do.” That said, it is
important to understand that employee engagement is not simply the mandate of HR.
Indeed people leadership rests with all departmental managers. HR can facilitate the
development of processes and systems; however, employee engagement is ultimately a
shared responsibility. The more the HR practitioner can understand their leverage with
respect to CSR, the greater their ability to pass these insights along to their business
partners towards the organization’s objectives in integrating CSR throughout their
operations and business model.
As human resources influences many of the key systems and business processes
underpinning effective delivery, it is well positioned to foster a CSR ethic and achieve a
high performance CSR culture. Human resource management can play a significant role
so that CSR can become “the way we do things around here”. HR can be the key
organizational partner to ensure that what the organization is saying publicly aligns with
how people are treated within the organization. HR is in the enviable position of being
able to provide the tools and framework for the executive team and CEO to embed CSR
ethic and culture into the brand and the strategic framework of the organization. It is the
only function that influences across the entire enterprise for the entire ‘lifecycle’ of the
employees who work there – thus it has considerable influence if handled correctly. HR
is poised for this lead role as it is adept at working horizontally and vertically across and
within the organization, so important for successful CSR delivery.
Of course, for effective CSR deployment, it needs to become a Board and C-suite
imperative first. Should such an organizational gap exist, the senior HR leader can
champion, lead and help drive a CSR approach if necessary. In the coming years as
CSR increasingly becomes part of the business agenda and the fabric of responsible
corporations, it will become a natural agenda for the HR practitioner.
The following is an overview of the key trends and business drivers for fostering this
CSR-HR connection, followed by a proposed roadmap or pathway for human resource
leaders seeking to make a substantial contribution to sustainability, CSR and their firm’s
business goals. A companion CSR-HR Checklist is available which summarizes the
roadmap at a glance.

5

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

TRENDS AND DRIVERS
There is emerging evidence that effectively implemented, CSR can have significant
impact in motivating, developing and retaining staff. Novo Nordisk, a high-value CSR
pharmaceutical company in Denmark, for example, after launching their Values in Action
program, which aligns their business objectives with sustainable development principles,
saw a 5% drop in staff turnover, while Sears found a 20% reduction in staff turnover
since implementing their CSR program. (Skinner, 2002, p.1). A landmark international
CSR study of human resource practitioners conducted by the Society for Human
Resource Management (SHRM) in 2006, reveals that CSR practices are seen as
important to employee morale (50%), loyalty (41%), retention (29%), recruitment of top
employees (25%) and productivity (12%). [Note that percentages reflect Canadian
responses] (SHRM, 2007, p. 27).
Globally, HR leaders are developing and implementing incentive and appraisal systems
that reflect sustainability as well as hiring personnel that embody these values. For
example, research by The Conference Board reveals that 50% of global managers
report their companies do, or plan to, include corporate citizenship (aka CSR) as a
performance evaluation category. Additionally, 68% of respondents cite the link
between corporate citizenship and performance appraisal as “increasingly important.”
(Lockwood, 2004).
However, while there are moves to incorporate CSR into human resource mandates,
CSR leadership remains limited, piecemeal and anecdotal, as found in the SHRM study
noted earlier: while nearly 2/3rds of HR professionals interviewed were directly involved
in CSR activities, only 6% were mainly responsible for creating CSR strategy and only
17% were charged with implementing the strategy.” [Canadian response rate.] (SHRM,
2007, pp. 17 – 19).
Research shows that the critical success factors for implementing CSR include having
an overarching vision that includes CSR, having senior management and board level
commitment, engaged staff and the provision of skills, tools and incentives. Clearly,
staff participation and buy-in to delivering on the company’s CSR aspirations is central to
success in this area. Documented case studies show that HR practices such as
competency development, can help embed CSR in an organization, not to mention
benefit the bottom line. (Redington, 2005). Companies with a good CSR reputation are
benefiting from the stakeholder view that a company’s behaviour and presumably that of
its people is aligned with CSR values, in a consistent way. Companies seeking to build
marketplace trust and reputation must embed their CSR values throughout their
business. Leading companies are realizing that CSR can be nested in the company’s
employee brand and can be part of the value proposition for working at a given firm.
Sustainable HR management is central to this objective.
The report, Developing the Global Leader of Tomorrow, observed that “a range of
human resource levers are important for developing [CSR] organizational capabilities:
building these knowledge and skills through leadership development programs, career
development planning, succession planning, performance management and incentive
systems and competency frameworks, and seeking these knowledge and skills when
recruiting new talent into the organization”. (Ashridge, 2008, p. 10).

6

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

Another factor that compels an active role for human resource practitioners is the
centrality of employees to achieving any organizational objective. Indeed, without
exception, every stakeholder mapping exercise names employees as one of the top four
priority stakeholders, the others being shareholders, customers, and communities. As a
key driver of value in any organization, employees need to be engaged in the task of
integrating CSR throughout the firm, helping the firm achieve its CSR goals and adhere
to its CSR principles consistent with its strategic business direction. Anything less than
this is likely to breed cynicism and lead to reputational issues and a disconnection
between rhetoric and practice. The growing awareness that business value is more and
more a function of intangibles such as goodwill, reputation, trust, talent and intellectual
capital, makes this an increasingly important consideration.
A labour market trend that is predicted to foster the connection between HR and CSR is
the upcoming “Facebook” generation, seeking to work for companies aligned with their
values and the baby-boomer employees who want to earn a living while giving back,
who want their work to have more meaning. Julia Moulden, in her book “We are the
New Radicals: A Manifesto for Reinventing Yourself and Saving the World”, points to
two landmark studies of the boomer generation: 75% of this group want to keep working
and of that number 60% want to do make a positive difference. According to her math, in
the North American context, 30 million employees want to make a difference in the
world. Between the Facebook and baby-boomer cohorts, current and future employees
will be increasingly more demanding of their employers on this dimension. Either way,
HR leadership will be increasingly focused on the engagement of a new values-based
ethic amongst employees, resulting in a focus on the internal brand and relationship
values. The current economic recession notwithstanding, people will increasingly have
choices in a constrained labour market and will want to devote their time and energy to
organizations aligned with their sustainability values.
In this structural “war for talent”, employer differentiation will become more and more
important. People increasingly want to work for an organization that has a “conscience”,
and values are key to building conscience. Thus, more and more companies will be
defining their organizational values in ways that are aligned with their mission and vision.
“The way things are around here” will be married up with organizational goals and
outcomes. People prefer to work for companies that make a difference; corporate
values, infused with CSR, generate conscience. Companies that walk their talk by
embedding CSR throughout all they do will be the employer of choice in tomorrow’s
labour market.
The same holds for “today’s” labour market, embroiled as it is in the economic downturn.
Many prospective employees will be seeking the basics of employment security and
belonging over employer conscience in the short term. Thus, companies will need to be
yet more sophisticated and intentional about their CSR commitments, integrating their
CSR beliefs within the financial business model in order to survive the economic turmoil
of 2009/2010. Companies with a conscience will have to prove they are stable and
financially viable in order to attract talent – and they will have to step up their efforts to
fully integrate their CSR value proposition to ensure they are not left with “Emperor’s
New Clothes” post recession. Indeed, companies that fail to fully engage their
employees in the fulfillment of a robust business mission are likely to experience
declining productivity, which firms can ill-afford in the current economy.

7

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

Under any scenario, it is important that employees have their basic employment needs
met before they are called upon to help the organization achieve its CSR goals. This
paper will not review the fundamentals of good workplace practices, although it is
accepted that they are critical to building the employee value proposition and in
leveraging employee CSR engagement. To have a high performing team, it is essential
that people receive the proper compensation and recognition for their work.
Shareholders are another driver of the HR-CSR connection. Shareholders around the
world are pressuring companies to link executive compensation packages to the
company’s sustainability performance, motivated in part by the prevalence of short-term
and stock market-linked metrics in many executive compensation schemes (The Ethical
Funds Company, 2006, p. 8) Active shareholders believe that compensation packages
based primarily on achievement of short-term financial targets have the potential to deter
companies from undertaking those activities that create sustainable longer term value.
For example, Ethical Funds wrote letters to all companies on the S&P/TSX Composite
Index in 2006 asking after the integration of CSR factors in executive compensation
schemes. They found that just 5% of TSX-listed companies incorporate environmental,
social and governance factors into executive compensation packages. This is in marked
contrast to a 2005 survey of Canadian board directors, conducted by McKinsey &
Company and HRI Corporation on behalf of the Canadian Coalition for Good
Governance, which found the following factors to be desirable in setting executive
compensation: employee satisfaction (71%); leadership development (78%); customer
satisfaction (84%) and sustainable development (89%). Increasingly asset managers,
particularly institutional investors with long-term investment horizons, are raising these
issues in meetings with companies and through the shareholder resolution process.
The global trend towards assessing the social and environmental impact of business
decisions will result in more organizations incorporating CSR practices in their business
strategies, as noted by Susan Meisinger, President and CEO of the Society for Human
Resource Management. “As these practices increase, HR professionals will play a
larger role in CSR programs, from strategy to implementation.” (CSRwire, 2007.) As
noted earlier, CSR practices were seen as important to employee loyalty, morale,
retention, recruitment and productivity, important HR responsibilities and important
business drivers in the firm.
Indeed, a key driver for HR activation on CSR goals is the CSR business case. The
benefits to employees are arguably the most quantifiable and the most frequently-cited
benefits of all the business case benefits for adopting a CSR or sustainability approach,
as seen below.
THE BUSINESS CASE
One of the top, if not the top, factor driving CSR take-up is the need for businesses to
attract and retain high quality staff to meet current and future demands, identified by
65% of respondents in a global study of privately held businesses conducted by Grant
Thornton (Grant Thornton, 2008A, p. 4). A strong employer brand aligned with
employee values and concerns is becoming recognized as one of the best ways of
retaining talent with employees proud to work for a business that is highly regarded.
Further, staff attrition is disruptive, putting pressure on the remaining employees and
absorbing management time. Staff turnover can result in increased operating costs,
loss of business to competitors and reduced customer service standards (Grant

8

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

Thornton, 2008B, p. 12) A well-developed performance and talent management
strategy with embedded CSR components can reduce the likelihood and impact of losing
employees.
Generally, there is a growing desire among employees to derive a sense of greater
purpose from their work; happier employees with increased job satisfaction can unleash
innovation in a firm. The following list provides an overview of the key business benefits
and economic value from employee CSR engagement. (Drawn from “The Business
Case for Sustainability” at: http://corostrandberg.com/publications_Tools.html#25h)

!"Increased retention and reduced recruitment and training costs
A survey conducted for the Conference Board of Canada in 2000 found that 71% of
employees want to work for companies that commit to social and community concerns.
In a similar Corporate Citizenship study by Cone Inc. in the U.S., 77% of respondents
indicated that “a company’s commitment to social issues is important when I decide
where to work”. A Scotiabank 2007 study of employed Canadians concluded that 70%
would consider changing jobs if their employers did not operate in a socially responsible
manner. With the replacement costs for the average worker about $50,000 including
lost output, recruitment, training and other elements, it pays for companies to manage
their CSR as well as their financial performance. (Another study has put the recruitment,
interviewing, hiring, training and reduced productivity costs at $3,500 to replace one
$8.00/hour employee.1) Further evidence of the importance of social and environmental
performance management comes from a World Business Council for Sustainable
Development (WBCSD) publication, in which it was reported that “three-fifths of the
graduates and potential employees surveyed by Accenture in 2004 rated ethical
management as an important factor in their job search. Similarly over two-thirds of the
students (68%) in a global survey by GlobeScan in 2003 disagreed that salary is more
important than a company’s social and environmental reputation when deciding which
company to work for.” (Pierce & Madden (n.d.), p. 5) And in the UK, 75% of
professionals take social or ethical considerations into account when changing
employment, while over half of graduates will not work for companies they believe to be
unethical. (from: http://www.management-issues.com/2006/5/25/opinion/csr-anintroduction.asp accessed on February 8, 2009.) Also relevant here are the statistics
provided in the introduction regarding the drop in staff turnover reported at Novo Nordisk
and Sears (5 and 20% respectively) as a result of improvements in their CSR
performance.

!"Better able to attract the best and the brightest, especially amongst graduates
The Aspen Institute’s 2007 study of MBA students found them to be expressing more
interest in finding work that offers the potential of making a contribution to society (26%
of respondents in 2007 said this is an important factor in their job selection compared
with 15% in 2002). Further, in a 2006 study of 14 – 18 year-olds, 78% said money “was
less important to them than personal fulfillment”. They went on to work for “companies
that promote equality, a green environment, and social responsibility.” (commissioned by
1

Blake, R. 2006. WebProNews. Employee Retention: What Employee Turnover Really Costs Your
Company. www.webpronews.com/expertarticles/2006/07/24/employee-retention-what-employee-turnoverreally-costs-your-company accessed Feb. 9, 2009.

9

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

ad agency Energy BBDO, as reported in “Saving the World at Work”, by Tim Sanders.)
Even more remarkable, a 2003 Stanford University study Corporate Social Responsibility
Reputation Effects on MBA Job Choice found that MBA graduates would sacrifice an
average of $13,700 in salary to work for a socially responsible company. Some predict
that the war for talent will not be won through money, but through these intangibles.

!Cost savings and income produced through improved employee morale and
productivity
It has long been known that a more motivated, engaged and inspired workforce
generates higher long-term productivity. A 2002 GlobeScan International survey
showed that eight in ten people who worked for a large company felt greater motivation
and loyalty towards their jobs and companies the more socially responsible their
employers became. Another study, reported on in the WBCSD publication revealed that
70% of staff who were committed to the values of the company said that their
productivity had increased in the past year while of those staff not committed to the
company only 1% had productivity improvements. (Pierce & Madden (n.d.) p. 9) Bob
Willard, retired Canadian telecommunications executive and well known CSR author and
thought leader, has predicted that companies can expect a 2% increase in employee
productivity from improved company-wide teaming around common sustainability issues
that transcend departmental boundaries, and a 2% increase in employee productivity
from an improved work environment as a result of CSR. These percentages generate
tangible economic value to any firm’s balance sheet. Further, it is well understood that
boosted employee satisfaction and performance leads to increased customer
satisfaction, generating a further win-win for CSR oriented companies. The converse is
also true. Brand research reveals that in a study of customer behaviour, “8% of
customers switching brands are lured away by competition; in contrast, 68% are turned
away by an employee’s indifferent attitude” (Melcrum, 2008, p. 3 citing American
Marketing Association). Research shows that every unsatisfied customer tells at least
eight people about their experience (Melcrum, 2008, p. 3). Engaged employees are the
company’s best defense against this virus. Employees working for organizations aligned
with their values are more likely to foster customer satisfaction and loyalty, providing, of
course, that their expectations are met. If an organization promotes itself as being
environmentally and socially responsible, and recruits employees based on these
claims, they need to demonstrate this is, in fact, true. Employees will expect to see CSR
in action, otherwise engagement drops immediately; they will feel they were sold a
“faulty” experience.
These business case benefits to the HR value proposition for firms with a strong CSR
brand are well documented and are driving many firms to intuitively strive for higher CSR
performance – to show that CSR is “the way we do things around here”. The following is
a roadmap or pathway for HR practitioners who seek to contribute to the firm’s success
and simultaneously, improvements to local and global social and environmental quality.
HOW-TO: THE BASICS OF INTEGRATING CSR INTO HR MANAGEMENT
Human resource professionals are highly tuned to considering CSR from both a valuesbased and a business-case perspective. They work in a business function that readily
identifies both the business benefits and the people benefits of fostering CSR alignment
and integration. However, there is little guidance available to human resource leaders

10

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

who wish to advance CSR within the firm. This section provides a starting point for
managers mapping out their strategic approach. It can serve as a checklist for
advanced managers who are well on the path, and it can provide a roadmap for the
manager who is committed to make a difference in this way and is at the beginning of
their journey. Ideally these steps would be followed more or less sequentially; however
in practice this is often not possible and indeed, some managers may have already
implemented certain components. It is therefore entirely feasible to start from the middle
of this list and work in all directions towards the end goal: a CSR integrated company
that is reaping the employee and business case benefits, while leveraging community
sustainability.
This guide has been developed recognizing the constrained economic environment of
our times; the tools and tactics proposed in this roadmap are those which can readily be
integrated into the HR practitioner’s daily regimen. Indeed, as the foregoing business
case analysis partly demonstrates, a CSR program can add significant business value.
There are other business case benefits of CSR – for example, operational cost savings
from reduced materials use – that can be significant, pointing to a financial rationale for
the development of a strong CSR strategy and integration effort.

Step 1: Vision, mission, values and CSR strategy development
Vision, Mission, Values
Successful CSR requires a clearly articulated vision, mission and values. The HR
practitioner could initiate or support the development, or upgrade, of a vision, mission
and values foundation if one does not exist or does not explicitly address CSR. The
foundation needs to incorporate elements of corporate social responsibility or
sustainability in order for it to foster alignment. Where a CSR ethic has not yet taken
hold, the HR manager could champion the need and opportunity for a vision, mission

11

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

and set of values and show how it can add ROI to the organization, why this could be
both a good business strategy and a good people strategy. The manager can bring the
opportunities to the attention of the senior executive and the board on what it means,
and why it makes good business sense. These are the first steps to building CSR into
the company’s DNA and into the organization’s operating and strategic framework.
Ideally employees and other stakeholders would be involved in the development of the
corporate vision, mission and values, more of which will be said later.

CSR Strategy Development
Once the vision, mission and values framework is defined, the firm is ready to undertake
the development of its CSR strategy. This paper will not delve into the components of
CSR strategy development, as that is a significant topic of its own. The role of the
human resource manager at this phase is central to all other steps: it is critical that the
human resource function be represented at the table in the development of the CSR
business plan and strategic direction. They have an important “people perspective” to
contribute and will be involved in implementing key measures. Particularly in those firms
where CSR is housed in the human resource department, the HR manager has a key
role in CSR strategy development. HR is a strategic partner in the organization and as
such, can help drive the formulation of the CSR strategy.
At Vancity Credit Union, a Canadian leader in CSR, HR was functionally responsible for
CSR for a number of years, before it moved to Strategic Planning and later to its own
department under the heading “Community Leadership”. At the 2010 Olympic and
Paralympic Winter Games CSR (in the name of sustainability) was assigned to the HR
function from the outset. This responsibility secures the mandate for HR leadership in
CSR strategy development. At the least, the HR executive should be one of the
members of the cross-functional team established to articulate the CSR agenda.

12

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

Step 2: Employee codes of conduct
The HR function is typically responsible for drafting and implementing employee codes
of conduct. As such, HR managers hold the pen on the principles contained in the
employee codes. Since a number of recent high profile corporate frauds, boards of
directors have become very concerned about the ethical culture within their
organizations, looking for 100% sign-off on and compliance with codes of conduct which
articulate their ethical values. This is an ideal home for the expression of an
organization’s commitment to socially and environmentally-based decision-making as it
is one of the rare documents which all employees are bound by and come into contact
with. As such it is a key tool for cultural integration of CSR norms. It is important to avoid
rhetoric and undefined terms such as “sustainability” and “CSR”, but to clearly enunciate
the conduct standards expected of employees. 3M’s Business Conduct Policy (see Text
Box) is a case in point.

From: 3m Business Conduct Policies retrieved Feb. 14, 2009 from
http://solutions.3m.com/wps/portal/3M/en_US/businessconduct/bcmain/policy/policies/respect/en
vironmental/

Some firms establish an ombuds office to adjudicate employees concerns around
corporate alignment with company values, a further means of fostering organizational
alignment on CSR. (CBSR, 2003, p. 4).
Step 3: Workforce planning and recruitment
Workforce planning consists of analyzing present workforce competencies; identification
of competencies needed in the future; comparison of the present workforce to future
needs to identify competency gaps and surpluses; the preparation of plans for building
the workforce needed in the future; and an evaluation process to assure that the
workforce competency model remains valid and that objectives are being met. For a
CSR oriented company, this consists of evaluating the need for skill sets and
competencies central to the emergent sustainability economy – an economy of resource
and energy scarcity, human and environmental security constraints, changing societal
norms and government expectations. Companies need to identify their key CSR
competencies and gaps in the context of these structural changes. Referred to by many

13

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

as the “green economy”, regardless of its title, the marketplace is undergoing a systemic
transformation that will require new competencies and skills. (unpublished paper:
Sustainability Labour Market Trends by Strandberg, 2009.) The Co-operators Group
Ltd., for example, is upgrading its eight competencies (accountability and ownership;
time and deadline management, practical problem solving and judgment,
communication, coaching and working with others) to reflect their corporate sustainability
commitments and values.
A related exercise, talent management, which refers to the process of developing and
integrating new workers, developing and keeping current workers and attracting highly
skilled workers to work for the company, needs to consider alignment with the
company’s CSR vision and goals to ensure talent is developed with the appropriate
focus. Often in the area of talent management and recruitment, leading CSR companies
develop an employer brand that incorporates their CSR perspective into the employee
value proposition. More and more firms are profiling their CSR ethics in their recruitment
branding and marketing programs, promoting the benefits of working within a valuesbased culture. Employee volunteer programs and community involvement are oft-cited
company values expressed by employees, and found within employee value proposition
and internal brand development efforts. Campus recruitment programs are ideal
environments for CSR oriented recruitment, as is online recruiting where technology
savvy employees search for work. In this environment, recruitment interviews include
questions on ethics and CSR; the offer letter reinforces the corporate culture; and early
employee contact reinforces the CSR brand.
Step 4: Orientation, training and competency development
During the orientation process employees should be given a thorough overview of the
clear line of sight between the company’s vision, mission and core CSR values and
goals. To ensure maximum alignment and early employee ‘buy-in’ to the strategic CSR
direction of the organization, this general orientation should be deemed mandatory for all
levels of new employees. New employees need to be provided information about CSR
policies and commitments, the key CSR issues the company faces and the key
stakeholders with which the firm engages. How the company measures its CSR
performance, the annual sustainability or CSR report, and where they can find further
company information on CSR are important elements of new employee orientation
programs. New hires should receive a copy of the core values.
Once inducted, employees should be provided CSR training on an annual or other
regular basis. Employees will either have direct CSR responsibilities (e.g. energy
manager) or indirect CSR responsibilities (e.g. payroll clerk). Those with direct
responsibilities will receive technical and specialized training in CSR while those with
indirect responsibilities should receive training in top priority CSR issues of a more
general nature. Either way, it should be job-relevant as with health and safety training
for factory workers to strategic sustainability issues for executive management and the
Board.
It is important not to overlook the probationary review. This is an ideal moment for
consideration of the employee’s alignment with and commitment to the organization’s
CSR aspirations.

14

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

Through the workforce planning efforts referenced in Step 4 above, the firm will have
identified the CSR competencies the firm will require in future; learning plans and
programs will need to address anticipated CSR competency gaps. As management
plays an important role in understanding and delivering on key CSR objectives, it is vital
to make CSR an integral part of management training programs.
Follow simple measures, such as providing company values in all training sites and
integrating a dimension of CSR into all training programs.
Human resource managers understand the win-win in employee career pathing and
succession planning, particularly for the high performance individual. Employees
included in efforts to advance their career within the firm are more motivated, more loyal
and therefore more productive employees. Furthermore, succession planning is a form
of recruitment, insofar as recruitment costs are reduced and ideal candidates are
available to fill vacancies, especially in executive or career-track positions. Career
mapping and succession planning programs could incorporate CSR experiences either
within or outside the company, for example through secondments to social or
environmental organizations or assignments, or leaves to pursue CSR-related executive
work experience, to prepare the individual for CSR leadership as well as general
management roles.
Step 5: Compensation and performance management
Next to recruitment and competency development, compensation and performance
management are central to the HR function. HR is involved in setting performance
standards and expectations and monitoring results to performance objectives. At
Vancity Credit Union their Statement of Values and Commitments which articulate their
CSR principles is incorporated as a key area of accountability in all executive role
descriptions rather than as an added attachment at the end of each role description.
Going forward they are expanded beyond their three stated values of innovation,
integrity and responsibility, translating them to goals in the annual performance plans of
all executives to be cascaded down to each of their managers and employees. They
believe that by integrating their three corporate values and CSR-oriented Statement of
Values and Commitments into their business planning, objectives, and executive role
accountabilities, they will continue to sustain and ingrain their differentiator in all that
they do. (Personal communication with Susan Karda, Manger, Organization
Development & Learning, Vancity, Feb. 25, 2009).
At Vancity and other leading CSR organizations, HR managers are integrating CSR
elements into job descriptions, individual performance plans and team goals.
The most critical HR tool of all is the compensation and incentive program. Human
resource practitioners understand very well that “you get what you pay for”. Typically
companies reward on the basis of financial performance, which will singularly foster
profit-maximizing behaviour, overlooking the need to also consider sustainability factors.
The total reward and recognition program, including base salary, incentive pay, long
term incentives and other non-monetary recognition benefits (such as award programs,
employee of the month, promotions, career pathing, etc.), needs to be aligned with the
company’s CSR values and strategy. To do less is to guarantee under-achievement of a
company’s CSR objectives.

15

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

The strategic direction of an organization is set by the CEO and Executive team,
however, the HR department can help business units establish CSR targets and develop
performance evaluation systems that foster CSR behaviour by providing the right tools
and counsel. At The Co-operators Group Ltd., all VPs have a CSR bonusable goal, for
example, which generates take-up at other levels throughout the organization. To help
with implementation, the VP of Human Resources worked with a task team of VPs to
prepare guidance documents for group VPs on potential sustainability goals for
incorporation into their performance plans.
In addition to focusing on executives and senior managers, the personal objectives set
by each employee could incorporate one CSR objective aligned with the corporate CSR
strategy. CSR should be recognized in both the base job responsibilities as well as the
annual performance objectives at the individual and team levels. Performance reviews
could consider how the employee has advanced their personal and the organization’s
CSR goals over the period.

If CSR is built into incentive systems – salary packages and targets that determine
whether the manager receives a pay raise, promotion, etc. – the firm is likelier to
motivate greater CSR alignment. Certainly the opposite is true. Some examples of nonfinancial measures include: customer satisfaction, reputation, employee engagement,
health and safety, greenhouse gas emissions, etc.
Of course, job descriptions are not revised that frequently, so the opportunity of
integrating CSR into every job description throughout a company may be limited, unless
a new department is being established or a start-up company is launching. However, as
roles, departments and job requirements evolve, this often brings with it the task of finetuning job descriptions. These are ideal opportunities for incorporating CSR parameters
in the job description – again, it is important that CSR generalities are avoided in favour
of specific deliverables and responsibilities.
In any organization there will be key positions that have a significant influence over the
organization’s social and environmental performance on a day to day basis, e.g. facilities
managers. At The Co-operators this position was recently upgraded to incorporate the
firm’s sustainability principles, mandating the Facilities Manager to ensure, for example,
that all contracts account for the organization’s sustainability policy.

16

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

From time to time there may be instances of significant CSR underperformance or
obstruction on the part of some employees, often employees in key positions of
influence. A finely tuned incentive program could influence most of this. However, there
may be a few instances where a senior influential employee who is not aligned with the
strategic CSR direction of the organization needs to be “performance managed” out of
the firm or given early retirement, or other exit packages.
Before this step is taken, one needs to be assured that the critical steps for fostering
change management, identified in Step 6 below, have been followed. Oftentimes
employee resistance comes about because deep-seated concerns or values have been
overlooked.
The final check can be during the exit interview process where questions related to CSR
and ethical matters can be asked in order to assess the degree to which departing
employees perceive values alignment conflicts with respect to the firm’s decisionmaking. Indeed, every exit interview can inquire into whether the firm delivered on its
CSR commitments and lived up to the terminating employee’s expectations.
Step 6: Change management and corporate culture
Human resource practitioners are the keepers of the flame when it comes to corporate
culture, team building and change management processes. Growing and adapting to
the changing marketplace necessitates that firms pursue significant behavioural shifts
from time to time. Sometimes organizations require the outside assistance of change
management professionals to help them identify an appropriate strategy when they are
attempting to create significant behavioural change, but in the end, culture shift can only
be achieved and sustained if it is driven and sponsored effectively internally.
Mindsets and behavioural change come about through role modeling, building
awareness and generating desire (what is in it for me?) and conviction, developing
knowledge and ability and reinforcement through incentive programs. Culture change
requires setting the tone at the top – where executives and management demonstrate
and model the organization’s values – and then creating alignment throughout the
organization with the values you espouse to live. The values need to be reflected in all
processes starting with how you attract and recruit employees, to decision-making and
rewards and incentive programs, etc.
Keeping true to the CSR values compass is a critical guidepost to change management
and team alignment. Additionally, the move to incorporate a CSR ethic throughout the
firm necessitates a change management approach.
Change management experts realize that people come in different states of readiness
for advances for sustainability, or any change for that matter. People can be grouped by
state of readiness and then you can tailor your change approach appropriately to each
group. Nancy Lee, Founder and President of Social Marketing Inc., has proposed a
model for how this might work in a firm advancing a CSR change management program.
(Lee, 2008, slide 12). As people generally fall into one of three readiness groups, Nancy
calls them greens, sprouts and browns, labeled A, B, and C below:
A) Those that have the value and the behaviour
B) Those that have the value but not the behaviour

17

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

C) Those that do not have the value or the behaviour
To advance CSR you would want to tailor your change strategy appropriately:
A) Recognize Group A for their behaviour to encourage them to continue it.
B) Promote, incent and reward Group B for behaviour changes. Ensure that these
“tools” are specifically designed so that the benefits are meaningful and the
barriers to change are removed for this group.
C) Leave Group C alone. Do not cut them out, just don’t tailor your promotions,
incentives, etc. to their needs. A large percentage of the C’s will change their
behaviour once the Group B’s (or the sprouts) have changed their behaviour so
that they do not stand out as the minority. The remainder of the C’s will not
change and they truly will be the minority (and perhaps a group you no longer
find a fit with in your organization).
If you treat each person with the same strategy you risk alienating Group A because
their behaviour was not recognized, find less advances with the Group B’s because the
promotions, incentives, etc, were not tailored to them, and you can spend a lot of time,
effort and money on Group C and never see a return as their motivator is to not stand
out.
It is important to advance a CSR ethic and program with these perspectives in mind.
The organizational culture, or “how work gets done around here”, is a key dimension of
any strong CSR agenda. People need to be rewarded for the way the leaders want work
done on the shop floor and in the C-suite. The foregoing steps are building blocks to the
development of a strong CSR ethic and corporate culture, the likes of which will attract
and retain the best and the brightest employees.
Step 7: Employee involvement and participation
As mentioned earlier, employees are among the key stakeholders for the development
of any CSR strategy or program. A critical first step in mission, vision, values and
strategy development is to understand the key concerns, priorities and perspectives of
all key stakeholders, particularly employees. It is a truism that employees consulted and
engaged in the development of new programs and approaches are likelier to follow
through with their implementation. Often companies consult and engage their
employees in the development and delivery of their community involvement and
charitable donations programs; however, what is called for here is more substantive than
this.
Employee engagement has been acknowledged as a key driver of shareholder value in
a firm and is becoming a key metric for monitoring corporate performance by Board and
management. Research by Towers Perrin in 2007 revealed that an organization’s
reputation for social responsibility was one of the top 10 engagement drivers, along with
senior management’s interest in employee well-being, opportunities to improve skills and
capabilities and input into decision-making. (Cited in European Alliance for CSR, 2008,
p. 11). Hewitt Associates, a global HR consulting firm, is developing a suite of CSR
questions to probe employee CSR perceptions for their 2009 employee engagement
survey with the intent to include CSR questions in their engagement surveys going
forward. It is expected that as CSR becomes an acknowledged component of employee

18

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

company’s operations and achieve social value in the community. Further, best practice
CSR firms have programs and initiatives underway to support employees and their
families learn about, and take action on, their social and environmental concerns at
work, at home and in their communities. The Co-operators, for example, held a
sustainability fair at their head office, inviting members of the community to participate
and providing information on environmental footprint reduction, locally available ecoproducts and other resources.
This is employee CSR engagement at the most engaged level – employees helped to
align their total work experience with their community and home values become highly
engaged, motivated and loyal employees.
In addition to ensuring employees are included in key decisions, an employee CSR
involvement and participation program can help develop the employee value proposition
that can foster retention and enhance recruitment. It is important not to miss this step as
organizations that fail to engage their employees in key decisions and in their CSR
embedment will generate low employee engagement resulting in employees that either
quit and leave or quit and stay.
Step 8: CSR Policy and Program Development
HR is also in a position to drive policy development and program implementation in HR
areas that directly support CSR values. Wellness, diversity, work-life balance and flextime policies are CSR programs directly within the HR manager’s purview. In
organizations committed to reducing their carbon footprint HR practitioners can develop
programs enabling employees to use alternative transportation to get to work (e.g.
providing showers, secure bike lock-ups, parking spots for van pools and co-op or hybrid
cars, bus passes, etc.) and work remotely, including other forms of headquartering and
“hoteling”, teleworking, etc. Wellness programs can become a platform for engaging
employees in discussions about “personal sustainability” and provide support for
employees in the areas of stress management, spirituality at work, health and fitness,
healthy lifestyles, etc. Employee volunteering programs are also within the HR mandate,
and can help build out the employee value proposition and employer brand while
concurrently delivering on the firm’s CSR goals for community engagement and
investment. A related policy could be the development of an unpaid leave program for
employees to pursue personal projects aligned with company values. Successful
wellness, carbon reduction and employee volunteer programs require management
support, role-modeling and ongoing communications – which, if in place become further
vehicles to fostering employee awareness of, and engagement in, the firm’s CSR
approach.
Some HR departments also have responsibility for procurement. Those that do could
incorporate their CSR commitments into their purchasing program. By adopting a
sustainable purchasing policy, and integrating their social and environmental objectives
into supply chain management, HR practitioners can influence the sustainability
performance of their suppliers. Benefits providers, recruiters, and other suppliers to the
HR department can be asked to demonstrate how their practices align with the buyer’s
CSR values. Request for Proposals (RFPs) can incorporate questions and requirements
for a certain level of sustainability or CSR performance on the part of vendors, thereby
cascading CSR into the supply chain as further demonstration of how the organization is

20

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

walking its talk. (See www.buysmartbc.com for tools, resources and examples of how to
integrate sustainability into your purchasing programs.)
HR practitioners have a number of direct pressure points they can activate to leverage
sustainable practices throughout the workforce and the economy more generally.
Step 9: Employee Communications
Every CSR strategy requires the development and implementation of an employee
communication program to convey the corporate direction, objectives, innovation and
performance on its CSR efforts. Intranets, websites, blogs, wikis, social networking
sites, podcasting, videos, forums, townhall meetings, regular tream briefings, webcasts,
voicemails, print and electronic newsletters and other forms of social media need to be
deployed to bring the CSR message to the workforce – in ways that are attuned to the
communication channels of the employee, which are changing rapidly in this age of web
2.0. Even role-modeling by executive and the HR department can be a useful tool fo
communicating CSR values. The ultimate goal of CSR communications should be to
engage employees in the CSR mission of the firm, to help build out the firm’s CSR DNA.
It is important to note that employee engagement is dependent on communication of
board, CEO and senior management commitment, in the absence of which employees
will become cynical and unmotivated. Lack of CSR commitment at senior levels could
lead to disgruntled and frustrated employees finding unmonitored, anonymous social
networking sites to express their dissatisfaction. It is important to close this potential gap
with clear communication and walking the walk on the part of senior executives. The
Co-operators, for example, launched their 2008 – 2010 Sustainability Strategy with a
CEO speech and CEO video to all staff.
One means to raise awareness of CSR on a regular basis, and to track perceptions and
opportunities throughout the year is the “quick poll”. The Co-operators regularly polls its
staff in this way, including these examples from 2008:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Is your household eco-friendly?
In the 2 minutes it takes for you to brush your teeth, how much water goes down the
drain?
October 19 – 25 is Waste Reduction Week. What is the top way your family reduces
household waste?
Which method of washing your dirty car wastes the least amount of water?
It’s EarthDay. What’s the biggest sacrifice you’re willing to make for the
environment?
A locovore is a new term for someone who…?
Do you expect to see the Arctic ice cap completely melted in your lifetime?
Do you make a conscious decision to buy Fairtrade products?

Staff responses can help the organization identify miscommunications and the need for
course corrections along the way. Such ad hoc, awareness raising surveys can be
important proactive tools to foster and embed the CSR message.
Through employee communications, HR can find and profile success stories of CSR
leadership within departments. HR managers are well positioned to share and bring to
life the organizational stories that can become guideposts for CSR values in action
within the company.

21

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

Whatever your approach, it is important to keep your CSR commitments alive in your
corporate communications on a regular basis.
Step 10: Measurement, Reporting – and celebrating successes along the way!
As what gets measured gets managed, it is vital that both CSR performance and
employee CSR engagement be actively measured and reported to executive, the board
of directors and publicly. Typically this is done in the form of an annual CSR report.
Increasingly, many of these reports are disclosing employee engagement scores,
including employee response to such questions as:
“I am aware of and understand our CSR Strategy.”
“I believe the firm acts in alignment with its CSR values and policy.”
“I believe the firm is making progress towards implementing its CSR Strategy.”
“Our CSR Strategy makes me feel proud to be working at the firm.”
“I feel the firm encourages and supports me to contribute to CSR in the office/at the
workplace/in our meetings.”
“I feel comfortable raising CSR issues in the workplace.”
“I believe our organization is a champion of sustainability amongst the public.”
Other human capital metrics, such as turnover, health and safety, employee
development and diversity, for example, can be additional metrics which reveal the firm’s
CSR commitment and the degree to which it walks its talk.
In designing your CSR report again it is important to consult employees on what to
report and it is important that the report be received and approved by the board of
directors for public release. It is only under these conditions can the HR professional be
assured that these metrics and the firm’s CSR performance are taken seriously.
Some corporate boards go so far as to create a CSR committee of the board. This is a
topic of its own (see, for example, “The Role of the Board of Directors in Corporate
Social Responsibility” produced for the Conference Board by Strandberg Consulting),
however, if the Board buys into CSR as a business differentiator and sees CSR as
contributing to shareholder value, it warrants oversight by the full board of directors and
if possible, by a CSR committee of the Board of Directors. The Vancouver Organizing
Committee for the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games (VANOC) for example, has a
board committee on Human Resources and Sustainability which meets regularly to
review the organization’s human resource and CSR performance against its objectives.
If the Board of Directors is in receipt of these performance reports, it is likelier that the
CEO will be held accountable for the elements that bring the CSR strategy to fruition.
And finally, but no less importantly, don’t forget to celebrate the successes large and
small along the way. From pats on the back to profile articles on the company intranet,
to celebratory events, ensure people are congratulated and achievements celebrated on
an informal and formal basis. To fully realize your CSR objectives, including the

22

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

integration of CSR into “the way business is done around here”, it is important to honour
the small wins and major milestones achieved on the journey.
CONCLUSION
Organizations are coming to realize the bottom-line benefits of incorporating
sustainability into their DNA. It’s beneficial for attraction and retention and it’s the right
thing to do. HR is a key organizational leader and can take the lead or partner with other
executives to work cross-functionally to integrate CSR objectives into how business gets
conducted. HR practitioners can act as translators of the organization’s CSR
commitment vertically and horizontally across departments. Most will find upon reading
this report that they have many good practices underway. Many will find they have a
new structure for their thinking they can apply practically in the workplace. Some will
believe the current economic downturn will put these ideas on the backburner until the
economy rebounds, while others think that organizations which abandon their CSR
integration in the downturn will lose ground and breed cynicism in brighter times.
Regardless of the point of view, all agree that effective HR leadership on CSR
integration requires Board, CEO and executive commitment to be successful. Indeed,
the roadmap is predicated on the assumption of this top level commitment. However,
more and more organizations are committing to sustainability and to embedding CSR
into “all that we do”, so it is hoped the 10 steps provide some guidance as to how to go
about doing this.
The firm of the future is expected to have undergone significant transformation such that
CSR no longer becomes managed as a separate deliverable, but is part of the
experience of being an employee in an organization that lives its values. For human
resource professionals embarking on CSR or deepening their CSR experience, this
roadmap can help them understand their role in sustainability and CSR and how they
can foster an environment that embeds a CSR ethic in “the way we do business around
here”.

23

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

24

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

Ashridge. (2008). Developing the Global Leader of Tomorrow. Hertfortshire, UK: Author.
CBSR. (2003). Best People Practices: The Integration of Values into People Practices.
Vancouver, BC: Author.
CSRwire. (2007). Landmark Study Finds Global Spread of Corporate Social
Responsibility. Retrieved December 23, 2008, from
http://www.csrwire.com/News/8095.html
Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD). (2002). Corporate Social
Responsibility and HR’s Role. London, UK: Author.
European Alliance for CSR. (2008). Valuing non-financial performance: A European
framework for company and investor dialogue. Author.
Grant Thornton. (2008). Corporate Social Responsibility: A Necessity Not a Choice.
Bangkok: Author.
Grant Thornton (2008). Recruitment and Retention: The Quest for the Right Talent.
Bangkok: Author.
HR Zone. (n.d.) Operation good guys: HR and CSR. Retrieved December 23, 2008, from
http://www.hrzone.co.uk/cgi-gin/item.cgi?id=174928&d=pndpr&h=pnhpr&f=pnfpr
Lee, Nancy. (2008). Switched on to Energy: A Guide to Sparking Behavioural Change.
Retrieved February 23, 2009, from wwe12.bchydro.com/forum/wpcontent/uploads/2008/11/Switched%20on%20to%20Energy.pdf
Lockwood, N. (2004). Corporate Social Responsibility: HR’s Leadership Role. HR
Magazine, Retrieved December 23, 2008, from
http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m3495/is_12_49/ai_n8583189/pg_1?tag=artBody;col
1
Mees, A. and Bonham, J. (2004). Corporate Social Responsibility Belongs with HR.
Canadian HR Reporter, pp. 11 – 13, April 5, 2004.
Melcrum. (2006). Engaging Employees in Corporate Responsibility: How the World’s
Leading Companies Embed CR in Employee Decision-making. London, UK: Author.
Melcrum. (2008). Special Report on Internal Branding. London, UK: Author.
Moulden, J. (2007). We are the New Radicals: A Manifesto for Reinventing Yourself and
Saving the World. McGraw-Hill, New York.
Novo Nordisk. (n.d.) Business Ethics and Vision and Strategy. Retrieved December 23,
2008, from http://www.novonordisk.com/sustainability/values_in_action/Businessethics/business-ethics.asp

25

CSR and HR Management Issue Brief and Roadmap

Pierce, M., and Madden, K. (n.d.) Driving Success: Human Resources and Sustainable
Development. World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
Redington, Ian. (2005). Making CSR Happen: The contribution of people management.
The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD). London, UK.
Skinner, C. (June 2002). Links Between CSR and HR. Ethical Corporation Magazine.
Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM). (2007). 2007 Corporate Social
Responsibility: United States, Australia, India, China, Canada, Mexico and Brazil: A
Pilot Study. Virginia, US: Author.
Strandberg, C. (2004). Staffing CSR. Canadian Co-operative Association March 2004
Concern for Community Newsletter. British Columbia, Canada.
The Ethical Funds Company. (2006). Shareholder Action Program 2006 Status Report.
BC, Canada: Author.
Toyne, P. (Feb. 14, 2005). CSR an Introduction. Accessed on Feb. 8, 2009 from:
http://www.management-issues.com/2006/5/25/opinion/csr-an-introduction.asp.

26

