SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674

Impact of HR Policies on Employee’s Performance:
Selected Hospitality Organizations.

An Empirical Study of

Krishnendu Hazra*, Partha Pratim Sengupta**, & Prosenjit Ghosh***

Abstract
HR work is not only concerned with old traditional activities of recruitment and selection, training and
development but its activities have been spread up to very far end corners of many new and distinguished
areas. Organizations having qualified and experienced manpower give competitive edge and it is said to
be most sustainable source of competitive advantage. The result of this study can provide human resource
professionals with useful and valuable information to decide what human resource practices should be
effectively implemented in their organizations. The study will further testify the relationship among them,
and provide valuable information for future hotel management needs. For the management level, it helps
to formulate strategies and identify the factors to guide administrators in policymaking, and also provide
employees a path that maximizes their service performance. Therefore, it is very crucial to work out in
more detail on relationship between the HRM practices of the hotel industry and their employee
performance.
This study investigated the impact of HRM practices namely compensation, performance evaluation,
appraisal, training and development and promotion practices on employee performance of selected
Hospitality organization.
Keywords: Human resource management (HRM), Employee performance, hotel industry, compensation,
performance evaluation, appraisal, training and development and promotion.

*Krishnendu Hazra, Associate Professor, Dept. of Hotel Management, NSHM Knowledge Campus
Group of Institution, West Bengal University of Technology, Durgapur, West Bengal, India. E-mail:
k.hazra@rediffmail.com
** Prof Partha Pratim Sengupta, Professor & HOD, Department of Humanities & Social Science, NIT,
Durgapur, West Bengal. E-mail- pps42003@yahoo.com
***Prosenjit Ghosh, Asst. Professor, Dept. of Travel & Tourism Management, NSHM College of
Management and Technology, West Bengal University of Technology, Durgapur, West Bengal, India. Email: prosenjit.ghosh@nshm.com
Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674

Introduction
Hospitality industry displayed its significance in world‟s market with tremendous contribution to
the Indian economy. The entry of global players in Hospitality Industry has created huge
challenges to the Indian companies. Owing to that, Indian hospitality companies were forced to
adopt and implement innovative changes in their HR practices. They have realized that in today's
competitive business milieu, human Resource practices is the one which forms the framework
for the culture in the business management; create awareness towards the need to achieve the
business goals by the employees in the best possible and ethical manner. It is widely accepted
that employees constitute a vital part of organization resource, with the potential to improve the
organization‟s viable modest advantage.
Consequently, human resource manager in hospitality Industries would target potential work
force and would lay stress on skill development, technical development and effective job
performance by adopting effective human resource practices. We will observe the relationship
between the high performance HR practices such as job design, training and development,
motivation, supervisory support, working environment and compensation on employees‟ job
performance in Hospitality organization in Kolkata. It also analyses the impact of high
performance HR practices on employees‟ job performance.
Nature and mechanism of performing various operations have been changing with rapid pace.
World is now a global village where globalization is a major entity. Countries with proactive
approaches have identified globalization as a major element in business world and business
world is now more dynamic. Previously it was considered that allocating resources to HR
activities like training and development, organization development and human resource
devolvement is a major expense but now people call it as an investment. One of the common
emerging beliefs is that “employees are capital” and are considered most valuable assets.
In particular HR practices such as job design, training and development, motivation, supervisory
support, working environment and compensation are widely believed to improve the
performance of employee as well as organizations. This study focuses on the impact that high
performance human resource practices have an improvement on employee‟s job performance.
Nature of HRM practices and their implementation and utilization in organizations in our
country are yet to be standardized. I intend pinpointing issue of HRM practices and their impact
on employee performance in selected hospitality organizations.
Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
Rewards can be direct and indirect. Providing respectable compensation to persons working in
organization have soothing effect on both employee and organizational performance. People get
paid but living from hand to mouth. How anyone can expect that such an employee will give
his/her hundred percent, how can government or private sector will promote the idea of
organizational citizenship behavior, how you can believe there will be presence of organizational
or employee commitment? Performance evaluation and promotion practices are normally based
on standard criteria, procedures, and policies and performance by qualified and experienced
persons of organization. Employee belief and perception about the fairness of such practices
matters a lot. For conducting performance evaluation employees must know what is expected
from them and what they can do. Promotion is the recognition of employee efforts and his
commitment to work. Getting higher and higher promotion is the ultimate desire of each person
working in any sort of organization.
The theoretical literature suggests that HMR practices increase productivity by increasing
employees‟ skills and motivation. Moreover, HRM practices contribute to business objectives
through strategic innovation or technical competence. Recent empirical studies on larger
companies supported the basic assumptions of HRM theory [1], [2], [3]. However, does this
theory apply to small-scale enterprises as well? HRM also carries costs and they might neutralize
the positive effects of HRM in small-scale enterprises. HRM is an investment, and thus, it costs
time and/or money. The current performance of employees may even be decreasing because of
the time spent on training. Moreover, HRM can only have effects when employees stay in the
company for a certain period of time. Otherwise the company suffers a loss because of the
investments in HRM. Thus, the benefits of HRM must exceed costs invested in HRM. Since
small-scale enterprises have limited financial resources it is very well possible that large
investments in HRM do not pay off.
During the last decade, the personnel/HRM field has shifted from a micro focus on individual
HRM practices to a debate on how HRM as a more holistic management approach may
contribute to the competitive advantage of the organizations. Three different perspectives have
been used in recent researches on the relationship between HRM practices and employee‟s
performance.

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674

Review of Literature
It is an acknowledged fact that the utmost asset of any institution is its Human Resources (HRs).
These resources perform a pivotal role in achieving the institutional goals. The institution‟s
administration cannot achieve the desired goals without the proper utilization of HRs. For this
purpose, the administration needs to manage these resources effectively and efficiently. The
activities done by the administration to manage (attract, select, train, motivate and retain) their
employees are called Human Resource Management Practices (HRMP‟s).
There is considerable support among those involved in strategic HRM for the notion that how a
firm manages its workforce affects its performance. This idea is strongly reflected in the high
performance human resource management (HPHR) discussion where the effect of HR is
assumed to impact positively at the employee level [4].
We are living in an era where the business world has become a village and the business
organizations are facing cutthroat competition from around the globe. One of a source of
competitive advantage for any business is its human resources [5].
Based on these empirical evidences, it is also becoming increasingly clear that the human
resource is one important element that can help an organization to be more effective and achieve
competitive advantage. Using a resource-based perspective of the organization, Barney (1995)
[6] suggests that organizations can simply develop sustained competitive advantage by
generating value in a unique way, which is difficult for competitors to replicate, through
employees.
More organizations are now considering their employees as assets in an attempt to gain
competitive advantage, as other organizational resources, such as technology, new product,
natural resources and economies of scale, are easier to replicate by competitors [7].
Impact of HRM on employees‟ job performance depends upon worker‟s response to HRM
practices, so the impact will move in direction of the perception of HRM practices by the
employee [8]. By adopting best practices in selection, inflow of best quality of skill set will be
inducted adding value to skills inventory of the organization [9]. Use of best HR practices shows
a stronger association with firm‟s productivity in high growth industry [10]. Ample of the
existing research on the relationship between HR practices and performance of the employees
and proposed that there is a positive relationship between the HR practices on employee job

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
performance and also revealed that in the competitive environment of modern era organizations
are persistently improving performance of their employees by improving HR practices [11].
Parallel to the understanding those human resources are vital for an organization; human
resource management function is also going up in organizational hierarchy. Human resource
management aims to ensure that the organization obtains and retains the skilled, committed and
well motivated workforce it needs. This means taking steps to assess and satisfy future people
needs and to enhance and develop the inherent capacities of people – their contributions,
potential and employability – by providing learning and continuous development opportunities.
It involves the operation of recruitment and selection procedures, management development and
training activities linked to the needs of the business. [12]
Cooke (2000) [13] has included efficiency and effectiveness as ingredients of performance apart
from competitiveness and productivity. S(he) further argued that training is the tool to develop
knowledge and skills as means of increasing individual‟s performance (efficiency and
effectiveness).
According to several researchers, monetary compensation and job satisfaction are positively
associated with each other. Compensation is a systematic approach of providing monetary value
to employees in exchange for work performed. It may help to achieve several purposes such as
recruitment, job performance and job satisfaction. [14].
Moral and job satisfaction is affected by compensation. Often there is a balance that must be
reached between the monetary value the employer is willing to pay and the sentiments of worth
felt by the employees. In hospitality industry it is one of the very strong issues, so that hotel
industry cannot ignore it. [14]
Job definition is combination of job description and job specification. It clearly outlines duties,
responsibilities, working conditions and expected skills of an individual performing that job [9].
Ichniowski (1995) [15] while observing productivity of steel workers have found that
complementary HR practice System effects workers performance.
Majority of previous research has verified significant relationship between HR practices and
Employee Outcomes [16]
Training programs helps in making acquaintance of employees with more advance technology
and attaining robust competencies and skills in order to handle the functions and basics of newly
introduced technical equipment [17]. Training not only mentally develops the employee but also
Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
prepare them to make better their health in order to be with active mind and more productive
thought for the organization [18]. Improving employee‟s self-efficacy at work will also assist in
pushing their performance to an improved and effective level and increasing their momentum on
their own behalf. This one also is achievable through adding it into the contents of training
program [19] is of the opinion that for every employee to perform well there is the need for
constant training and development. The right employee training, development and education
provide big payoffs for the employer in increased productivity, knowledge, loyalty, and
contribution to general growth of the firm
Motivation plays an important role in performance and other activities and as such the manager
should know what motivation is and how subordinates can are motivated towards performance.
When employees have high autonomy, receive feedback about their performance, and have an
important, identifiable piece of work to do which requires skill variety, they may experience
feelings of happiness and therefore intrinsic motivation to keep performing well [20].
A motivated employee is more likely to output more to the benefit of the organization [21]. They
continue to argue that most of the successful people are around, have been proved to be very
efficient time managers. A reward strategy can develop teamwork. Lawler states, “Reward
systems can support change and motivate people to accept change and gain the skills that fit the
changing nature of the business” [22].
It is the duty of supervisors to ensure that employee job performance is at maximum potential, it
would be advantageous for managers in all trades and industry sectors worldwide to understand
what types of employee-supervisor interactions are associated with employee job performance. If
more work is delegated and responsibility is increased, employees are likely to see it as a sign of
appreciation and trust in their performance, which translates to a boost in self-esteem and
motivation to perform [23]. Perception of supervisors has an impact on many employee
outcomes related to production. They went on to explain that perception of a supervisor has a
positive correlation with motivation and a negative correlation with stress in employees [24].
Work environment is considered to be an important factor affected by transformational
leadership and affecting performance. It is composed of all factors related to job and
organization, which influence the relationship between employees, their job and the organization
[25]. Organizations in order to boost productivity design work environment in a way that

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
satisfies employees [26]. Social, organizational and physical context serve as the impetus for
tasks and activities, and considerably influence workers‟ performance and work output [27].
Singh (2004), [28] whose observations are more relevant in our cultural context, argues that
compensation is a behavior aligning mechanism of employees with business strategy of the firm.
Wright et al (2003) [29] have argued that an employee will exert discretionary effort if proper
performance management system is in place and is supported by compensation system linked
with the performance management system.
The general purposes of the compensation policy covers respecting employees‟ performance,
maintaining a competitive labor market conditions, maintain justice employee salaries,
motivating employee performance and reduce employee turnover [30]. Compensation
performance is the result work of employee because it is the strongest link for the planned goal
and economy [31]. Providing respectful compensation to the employees of an organization has
soothing effect of both organization and employees‟ performance.
This study is very prolific for HR managers in Hospitality organization as they would get a clear
idea about the relationship of HR practices and employees‟ job performance; as a result they can
have more productive employees and can retain efficient employees in their organization. Only
the high performance HR practices such as job design, training and development, motivation,
supervisory support, working environment and compensation influencing employees‟ job
performance was considered for the study. It has both practical and theoretical significance. It
advances knowledge and understanding of how HR practices affect employees‟ job performance
in Hospitality organization in Kolkata; and it may also be used to assist other service
organizations in formulating effective HR practices to increase performance of the employees.

Objectives of the Study
Today HR department is going through tremendous pressure to get and retain skilled man power
for organization especially in hotel industry. To motivate, retain and satisfy the employee for
getting maximum effort, HR policies are really going through acid test. Employee‟s performance
is depending on various factors. Often there is a balance that must be reached between the
monetary value the employer is willing to pay and the sentiments of worth felt by the employees.
In hospitality industry it is one of the very strong issues, so that hotel industry must address it
Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
with right sprite and should think / take appropriate action. Here main objectives of the study
given below:
1. To evaluate the impact of HR policies on employee‟s performance at 3 stars and above stars
category hotels in Kolkata, West Bengal (WB).
2. To recognize the deficient areas in HR policies which are needed to improve to satisfy the
employees for their better performance in hospitality sector in Kolkata, WB.

Methodology of the Study
The study required to identify the employee performance on the basis of HR Policies impact in
three starts and above hotels at Kolkata in West Bengal. The data of this study have collected
through questionnaire designed on a 5-point Likert-type scale ranging from 1 to 5 where 1 means
very dissatisfied and 5 means very satisfied. The respondents were asked to evaluate the HR
policies impact on employee performance at various hotels, where they are working.
The sample population for this study was composed of employee of various departments of three
stars and above hotels in WB between October 2012 and July 2013. In this study we have 120
observations and are statistical analyzed such as factor analysis and multiple regression analysis
according to the respective objectives of the study with using the Statistical Package for Social
Sciences (SPSS) version 16.
Hypotheses are utilized to fulfill the objectives of the study.

These hypotheses are

expressed as follows:
H₀: The HR policies have no impact on employee‟s performance in three stars and above hotels
in Kolkata, WB.
H₁: The HR policies have strong impact on employee‟s performance in three stars and above
hotels in Kolkata, WB.
Factor analysis is variable redundancy technique and this analysis was conducted to create
correlated variable composites from the original 23 attributes and to identify a smaller set of
dimensions or factors. In this study, factors were retained only if they had values greater than or
equal to 1.0 of Eigen value and a factor loading greater than 0.6.5.

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
After the derived factor scores, we have applied in subsequent regression analysis where the
dependent variable was regressed against each of the factor scores derived from the factor
analysis and independent variables are the variables of each factors. The linear equation
commonly used for a regression analysis is Y= a + bx₁ +cx₂ + dx₃…… Where, Y is the
dependent variable and x₁, x₂, x₃… are the independent variables, and b, c, d are the coefficients
of the respective independent variables. In this study, multiple regression analysis was used to
examine employees‟ levels of job satisfaction at their working place like three stars and above
hotels in Kolkata, WB.

Findings of the Study
This chapter is divided into two major sections. The first section provides the demographic
characteristics of the respondents. The second section presents results on the respondents‟ on 23
attributes of the impact of HR policies at three stars and above hotels in Kolkata, WB and also
concentrates on the results of testing the proposed research hypotheses in terms of factor
analysis, multiple regression analysis.
Demographic Characteristics of the Respondents (N=120)
The demographic characteristics of the respondents are shown in Table 1 (in annexure I). The
gender distribution of the respondents was not equal, with 28.33% female respondents and
71.67% male respondents. The result shows age group of the respondents was below 20 years
(5%), followed by 21 to 30 years (68.33%), 31 to 40 years (25%), 41 & above (1.67%) was very
less.
In terms of level of education, almost 59.16% of the respondents had a university education level
(graduate); 11.68% of the respondents had a post graduate & above education, 20% of the
respondents are belonging under graduate and other 9.16%. The result shows the educational
attainment of the respondents is quite good and we can say better than average. With regard to
respondents' monthly salary of the job at three stars and above hotel in WB, the largest group
included those with a monthly salary of INR 11000 to 20000 (47.5%), INR 10,000 or less than
10,000 (14.16%), INR 21000 – 30000 (28.34%), and INR 31000 & above (10%). We can
conclude from the above income status that salary, which they are getting, is better than the
average and quite good also.

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
Result on the observation and their satisfaction with 120variables
Initially we had 120 variables and we have done reliability test of our questionnaire and result
shows value of Cronbach‟s Alpha 0.941 which is quite good but further we have done more
study to get Cronbach‟s Alpha based on standardized items 0.944. After that we canceled nine
variables because their value was not matched. Than we have done multicolinearity test to
examine the correlation with each and every variable and found correlation of the variables.
Finally, we got fourteen variables [Satisfactory compensation & Benefit Package, Good
appraisal system, Secured Job, Total health care system satisfactory, Organize various
training regularly, Sufficient Retirement benefit facilities, Reflect your performance
Appraisal on performance, Flexible & satisfactory Working Time, Fair & respectful
treatment from Supervisor, Reasonable Workload, Salary & Responsibilities are equal,
Fair amount of Team spirit, Leave policy satisfactory, Satisfied with Vacation] which are
depicted three factors. Then we run factor analysis and formal test like KMO and Bartlett‟s test
of sampling adequacy also are used to ensure that there are some significant correlations among
the variables in the input data. Here, KMO and Bartlett‟s test result is 0.853 and cumulative
variance explained 74.104%. It ensures the significant correlations among the variables. The
output of factor analysis is obtained through Principal Components Analysis and specifying a
rotation.

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674

Factor 1 consists with 7 important variables, Factor 2 consists with other 5 important variables,
and Factor 3 consists of another 2 variables. The variables of each factor are given in below table

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
Rotated Component Matrixa
Component
1
Satisfactory compensation & Benefit Package

.903

Good appraisal system

.843

Secured Job

.839

Total health care system satisfactory

.818

Organize various training regularly

.776

Sufficient Retirement benefit facilities

.765

Reflect

your

performance

Appraisal

performance

on

2

3

.651

Flexible & satisfactory Working Time

.862

Fair & respectful treatment from Supervisor

.830

Reasonable Workload

.792

Salary & Responsibilities are equal

.752

Fair amount of Team spirit

.617

Leave policy satisfactory

.816

Satisfied with Vacation

.724

Extraction Method: Principal Component Analysis.
Rotation Method: Varimax with Kaiser Normalization.
a. Rotation converged in 4 iterations.
All the variables are very important and may influence the employee performance at three stars
and above hotels in WB. But applying statistical tool like factor analysis (Principal Component
analysis) for reduces number of variables that may share the relevant information towards
explaining the employee performance on the basis of HR policies impact.

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
Factor 1 is named as Effective HR Policies, factor 2 is named as Useful Fringe benefit, and
factor 3 is named as Non-financial compensation
Factor 1

Named

Satisfactory compensation & Benefit Package
Good appraisal system
Secured Job
Effective HR Policies

Total health care system satisfactory
Organize various training regularly
Sufficient Retirement benefit facilities
Reflect

your

performance

Appraisal

on

performance

Factor 2

Named

Flexible & satisfactory Working Time
Fair & respectful treatment from Supervisor

Useful Fringe benefit

Reasonable Workload
Salary & Responsibilities are equal
Fair amount of Team spirit

Factor 3

Named

Leave policy satisfactory

Non-financial compensation

Satisfied with Vacation

After factor analysis, we also observed the regression analysis on the factor score and found the
R² value 0.942, 0.945 and 0.690 which are approaching 1 and statistically good. It is done to
explain the variation in one variable (employee performance), based on variation in more other
variables (independent variables).

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
From the table 1 (Annexure I), the regression equation can be written as follows: Employee
satisfaction = -4.162 + 0.370 (Satisfactory compensation & Benefit Package) + 0.177(Good
appraisal system) + 0.239 (Secured Job) + 0.070 (Total health care system satisfactory) +0.159
(Fair & respectful treatment from Supervisor) + 0.052 (Sufficient Retirement benefit facilities) +
0.026 (Reflect your performance Appraisal on performance).
The measure of strength of association in the regression analysis is given by the coefficient of
determination denoted by R². This coefficient varies between 0 and 1 and represent by proportion
of total variation in the dependent variable that is accounted for by the variation in the factors.
From the table below, the R² value is 0.942which shows that 94% (approx.) of the variation in
employee performance can be explained by the factor 1 or seven independent variables.

From the table 2 (Annexure I), the regression equation can be written as follows: Employee
satisfaction (Y) = - 3.059 + 0.223 (Flexible & satisfactory Working Time) + 0.266 (Fair &
respectful treatment from Supervisor) + 0.182(Reasonable Workload) +0.217 (Salary &
Responsibilities are equal) +.067(Fair amount of Team spirit). From the table below (model
summary), The R² value is 0.945 which shows that 95% (approx.) of the variation in employee
performance can be explained by the factor 2 or five independent variables.

From the table 3 (Annexure I), the regression equation can be written as follows: Employee
satisfaction (Y) = - 3.778 + 0.666 (Leave policy satisfactory) + 0.271(Satisfied with Vacation).
From the table below (model summary), The R² value is 0.945which shows that 95% (approx.)
Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
of the variation in employee performance can be explained by the factor 3 or two independent
variables.

The result of the regression analysis (R² value 0.942, 0.945 and 0.690) on the basis of factor
score are reasonably good which are approaching 1 it means the variables of factor 1 and factor 2
and factor 3 have a great influence on the employee performance on job at three stars and above
hotels in West Bengal (WB) but there is need to improve the rest attributes related with financial
and non financial compensation of three stars and above hotels employee in WB.

Conclusion
Employee‟s performance is crucial for the organization as it is closely linked to guest
satisfaction. It is therefore in the best interest of an organization to devote a substantial amount
of effort examining ways to improve as well as to maximize the employee‟s performance in their
workplace.
The majority of the studies agreed that HR policies are vital for better performance and also to
solve an organization‟s turnover problem. Many of the studies recommended that when creating
a HR policies, hospitality organizations must make sure their total HR policies are competitive
not only within the industry. Results of this study indicated that many employees satisfied on HR
Policies at three star hotels in Kolkata, West Bengal (WB) only on few attributes; but there is
need to improve the rest attributes related with financial and non financial HR Policies (e.g.
Good physical working condition, Balance between work and person life, Satisfactory working
enthusiasm, Company valued their employee etc.) of three stars and above employees of the

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
hotels in WB. Study also indicate that after certain years of experience employee quit from the
hotel sector as because of compensation are not equal to job responsibilities.
Here we have found very a few respondent aged above 40 years. That means to some extant
employees are satisfied at hotel sector in WB but experienced people are not satisfied with the
total HR Policies at the same sector. That is why they switch over other sector or industry for
their betterments. To retain the best manpower for the betterment of organization, the
management should think or take some measure, so that retention rate will become high.
Though in correlation there are 14 variables and we found correlation between them but when
we have done regression then we found that Reflect your performance Appraisal on performance
is not at all significant. It proves that industry should take necessary steps and think seriously.
Not only that we found a few other variables are also not significant (e.g. Sufficient Retirement
benefit facilities, Total health care system satisfactory, Fair amount of Team spirit) means the
employees are not happy also. It may not reflect your performance Appraisal on performance but
it is also a very serious point.
Study also indicates that after certain years of experience employees quit from the hotel sector as
because of those previous points and satisfactory level of the employees are not equal to job.
Here we have found only a very few persons out of total respondents aged above 40 years. Not
only that, if we go through the point reason to continue, we find that most of the respondents
prefer first point i.e. salary. So except salary, other areas require proper care or some more
attention. That means to some extant HR policies have really good impact on employee‟s
performance at hospitality sector in WB but experienced people do not perform well at the same
sector. That is why they switch over other sector or industry for their betterments. To retain the
best manpower for the betterment of organization which is the great challenge for HRM, they
should think or take some necessary measures to keep retention rate high

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674

Reference
Arthur, J. B. (1994). "Effects of human resource systems on manufacturing performance and
turnover” Academy of Management Journal 37(3): 670-688.
Huselid, M. A. (1995). The impact on human resource management practices on turnover,
productivity, and corporate
financial performance. Academy of Management Journal, 38(3), 635–672.
Huselid, M. A., Jackson, S. E., & Schuler, R. S. (1997). Technical and strategic human resource
management
Appelbaum, E., Bailey, T., Berg, P. and Kalleberg, A.L. (2000) Manufacturing Advantage: Why
High Performance Work Systems Pay Off. London: Cornell University Press.
Becker B & Huselid M (1998). „High Performance Work Systems and firm performance: A
synthesis of research and managerial implications‟. Research in Personnel and Human Resource
Management. 16: 53-101
Barney, J. 1995. Looking inside for the competitive advantage. Academy of Management
Executive 94(4), pp. 49-61.
Becker, B. and Gerhart, B. 1996. The impact of human resource management on organisational
performance: Progress and prospects. Academy of Management Journal 39(4), pp. 779-802.
David Devins, Steve Johnson, John Sutherland, "Employer characteristics and employee training
outcomes in UK SMEs: a multivariate analysis", Journal of Small Business and Enterprise
Development, Vol.-11 Iss: 4, Pp.449 – 457, 2006
Qureshi M Tahir&Ramay I.Mohammad (2006). „Impact of Human Resource Management
Practices on Organizational Performance in Pakistan‟. Muhammad Ali Jinnah University
Islamabad.
K. Datta, J. Guthrie, P. Wright, “HRM and Firm productivity: Does industry matter”, National
Academy of Management Meetings, WA, 2003.
L. Dyer, T. Reeves, “HR strategies and firm performance: what do we know and where do we
need to go?” International Journal of Human Resource Management, 6:3, Pp. 656-670, 1995.
Armstrong, Michael, (2008). Strategic Human Resource Management: A Guide to Action, 4th
Edition, Kogan Page, London, p.11.
Cooke F L (2000). „Human Resource Strategy to improve Organizational Performance: A reoute
for british firms‟. Working Paper No 9 EWERC, Manchester School of Management.

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
K.Hazra & P Ghosh “Employee Satisfaction with Compensation Strategies at Five Stars Hotels
in West Bengal, India: An Empirical Study” SIT Journal of Management Vol. 2. No. 2.
December 2012. Pp.190-203
Qureshi M Tahir&Ramay I.Mohammad (2006). „Impact of Human Resource Management
Practices on Organizational Performance in Pakistan‟. Muhammad Ali Jinnah University
Islamabad.
R. Donald, Cooper and Ramcis, S. Schindler, “Business Research Methods”, Tata McGraw Hill
Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi, 2000.
Sels L, Winne S, Maes J, Delmotte J, Faems D and Forrier A (2006). „Unraveling the HRM –
Performance Link: Value –Creating and Cost-Increasing Effects of Small Business HRM‟
Journal of Management Studies 43:2 319-342
L. Robert and H. Arocas, “A model of high performance work practises and turnover intentions”,
Personnel Review, Pp.37, 26-46, 200
O.I. Adeniyi, “Staff training and development”, Training Needs Analysis: A resource for
identifying training needs, selecting training strategies, and developing training plans, 2nd
Edition, Aldershot, Gower,1995.
J.R. Hackman and G.R. Oldham, “Development of the Job Diagnostic Survey”, Journal of
Applied Psychology, Iss:60, Pp.159-170, 1975.
O. Shadare, A. Hammed and Ayo, “Influence of work motivation, leadership effectiveness and
time management of employees‟ performance in some selected industries in Ibadan”, European
Journal of Economics, Finance and Administrative Science, Oyo State, Nigeria, vol. 1450-2887,
no. 16, Pp. 7-17, 2009.
M.A. Huselid, “The impact of human resource management practices on job performance”,
Academy of Management Journal, 1995.
C. Gómez, & B. Rosen, “The leader-member exchange as a link between managerial trust and
employee empowerment”, Group& Organization Management, Iss:26(1), Pp. 53-69, 2001.
A.R. Elangovan, & J.L. Xie, “Effects of perceived power of supervisor on subordinate stress and
motivation: The moderating role of subordinate characteristics”, Journal of Organizational
Behavior, Iss: 20(3), Pp.359-373, 1999.
K. Bachmann, “Health Promotion Programs at Work: A Frivolous Cost or a Sound Investment?”,
Ottawa: Conference Board of Canada, 2002.
P. Brenner, “Workers physical surrounding and Impact Bottom Line Accounting”, Smarts
Pros.com, 2004.
Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
M. H. Strong, P.R. Jeannerert, S.M. McPhail& B.R. Blackley, “Work context, taxonomy and
measurement of the work environment”, American Psychological Association (Houston TX), 86:
12767, 1999.
Singh K (2004). „Impact of HR practices on perceived firm performance in India‟. Asia pacific
Journal of Human Resources 42:3 301-317
Wright P, Gardener T, Moynihan L (2003). „The Impact of HR practices on the performance of
business units‟. Human Resource Management Journal 13:3 21 366.
P.K. Zinghein, “Rewarding scarce talent”, The compensation handbook, A state of the art guide
to compensation strategy and design, McGraw Hill, New York, 4th edition, 2000.

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674

Annexure

I

Demographic Characteristic of the Respondents (N= 120)
Variables
Gender – Male
Female
Age – Below

Education Level -

Income Group

Duration

Reason to Continue

Switch over Yes
No

Frequency

Percentage %

86

71.67

34

28.33

06

05.00

82

68.33

30

25.00

02

01.67

24

20.00

71

59.16

14

11.68

11

09.16

17

14.16

57

47.50

34

28.34

12

10.00

16

13.34

47

39.16

34

28.34

23

19.16

56

46.68

20

16.66

17

14.16

27

22.50

47

18.82

73

81.18

Table no 1

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

SIT Journal of Management
Vol. 3. No. 2: December 2013, Pp.654-674
Table no 2

Table no 3

Hazra, Sengupta, & Ghosh

ISSN: 2278-9111

