Working Paper
WP no 724
January, 2008

THE FIVE PHASES IN THE TRANSFER OF
HR POLICIES AND PRACTICES WITHIN MNCS
Lourdes Susaeta
José R. Pin

IESE Business School – University of Navarra
Avda. Pearson, 21 – 08034 Barcelona, Spain. Tel.: (+34) 93 253 42 00 Fax: (+34) 93 253 43 43
Camino del Cerro del Águila, 3 (Ctra. de Castilla, km 5,180) – 28023 Madrid, Spain. Tel.: (+34) 91 357 08 09 Fax: (+34) 91 357 29 13
Copyright © 2008 IESE Business School.

IESE Business School-University of Navarra - 1

THE FIVE PHASES IN THE TRANSFER OF
HR POLICIES AND PRACTICES WITHIN MNCS
Lourdes Susaeta1
José R. Pin2

Abstract
The tension that multinational companies (MNCs) suffer in the transfer of their HR policies and
practices leads us to take an in-depth look at the factors that affect this transfer. We divide the
transfer process into five phases, ranging from the configuration of HR policies and practices in
the parent company to their internalization by the subsidiaries’ employees, and we analyze this
process from six theoretical approaches, presenting the corresponding work hypotheses which
will bring about the model of analysis.

1
2

Assistant Research, IESE
Professor, Managing People in Organizations, IESE

Keywords: multinational companies (MNCs), subsidiaries, employees, transfer of HR policies
and practices.

IESE Business School-University of Navarra

THE FIVE PHASES IN THE TRANSFER OF
HR POLICIES AND PRACTICES WITHIN MNCS

The world is facing a series of changes such as globalization, the emergence of regional
outposts and a subsequent return to origin. All of this constitutes a phenomenon of increasing
interest to the academic world. In the field of social sciences, the dynamics of globalization that
promote convergence and divergence in the organization and in management practices have
also caught the attention of a wide range of disciplines (Guillen, 2001).
The tension that multinational companies (MNCs) feel in the transfer of their practices is
demonstrated by the growing centralization and homogenization of those practices due to the
forces of globalization. However, MNCs have also embraced the opportunities and limitations
that the countries of origin and their corresponding destinations present, and it is these that
determine either standardization or diversity when the subsidiaries implement the practices.
In this complex scenario, the role of the Human Resources (HR) department has acquired an
increased importance in the success or failure of the company’s international operations
(Quintanilla and Ferner, 2003) and therefore, over the last decade or so, there has been great
interest in studies of the HR policies used by MNCs and the different factors that executives
from the head-quarter company or office (“HQ”) use in the transfer of specific practices towards
the subsidiary company or office (“the subsidiary”). There are many studies that expound on the
policies that are transferred, but there is still a large volume of work to be done on the subject,
specifically on how and why these transfers are done, both at a theoretical as well as empirical
level.
It is this outstanding work that is at the center of this analysis, which tries to take an in-depth
look at the question of this investigation while distinguishing five fundamental steps in the
process (Figure 1). In the first place, one has to study the factors that influence the
configuration of the HQ policies, which will have been influenced by the country of origin of
the MNC. In the second place, we hope to analyze the factors that determine the decision of the
HQ to either transfer a practice in a standardized manner or by adapting it to the country to
which it is destined. In the third place, we study the negotiation process between the HQ and
the subsidiary, in which the subsidiary’s role within the MNC, as well as its negotiating power
based on the possession of critical resources, are significant. After the negotiation comes the
adaptation of the practice by the subsidiary. This adaptation implies the implementation of the
practice and its subsequent internationalization by individuals working in the subsidiaries.

IESE Business School-University of Navarra

Figure 1
Phases in the Process of transfer of HR Policies and Practices Within an MNC
HOME COUNTRY

HOST COUNTRY

HQ company/office

Configuration

Subsidiary company/office
Decision to
transfer

Negotiation
process

Implementation

Internalization

Source: the authors.

In summary, we have formulated five questions for the investigation which correspond to each
of the phases of the process:
Q1: What factors influence the configuration of human resource policies in the HQ?
Q2: On what factors would a company base their decision to transfer human resource
policies internationally?
Q3: What factors would the negotiation process depend on in the transfer of human
resource policies?
Q4: What factors determine the manner in which the subsidiary implements the human
resource policies?
Q5: What factors determine the internalization of the policies by subsidiary employees?
In order to respond to the questions of this investigation, it is necessary to review the literature
in depth, with the aim of identifying the theoretical lines close to the subject that may help us
outline the determining factors in the transfer of HR policies and practices in MNCs.

Transfer of HR Policies and Practices: the Current Debate in Today’s
Studies
In the first place, it is necessary to take into account the globalization of the economy, with its
trend towards the disappearance of national borders between countries. This brings about a
diffusion of specific practices and working systems, resulting in international convergence and
the erosion of national differences, at least within the sector (e.g. Katz and Darbishire, 2000).
The most common discussion is that the market and technological and management factors
push MNCs to adopt cross-border strategies and HR practices, leading to a greater
homogenization. In this sense, MNCs are normally seen as a means of internationally
transferring and spreading “best practices” (Martin and Beaumont, 1998).
2 - IESE Business School-University of Navarra

On the other hand, taking into account the argument from studies based on the institutional
sector of the past two decades, and more recently from Hall and Soskice (2001), the national
business system and, more importantly, the system of industrial relations determine a
distinctive dependence in each country. As Guillen shows (2001, page 246) in his
comprehensive vision on the subject: “taking into account the empirical evidence of
sociological and socio-political studies, as a whole, diversity is sustainable or at least the
resistance of ‘cross-national’ models amidst the entire globalization process.” This
disconnection has its roots in the intersection of the globalizing behavior of MNCs, and the
persistent variety of the national business systems of the countries where the subsidiaries
operate.
The huge institutional complexity of MNCs determines the manner in which they operate in
different countries, adopting the characteristics of that particular country in the convergence of
national or local practices. At the same time, the pressure of globalization drives the
standardization of certain elements of the managerial system, including issues related to
personnel, culture, institutional agreements and labor practices (Hall and Soskice, 2001).
The role played by MNCs in promoting or resisting divergence or convergence of HR
management across national borders is, in essence, the center of our study.
During the last few years, a great number of studies have focused on the configuration of HR
management practices in the MNC’s home country and the country of destination, opening a
new line of investigation within the field of HR management (Jain et al., 1998; Quintanilla and
Ferner, 2003). However, the debate is still in its early stages and presents limitations in both
theoretical and empirical aspects (Ferner, 1997).
There are authors, like Sisson (2001, page 5), who argue that there is no need to polarize this
debate. This author affirms that what would be better would be to speak of an interaction
between the local, national and international influences. At the level of which Sisson speaks,
one may add the influence of the forces of the market whose interaction generates greater
levels of complexity (Colling and Clark, 2002; Katz and Darbishire, 2000).

Theoretical Approximations in the Study of the Transfer of HR
Policies and Practices in MNCs
One of the most important practices in international business is the transfer of MNC policies
and practices throughout the different national businesses they operate. The international
transfer is an especially complex process linked to the necessity of the transfer between two
international areas with different characteristics. One has to take into account that the practices
originate in a very specific institutional environment and are later incorporated into a
completely different domain.
Several studies have been undertaken in this area, in which eclectic models are suggested, as
well as analyses of the problem from different theoretical points of view. These models are
based variously on institutional theory and new institutionalism, the theory of resources, the
theory of industrial organization, strategic selection, and so on (Barney and Zajac, 1994; Oliver,
1991; Mauri and Michaels, 1998; Malnight, 2001; Kostova and Roth, 2002; Schuler et al., 1993;
Taylor et al., 1996; Quintanilla, 1998).

IESE Business School-University of Navarra - 3

In this section, we analyze the six theoretical points of view in the study of the transfer of these
practices. Evidently, as in all attempts to classify the ideas of different authors, this is still an
artificial classification. However, we do believe it could shed some light since all studies center
on the issue we are taking into account, albeit from different points of view. This may help us
to obtain a singular and comprehensive vision of what we are analyzing. The authors’
contributions are divided into two sections which reflect the two areas in which MNCs operate:
the external one, subject to the influence of the country of origin; and the internal one, in
which the relationships between subsidiaries in the MNCs network are created. The different
points of view and the principal center of the study are summarized in Table 1.

Table 1
Theoretical Approximations that Study the Transfer of HR Practices Within the MNC
Type of Analysis

Different Approaches

Focus of the analysis

External Analysis
Contextual Factors

Cultural

Centers on the study of the
efficiency of practices in the
measure that these coincide with
the national system of cultural
values.
Centers on the different influences
of the institutions in the national
business system of the country of
origin and the country of
destination.
Centers on the influence of the
structural factors of the HQ and
the subsidiary.
Places emphasis on the pressure
that competition exerts in the
companies when it comes to
sharing the “best practices”
through its international
operations.
Examines how the agents of the
HQ and the subsidiary would act,
according to their power based on
the critical resources that they
possess.
Centers on the knowledge
barriers to reach a common
understanding in the practices.

Institutional comparative

Internal Analysis
Internal Factors

Structural

Rational

Micro-political

Knowledge

External Factors
In the 1990s, interest grew in the study of the environment of MNCs (Ghoshal and Westney,
1993). The turning point came during a conference that took place in INSEAD in 1989, where a
large number of researchers, who studied international companies and specifically their
organization, met with numerous researchers who studied the interaction between an
organization and its environment. Although there was much controversy during the conference
and great resistance in accepting this new line of investigation in the MNC field, it awoke the
interest of many researchers from the international business sector. Thus the new line of
investigation joined the theory of organization and the study of MNCs, through the institutional
theory.

4 - IESE Business School-University of Navarra

We contend that this line of thinking highlights the relationship between the organization and
its institutional environment, as well as the generic and specific environment which, in great
measure, configures the internal organizational structure of the company. The MNCs are
subjected to different forces depending on the country where they operate and the sector or
sectors in which they are positioned. In the study of this perspective, we will consider three
approaches. First, we will consider the cultural approach, which we have included in this
section as a previous phase of the institutional trend. Second and third, following Lane’s
classification (1995), the institutional debate is divided into two lines of thought: the
sociological approach of the organization or the institutional comparative (Maurice et al., 1986;
Whitley, 1991, 1992 and 1994; Sorge, 1991; Lane, 1989 and 1992) and the new institutionalism
(e.g. Hall, 1984 and 1986; Thelen, 1991; Lane 1994 and 1995). These two approaches center on
the role of social actors and their influence in the capacity of transformation of the institutions,
but the new institutionalism also studies relational factors and, thus, we will study it as a
subsection that refers to a mixed analysis.
Cultural Approach
Culture has been described as the “crystallization of History in thoughts, feelings and actions of
the current generation” (Hofstede, 1993, page 5). Other authors complement this definition
(Barlett and Ghoshal, 1989, page 42) when they point out that the history, infrastructure,
resources and cultural level of a nation affect all aspects of life in that country, including, of
course, the behavior of executives.
The traditional cultural approach was the first to study the transfer of HR practices in MNCs.
This approach adopts a contingent perspective, arguing that the effectiveness of a determined
practice is contingent on its coincidence with the national system of values (Hofstede, 1980).
Due to the existence of different national value systems in the countries in which MNCs
operate, this theory confirms that the transfer of standard practices from MNCs to their
subsidiaries is not possible. On the contrary, the MNC should adapt its practices to the local
way of life and thus identify itself with the HR practices of local companies (Newman and
Nollen, 1996; Adler and Jelinek, 1986; Schneider, 1986).
From this approach come the following hypotheses:
H1: The national values of a country of origin influence the configuration of HR policies
and practices.
H2: The national values of a host country influence the implementation of HR policies and
practices.
H3: The national values of a host country influence the internalization of HR policies and
practices by the subsidiary’s employees.
Comparative Institutional Approach
Thanks to this more recent perspective, there has been a greater interest in the complexity of
the differences between the different national business systems and the institutions that govern
the product, labor, and financial markets, and how these interact (e.g. Lane, 1989; Hall and
Soskice, 2001; Whitley, 1999). Owing to the differences between nations, there are often
multiple restrictions during the internal adaptation of the practices within the MNC (Ferner,
IESE Business School-University of Navarra - 5

1997; Whitley, 2001). This institutional comparative approach has its roots in an historical
comparative research (Mahoney and Rueschemeyer, 2003).
From this approach, we may put forward the following hypotheses:
H4: The institutional profile of the country of origin will influence the configuration of HR
policies and practices.
H5: The institutional profile of the host country will influence the implementation of HR
policies and practices.
H6: The existence of a dominant effect in the country of origin will influence the decision of
the transfer of HR policies and practices.

Approaches Based on Internal Factors
In this section, we study the approaches of the studies that analyze internal factors, whether
they be of a structural nature, micro-political, rational, or, finally, that based on the transfer of
knowledge.
Structural Approach
In structural terms, the transfer is affected by the role the subsidiary plays within the MNC
(Ghoshal and Nohria, 1993), the extension of inter-unit dependence (Taylor et al., 1996), the
nature of the internal and external network in which the subsidiary is rooted (Zanfei, 2002),
and other structural characteristics that we will analyze in this section.
A subsidiary that is highly integrated within the MNC, and whose function is to execute the
strategies formulated by the main office, has a higher probability of being a receptor in the
transfer of knowledge and practices (Gupta and Govindarajan, 1991). By contrast, in industries
that possess a central structure, where subsidiaries are oriented to serve the local market, there
is less pressure in the transfer of practices from the countries of origin (Rosenzweig and Nohria,
1994). On the other hand, the transfer of HR practices from the HQ may be more problematic in
the service sector, where there is far more tacit and intangible knowledge than in the
manufacturing sector (Gamble, 2003). In their model, Rosenzweig and Nohria (1994) study the
transfer of HR practices taking into account structural and contextual factors.
For this approach we may gather the following hypotheses:
H7: The structural factors of the subsidiary will influence the HQ’s decision to transfer HR
policies and practices.
H7a: If the manner of entry of the country of destination is through the creation of a new
subsidiary, the possibility of transfer of HR practices and policies is greater.
H7b: When the age of the subsidiary is lower, the possibility of transfer of HR policies and
practices is greater.
H7c: When the size of the subsidiary is smaller, the possibility of transfer of HR policies and
practices is greater.
H7d: When the dependence of the subsidiary on local inputs is lower, the possibility of
transfer of HR policies and practices is greater.
6 - IESE Business School-University of Navarra

Micro-Political Approach
Regarding how an MNC manages its subsidiaries, conflict arises in the possession of power
based on resources, since there may be specific critical assets that gives the subsidiary that
possesses them greater superiority over another, or in relation with the HQ, and this affects the
degree of autonomy versus dependence.
From this approach, we may gather the following hypothesis:
H8: Power based on resources will influence the negotiation process between the HQ and
the subsidiary, in issues related to the transfer of HR policies and practices.
Rational Approach
The rational approach emphasizes the competitive pressure within a company to share “best
practices” through its international operations. This is made clear through some economic
theories around MNCs, and is known as internalization (Rugman, 1981). The main idea of this
theory is that multinationals have the option to either license or franchise a source of
competitive advantage to other companies operating in other countries. However, this contract
agreement carries significant risk, not least due to the resulting uncertainty. Those that propose
internalization argue that a rational response to this problem is to avoid such transactions by,
for example, transferring the competitive advantage only to foreign subsidiaries. Thus, the
practice is internalized within the frontiers of the same company. In the empiric studies of
employment practices, an example of an approach based on transaction costs can be found in
the analysis of Schmitt and Sadowsky (2003), regarding the degree to which foreign MNCs in
Germany can count on the developed policies of centralized employment.
With this, we may reach the following hypothesis:
H9: When the HR policies and practices provide a greater advantage for the HQ, the
probability of its transfer to the subsidiaries is greater.
And from the theory on strategic election that we suggested as a criticism against the rational
approach, we present another hypothesis:
H10: The interests of the managers influence the decision to transfer HR policies and
practices.
Knowledge Approach
This point of view is centered on the internalization of practices by managers and workers of
the subsidiary. It is the most recent approach on the subject and includes an analysis of the
abilities of people in the subsidiaries, to understand the different HR practices due to factors
related to knowledge. Because of the difference in the nature of knowledge and HR practices,
Lam (1997) and Bhagat et al. (2002) underline the nature of the knowledge transferred as the
pre-requisite and most important element in the efficient transfer of practices across borders.
From this approach, we suggest the following hypothesis:
H11: The nature of the knowledge transferred in HR policies and practices influences the
internalization of these by the employees of the subsidiaries.

IESE Business School-University of Navarra - 7

Determining Factors and Analysis Models
The determining factors of the different phases of the transfer appear in Table 2.

Table 2
Determining Factors in the Transfer of HR Policies and Practices Within an MNC
Phases of the Process

Theoretical Approach

Configuration of the policy Cultural Theory
Comparative
Institutional Theory:
Affected by country of
origin
Comparative
Decision to transfer
Institutional Theory
Rational Theory
Theory of Strategic
Election
Micro-political Theory
Negotiation process
Structural Theory

Implementation

Internalization

Cultural Theory
Comparative
Institutional Theory:
Affected by country of
destination
Power and
Institutionalism
Cultural Theory
Theory of Knowledge

8 - IESE Business School-University of Navarra

Determining Factors
National value system of the country
Institutional profile of the country of origin

Dominant effect of the country of origin
Best HR practices
Decision taken by the board is either arbitrary or
reflects interests of the managers
Power based on critical resources
Role of the subsidiary in the MNC
Degree of integration in production
Manner of entry
Age of the subsidiary
Size of the subsidiary
Dependence on local inputs
National value system of the country of destination
Institutional profile of the country of destination

Response of the agents of the subsidiary to
institutional pressure
Workers’ satisfaction with and commitment to the
HR policies and practices
Degree of tacit and explicit knowledge regarding HR
policies and practices
Manner of communication of HR policies and
practices to employees
Use of IT in HR policies and practices

Figure 2 shows a model for analysis that picks up the relationship between the research
questions and the theories that point out the different hypothesis proposed in the study.

Figure 2

INTERNALIZATION?

IMPLEMENTATION?

NEGOTIATION?

H11
KNOWLEDGE
APPROACH

MICRO – POLITICAL
APPROACH

H5

H8
STRUCTURAL
APPROACH

H7

H10

H2

STRATEGIC
ELECTION
APPROACH

RATIONAL
APPROACH

H9

H6

H4
COMPARATIVE
INSTITUTIONAL
APPROACH

CULTURAL
APPROACH

H1

H3

DECISION TO
TRANSFER?

CONFIGURATION?

Analysis Model

Source: the authors

IESE Business School-University of Navarra - 9

In order to clarify the model to be used for the analysis, Table 3, below, presents a double-entry
matrix (research questions – theoretical approaches) with the classification of the different
hypotheses of this study.

Table 3
Hypotheses of the Study According to Research Questions and Theoretical Approaches

A.
A.1
Cultural Comparative
Configuration

H1

Transfer
decision

A.
A.
A.
A.
A.
Strategic MicroStructural Rational
Knowledge
Elements political

H4
H6

Negotiation

H7
H9

Implementation

H2

Internalization

H3

H10

H8

H5
H11

Conclusions
Throughout this paper, we have studied different theoretical approaches in the transfer of HR
policies and practices within MNCs. We have tried to contribute greater clarity to the existing
debate, regarding the tension between a trend towards global convergence and the necessary
adaptation of HR practices, depending on the characteristic idiosyncrasies of the countries of
destination.
The contribution that this study hopes to make to the research, regarding the transfer of HR
practices within the MNC, can be summarized in two points:
•

The differentiation within the process of transfer of HR practices into five subphases: configuration, transfer decision-making, negotiation, implementation and
internalization. Why and how they are produced, make up the questions of our
research.

•

In order to answer the questions, we present an integrating and eclectic model of
the different theoretical approaches that do not exclude any but instead
complement one another.

This debate is acquiring greater importance in the study of the strategic role of subsidiaries,
within the organizational network of the MNC. The transfer of specific practices always
constitutes a decision from the HQ that is influenced by the characteristics of the country of
origin of the MNC. These national peculiarities condition the transfer but do not determine it,
since the final decision would come from the board of the MNC. The path from the
configuration to the internalization of the practice is what we hoped to pick up in our model of
analysis, with the elements that either favor or limit them.
We would also like to underline that HR practice and policy in subsidiaries should never be
studied in an isolated manner, since it is necessary to know the factors linked to their

10 - IESE Business School-University of Navarra

development, in order to understand them completely. Due to the fact that each subsidiary is
unique and different from all the others, the HR policies and practices in the subsidiaries differ
according to their degree of centralization and integration.

Limitations
This study contains two limitations, due to its generic approach and its theoretical nature.
In the first place, during the undertaking of the model, we have tried to take into account only
indirectly the types of structural organization that the MNC may adopt, and on which we focus
in section two. The approach of our working hypotheses would be different if the MNC
possessed a multi-domestic, global or transnational organizational structure. Our study tackles
the general problem of the transfer, but undoubtedly one has to recognize that, in an MNC with
a multi-domestic internal configuration, HR practices tend to adapt to the local context. In a
global MNC, there is a greater level of homogenization in the practices, centralizing
configuration and control from the main office. In this case, local adaptation would be
motivated by fundamentally legal issues, and by institutional pressure that the MNC cannot
bypass in its activity in the country of destination. If the MNC is transnational, the subsidiaries
enjoy greater independence due to their strategic role within the network. In this case, it would
be interesting to study the relationships in the transfer of practices between subsidiaries and the
main office, since it is possible that a practice is implemented in a subsidiary as a ‘trial’, or that
it arises as an initiative from the managers of that office. Should it be successful, the transfer of
this “best practice” to the MNC is then called “inverse diffusion”.
In the second place, since it is a general study, the effects of the sector, in terms of context,
have been indirectly taken into account. Given the important influence that the sector exercises
on the MNCs, it would be necessary to synthesize the key characteristics of the sector in which
subsidiaries operate. Without an adequate understanding of the role of the sector, it would be
easy to think that some particular characteristics of the processes in a subsidiary are the due to
the peculiarities of its country of origin when, in reality, they are a result of the forces that
mold the sector in which the company operates, or vice versa. This possible confusion is even
greater in big MNCs with activities in different businesses and working in many countries. It is
not possible to isolate the study of a company from its sector, since this is what constitutes the
specific environment in which it operates. For an MNC with operations in different countries,
the study of the sector is even more important, because when an MNC arrives in a new country,
its management, among other things, should become familiar with the management praxis of
the said country, with the needs of their clients and with the legal environment of the sector in
that country.

IESE Business School-University of Navarra - 11

References
Adler, N. and M. Jelinek (1986), “Is Organization Culture - Culture Bound?,” Human Resource
Management, 25, 1, pp. 73-90.
Barney, J. and E. J. Zajac (1994), “Competitive Organizational Behaviour: Toward an
Organizationally-Based Theory of Competitive Advantage,” Strategic Management Journal, 15,
pp. 5–9.
Bartlett, C. and S. Ghoshal (1989), “Managing Across Borders: The Transnational Solution,”
HBS Press, Boston.
Bhagat, R., B. Kedia, P. Harveston, and H. Triyis (2002), “Cultural Variations in the Crossborder Transfer of Organizational Knowledge: An Integrative Framework,” Academy of
Management Review, 27, 2, pp. 204-222.
Colling, T. and I. Clark (2002), “Looking for ‘Americanness’: Home-Country, Sector and Firm
Effects on Employment Systems in an Engineering Services Company,” European Industrial
Relations Journal, 3 (November).
Ferner, A. (1997), “Country of Origin Effects y Human Resource Management in Multinational
Companies,” Human Resource Management Journal, 7, 1, pp. 19-37.
Ghoshal, S. and E. Westney (1993), “Organization Theory and the Multinational Corporation,”
St. Martin Press, Cambridge.
Guillen, M. (2001), “Is Globalization Civilizing, Destructive or Feeble? A Critique of Five Key
Debates in the Social Science Literature,” Annual Review of Sociology, 27, pp. 235-260.
Gupta, A. K. and V. Govindarajan (1991), “Knowledge Flows and the Structure of Control
within Multinational Corporations,” Academy of Management Review, 16, 4, pp. 768-792.
Hall, P. (1984), “Patterns of Economic Policy: an Organizational Approach,” in S. Bornstein, D.
Held, and J. Krieger (eds.), “The State in Capitalist Europe,” Unwin Hyman, London, pp. 124138.
Hall, P. (1986), “Governing the Economy,” Oxford University Press, London.
Hall, P. and D. Soskice (eds.) (2001), “Varieties of Capitalism: The Institutional Foundations of
Comparative Advantage,” Oxford University Press, Oxford.
Hofstede, G. (1980), “Culture's Consequences: International Differences in Work related
Values,” Sage Publications, Beverly Hills.
Hofstede, G. (1993), “Intercultural Conflict and Synergy in Europe. Management in Western
Europe,” in D. J. Hickson (eds.), “Society, Culture and Organization in Twelve Nations,” Walter
de Gruyter, Nueva York, pp. 1-8.
Jain, H., J. Lawler, and M. Morishima (1998), “Multinational Corporations, Human Resource
Management and Host-country Nationals,” The International Journal of Human Resource
Management, 9, 4, pp. 553–566.

12 - IESE Business School-University of Navarra

Katz, H. and O. Darbishire (2000), “Converging Divergences: Worldwide Changes in
Employment Systems,” Cornell University Press, Ithaca.
Kostova, T. and K. Roth (2002), “Adoption of an Organizational Practice by Subsidiaries of
Multinational Corporations: Institutional and Relational Effects,” Academy of Management
Journal, 45, 1, pp. 215-233.
Lam, A. (1997), “Embedded Firms, Embedded Knowledge: Problems of Collaboration and
Knowledge Transfer in Global Cooperative Ventures,” Organization Studies, 18, 6, pp. 973-997.
Lane, C. (1989), “Management and Labour in Europe. The industrial Enterprise in Germany,
Britain y France,” Edward Elgar, Aldershot.
Lane, C. (1992), “European Business Systems: Britain and Germany compared,” in R. Whitley,
(ed.), “European Business Systems, Firms and Markets in their National Contexts,” Sage
Publications, London, pp. 64-97.
Lane, C. (1994), “Industrial Order and the Transformation of Industrial Relations,” London.
Lane, C. (1995), “Industry and Society in Europe. Stability and Change in Britain, Germany
and France,” Edward Elger, Aldershot.
Mahoney, J. and D. Rueschemeyer (eds.) (2003), “Comparative Historical Analysis in the
Social Sciences,” Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.
Malnight, T. W. (2001), “Emerging Structural Patterns within Multinational Corporations:
Toward Process-Based Structures,” Academy of Management Journal, 44, 6, pp. 1.187–1.210.
Martin, G. and P. Beaumont (1998), “Diffusing ‘Best Practices’ in Multinational Firms:
Prospects, Practice and Contestation,” International Journal of Human Resource Management, 9,
4, pp. 671–695.
Mauri, A. J. and M. P. Michaels (1998), “Firm and Industry Effects within Strategic
Management: An Empirical Examination,” Strategic Management Journal, 19, pp. 211–219.
Maurice, M., F. Sellier, and J. J. Silvestre (1986), “The Social Foundations of Industrial Power.
A Comparison of France y Germany,” MIT Press, Cambridge.
Newman, K. and S. Nollen (1996), “Culture and Congruence: The Fit Between Management
Practices and National Culture,” Journal of International Business Studies, 27, 4, pp. 753-779.
Oliver, C. (1991), “Strategic Responses to Institutional Processes,” Academy of Management
Review, 16, pp. 145-179.
Quintanilla, J. (1998), “The Configuration of Human Resources Management Policies and
Practices in Multinational Subsidiaries: The case of European retail banks in Spain,” Doctoral
Thesis, University of Warwick.
Quintanilla, J. and A. Ferner (2003), “Multinationals and Human Resource Management:
between Global Convergence and National Identity,” International Journal of Human Resource
Management, 14, 3, pp. 363-368.
Rosenzweig, P. and N. Nohria (1994), “Influences on Human Resource; Management Practices
in Multinational Corporations,” Journal of International Business Studies, 25, 2, pp. 229-251.
IESE Business School-University of Navarra - 13

Rugman, A. M. (1981), “Inside the Multinationals: The Economics of Internal Markets,” Croom
Helm, London.
Schmitt, M. and D. Sadowski (2003), “A Cost-Minimisation Approach to the International
Transfer of HRM/IRM practices: Anglo-Saxon Multinationals in the Federal Republic of
Germany,” International Journal of Human Resource Management.
Schuler, R., P. Dowling, and H. De Cieri (1993), “An Integrative Framework of Strategic
International Human Resource Management,” International Journal of Human Resource
Management, 4, 4, pp. 717-762.
Sisson, K. (2001), “Reflections on the Papers, presented to the DMU-IESE conference on
Multinational Companies and HRM: Between Globalisation and National Business Systems,”
Leicester Business School, De Montfort University, 12–14 July.
Sorge, A. (1991), “Strategic Fit and the Societal Effect: Interpreting Cross-National
Comparisons of Technology, Organization and Human Resources,” Organization Studies, 12/2,
pp. 161-190.
Taylor, S., S. Beechler, and N. Napier (1996), “Toward an Integrative Model of Strategic
International Human Resource Management,” Academy of Management Review, 21, 4, pp. 959985.
Thelen, K. (1991), “Union of Parts: Labor Politics in Postwar Germany,” Cornell University
Press, Ithaca, NY.
Whitley, R. (1991), “The Societal Construction of Business Systems in East Asia,” Organization
Studies, 12, 1, pp. 1-28.
Whitley, R. (1992), “European Business Systems: Firms and Markets in their National
Contexts,” Sage, London.
Whitley, R. (1994), “Societies, Firms and Markets: The Social Structuring of Business Systems,”
in R. Whitley (ed.), “European Business Systems. Firms y Markets in their National Contexts,”
Sage, London, pp. 5-45.
Whitley, R. (2001), “How and Why are International Firms Different?” in Morgan, Glenn, Peer
Hull Kristensen, and Richard R. Whitley (ed.), “The Multinational Firm: Organizing Across
Institutional and National Divides,” Oxford University Press, Oxford, pp. 27-68.
Zanfei, A. (2002), “Transnational Firms & the Changing Organisation of Innovative Activities,”
Cambridge Journal of Economics, 24, pp. 515-542.

14 - IESE Business School-University of Navarra

