Telephone directory information
obligations and regulations
Consultation on a proposal to remove and/or amend
universal service obligations and general conditions relating
to the provision of telephone directory information

Consultation
Publication date:
Closing Date for Responses:

10 March 2008
30 June 2008

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Contents
Section

Page

1

Summary

1

2

Background

3

3

Meeting directory and directory enquiries access requirements

12

4

Access to telephone directory information

26

5

Wholesale telephone directory information management

42

6

Statutory duties under the Communications Act 2003

49

7

Next steps

52

Annex

Page

1

Responding to this consultation

53

2

Ofcom’s consultation principles

55

3

Consultation response cover sheet

56

4

Questions raised in this consultation

58

5

Notification of proposed revocation of Universal Service
Condition 7

61

Notification of proposed modifications to General Conditions 8,
14 and 19 and associated definitions

63

7

Impact Assessment

69

8

Relevant legal and regulatory framework

80

6

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Section 1

1 Summary
1.1

For consumers in the UK, as in most countries around the world, the social and
economic value of telecommunications is enhanced by access to easy-to-use
information about how to reach a particular individual or business (“directory
information”). The main forms of directory information are directories and on- and offline directory information services.

1.2

Ofcom is responsible for ensuring that UK consumers have access to directory and
directory information services. Specifically, we must ensure that:
1.2.1

at least one comprehensive directory and directory enquiry (DQ) service
exists and that end-users have access to them1;

1.2.2

subscribers have the right to be listed in directories and DQ services2; and

1.2.3

that communication providers which assign telephone numbers provide all
‘relevant information’ on fair, objective, cost-orientated and nondiscriminatory terms.3

1.3

These obligations and rights are limited by the need to respect the requirements of
the Privacy Directive to ensure subscribers can determine whether or not their data is
included in any directory.4

1.4

This consultation follows on from our consideration of two regulatory disputes
referred to us by The Number (UK) limited (”The Number”) and Conduit Enterprises
Ltd (“Conduit”) against British Telecommunications plc (“BT”). In considering the
disputes, we have established that the regulation put in place by Oftel in 2003 to
ensure a single directory information database cannot remain without modification.
This policy consultation sets out our proposed changes to regulation responding to
these issues.

1.5

This consultation document sets out:

1.6

1.5.1

an up-to-date assessment of the sector; and

1.5.2

proposed revisions to regulation that we think are needed to ensure the
continued delivery of directories and directory enquiry services in the UK.

An additional question we are asking for views on is whether, in the context of the
wholesale market for the maintenance of a centralised database, it is necessary for
Ofcom to intervene to ensure that such a database exists, or whether businesses will
fulfil the need for this information without regulation.

1

Article 5(1)a of Directive 2002/22/EC of 7 March 2002 on universal service and users’ rights to
electronic communications (Universal Service Directive)
2
Article 5(2) of the Universal Service Directive
3
Article 25 of the Universal Service Directive
4
See Article 5(2) of the Universal Service Directive and Article 12 of Directive 2002/58/EC of 12 July
2002 concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic
communications sector (Privacy Directive)

1

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

1.7

Our primary concern in addressing these issues is to ensure that UK consumers
continue to have access to comprehensive, high-quality and affordable directory
enquiry services and directories in line with the Universal Service obligations.

1.8

We will also consider how best to serve the interests of UK consumers with respect
to access to directories and DQ services by ensuring that providers of directory
information services and/or directories (“DIPs”) and authorised directory information
intermediaries continue to have access to the information necessary to offer those
services on the appropriate terms.

1.9

In Section 2 of this document, we explain the relevant regulatory background,
including the disputes and their consequences.

1.10

In Section 3, we consider the issues relating to ensuring end-users’ continued access
to directories and directory information services. In particular, we consider whether
the existing or likely future market is sufficient to provide these services.

1.11

In Section 4, we consider the nature of the telephone information and the process for
the provision of this information by Communication Providers to DIPs.

1.12

In Section 5, we consider the appropriate wholesale mechanisms that should be in
place to guarantee that DIPs have continued access to the information necessary to
continue to offer directory information services and directories.

1.13

In Section 6, we confirm that we have met our statutory duties under the
Communications Act 2003.

1.14

In Section 7, we set out the next steps in this policy review with a proposed timetable.

1.15

We are asking for Stakeholders’ views on these issues are sought by 19 May 2008.
Annex 1 to this document sets out further details on how to respond to this
consultation. A summary of the questions raised by Ofcom in this document is set out
in Annex 4, one of which relates to Ofcom’s proposed revocation of USC7 (see the
statutory notification of this proposal at Annex 5 to this document). Annex 6 sets out
the proposed modifications to the General Conditions. Annex 7 sets out our impact
assessment of the policy options considered.

2

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Section 2

2 Background
Introduction
2.1

This Section provides a brief background to put the issues considered in the
remainder of this document in their proper context.

The directory information services market in the UK
Main categories of service
2.2

2.3

2.4

By “directory information services”, we refer in this document to retail services
provided by DIPs to UK consumers that allow an individual to find a particular
telephone number by reference to information about the user of that number (for
example, their name). The three main categories of directory information services
are:
•

voice DQ services where users call a particular telephone number to speak to
an operator about their search requirements in the expectation of receiving the
telephone number they are looking for;

•

on-line DQ services where users will submit search requirements via a website
in the expectation of receiving the telephone number they are looking for5; and

•

paper directories of telephone numbers together with other data services such
as electronic directories on CD-Rom.

The services offered can vary within the above categories. However, the two main
types of searching criteria are:
•

name-specific searches – i.e. the user knows the name of the person/business
they require the telephone number for. e.g. “Mr R Jones, Acacia Avenue, Bristol”;
“Barclays Bank, High Street, Ilford”; and

•

classified business searches – i.e. the end-user wants a telephone number for
a particular type of business maybe in a particular location. e.g. “Plumber in
Muswell Hill”; “taxi firm in Nottingham”; “printers in Belfast”.

These categories of service are described in more detail below.

Voice DQ and on-line DQ services
2.5

The voice DQ market was liberalised in December 2002, when services on the new
‘118 XXX’ number range began operating in parallel with the legacy ‘192’ and ‘153’
DQ service access codes. The legacy services ceased operating in August 2003.
Prior to the introduction of ‘118 XXX’ numbers, end-users using ‘192’/’153’ would be
routed to the DQ service provider selected by their network provider. BT operated its
own voice DQ business and therefore all 192/153 calls made by BT-connected
customers would route to the BT-operated voice DQ service. Other voice DQ

5

Ex-directory records, and those for inclusion only in voice DQ services are excluded from on-line
searches.

3

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

providers would compete with BT for the wholesale business of the remaining
network providers in order to receive the 192/153 calls of their customers.
2.6

The launch of ‘118 XXX’ numbers meant that users could directly select their
preferred voice DQ service. This led to a number of new entrants providing voice DQ
services in the UK, and it resulted in an overall reduction in BT’s share of voice DQ
calls. Most voice DQ providers offer callers a choice of name-specific or classified
business searches. Many voice DQ providers also offer additional services including
call connection where calls are forwarded to the searched-for number without the
need to re-dial.

2.7

In March 2006, we published consumer research on voice DQ services, which
showed that the average cost for voice DQ services was 54p per call without call
connection for a single number request.6 We understand that today there are about
100 firms offering voice DQ services.7

2.8

Since 2002, voice DQ volumes have fallen, while growing internet usage has meant
that the use of on-line DQ services has increased rapidly.8 On-line DQ services also
tend to offer both name-specific and classified business searches to users. On-line
DQ services are usually offered free to users, funded by advertising and paid-for
classified links.

Paper directories
2.9

BT provides the only comprehensive residential and business ‘A to Z’ (alpha-sorted)
listings paper directory on a UK-wide basis. BT’s directory, known as ‘The
Phonebook’ is distributed in 171 local areas across the UK (excluding Hull).9

2.10

The Phonebook is included with BT’s line rental service, and is included in the
service that BT provides to other Communications Providers to enable them to offer
line rental services using the BT network.10 The Phonebook now features classified
business listings, where businesses are categorised by business type for ease of
reference (“Plumbers”, “Taxi firms”, “Printers”). Reflecting the practicalities of
distribution, we understand that, at present, BT makes a commercial judgement that
it is simpler not to seek to deliver The Phonebook only to its own customers but
instead distributes it annually to all households and businesses in the UK (excluding
Hull). 11 12 This distribution decision is further supported commercially by the inclusion
of classified listings in the Phonebook and the need for BT to meet commitments to
its classified customers to deliver to at least 95% of all households in a given district.

6

7

http://www.ofcom.org.uk/media/news/2006/03/nr_20060327

There are around 130 118XXX services listed (though a number of these are controlled by the same
provider).
8
Fixed line DQ call minutes fell 47% between 2000 and 2006 (around 167M call minutes reduction),
we have only recently been monitoring mobile DQ call though there seems to be a slight upward trend
(14% from 2003 to 2006 ie from 98M to 114M).
9
Hull falls within the local service provision area of KCOM Group plc.
10
The service that BT provides is known as ‘wholesale line rental’.
11
See BT’s Initial Submission to the Competition Commission during its market inquiry into classified
directory advertising services in the UK, where it states that: “BT aims to distribute a copy of the
Phone Book free at point of delivery to every household and business in the relevant area (except
Hull)”: http://www.competitioncommission.org.uk/inquiries/ref2005/classdirec/main_party_submissions.htm
12
For practical reasons of access bulk mailings are not able to ensure 100% delivery to all
households (for example access to high security blocks of flats can be problematic). BT is examining
its approach to bulk delivery to such households but remains committed to free delivery of the
Phonebook either by bulk mail or where that is not possible direct mail on request.

4

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Therefore, on this basis, The Phonebook is in almost all cases provided to all enduser customers of other Communications Providers free of charge.
2.11

As the principal telecommunications provider in the Kingston upon Hull area, KCOM
Group plc (“KCOM”)13 provides a comprehensive residential and business ‘A to Z’
(alpha-sorted) listings paper directory in that area annually to its customers as part of
its line rental service.

2.12

Like BT in other areas, KCOM also provides a ‘white pages’ directory annually to all
households and businesses in Hull free of charge. In addition, it publishes a separate
classified directory, Hull Colour Pages, for Kingston upon Hull. Its classified directory
includes an A–Z listing of businesses, with addresses, telephone and fax numbers of
the businesses concerned.

2.13

Other providers supply directories containing simply business ‘A to Z’ listings and
classified business listings. These ‘classified directories’ are also published on a
‘local’ basis (although the defined ‘local’ area will vary according to publisher). We
understand that these directories are usually distributed free of charge to individuals
in that local area. Businesses usually receive a free line entry in classified directories,
with providers of those directories paid by the businesses which advertise in them,
who pay according to the type of entry they select.

BT’s OSIS database
2.14

BT14 keeps an up-to-date database (known as the ‘Operator Services Information
System’ or “OSIS”) containing telephone directory information in relation to all listed
UK telephone numbers (excluding unlisted numbers which includes most mobile
numbers), including the Kingston upon Hull area. OSIS is the principal database for
directory information, and the terms of access to OSIS were central to the disputes
referred to Ofcom.

2.15

OSIS contains various types of data relating to the use of a telephone number,
including whether, and if so the manner that it should appear in a directory, whether
for purposes of displaying its listings together with other listings (known as
“grouping”15) or for the purposes of processing data under data protection
legislation. Records within OSIS are ‘customer-defined’ so that they reflect the
express wishes of (contractual) subscribers to whom the relevant telephone numbers
have been issued about how those subscribers wish information about themselves,
and their telephone number, to appear and be presented in directories and via DQ
services.

2.16

OSIS, therefore, covers in addition to the basic General Condition 1916 data (name,
address and telephone number of the subscriber):

13

KCOM Group plc was previously named Kingston Communications (Hull) plc
OSIS is provided by BT Wholesale Markets, which is a business unit that is part of the BT Group.
OSIS is operated separately from the ‘BT Directories’ business (that is part of BT Retail).
15
OSIS records may be either single or grouped entries. Single entries (including most residential
entries) link one telephone number to one individual at an individual address. In contrast, grouped
entries contain individual records relating to a group of telephone numbers allocated to a person or
organisation. For instance, a bank or local authority may have a list of telephone numbers which they
want to be published in paper directories (this is not relevant to electronic directories).
16
The General Conditions of Entitlement for the operation of communications services (“General
Conditions”)
14

5

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

•

the name that a subscriber wishes to appear in the directory entry, which may
differ from the (contractual) subscriber’s name to reflect the actual end-user of
the relevant telephone number (e.g. a parent may subscribe to a phone line, but
want their child’s name, as the end-user, to appear on OSIS in relation to the
telephone number; a business may outsource their telecoms purchasing so that
the name of the subscriber of the phone line differs from the name of the actual
end-user), plus the related titles (Mr, Miss, etc);

•

additional identification data that subscribers may want to associate with
specific numbers, such as a certain business description; and

•

the overall appearance of the directory entry, including the way in which any
group captions are structured and presented for ease of reference. Businesses
creating group captions may want to direct enquirers to certain key numbers
within departments for specific purposes and OSIS provides the flexibility to
structure a group caption to do this.

2.17

BT acquires data from Communications Providers about their subscribers for
inclusion within OSIS on terms set out in Schedule 11 of BT’s standard form of
contractual terms, known as the ‘Standard Interconnect Agreement’. This Agreement
also determines the charges BT itself pays for the receipt of data. Currently, BT
seeks to acquire information from all Communications Providers issuing telephone
numbers - in other words, BT aggregates all data received to produce OSIS.

2.18

Finally, OSIS is used by DIPs (including BT itself) to provide directory information
services. Therefore, by obtaining information from all other providers and by
providing the contents of the OSIS database to DIPs, BT acts, in effect, as a central
dissemination point for all of the telephone directory information in the UK.

2.19

BT supplies access to OSIS to DIPs on terms set out in its licence arrangements.
Licensees to OSIS receive twice yearly ‘refreshes’ of the database via CD-Rom and
update files via file transfer 6 days a week containing all amendments, deletions and
additions to the records within OSIS. BT charges OSIS licensees according to a
published price list. The price paid to BT is based on the use the licensee in question
makes of the OSIS data to provide retail directory information services (DIPs of voice
DQ services will pay amounts to BT based on the number of searches they make of
the OSIS data; and DIPs of paper directories will pay amounts to BT based on the
number of paper directories distributed). The division within BT that maintains OSIS
(called “BT Directories”) accounts for transfer charges in respect of its own use of
the OSIS data to provide BT’s retail directories and voice and on-line DQ services.

2.20

OSIS licensees include providers of:

6

•

voice DQ services;

•

on-line DQ services;

•

paper A to Z listings directories;

•

classified directories; and

•

companies (known as tele-appenders) who provide large-scale search facilities,
e.g. organisations such as Equifax obtain data from OSIS and use this to run
searches on a large number of subscribers at the same time for, say, marketing
companies requiring contact numbers.

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

2.21

DIPs providing classified business searches do not solely rely on the data provided
by OSIS to carry out searches by business classification. This is because, although
BT provides certain ‘business description’ data, this is not always considered a
suitable and reliable means of classifying businesses for search purposes. Many
DIPs will, therefore, buy business classification data separately to allow them to
conduct such searches. DIPs providing business classification data will also need to
contact the specific business to discuss how they should be classified.

The legal and regulatory framework
EU Obligations
2.22

In 2002, a package of EC directives was adopted to establish a harmonised single
framework for the regulation of electronic communications services, electronic
communications networks, associated facilities and associated services.

2.23

This single regulatory framework for all transmission networks and services in the
converging telecommunications, media, and information technology sectors was set
out in five new EC harmonising directives which are designed to achieve that
framework:

2.24

•

Directive 2002/21/EC of 7 March 2002 on a common regulatory framework for
electronic communications networks and services (the “Framework Directive”);

•

Directive 2002/19/EC of 7 March 2002 on access to, and interconnection of,
electronic communications networks and associated facilities (the “Access
Directive”);

•

Directive 2002/20/EC of 7 March 2002 on the authorisation of electronic
communications networks and services (the “Authorisation Directive”);

•

the Privacy Directive; and

•

the Universal Service Directive.

Specifically, the Universal Service Directive requires that Member States must
ensure in relation to the provision of directories and DQ services, that:
•

at least one comprehensive (universal service) directory is available to all endusers (Article 5(1)(a));

•

at least one comprehensive (universal service) DQ service is available to all endusers (Article 5(1)(b));

•

where appropriate, specific measures are taken for disabled end-users in order to
ensure access to and affordability of directories and DQ services equivalent to
that enjoyed by other end-users (Article 7(1));

•

subscribers to publicly available telephone services have the right to an entry in
the comprehensive (universal service) directory (Article 25(1));

•

all undertakings which assign telephone numbers to subscribers meet all
reasonable requests to make available, for the purposes of the provision of
publicly available DQ services and directories, the relevant information in an

7

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

agreed format on terms which are fair, objective, cost oriented and nondiscriminatory (Article 25(2));
•

all end-users with a connection to the public telephone network can access
operator assistance services and the comprehensive (universal service) DQ
service (Article 25(3)); and

•

there are no regulatory restrictions which prevent end-users in one Member State
from accessing directly the DQ service in another Member State (Article 25(4)).

2.25

These obligations are limited by the need to respect the wishes of consumers not to
be listed or to verify, correct or withdraw that data if they wish.17 Opting out of a
public subscriber directory or verifying, correcting or withdrawing personal data from
it must be free of charge.

2.26

The relevant legal provisions are set out in full in Annex 8.

UK Obligations
2.27

The EC directives discussed above were implemented into UK law mainly through
the Communications Act 2003 (the “2003 Act”). The relevant provisions of the 2003
Act entered into force on 25 July 2003.

2.28

The 2003 Act does not specify detailed rules conferring the rights of end-users or
imposing the corresponding obligations on undertakings as established by the
Universal Service Directive. Instead, the 2003 Act confers certain powers on Ofcom
to enable it to make rules to achieve these objectives.

2.29

The obligations set out in the Universal Service Directive are transposed into UK law
through the following national measures:
•

Sections 45(4), 65 and 67 of the 2003 Act;

•

the Electronic Communications (Universal Service) Regulations 2003;

•

The Electronic Communications (Universal Service) Order 2003 (the “Universal
Service Order”);

•

General Conditions 8 and 19 (“GC8” and “GC19”); and

•

Condition 7 applicable to British Telecommunications plc in the Universal Service
Notification (“USC7”).

2.30

In addition, the obligations under the Privacy Directive are transposed into UK law by
the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003
(“Privacy Regulations”).

2.31

The Universal Service Order imposes an obligation on Ofcom to ensure the
requirements of the Universal Service Directive are met (and does not impose direct

17

More specifically, the obligations under the Universal Service Directive are limited by the need for
Member States to respect the requirements of Article 12 of the Privacy Directive which requires that
subscribers are given the opportunity to determine whether their personal data are included in a
public directory, and to verify, correct or withdraw such data.

8

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

obligations on the industry). It is our role to impose those obligations through General
Conditions and universal service conditions.
2.32

GC8 relates to the provision of operator assistance, directories and DQ services.

2.33

GC19 relates to the provision of telephone directory information by Communications
Providers to DIPs.

2.34

USC7 requires BT to maintain and supply a directory information database and
directories.

2.35

In practice, the UK regime operates through BT acting as a central dissemination
point for the directory information of all subscribers to telephone services in the UK.
In so doing, BT also supplies directories to consumers and provides access to the
contents of its database to other DIPs.

2.36

The full text of GC8, GC19 and USC7 is set out in Annex 818.

The KPN judgment and Ofcom’s resolution of The Number/Conduit disputes
2.37

The relevant legal and regulatory framework for the provision of directories and DQ
services has been considered at a Community level by the European Court of Justice
(“ECJ”) in its judgment on 25 November 2004 in Case C-109/03, KPN Telecom BV
v. OPTA (“KPN”); and at UK level by Ofcom in its consideration of the two disputes
discussed above.

The ECJ’s judgment in KPN
2.38

This judgment was a preliminary ruling as to what ‘relevant information’ had, as a
minimum, to be supplied to ensure the provision of directories and DQ services in
accordance with EC Directive 98/10/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 26 February 1998 on the application of open network provision (ONP) to
voice telephony and on universal service for telecommunications in a competitive
environment. That directive has now been repealed and, so far as is material, been
replaced by Article 25(2) of the Universal Service Directive.

2.39

In summary, the ECJ decided that ‘relevant information’ comprised the name,
address and telephone number of subscribers who have not expressly objected to
being listed in a published directory. The ECJ also decided that only costs which
related to the additional costs of making such data available to the requesting parties
could be recovered by KPN. The provision of other data, including end-user
information, (not being ‘relevant information’) was held by the ECJ to be, in effect,
unregulated, so that if such data was supplied even though not required by the EC
directive, any additional costs (e.g. for compilation) may be invoiced to requesting
parties.

2.40

In relation to the provision of ‘relevant information’ the ECJ held that the directive19
did not seek complete harmonisation of all the criteria that may appear necessary to
identify subscribers, and that Member States may require in light of specific national
circumstances that certain ‘additional data’ ought to be made available (but that this

18

Specific measures for disabled end-users are provided by means of GC 15 and USC 4 . These
provisions are outside the scope of the present discussion.
19
Directive 98/10/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 1998 on the
application of open network provision (ONP) to voice telephony and on universal service for
telecommunications in a competitive environment.

9

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

had not occurred in the KPN case). The nature of what may constitute appropriate
required additional information in the light of specific national circumstances is
considered further in section 4 below.

Ofcom’s findings in The Number/Conduit Determinations
2.41

Ofcom has today issued two determinations under sections 188 and 190 of the 2003
Act for resolving two disputes: the first between The Number and BT; and the
second, between Conduit and BT.

2.42

The primary issue arising in these disputes is whether charges paid by The Number
and Conduit to BT for the supply of the contents of BT’s OSIS database are
consistent with BT’s regulatory obligations.

2.43

There are two regulatory rules relevant to these disputes:
i.

BT is required under USC7 to supply on request the contents of its OSIS
database in machine readable form to any person seeking to provide publicly
available directory enquiry services, such as those provided by The Number and
Conduit; and

ii.

separately, Communications Providers are required under GC19 to supply on
reasonable request certain directory information for the purposes of the provision
of certain services, again such as those provided by The Number and Conduit.

2.44

Under both of these regulatory rules, BT must supply the information on terms which
are (among others) cost oriented and in a format agreed between the parties.

2.45

Ofcom concluded that:
a) USC7 is, in effect, unlawful. The reason for this was essentially that USCs may
be imposed only in order to secure compliance with Community obligations and,
in particular for present purposes, the obligation in Article 5(1) of the Universal
Service Directive and as USC7 fails to impose an obligation on any undertaking
(and, in particular, on BT as a designated provider) to guarantee that Article 5
Universal Service Directive services are made available then Ofcom was not
empowered to impose USC7. Accordingly, we consider that USC7 should be
revoked following the statutory process under the 2003 Act. Ofcom should now
consider what, if any, obligations are required in the future to ensure that the
relevant universal services are delivered20. This issue is further considered in
Section 3 of this document.
b) BT is only required to provide information about the following subscribers:
•

20

BT’s own subscribers of publicly available telephone service (PATS)21;

In accordance with Ofcom’s regulatory principles we will only regulate to ensure that the objectives
set out in the Universal Service Directive are satisfied. In other words, we will only regulate if a
universal service obligation will not satisfactorily be met through normal market conditions.
21
PATS means a service available to the public for originating and receiving national and international
calls and access to Emergency Organisations through a number or numbers in national or
international numbering plan, and in addition may, where relevant, include one or more of the
following services, Directory Enquiry Facilities, Directories, provision of Public Pay Telephones,
provision of service under special terms, provision of specific facilities for End-Users with disabilities
or with special social needs and/or the provision of non-geographic services.

10

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

•

subscribers contracting with other Communications Providers for the supply
of PATS to the extent that those subscribers have been assigned telephone
numbers originally allocated to BT; and

•

In relation to the above subscribers, the information that BT must provide –
the defined ‘Directory Information’ within GC19 – consists of the name,
address and telephone number of the subscriber.

2.46

These conclusions mean that BT has, under the terms of GC19, only been obliged to
provide a sub-set of the data actually provided to The Number and Conduit in the
form of OSIS.

2.47

We have also accepted that, in order to resolve these disputes, we must set the cost
oriented charges for the provision of the BT GC19 data set for the period since 25
July 2003.

2.48

We consider that, in light of KPN, only certain costs can be recovered. We have
concluded that BT should not recover any costs of gathering relevant information
from subscribers of its own voice telephony services in setting a charge for the BT
GC19 data set.

2.49

However, BT is also obliged under GC19 to provide information about the
subscribers of other Communications Providers who are using telephone numbers
that were originally allocated to BT. Ofcom considers that BT would not otherwise
collect this information (i.e. it has no contractual relationship with these subscribers
so requires no information about them), and would have no other means of
recovering these costs if it was not permitted to do so through charges for the GC19
data set.

2.50

As such, whilst BT can only recover the costs of making the BT GC19 data set of its
own subscribers available to requesting parties, it may recover the costs of gathering,
collating and making available GC19 data of subscribers of other Communications
Providers who are using numbers originally allocated to BT.

2.51

We have assessed which of the costs BT has incurred in providing OSIS are relevant
to its provision of the BT GC19 data set and concluded that only costs associated
with:
2.51.1

transmitting the data to requesting parties;

2.51.2

managing the commercial relationship with those parties; and

2.51.3

allowing new customers access to the data

should be recoverable from charges for the BT GC19 data set.
2.52

We have also included additional labour costs (covering annual leave, illness,
maternity cover etc) and the costs incurred by BT in ensuring that the GC19 data it
provides to DIPs is used in accordance with contractual arrangements, thereby
ensuring that BT complies with its data protection obligations.

2.53

These charges will apply in future regardless of whether the BT GC19 data set
continues to be provided as an integral part of OSIS or is provided on a stand-alone
basis. BT will need to comply with the terms of GC19 in setting charges and the
principles we have established in terms of cost recovery should be followed.

11

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Section 3

3 Meeting directory and directory enquiries
access requirements
Introduction
3.1

Following Ofcom’s consideration of the lawfulness of USC7 (as set out in The
Number/Conduit Determinations), Ofcom’s aim in this Section is to review the
directories and directory information services sector to determine whether we need to
continue to regulate to secure UK compliance with the Universal Service Directive in
relation to the availability of directories and DQ services.

3.2

In accordance with the approach set out in the Universal Service Directive and in line
with Ofcom’s regulatory principles (in this context), we will only regulate if required to
achieve the objectives set out in the Universal Service Directive.22 In this case, we
will only regulate designated Communications Providers if a universal service
obligation will not satisfactorily be met through normal market conditions.
Accordingly, we will consider whether comprehensive directories and DQ services
are available to all end-users at an affordable price and of an appropriate quality
under normal market conditions to satisfy the requirements of Article 5 of the
Universal Service Directive.

3.3

Specifically, this Section is structured to consider and invite stakeholders’ views on
a number of questions relating to:
•

Our proposal to revoke USC7;

•

Whether existing directories (printed and electronic) fall within the ‘universal
service’ criteria relevant to directories, including any future implications on PATS
providers’ obligations under GC8.2; and

•

the application of the ‘universal service’ criteria to DQ services, including any
future implications on PATS providers’ obligations under GC8.1(b).

Proposed revocation of USC7
The effect of, and Ofcom’s reasons for making, this proposal
3.4

The process for revoking a universal service condition is set out in the 2003 Act.23
Our proposal is to follow this process by publishing a notification in the form set out in
Annex 5.

3.5

We make this proposal because USC7 is unlawful. We consider this is the case as
USCs may be imposed only in order to secure compliance with Community
obligations and, in particular for present purposes, the obligations in Article 5(1) of
the Universal Service Directive. As USC7 fails to impose an obligation on any
undertaking (and, in particular, on BT as a designated provider) to guarantee that

22

See statement of regulatory principles http://www.ofcom.org.uk/about/sdrp/

23

Section 48(1) of the 2003 Act prescribes that the way in which USC7 is to be revoked is by the
publication of a notification stating that USC7 is revoked.

12

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Article 5 Universal Service Directive services are made available then Ofcom was not
empowered to impose USC7. In other words, we consider that there is no enabling
power to impose a USC in these circumstances as it has not been exercised for
securing compliance with the obligations set out in the Universal Service Directive.
Ofcom’s more detailed reasons as to why USC7 cannot be regarded as a specific
obligation on a person designated to provide a universal service under the Universal
Service Directive, both as a matter of Community law and under the 2003 Act, are
set out in Section 5 of the The Number/Conduit Determinations.
3.6

The effect of this proposal is that BT would no longer be required to maintain a
database containing “Directory Information of all Subscribers who have been
allocated Telephone Numbers by any Communications Provider”. Nor would BT be
required to make available (on regulated terms):
“(a) to any Communications Provider subject to paragraph 8.2 of
General Condition 8 for the purpose of allowing that
Communications Provider to comply with that paragraph, such
Directories as BT compiles which comply with the requirements of
that General Condition; and
(b) to any person seeking to provide publicly available Directory
Enquiry Facilities and/or Directories, the contents of the database, in
machine readable form.”

3.7

In the remainder of this section and latter sections of this paper we will consider the
implications of removing USC7. We will consider the nature of the market in the
absence of regulation and consider the requirements, if any, for further regulation.

3.8

Before we may revoke USC7, the 2003 Act requires us to consult publicly on our
proposal.24

3.9

Accordingly, we have decided to publish a statutory notification under section 48(2)
of the 2003 Act. This notification is set out in Annex 5 of this document.

3.10

We are inviting written views and comments specifically on this proposal, which
should be made to us no later than by 5pm on 19 May 2008 in the format and
manner specified in Annex 1 to this document.
Question 3.1: Do you agree with Ofcom’s proposed revocation of USC7? If you
disagree, what are your reasons for this view?

The provision of directories
3.11

Article 5(1)(a) of the Universal Service Directive requires that Member States shall
ensure that at least one comprehensive directory is available to end-users in a form
approved by the relevant authority, whether printed or electronic, or both, and is
updated on a regular basis, and at least once a year. This requirement has been
transposed into UK law by means of the Universal Service Order.

24

Specifically, section 48(2) of the 2003 Act requires Ofcom to publish a notification: stating that it is proposing to
revoke USC7 as specified in the notification; setting out the effect of that revocation; giving its reasons for making
the proposal; and specifying the period within which representations may be made to Ofcom about its proposal,
which period must end no less than one month after the day of the publication of the notification.

13

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

3.12

We must only take action when required and place a regulatory condition on
designated Communications Providers if we believe that a universal service
obligation will not satisfactorily be met through normal market conditions.

3.13

Accordingly, we are asking a number of questions to determine whether the
requirements of Article 5(1)(a) of the Universal Service Directive are met by normal
market conditions:
3.13.1

Do existing directories (both printed and electronic) meet the requirements
for a comprehensive directory required under the Universal Service
Directive?

3.13.2

Will market conditions ensure the provision of (at least one) comprehensive
printed telephone directory service covering the UK without regulatory
intervention?

3.13.3

Will market conditions ensure the provision of (at least one) comprehensive
electronic directory covering the UK without regulatory intervention?

3.14

Also relevant to this, is the question of whether there is, and is likely in future to be, a
functioning wholesale telephone directory information market (regulated or
unregulated) which is discussed in Section 5.

3.15

In dealing with this we consider whether normal market conditions are adequately
fulfilling the following ‘universal service’ criteria for printed and/or electronic
directories (which can be derived from the Universal Service Directive (and the
Universal Service Order)):
•

comprehensiveness;

•

affordability;

•

quality; and

•

availability.

Comprehensiveness
3.16

The Universal Service Order provides that “[a]t least one comprehensive directory
shall be made available to end-users in a form approved by OFCOM, whether printed
or electronic, or both, and it shall be updated at least once a year.”25.

3.17

There is no definition of the word “comprehensive” in the Universal Service Order.
However, the Universal Service Order prescribes that the directory shall comprise,
subject to the Privacy Regulations, the details of all subscribers of PATS and their
telephone numbers, including fixed and mobile telephone numbers. The Universal
Service Directive’s preamble notes the policy aim across the Community is that
“[u]sers and consumers desire comprehensive directories and a directory enquiry
service covering all listed telephone subscribers and their numbers (including fixed
and mobile numbers) and want this information to be presented in a non-preferential
fashion”.26 In other words, the reference to the word “all” appears to suggest that the
directory must list every telephone number of a PATS subscriber throughout the UK

25
26

Article 5 of the Universal Service Directive reads in similar terms.
Recital 11 of the Universal Service Directive.

14

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

for it to be comprehensive. However, this is subject to the right of a subscriber to
choose whether to be listed in a directory.
3.18

The comprehensiveness of the data underlying the service is presently guaranteed
by the comprehensiveness of the database on which they are based (that is, OSIS)
The continued maintenance of OSIS or a similar database is discussed in Section 5.
However, for the purpose of this discussion we can consider that the provision of
comprehensive input data is available.

3.19

One additional aspect of comprehensive is the ‘local’ nature of the printed directory
provided to most households. While access to other regional directories is available
(by order and at a price) in effect the comprehensive provision of a directory service
is usually achieved by a combination of the printed directory, on-line electronic
directories and DQ services.

3.20

The Universal Service Order also requires at least annual updating of the directories.
This is currently being undertaken in compliance with GC 8.3 and USC 7.1 (which
requires the BT database to be updated on a regular basis).

Affordability
3.21

The Universal Service Order requires that universal services (including directories)
should be offered at prices that are affordable for all end-users and uniform
throughout the UK (unless Ofcom determines otherwise). The Universal Service
Order does not define what is meant by the term “affordable”. However, the Universal
Service Directive’s preamble defines an “[a]ffordable price” to mean “a price defined
by Member States at national level in the light of specific national conditions, and
may involve setting common tariffs irrespective of location or special tariff options to
deal with the needs of low-income users. Affordability for individual consumers is
related to their ability to monitor and control their expenditure.”27

3.22

As noted above, BT and KCOM currently supply their local directories free of charge
to all end-users. Equally, online directories are available with free access (excluding
the cost of internet access). While BT offers additional in and out of local area
directories at a cost of £6.76 per directory, this is relatively rarely exercised with
subscribers preferring DQ services or electronic on-line services. There is, therefore,
no evidence to suggest that affordability is an issue for directories.

Quality
3.23

Printed and on-line directories are derived from a comprehensive database which is
regularly updated by through updates received from Communications Providers who
are managing individual subscribers.

3.24

While record error inevitably occurs there is no apparent systemic problem of
information accuracy and neither is there evidence of consumer discontent with the
quality of directory services.28

27

Recital 10 of the Universal Service Directive
Ofcom Contact Centre received only 9 complaints on directory accuracy in the 12 months up to 31
October 2007.

28

15

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Availability
3.25

At present, PATS subscribers have access to both the printed directories supplied by
BT and KCOM and the electronic on-line directories supplied by a number of
providers. While, the printed directories provided automatically by BT and KCOM are
‘local’ only, other directories are available on request and all subscribers have
potential access (if they have and use an internet connection) to ‘free’29 on-line
directories. Clearly for subscribers without internet access non-local directory
availability is time constrained by the need to request additional volumes (though of
course the universal availability of DQ services does also appear to address any
immediate needs).
Question 3.2: Ofcom considers that the current directory services meet the criteria of
comprehensiveness, affordability, quality and availability. Do you agree with this
assessment? If not, please provide a detailed response as to which criteria is not
fulfilled and in what way.

The market provision of a printed directory
3.26

Given the points noted above, we think the evidence suggests that the existing
printed directories meet the criteria set out in the Universal Service Directive (and
Universal Service Order). The key question is, therefore, whether we should expect
that BT and KCOM will continue to provide printed directories, without the
requirement of a universal service condition.

3.27

There are two types of printed comprehensive directories delivered in the UK. BT
delivers around 170 local editions of its directory, the ‘Phone Book’, which together
cover all of the UK except for the Hull area. KCOM publishes a directory in the Hull
area, the ‘Hull White Pages’. We discuss these two in turn below.

BT’s Phone Book
3.28

The Phone Book is now a bundled product containing both a comprehensive
directory for residential and business numbers in an A-to-Z format and also classified
advertising sections, in which entries are organised under business classifications
such as ‘plumbers’ or ‘taxis’. BT began to include classified advertisements in some
local versions of the Phone Book in 2002, and by 2005 all 170 local versions
contained classified advertising sections.

3.29

We are interested in whether BT has an incentive to continue to produce the
comprehensive directory part of the Phone Book. In order to consider this, we first
consider the Phone Book as a whole.

3.30

Based on confidential information provided by BT, it is clear that the Phone Book is
currently profitable and likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. This is
consistent with the report by the Competition Commission in December 2006 of its
investigation into the Classified Directory Advertising Services market, primarily
regarding the position of the market leader Yell.30 In that report, the Competition

29

Free subject to the cost of access to the internet.
http://www.competition-commission.org.uk/rep_pub/reports/2006/fulltext/521.pdf. The Competition
Commission estimated that Yell has around 75 per cent of the UK advertising revenues for major
classified directory advertising services. The Competition Commission found that Yell had market
power and this could lead to Yell setting excessive prices. The remedies the Competition Commission
imposed included a price control on Yell’s rate card.
30

16

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Commission says that BT is becoming a more significant operator in the classified
advertisement market, and its market share had grown rapidly since 2002.
3.31

It is possible that if the requirement to publish the A-Z directory listing were removed,
BT may choose to publish only the classified advertising section of the Phone Book.
However, we consider that there are a number of commercial reasons why BT would
not. Firstly, BT obtains revenue from producing the A-Z section from the Wholesale
Line Rental (WLR) charge and also from selling advertising in the A-Z section (e.g.
bold/super bold listings, separate page listings etc). Secondly, the bundling of the A-Z
part of the Phone Book and the classified advertisements is likely in part to increase
classified advertisements revenues as it is the main unique selling point of the Phone
Book as a vehicle to place advertising in. The A-Z sections of the Phone Book may
help to give the Phone Book as a whole greater prominence and make it more
attractive for businesses to advertise in the classified section.

3.32

Even if BT continues to produce a bundled Phone Book, there are other risks that
could threaten the continued provision of the printed directory. BT may stop
delivering the Phone Book to certain geographical areas or to non-BT subscribers; or
it may stop updating/issuing it on a 12 monthly basis.

3.33

As BT considers the profitability of the Phone Book as a whole, rather than in relation
to specific local areas, we cannot easily consider profitability by area. However, we
can compare the average profitability per directory of all directories with delivery
costs per directory by area. BT has supplied Ofcom with information on the delivery
costs of the Phone Book for different areas, and these vary significantly between
different areas. However, even for the areas with the highest delivery costs, these
costs are significantly less than the average profit per directory. There may also be
benefits from increased classified advertising revenue from providing near-universal
geographical coverage. Some businesses, such as insurance companies, seek
national coverage for their advertisements.

3.34

BT’s delivery to non-subscribers was based on a commercial decision related to the
economics of delivery and the contractual demands of entering the classified
advertising market. In particular, with respect to the classified market in any given
Phonebook district BT is contractually bound to its classified customers to deliver to
at least 95% of all households31. Given the need to compete for advertisers with the
universal coverage of Yellow Pages and Thomson, it seems highly unlikely BT would
move back to subscriber delivery only.

3.35

Another concern may be that without the requirement to produce a new directory
every 12 months, BT may only update the Phone Book over a longer period than 12
months. This may be a particular a concern because BT only used to update the
Phone Book every 18 months. However, classified advertising revenue is the most
important source of revenue for the Phone Book. The other two major classified
directories, Yellow Pages and Thomson Local, both use an annual publication
cycle.32 An annual publication cycle is therefore the norm for the classified directories
market, and BT is therefore likely to have commercial reasons to retain an annual
production cycle.

31

For practical reasons of access bulk mailings are not able to ensure 100% delivery to all
households (for example access to high security blocks of flats can be problematic). BT is examining
its approach to bulk delivery to such households but remains committed to free delivery of the
Phonebook either by bulk mail or where that is not possible direct mail on request.
32
As confirmed in Thomson’s and Yell’s submissions to the Competition Commission.

17

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

3.36

On balance, we believe that the evidence we have seen so far suggests that BT is
likely to continue to deliver a bundled Phone Book that includes both A-Z and
classified advertisements in the future, and that it will do so every 12 months.

KCOM’s Hull White Pages
3.37

KCOM publishes a comprehensive ‘A to Z’ business and residential directory for its
area, known as Hull White Pages. This is published separately from its classified
advertising directory, Hull Colour Pages. KCOM does not produce separate
management accounts for its White Pages, rather this is subsumed in KCOM’s
directory publishing business (which includes the production of both). Based on
confidential information provided by KCOM, the directory publishing business as a
whole appears profitable.

3.38

Clearly BT and KCOM are able to offer a self-financing printed directory service
which delivers net returns to their company thereby ensuring that the market satisfies
the need for a directory to be made available to all end users. The continuation of
these services does appear reasonably certain for the foreseeable future with or
without the obligation under USC7.

Conclusion on printed directories
3.39

In conclusion, we believe that the commercial market conditions relating to the
provision of a printed local directory are currently sufficient to ensure the continued
free provision and maintenance of printed directories which satisfy the relevant
universal service criteria outlined above. We will continue to monitor the market to
ensure that this analysis remains valid.

Electronic Directory
3.40

There are two forms of electronic directory: internet based; or directly provided via
CD-Rom.

3.41

There are a small number of comprehensive internet directories, which allow users to
search for a particular individual or business if the name and address area are
known. Both the two main DQ providers, The Number and BT, offer such internet
directories.33 These internet directories use the OSIS database for their searches.

3.42

Internet directories are usually offered free to users, funded by advertising, paid-for
classified links and links to directory related value added charged services.

3.43

We have conducted some high-level research on the finances of the electronic
directory providers. While we have not sought to understand the business models in
detail it is clear given their development to date (without any regulatory requirement),
and the apparent continued viability of the companies that the industry is relatively
robust. Based on the evidence we have seen so far, we do not expect there to be a
risk to provision in the future.

3.44

The provision of the CD-Rom based directories are offered entirely on a commercial
basis largely to business customers.

33

The other on line providers that Ofcom is aware of are i-CD Publishing (UK) Ltd (www.192.com)
and Simunix Ltd (www.ukphonebook.com).

18

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

General Condition 8
Appropriateness of continuing the existing regulatory obligation
3.45

GC8.2 requires that Communications Providers who assign telephone numbers to
subscribers must also provide their subscribers with a printed directory. GC8.3
requires Communications Providers who produce a printed directory to produce it
annually and to respond to Ofcom’s requirements on format. GC8.3, inter alia, allows
Communications Providers to recover the cost of the provision of a local and
additional telephone books.

3.46

In practice, these obligations are satisfied by the annual delivery of directories
provided by BT and KCOM free of charge to all end-users.

3.47

With the removal of USC7 there is no guaranteed availability of a printed directory for
Communications Providers who do not themselves produce a directory. While the
existing arrangement could continue under contractual agreements between BT and
individual Communications Providers, it is not clear why any regulatory obligation is
needed or desirable when access to directories is expected to be provided in any
event (that is, under existing market conditions). In effect, the obligations placed on
Communications Providers by GC8.2 are satisfied by BT and KCOM alone providing
the required directories and, as discussed above, we consider it unlikely that BT or
KCOM would change their current behaviour in the absence of the regulation.

3.48

In addition, GC8.2 requires the provision of a printed directory only which places an
additional burden on Communications Providers given that the Universal Service
Directive/Universal Service Order requirement is for provision of either a printed or
electronic directory. In addition to the provision of the printed directory, the Universal
Service Order’s requirement for directories is further supported by the independent
(and non-mandated) electronic directory market. As discussed above, the limited
nature of the printed directory in terms of the comprehensiveness of information
ensures that the provision of a directory information service to a household is a
combination of both printed and electronic and DQ services.

3.49

Based on the evidence we have seen so far, we think it is appropriate to remove the
GC8.2 obligation, given:

3.50

3.49.1

the apparent robustness of the existing market conditions for the provision
of directories;

3.49.2

the inherent limits of a printed directory and its relationship with other
directory services which are provided by general market conditions;

3.49.3

the revocation of USC7; and

3.49.4

the resultant inappropriateness of maintaining the obligation on all
Communications Providers to provide a directory where actual delivery is
currently provided by two Communications Providers.

In this context, we consider that it would also not be appropriate to retain the other
conditions relating to a printed directory – specifically GC8.3 and the related element
of GC8.4, particularly as our analysis suggests that the 12 month production cycle is
likely to continue to be met under normal market conditions.

19

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

3.51

As noted above we will continue to monitor the market to gather more evidence and
to test whether this analysis remains valid. Should market circumstances change we
retain the ability to re-impose a directory obligation to ensure the continued provision
of directories in the future in accordance with the requirements of the Universal
Service Directive (and Universal Service Order).

3.52

With the removal of the Directory obligation under GC8.2 we will also need to remove
the obligations in Annex 4 to General Condition 14: Code on the provision by Service
Providers of consumer information to Domestic and Small Business Customers for
the provision of Services, which requires Communications Providers to make it clear
as part of the sales process if the Communications Provider is unable to supply a
Directory.
A full version of a proposed revised GC8 is set out at the end of this section
and in the Modification notice in Annex 6. The modification to Annex 4 of
GC14 is set out in Annex 6.
Question 3.3: Do you agree with Ofcom’s analysis? If you do not agree please
provide your reasons.

Access to DQ services in the future
The ‘universal service’ criteria for DQ services
3.53

We next deal with the ‘universal service’ criteria in relation to DQ services. As with
the case for universal service directories, we will consider whether existing services
meet the universal service criteria and consider the robustness of the market in terms
of continued provision.

Comprehensiveness
3.54

The Universal Service Order provides that “[a]t least one comprehensive telephone
directory enquiry facility shall be made available to end-users, including users of
public pay telephones.” (Article 5 of the Universal Service Directive reads in similar
terms.)

3.55

As noted above in paragraph 3.17, there is no definition of the word “comprehensive”
in the Universal Service Order. However, paragraph 3.17 above refers to the
Universal Service Order which prescribes that the directory facility shall comprise,
subject to the Privacy Regulations, the details of all subscribers of PATS and their
telephone numbers, including fixed and mobile telephone numbers.

3.56

As with directories, the comprehensiveness of the DQ service is presently
guaranteed by the comprehensiveness of the database on which they are based,
currently the BT OSIS database. To further ensure that DQ services will continue to
utilise a comprehensive database, the Code of Conduct of PhonePayPlus (formerly
ICSTIS, the regulatory body which covers all premium rate charged
telecommunications services including DQ) includes a requirement on all DQ service
providers that market themselves as providing numbers for the generality of end-

20

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

users in the UK to have an up-to-date and comprehensive set of directory
information.34

Affordability
3.57

This criterion involves similar considerations to those set out above in relation to
universal service directories. In this context, we have particular regard to Article 3(2)
of the Universal Service Directive, which requires the determination of the most
efficient and appropriate approach for ensuring the implementation of universal
service obligations, so that market distortions are minimised – most notably, the
provision of services at prices or subject to other terms and conditions which depart
from normal commercial conditions, whilst safeguarding the public interest.

3.58

In other words, we need to consider also the typical cost of an individual call to a DQ
service. In this regard, we note that DQ service providers have a range of call pricing
structures which result in certain complexity to understanding and calculating the cost
of calls. In addition, costs normally vary by DQ service provider and by the network
from which calls are made (both fixed line and mobile networks).

3.59

The different pricing structures employed by DQ service providers include:
•

a flat fee for the entire call regardless of length;

•

an initial connection charge (which includes first minute of call), together with a
pence-per-minute charge for the remainder of call (charged per second);

•

an initial connection charge (which does not include first minute of call), together
with a pence-per-minute charge for entire call (charged per second);

•

no connection charge at all, but a pence-per-minute charge for entire call
(charged per second); or

•

free at point of use (implicitly included in other charges) or advertising supported.

3.60

The Universal Service Directive requires that DQ services are available “at an
affordable price”. As noted in paragraph 3.21, this means a price defined by Member
States at national level in accordance with national conditions and is related to the
end-users’ ability to monitor and control their expenditure.

3.61

Prior to full liberalisation of the DQ market in August 2003, the cost of calling 192
from a BT line was 40p, which entitled the caller to request two numbers. Ofcom’s
most recent research on the DQ market found the average cost of calling a DQ
service from a BT fixed line was 54p. The cost of calling all but one of the services
was in the range 29p to 66p, with the other DQ provider charging £1.71. On other
fixed lines, the cost of an average call ranged from 27p to 60p. From mobiles, most
calls lie in the range 60p to 70p, though there are some extremes with eight DQ
providers charging £1.00 per call or more.

34

7.8.1 (a) of the Code of Practice says “In respect of a DQ service which is held out as providing
numbers for the generality of end-users in the United Kingdom (or a part of the United Kingdom), that
service must be provided using sources which include up-to-date information about all end-users in
the United Kingdom (or that part of the United Kingdom) in relation to whom directory information can
be obtained under General Condition 19.1 of the General Conditions of Entitlement (as amended by
Ofcom from time to time).”

21

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

3.62

Since Ofcom’s most recent report on the DQ market, the charges of the two main DQ
services have increased significantly. As at June 2007, the cost of an average
duration call to 118 118 from a BT fixed line is around 80p, compared to 60p in
November 2005.35 The price of a call to 118 500 is 66p, compared to 53p.36 For
those DQ services that compete on price and quality (which represent a small share
of the total DQ market), competitive pressures to keep prices down are likely to be
strong. The lowest prices available have been fairly stable since liberalisation, and
there remain a large number of DQ services with prices in the range 30p to 35p.
These prices are below the 40p price of calling 192 that existed prior to liberalisation.

3.63

As well as the cost of an individual call to a DQ service, total expenditure on DQ
services by customers is also relevant to affordability. According to the March 2006
report, 86% of adults said that they call a telephone DQ service less often than
monthly. At the average cost from a BT fixed line of 54p per call, this would represent
a maximum annual expenditure for the large majority of adults of less than £6.50,
and just over half that for the cheapest services. If we consider a more expensive DQ
service and assume a charge of £1.00 per call, then this would imply an annual
expenditure of less than £12 for 86% of adults. Annual expenditure of £24 (for two
adults) would represent less than 4% of the average total household expenditure on
telecommunications (including fixed line, mobile and internet) in the UK, which was
about £1111.80 per year in 2006.37 This indicates that for the large majority of
people, DQ services are a very small part of their total expenditure on
telecommunications.

3.64

We should also consider whether there may be a smaller group of customers for
whom affordability may be an issue. The latest DQ research found that only 4% of
adults use a DQ service at least once a week. A small proportion of these heavy
uses may be those users who are unable to use a printed directory, for whom there
are special arrangements (such as for disabled users). This service is provided free
to these users and therefore no issue of affordability arises.

3.65

To consider an extreme case of high usage, we assume a fairly high cost DQ call of
£1 and assume the service is used twice a week. This would give an annual cost of
just over £100. This represents 14% of average household expenditure on
telecommunications. We can also compare this to income for those on low incomes.
The poorest 10 per cent of households had real disposable household income of
about £9,300 per annum in 2004/05.38 £100 represents less than 1.1% of this. This
illustration is fairly extreme, as it would be possible to mitigate this cost very
considerably by using a cheaper DQ service. It is likely that very frequent users, and
particularly those on low incomes, would be more sensitive to the price of DQ
services and so be more likely to select one of the cheaper DQ services.

3.66

In summary, for the large majority of people, DQ services represent a very small or
negligible part of their total expenditure on telecommunications, suggesting that they
are affordable for these people. Even for the small minority of frequent users, the
proportion of total spend on DQ services is fairly small.

35

As at June 2007, The Number’s website says “Calls to 118 118 cost 14p per minute (charged per
second) with a one off 69p charge from most landlines”. Average call duration is 45 seconds.
36
As at June 2007, BT’s 118 500 website says “Calls to 118 500 cost 42p per minute or part of a
minute with a 24p connection charge from BT landlines (excluding BT payphones). Mobiles and other
networks may vary. Prices correct at time of publication (March 2007).”
37
The Communications Market 2007 - http://www.ofcom.org.uk/research/cm/cmr07/.
38
Social Trends 37: 2007 edition.

22

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Quality
3.67

Other than the requirement of comprehensiveness, the Universal Service Order (like
Article 5 of the Universal Service Directive) does not specify a particular level of
service quality for DQ services. However, as for directories, Ofcom considers that a
universal DQ service should achieve a certain level of accuracy for it to be of an
acceptable quality.

3.68

Since liberalisation in 2003, Ofcom has carried out three separate exercises to
measure the accuracy of telephone DQ services. In Ofcom’s most recent report on
this subject (Evaluation of Directory Enquiry services, published March 200639), the
level of ‘general accuracy’40 had increased to 95% from 91% in November 2004. In
only 1% of calls was the number offered neither the exact number nor an acceptable
alternative.

3.69

We remain responsive to DQ complaints but it appears from reduced public concern
in this area41 that the current level of service is now generally acceptable. We
continue to monitor consumer opinion on DQ services through the residential tracking
survey, complaints received by the Ofcom Contact Centre and monitoring pricing
levels.

Availability
3.70

Ofcom understands that today there are about 100 DQ service providers offering
services.42

3.71

DQ providers need to develop a commercial arrangement with network operators to
ensure that the DQ services are available through all Communications Providers’
networks. GC8.1(b) ensures that at least one 118 service is made available to every
subscriber but in practice Ofcom’s research indicates that at least the two largest DQ
providers (BT and The Number) are available on most networks and for the majority
of customers there is a wide choice.

3.72

Critical to the availability of the services to the end-users is that the PATS providers
allow access to 118 XXX services. This supports the continuation of a requirement
on Communications Providers to ensure access.

General Condition 8.1(b)
Requirement for regulatory involvement in the provision of DQ services
3.73

As with the electronic directories, the proliferation of DQ services has largely arisen
naturally from market conditions rather than simply as a result of regulatory
requirements. While GC8.1(b) ensures access for every subscriber by requiring
Communications Providers to provide access to at least one DQ service, in effect
companies have entered the market to exploit a perceived opportunity. Ofcom has

39

http://www.ofcom.org.uk/media/news/2006/03/nr_20060327
The term ‘general accuracy’ describes the scenario where a request results in the correct number
being given and, in the case of business requests, the number reaches the requested business but
not necessarily the requested department.
41
Ofcom received a total of only 75 complaints on accuracy or service with respect to DQ Oct 06 –
Oct 07 where in the same period approximately 300 Million directory enquiry calls had been made.
42
There are around 130 118XXX services listed (though a number of these are controlled by the
same provider).
40

23

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

considered the profitability of the two main providers in more detail and they appear
profitable.
3.74

However, we have noted that the overall size of the DQ market has been falling for
some time, and has shrunk considerably since 2002. Ofcom’s research has found
that there are a number of reasons for this including price and the impact of ‘free’
electronic directories.

3.75

It is not yet clear whether the fall in use of the service will continue. However, while
market consolidation is possible, given the number of providers and the expected ongoing basic demand for service, we do not foresee any fundamental threat to the
continuation of the DQ services.

3.76

Despite this, we believe that it remains appropriate for GC8 to continue to mandate
Communications Providers to ensure access to a DQ provider. This requirement
ensures that every Communications Provider will develop at least one arrangement
with a DQ provider to ensure that access to such services is universally available. In
its absence there remains a risk that the end-users of a particular Communications
Provider may be deprived of a DQ service due to a commercial decision of their
service provider.
Question 3.4: Ofcom considers that the DQ market is robust and delivering the level
of service required by the Universal Service Directive. It also considers that it is
appropriate to maintain the condition on Communications Providers to ensure access
to a DQ service to ensure that the universality of provision is maintained. If you do
not agree please provide your reasons.

Related special measures for disabled users
3.77

The Universal Service Order provides that special measures shall be taken in the UK
to ensure access to and affordability of certain services for end-users with a disability
equivalent to those enjoyed by other end-users. The access element relevant in this
context concerns universal service DQ services in a form appropriate to meet the
needs of end-users with a disability who are unable to use a telephone directory in a
form in which it is generally available to other end-users.

3.78

PATS providers are already required under GC15 to ensure that those disabled
persons who are unable to use a printed directory can access, free of charge, a DQ
service in a form which is appropriate to meet their needs. This service must include
an onward call connection service. We are not considering these services under this
review.

Revised General Condition 8
3.79

The proposed revised GC8 is set out below:

8. OPERATOR ASSISTANCE, DIRECTORIES AND DIRECTORY ENQUIRY FACILITIES
8.1 The Communications Provider shall ensure that any End-User can access:
(a) operator assistance services; and
(b) a Directory Enquiry Facility containing Directory Information on all Subscribers in
the United Kingdom who have been assigned Telephone Numbers by any
Communications Provider, except those Subscribers who have exercised their right

24

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

to have their Directory Information removed, except where such services or facilities
have been rendered inaccessible to a particular End-User by the Communications
Provider at the End-User’s request or for the purposes of debt management.
8.2 The Communications Provider may charge End-Users a reasonable fee for
making available a Directory Enquiry Facility and may charge its Subscribers a
reasonable fee for inclusion of Directory Information in a Directory or as part of a
Directory Enquiry Facility.
8.3 This Condition applies subject to the requirements of Relevant Data Protection
Legislation.
8.4 For the purposes of this Condition, “Communications Provider” means a person
who provides Publicly Available Telephone Services (except Public Pay Telephones).
Question 3.5: Do you agree with the redrafting of GC8 as set out above? If you do
not agree please provide your reasons.

25

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Section 4

4 Access to telephone directory information
Introduction
4.1

This Section will consider the options for enhancing GC19 to support more fully the
market needs for the adequate exchange of information. Specifically, it will consider
whether and how the range of telephone directory information should be extended;
and the persons to whom access to the telephone directory information should be
granted.

4.2

Regardless of the approach ultimately taken with respect to the maintenance of a
central database, Ofcom considers that it is important to ensure that GC19 is
reformed to ensure its effectiveness as an alternative source for DIPs of regulated
access to telephone directory information that is fit for purpose, even if the telephone
directory information would only be available to DIPs following individual requests to
each Communications Provider rather than via a central database similar to BT’s
OSIS database.

4.3

In any event, Ofcom considers that an alternative source of information would be
required as a first step to any consideration by Ofcom of having similar information
available centrally. The mechanism established under GC19 is central to safeguard
each end-user’s rights of inclusion and access to a comprehensive directory and/or
DQ service.

4.4

In particular, this section will:
•

consider how to clarify the “rights of access” to data falling under GC19;

•

consider an approach to restructuring the burden of the obligation to better align
the retail relationship with end-users and the requirement to provide information;
and

•

consider how the scope of telephone directory information should be extended,
including data protection and privacy issues.

Persons having ‘rights of access’ to telephone directory information
4.5

GC19.1 currently provides that a relevant Communications Provider43 “…shall meet
all reasonable requests from any person to make available the Directory Information
of...for the purposes of the provision of Directories and Directory Enquiry Facilities”.

4.6

Therefore, any consideration as to having ‘rights of access’ under GC19 involves
establishing whether the information has been requested:
•

43

from any person (which includes a body of persons corporate or
unincorporated44); and

That is to say, a person who provides an Electronic Communications Network or an Electronic
Communications Service and has been “Allocated Telephone Numbers in accordance with GC17”.
44
See Schedule 1 to the Interpretation Act 1978, which applies pursuant to paragraph 2(d) of Part 1
of the Schedule to the GC notification. As explained in The Number/Conduit Determinations, Ofcom

26

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

•

for the purposes of the provision of:
o ‘Directories’, that is to say “…a printed document containing Directory
Information on Subscribers of Publicly Available Telephone Services in the
United Kingdom which is made available to members of the public”; and
o ‘Directory Enquiry Facilities’, that is to say “…Directory Information provided by
means of a Public Telephone Network”.

4.7

4.8

4.9

In The Number/Conduit Determinations, Ofcom gave guidance that it considered that
eligible persons should include both:
•

intermediate suppliers (such as those persons simply gathering, maintaining,
compiling or otherwise operating databases containing telephone directory
information, such as data aggregators), who do not themselves provide either
directories or DQ services to end-users; and

•

business classified directories providers.

Our view is that GC19 be modified to clarify that any person seeking to provide
relevant directory information services has, on request, ‘rights of access’ to such
information falling under GC19. Persons with rights of access would include any DIPs
and intermediate suppliers of telephone directory information (that is to say any
person in the business of providing or intending to provide telephone directory
information to any directory information provider referred to above by operating and
making available a database containing such information, but who does not itself
necessarily provide such directories or DQ services to end-users). This would
include:
•

business classified directories providers; and

•

DQ providers providing onward connection services (that is a search for numbers
on the basis of user provided name and address details with an onward connect
facility to the desired number rather than necessarily providing the number to the
caller).

We anticipate that stakeholders may raise concerns about the potential scale of the
burden of complying with GC19 obligations (e.g., taking into account that the
information will likely be provided on, among other things, cost oriented terms), since
the above description of a publicly available directory could potentially encompass a
wide variety of publications. However, we consider that the clarification is unlikely to
lead to a substantial increase in information requests to individual Communications
Providers under GC19 as the point of main supply of this basic level of telephone
information will remain the consolidated database (OSIS at present) (see section 5).
Question 4.1: Do you agree with Ofcom’s view that GC19 should be modified so as
to clarify persons having ‘rights of access’ as set out above (a redrafted version of
condition GC19 and related definitions is set out at the end of this section)? If you
disagree, please provide detailed reasons for this view.

takes the view that, in light of the reference in Article 25(2) of the Universal Service Directive to
‘undertakings’, the word ‘person’ should be interpreted broadly and that certain guidance provided by
the ECJ on the meaning of an ‘undertaking’ for the purposes of EC competition law is likely to be
relevant also in this context. For instance, any entity engaged in an economic activity, regardless of its
legal nature, can be interpreted as being an ‘undertaking’.

27

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Question 4.2: Do you have any other comments about ‘rights of access’?

Responsibility for provision of information
4.10

At present, the primary responsibility for the provision of information to those with the
right of access under GC19 rests with the Communications Provider which was
originally allocated the telephone number. In accordance with GC19.2, any
Communications Provider who has subsequently been authorised (either directly or
indirectly) to use a telephone number assigned to another Communications Provider
has only the responsibility to provide information to either:
“(a) the person who was originally allocated such Telephone
Numbers; or
(b) if different from the above, the person who authorised the use of
such Telephone Numbers by it”.

4.11

While there is no ambiguity in this approach, Ofcom considers that it has a number of
disadvantages. It maintains responsibility unnecessarily on the original organisation
that the number was allocated to and that responsibility becomes increasingly
complex to manage as number portability increases. Further, as the ‘new’
Communications Provider takes over the retail relationship with the customer, it will
enter into a contract with that customer for the supply of PATS and, in so doing, hold
and collect directory data. Accordingly, Ofcom considers that a more direct linkage
between the Communications Provider with the contract with the subscriber and the
provision of the telephone directory information to those with rights of access to such
information would be desirable.

4.12

We also believe that a more direct linkage would better reflect the alignment in
incentives between subscribers who want an appropriate listing, Communications
Providers who want to ensure that their customers’ desires are met and DIPs who
want the information. Unnecessary intermediaries do not contribute to this alignment.

4.13

We appreciate that any change in responsibilities may lead to some smaller
Communications Providers having to manage the possibility of direct third party
approaches for information for the first time (rather than rely on simply passing
information back to the organisation which had originally requested the number
allocations). In addition, there may be added complexity for DIPs in identifying,
contacting and contracting with the smaller Communications Providers. However, in
practice we consider that BT OSIS is likely to remain the main consolidator of GC19
data and in general the sole party contacting Communications Providers for this
basic data. Accordingly, Ofcom considers that any real additional burden from this
change on Communications Providers and DIPs is likely to be relatively small and
that it could, for the most part, be addressed by formal commercial delegation of the
GC19 responsibilities to a third party database holder.

4.14

We propose, therefore, that responsibility under GC19 for the provision of information
directly rest with the current controller of the telephone number (i.e., irrespective of
whether the number was obtained directly or through assignment) and that where the
telephone number has been assigned the original Communications Provider
allocated the number will no longer have responsibility for the provision of information
related to it.

28

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Question 4.3: Do you agree with Ofcom’s view that GC19 should be modified so that
responsibility for the provision of information rests with the Communications Provider
controlling the telephone number (a proposed redrafting of GC19 incorporating this
change is set out at the end of this section)? If you disagree, please provide detailed
reasons for this view.

The scope of telephone directory information
The two main issues
4.15

In reviewing what specific information should be provided (on reasonable request)
under the terms of GC19, two key questions arise:
•

firstly, about whom should the information be provided?

•

secondly, what specific information should be covered by GC19?

4.16

We need to consider these questions in the light of the Universal Service Directive
and the Privacy Directive to determine the intent of these directives and the
implications for our approach to amending GC19.

4.17

Article 25(1) of the Universal Service Directive states that subscribers to PATS have
the right to an entry in a comprehensive directory. Article 5(2) of the Universal
Service Directive requires that directories shall comprise all subscribers of PATS
subject to the provisions of Article 12 of the Privacy Directive which requires that
subscribers are given the opportunity to determine whether their personal data are
included in a public directory, and to verify, correct or withdraw such data.

Issue 1: About whom should the information be provided?
4.18

At present, Communications Providers are only required to provide ‘Directory
Information’ about any person (private individuals or businesses) who is a party to a
contract for the supply of PATS to whom a telephone number(s) has been assigned
(i.e. the subscriber).

4.19

The existing regulations exclude information on persons we might consider central to
the development of a comprehensive database, namely:
•

actual end-users of the relevant telephone numbers assigned by the relevant
Communications Provider to its subscribers, where these users are not the same
persons as the subscribers themselves; and

•

persons who are parties to a contract with the relevant Communications Provider
for the supply of public Electronic Communications Service (other than PATS) to
whom ‘Telephone Numbers’ have been assigned by the relevant
Communications Provider.

4.20

While we have made declarations to that effect in the Number/Conduit
Determination, by interpreting and applying the existing regulation, we acknowledge
that the absence of such data from GC19 may raise policy concerns.

4.21

Our emerging view is that other information about the telephone number of the
subscriber appears necessary, in the light of specific UK circumstances, to enable
users of a telephone directory or directory enquiry service to identify the subscriber
or, if different, the end-user of a telephone number that they are looking for.

29

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

4.22

4.23

End-user versus subscriber. A significant amount of directory information is affected
by this difference. Circumstances where this may be an issue are:
•

Residential: legal capacity issues (such as minors or persons of unsound mind
for which parents or guardians enter into valid contracts of service) or pragmatic
realities (such as married couples or partners, where one person enters into the
contract on the others’ behalf for convenience or otherwise); and

•

Businesses: some companies/organisations outsource their needs in relation to
obtaining telephone services to external contractors. In those instances, although
a company or organisation (say local council) is using telephone numbers
assigned for such services, the actual subscriber is the external contractor, who
is procuring the supply of such services by entering into a contractual
relationship with the telephony provider; or a single organisation centrally
contracting for a variety of numbers which are allocated to individually named
department/sections. As ICTIS research (29 March 200645) shows 87% of calls
to DQ services are for business numbers, this ambiguity would clearly be of
concern.

Our view is that it is critical for directory information to be relevant to the user of the
directory service and, therefore, it is necessary for the details of the end-user directly
associated with the telephone number (as confirmed by the subscriber) to be
provided. We would recommend modifying the condition to require the provision of
this additional information.
Question 4.4: Do you agree with Ofcom’s view that GC19 should be modified so as
to capture actual end-users of the relevant telephone numbers assigned by the
relevant Communications Provider to its subscribers, where these users are not the
same persons as the subscribers themselves (a proposed redrafting of the definition
of directory information is set out at the end of this section)? If you disagree, please
provide detailed reasons for this view.

4.24

45

The other issue that affects the scope of data under GC19 is that it (when read
together with the definition of ‘Directory Information’) concerns primarily “the name
and address of the Subscriber and the Telephone Number assigned to the
Subscriber for their use of [PATS]”. The meaning of PATS results in the exclusion of
certain services and may therefore exclude:
•

personal numbering services enabling end-users using ‘070’ telephone numbers
to be called or otherwise contacted by other persons, but without the ability to
make calls themselves;

•

special services (e.g. freephone) where end-users receive calls only by way of
number translation services of ‘virtual’ telephone numbers (e.g. ‘0844’, ‘0845’,
‘0870’ and ‘0871’);

•

broadband only VoIP services;

•

premium rate services (e.g. ‘090’ and ‘091’ numbers); and

http://www.ofcom.org.uk/research/telecoms/reports/numresearch/dq1105/

30

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

•

other one-way services as a result of specific restrictions in the National
Telephone Numbering Plan46, such as services comprising ‘National-Dialling-Only
Numbers’ (see the Plan at Part B3.1.5).

4.25

Non-geographic numbers are an accepted and important component of businesses
communication in the UK. Such numbers are often the primary public access
number and it is reasonable to consider the provision of such numbers a central
element of a comprehensive directory service47.

4.26

Given this, we consider that GC19 (and related definitions, such as ‘Directory
Information’) should be modified to include non-geographic telephone numbers
assigned for use in public Electronic Communications Service (including, but not
limited to, PATS).
Question 4.5: Do you consider that Ofcom should consider modifying GC19 (and
related definitions, such as ‘Directory Information’) to include non-geographic
telephone numbers assigned for use in public Electronic Communications Service
(including, but not limited to, PATS)(a proposed redrafting of the condition and
definition is set out at the end of this section)? If you disagree, please provide
detailed reasons for this view. Or if you disagree in part only (e.g. a reference to
public Electronic Communications Service being too wide), how do you suggest that
Ofcom should address this matter?

Issue 2: What specific information should be covered by GC19?
4.27

As noted earlier, with the aim of making GC19 fit for purpose in the context of a
restructured provision and management of directory information, it is clear that we
should review the scope of what specific information should be provided under GC19
for the purpose of supporting the development of comprehensive telephone
directories and directory enquiry services.

4.28

In this section, we will consider the existing elements of information required and
consider what additional information, in the light of specific national circumstances,
might be appropriate to be included within GC19.

Current information covered by the condition
4.29

The current directory information (aside from the telephone number) required for the
purposes of GC19 (so-called ‘Relevant Information’ in accordance with the KPN
judgment) is:
•

the name of the subscriber, being the person who is the party to the contract
with the provider of the PATS for the supply of such services; and

•

the address of the subscriber, being that address as supplied by the subscriber
in relation to where they want the relevant fixed PATS supplied or – in the case of
mobile PATS – the address they supply for the purposes of securing the contract.

46

i.e. The National Telephone Numbering Plan, as published by Ofcom from time to time:
http://www.ofcom.org.uk/telecoms/ioi/numbers/261701.pdf

47

In the March 07 VoIP Statement non-geographic numbers were regarded at PATS for the purpose
of number portability.

31

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Minimum additional information required to be provided under GC19
4.30

It is clear form the ECJ’s ruling in KPN that it is open to Member States to require
that data other than the minimum records it identified can be made available to users
of directories (or directory enquiry services) where, in the light of specific national
circumstances, they appear necessary in order to identify the persons they are
looking for.

4.31

In this context, we consider that it is critical that if the directory information set is to
provide an adequate service to UK consumers, it should include information on the
end-user of a telephone number (as defined by the subscriber) where this differs
from the subscriber. Below we discuss what might be the minimum such additional
data required.

Name
4.32

As stated in paragraph 4.22, we consider it important that the name of the end-user
is associated with a telephone number. This reflects the requirement in the UK to
identify persons (companies or, in some cases, individuals) who are the prime users
of a telephone number but are not the holder of the telephone contract (i.e. the
subscriber) – for example out-sourced telephone services by councils or businesses
or large multi-department organisations.

4.33

This is not in itself without ambiguity. For example, for an organisation with multiple
departments and individually numbered extensions, the precise definition of the enduser would rest with the subscriber or end-user themselves. However, we believe
that it is appropriate that GC19 reflects this end-user specific approach with an
additional requirement for an end-user name.

Address
4.34

Similar considerations lead to the requirement for the provision of additional
information relating to a user based address data element. If the billing or installation
address alone is attached to a specific number this may not bear any useful relation
to the purpose for which the number is used and the way in which a consumer might
request the number.

4.35

This is further complicated if, as recommended above, we include non-geographic
numbers in the condition. A clear example is that of a lost or stolen credit card line –
the consumer requesting the number from a DQ service cannot be expected to know
the location of the call centre handling such calls or the billing address of the
company. The consumer would expect to be able to ask for the lost or stolen credit
card number for the relevant bank. Other examples could include information lines,
airline booking lines, customer service helplines, etc. To further complicate issues,
many companies route calls made to the same number to multiple call centres in
different geographic locations. This can be for a variety of reasons including time of
day, capacity handling and purpose of call.

4.36

This implies that a simplistic definition of address, at least with respect to the address
of businesses and those associated with non-geographic numbers, is not sufficient to
enable the preparation of a useful set of telephone directory information. We
consider that it would be appropriate for there to be an additional requirement for an
end-user address to be included with that information provided by the subscriber for
the purposes of locating a telephone number and that “address” should in some

32

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

circumstances be read to include other identifiers, e.g. usage related, such as “stolen
credit card line”.
4.37

We propose, therefore, to include within the required information to be provided
under GC19 the additional information of end-user name and end-user address (as
described above). We recognise that this represents an exercise of our regulatory
discretion and it is not explicitly required to be included as a result of Article 25(2) of
the Universal Service Directive. However, the expansion of the set of required
information is possible under Article 25(2) of the Universal Service Directive (as
confirmed by the ECJ in KPN) and is justified, in the light of national circumstances,
in that it furthers the interests of consumers in enabling the provision of a
comprehensive and useful directory and DQ service.
Question 4.6: Do you consider that Ofcom should modify GC19 (and related
definitions, such as ‘Directory Information’) such that:
o end-user name and address are also required to be provided; and
o business and non-geographic numbers to replace geographic information in
the end-user address with more relevant data that would allow the
identification of the number by a third party (a proposed redrafting of the
condition and related definitions is set out at the end of this section)? If you
disagree, please provide detailed reasons for this view. Or if you disagree in
part, how do you suggest that Ofcom should address this matter?

Any other potential additional information to be included in GC19
4.38

We note that many of the issues described above are currently dealt with in the way
the OSIS database is compiled and operated given that OSIS records are customer
defined. Ofcom also notes that the OSIS database includes additional data fields
other than just name, address and telephone number of the subscriber that enables
DIPs to offer meaningful DQ services to consumers.

4.39

We would also like to consider whether it might be appropriate to require the
provision of other data in GC19, in light of specific national circumstances.

4.40

In this context, we note that the existence of such circumstances already varies in
Member States so that in some countries a person’s occupation (e.g. Germany) has
to be provided if known to a Communications Provider, whereas in other countries
even an individual’s date of birth or a business’ registered company number has to
be made available to the DIP to distinguish between persons that users are looking
for but not disclosed as such in the directories or in providing the DQ service to
members of the public for data protection and privacy reasons (e.g. Sweden). There
may, of course, be other potential identifiers that users of such services may use to
identify persons they are looking for, such as:
•

titles other than indicating an occupation (e.g. hereditary title, honorific);

•

honours (e.g. MBE);

•

qualifications (vocational, academic or otherwise) (e.g. BSc, MBA);

•

any business, service or activity use description (e.g. carpenter, bookmaker, 24
hour service, Italian Restaurant); and

33

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

•
4.41

information about a specific department or individual/position within a business
(e.g. accounts department, Customer Service Director).

We are reluctant at this time to mandate a broader set of information to be provided
under GC19 other than the additional end-user name and address set out above.
Clearly, at present DIPs (including OSIS) are able to collect on a commercial basis a
wider data set than mandated under GC19. There is no evidence that there is any
particular difficulty in obtaining ‘reasonable’ additional data about a subscriber or
end-user which is required to support the development of directories, classified
directories or DQ services.
Question 4.7: Do you consider that there is a requirement for a wider mandated set
of information beyond subscriber and end-user name and address under GC19? If
so, what additional information do you think should be made available under GC19 –
please provide reasons and any evidence to support why you consider that users
regard such additional information as necessary to find the persons they are looking
for by indicating what specific circumstances exist in the UK?

Data protection and privacy concerns
4.42

GC19 applies subject to the requirements of the Data Protection Act 1998 (“DPA”)
and the Privacy Regulations (see GC19.4, which implements Article 25(5) of the
Universal Service Directive).

4.43

While it is a matter for the Information Commissioner to enforce such requirements in
general terms, we are responsible for enforcing the General Condition and we may
be asked by the Commissioner, in connection with his enforcement functions, for
advice on technical and similar matters relating to electronic communications as we
are responsible for the drafting and interpretation of General Conditions on
Communications Providers.

4.44

We will consider three issues with respect to data protection and privacy. They are:

4.45

34

•

Communications Provider responsibility;

•

Mechanism of choice for ex-directory/unlisted telephone subscriptions (Opt-out or
Opt-in) and the data to be provided in the event of such a choice; and

•

Directory producer responsibilities.

In particular, leaving aside the generality of the provisions of the DPA, we note that
regulation 18(2)(a) of the Privacy Regulations requires that an individual subscriber’s
personal data shall not be included in a directory or DQ service unless that
subscriber has, free of charge, been informed by the collector of the personal data of
the purposes of the directory or DQ service in which his personal data are to be
included. In addition, in accordance with regulation 18(5) where the data of an
individual subscriber have been included in a directory, that subscriber shall, without
charge, be able to verify, correct and withdraw that data at any time. The protection
afforded by the data protection rules extends to the subscriber and not the end-user.

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

4.46

In this context, it is worth considering the present Guidance48 to the Privacy
Regulations published by the Information Commissioner provides (at paragraph 7.1
of Part 2):
“…The first requirement outlined above [i.e. regulation 18(2)(a)] is in
line with the fair processing requirements of the Data Protection Act.
The first data protection principle requires the data controller to be
transparent about what they want to use the data for, any intended
disclosures to third parties, and any further information which is
necessary, taking into account the specific circumstances of the
processing so that it is fair (see Legal Guidance paragraph 3.1.7).
To meet the transparency requirements, those collecting information
from subscribers which is to be made available in public directories
will need to make sure subscribers understand that their information
will be made available through a variety of directory products and
services that will enable those who know their name and address to
obtain their phone number. Where there are a range of ex-directory
options, the subscriber should be told about all of them. In summary,
subscribers should understand the consequences of choosing
particular directory options.
Although subscribers must be given the opportunity to choose
whether or not they are listed in a directory, the Regulations do not
specify whether subscribers should be required to positively 'opt in'
to such inclusion or whether it would be enough for them to 'opt out'.
It is the Commissioner’s view that it is not unreasonable for inclusion
in a directory to be the default position provided that subscribers are
made fully aware that this is the case and it is simple and
straightforward for them to opt out if they choose.”

Communications Provider’s responsibilities
4.47

The initial collection of telephone directory information is undertaken by the
Communications Provider through their relationship with their subscribers. As noted
above “those collecting information from subscribers which is to be made available in
public directories will need to make sure subscribers understand that their
information” and accordingly the responsibility for the appropriate protection and
distribution of this information rests, first and foremost, with the Communications
Provider. Communications Providers are responsible for determining whether a
subscriber wishes to be listed in a directory (see discussion on opt-out versus opt-in
below) and ensuring that only that information agreed (and if necessarily
modified/corrected) by the subscriber is passed to directories. Any end-user
information provided to the Communication Provider thus will need to be confirmed
by the subscriber.

4.48

The Communications Provider must ensure that subscribers have the opportunity to
confirm the information being provided under GC19 is accurate and is appropriate for
inclusion in a directory.

48

Guidance on the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 - Part 2:
Security, confidentiality, traffic and location data, itemised billing, CLI and directories, Version 3.4,
30.11.06:
http://www.ico.gov.uk/upload/documents/library/privacy_and_electronic/detailed_specialist_guides/pe
cr_guidance_part2_1206.pdf

35

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

4.49

The consequences of this is that Communications Providers will have the right to
withhold some or all of the GC19 data set from requesting persons if their
subscribers have indicated (via opting-out or opting-in) that this information should be
withheld.
Question 4.8: Do you agree with our assessment of Communications Providers
responsibilities with respect to the provision of GC19 data? If not, please provide
details of your objection to this assessment and your proposed alternative.

Opting-in or Opting-out
4.50

Traditionally, fixed line telephone subscribers have understood that they will be listed
in a telephone directory unless they actively ‘opt-out’ of such a listing. They are
usually presented with three broad levels of opt-out either:
•

No printed entry - no record in a printed directory but on provision of identifying
information to a DQ provider a telephone number can be provided to an enquirer
(but not an address) (in such cases the information about the subscriber is
provided to OSIS).

•

No printed entry but acknowledgement of existence in DQ services – no record in
a printed directory but their name and address and the fact that their telephone
number is being withheld is provided to DQ operators (in such cases the
information about the subscriber is provided to OSIS); or

•

Unlisted – no information is provided to OSIS and the subscriber in not included
in a printed directory or DQ service.

4.51

This assumption of inclusion is not, however, shared in the mobile area. Mobile
subscribers have traditionally assumed that their details are not automatically
included in any directory or DQ service. Listing of mobile subscribers, in OSIS, is
and has been only undertaken at the request of subscribers i.e. by means of an “optin”.

4.52

In June 2006, we carried out some internal research49 to review this situation. This
found:

4.53

49

•

94% of UK adults would not like their mobile number to be included in the Phone
Book and directory enquiries services;

•

only 5% said that they would like their number listed;

•

mobile operators have experienced extremely low levels of demand for mobile
directory listings; and

•

2% of respondents said that their number was available in both DQ and the
Phone Book, and 1% said that it was available in on-line directories.

In light of historical practice and the consumer preference above we have in our
guidance to mobile network operators adopted the position that mobile operators are
free to offer an “opt-in” approach to directory inclusion, whereby subscribers indicate
to their Communications Provider if they want to have a listing rather than the “opt-

The survey was conducted for Ofcom by BMRB amongst a representative sample of 2,127 UK
adults aged 15+.

36

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

out” approach of fixed networks. The suitability of this approach has been confirmed
by the European Commission50.
4.54

We consider that the option selected by a mobile subscriber in not “opting-in” , for
data protection purposes, is equivalent to the fixed line ‘unlisted’ option outlined
above – that is the mobile subscriber in not opting-in is choosing to have all
information with respect to their subscription (name, address and telephone number)
withheld (that is, in the circumstance of a GC19 request the DIP would obtain no
information about the subscriber).
Question 4.9: Do you agree that it is appropriate for the Opt-in approach to assume
that not opting-in is equivalent to selecting an unlisted option? If not, please provide
your reasons and your proposed alternative.

Directory producer responsibilities
4.55

An individual subscriber’s personal data cannot be included in a directory or DQ
service unless that subscriber has, free of charge, been given the opportunity to
determine whether such of his data as are considered relevant by the producer of the
directory or DQ service should be included in the directory or DQ service (see
Privacy Regulation 18(2)(b)). In other words, this requirement envisages that the
producer of the directory or DQ service taking a view on what personal data of an
individual subscriber he considers relevant to include in his directory and DQ service
and, in light of that view, give the individual subscriber an opportunity to determine
which personal data should be so included.

4.56

The Information Commissioner Guidance (also at paragraph 7.1 of Part 2)
continues:
“In line with the second requirement listed above [i.e. regulation
18(2)(b)], given that there is an established competitive market in
telephone directory information services and products and in the
interests of practicality, the producer of a directory can determine the
personal data they believe are relevant to include in a directory
insofar as there should be a core list of the minimum information
reasonably necessary to run a directory service efficiently. It is the
Commissioner’s view, however, that the more data included in a
directory differs from that traditionally published in such products, the
more information the directory producer is likely to be required to
provide to the data subject to enable the processing of that data to
be fair.”

4.57

In the UK context, we consider that DIPs can reasonably assume that GC19 and
OSIS data comes with approval for inclusion in a directory or DQ service (as the
Communications Provider in the first instance has a duty to comply with data
protection requirements). The Communications Providers are responsible for
ensuring that any changes to that data are updated as soon as practicable.
However, where DIPs include additional data on a subscriber/end-user obtained

50

The “opt-in” approach for mobiles was discussed with the Commission in the context of
infringement proceedings related to directory inclusion for mobile subscribers. The proceedings were
concluded with the agreement of the Commission that an “opt-in” model for mobile listings was a
satisfactory approach – see Commission Press Release
http://europa.eu/rapid/pressReleasesAction.do?reference=MEMO/07/414&format=HTML&aged=0&la
nguage=EN&guiLanguage=en

37

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

outside GC19 and OSIS they would be obliged to ensure that the inclusion of this
data in a directory DQ service is done with the approval of the person concerned.
Question 4.10: Do you consider whether there are any issues arising in respect of
the DIPs collection of additional data? If so, please provide details of any such
concerns.

Subscriber responsibilities to protect end-user data
4.58

We have not, so far, explicitly addressed the need to protect end-user information. In
practice end-user information will be provided by the subscriber. Until now, the
provision of end-user information to OSIS has been provided by the subscriber on
this basis and no data protection issues have arisen in practice. We consider that the
change in GC19 will result in two generic cases where the subscriber and the enduser would differ:
a) The end-user has a contractual relationship with the subscriber (eg the
subscriber is supplying lines or the entire facility) in which case the end-user
would have normal contractual options and commercial data protection controls
sufficient to protect them from mis-use; and
b) The end-user has a formal or informal 'familial' relationship with the subscriber
(father/husband/daughter/de facto spouse etc). We would not normally expect
this to be an area where data protection would be a problem as we would expect
that it would be in the interest of the subscriber to protect the end-user’s interest.

4.59

Accordingly, we consider there to be a low risk that end-user data will not have
adequate protection through the subscriber relationship. The existing data protection
legislation which operates through the subscriber is likely to continue to provide
suitable protection to the end-user data. We will continue to monitor this issue,
together with the Information Commissioner, to ensure end-users received adequate
protection.
Question 4.11: Do you agree that there is no requirement for specific additional
protection of end-user information? If not, please provide details of your objection to
this assessment and any proposed alternative.

4.60

4.61

38

For completeness, in relation to individual subscribers, we note that the Privacy
Regulations also provide that:
•

they must be specifically informed about any facilities which enable users of a
directory or DQ service to obtain access to their personal data solely on the basis
of a telephone number (i.e. the generation of a name or address from a
telephone number – so-called ‘reverse searching’) and their express consent
must be obtained agreeing to allow the information to be made available on this
basis (see Privacy Regulation 18(3)); and

•

they must, without a charge, be able to verify, correct or withdraw their personal
data at any time (see Privacy Regulation 18(5)).

Although we have no information presently before us to suggest that the operation of
these provisions is likely to cause any difficulties, we nonetheless invite stakeholders’
views on them.

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Question 4.12: Do you have any comments about the operation of the requirements
in Privacy Regulation 18(3) and 18(5)? We would also be interested to hear your
views on whether Privacy Regulation 18(5) is sufficient to protect end-user data.
4.62

Finally, while corporate subscribers fall outside the scope of the DPA, Privacy
Regulation 18(4) provides that data relating to a corporate subscriber shall not be
included in a directory or DQ service where that subscriber has advised the producer
of the directory that it does not want its data to be included in that directory.
Question 4.13: Do you have any comments about the operation of the requirement
in Privacy Regulation 18(4) as it applies to GC19?

The regulatory terms of supply
4.63

The plain terms of GC19.3 require that the supply of ‘Directory Information’ in
accordance with GC 19.1 or 19.2 is done on terms which are fair, cost-oriented and
non-discriminatory, and in a format which is agreed between the Communications
Provider and the person requesting the information. These requirements closely
reflect the wording in Article 25(2) of the Universal Service Directive, which requires
that the ‘relevant information’ must be provided “in agreed format” on “terms which
are fair, objective, cost oriented and non-discriminatory”.

4.64

While we considered in The Number/Conduit Determinations that the absence of the
word “objective” was not material, we believe that it is desirable that GC19 should
follow more closely the wording of Article 25(2) of the Universal Service Directive. On
that basis, we propose to modify GC19 to make reference also to the word
“objective”.
Question 4.14: Do you agree that GC19 should be modified so as to refer also to the
word “objective” in the context of the terms on which GC19 data should be provided
(a proposed redrafting of the condition and related definitions is set out at the end of
this section)? If you disagree, please provide detailed reasons for maintaining this
view.

Proposed changes to GC19 and related definitions
Proposed condition changes: 19.1, 19.2 and 19.3 redrafted as below with an
additional paragraph inserted after 19.3
19.1 The Communications Provider shall meet all reasonable requests from
any person under 19.2 to make available the Directory Information of its
Subscribers who have been assigned Telephone Numbers for the purposes of
the provision of Directories and Directory Enquiry Facilities.
19.2 Persons eligible to request information are:
•

directory information providers, that is, any person in the
business of providing or intending to provide to end-users
telephone numbers by:
o

a publicly available telephone directory, whether
printed or electronic; or

39

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

o
•

a publicly available telephone directory enquiry
service.

intermediate suppliers of telephone directory information, that is
any person in the business of providing or intending to provide
telephone directory information to any directory information
provider by operating and making available a database
containing such information.

19.3 Where the Communications Provider is requested to supply Directory
Information in accordance with paragraphs 19.1 or 19.2, it shall do so on terms
which are fair, objective, cost-oriented and non-discriminatory, and in a format
which is agreed between the Communications Provider and the person
requesting the information. The Communications Provider shall comply with
any direction made by Ofcom from time to time with respect to the format to be
applied to the information.
19.4 Where, in accordance with Data Protection legislation, the telephone
number must be withheld, no Directory Information need be provided other
than an explanation that the Directory Information may not be supplied.
(existing paragraphs 19.4 and 19.5 to be renumbered 19.5 and 19.6)
The definition of directory, directory enquiry facilities and directory information
modified as follows:
“Directory” means a printed or electronic document containing Directory
Information related to an assigned telephone number as agreed with the
Subscribers of Publicly Available Telephone Services or other Electronic
Communications Services offering non-geographic numbers in the United
Kingdom which is made available to members of the public;
“Directory Enquiry Facility” means Directory Information provided by
means of a Public Telephone Network, or the provision of onward connection
services using Directory Information;
“Directory Information” means the name and address of the subscriber, and
where different, end-user associated with a Telephone Number as provided by
the Subscriber and the Telephone Number assigned to the Subscriber for their
use of Publicly Available Telephone Services or other Electronic
Communications Services offering non-geographic numbers
•

“end-user name” can include any subscriber defined individual
or business name intended to support the identification of the
end-user in a Directory or through a Directory Enquiry Facility;
and

•

“end-user address” shall be:



40

the address of the end-user as confirmed by the subscriber;
or
a functional description, provided by the subscriber, of a
business or non-geographic number where a physical
address will not be useful for the identification of the number
in a Directory or through a Directory Enquiry Facility.

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Question 4.14: Do you agree with the proposed redrafting of GC19 and related
definitions as set out above and discussed through this section? If you disagree,
please provide detailed reasons for this view.

41

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Section 5

5 Wholesale telephone directory information
management
Introduction
5.1

In Section 3, we set out why we think that directories and DQ services are likely to
continue to be available in the future through normal market conditions. This
conclusion was based on the assumption that there would continue to be a source of
comprehensive wholesale directory information available to DIPs on reasonable
terms. Given our proposal to revoke USC7, this Section reviews what, if any, action
is required to ensure the future availability of comprehensive wholesale directory
information.

5.2

In this section, we discuss the policy options available to secure the provision of a
comprehensive database of directory information and seek stakeholders’ views on
those options.

Robustness of current model for wholesale directory information
5.3

5.4

The UK currently has a single database (the BT OSIS database as described in
section 2 above). With the proposed revocation of USC7, there are a number of risks
to the continuation of the current UK model for wholesale directory information:
•

BT may cease to maintain OSIS;

•

BT may cease to keep OSIS comprehensive; and

•

Even if BT continues to maintain a comprehensive central database, the terms on
which it is made available to other DIPs could distort competition in DQ services
and directories.
We consider these concerns in turn below, before turning to other possible models
for the delivery of wholesale directory information.

BT’s maintenance of a central database
5.5

The first major risk to the current model is that BT will no longer maintain a central
data base on the grounds of commercial viability.

5.6

During the course of The Number/Conduit Determinations, Ofcom built up an
understanding of the finances of OSIS as they currently stand. We consider that
running OSIS is currently profitable and is likely to be profitable in the future provided
there are no major changes to the revenue received from DIPs or the charges paid to
Communications Providers.

5.7

As the provision of OSIS is expected to remain a profitable activity for BT, we
consider that this should provide a commercial incentive for BT to continue to
maintain it. This is reinforced by the fact that OSIS represents a relatively small part
of the directory information value chain, and aside from other sales, supports BT’s
profitable downstream activities in DQ services and directories markets.

42

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

5.8

In the event that a significant number of DIPs cease to buy services from OSIS, for
example, because a competing database was established or because they chose to
obtain directory information directly from Communications Providers using GC19,
then the finances of OSIS could be changed very significantly. However, given the
evident desire by DIPs to continue to utilise the OSIS database (probably due to the
costs of establishing an alternative) we do not consider this to be a significant threat
to OSIS’s continued viability.

5.9

Accordingly. Ofcom considers that BT will continue to maintain the database for the
foreseeable future.

Future comprehensiveness of OSIS
5.10

Another risk is that BT will cease to keep OSIS comprehensive. In particular, there
may be a risk that BT will stop gathering data from the smallest Communications
Providers. If a Communications Provider only has a small number of customers,
there is a risk that BT may not regard it as cost effective to gather information from
that Communications Provider.

5.11

Whether BT is likely to maintain the comprehensiveness of OSIS will depend in part
on whether DIPs are willing to pay for it to be comprehensive. Given our
understanding of the finances of OSIS gained though the disputes, we believe the
incremental costs of making OSIS comprehensive are fairly small relative to its total
costs. A large proportion of the costs of maintaining OSIS relate to fixed systems
costs or the costs of the processing the data of BT’s own subscribers. While BT does
incur some additional costs in establishing and managing a contractual relationship
with each Communications Provider and also in buying the data, for a
Communications Provider with few customers these costs will be small costs
compared to the overall costs of OSIS. The additional costs for DIPs of having
comprehensive data will therefore be fairly small. Provided the revenue benefits of
having comprehensive data outweigh these costs, then they should be prepared to
pay for OSIS to be comprehensive.

5.12

On the other hand, it may be worth considering whether DIPs would be prepared to
pay for a non-comprehensive database. They would then be faced with either
offering a directory service with some basic information gaps (less attractive to
customers) or establishing their own independent relationships with the
Communications Providers whose information is not collected by BT. This latter
option may not be cost effective compared to encouraging BT to maintain a
comprehensive database. This reduced value of the database would equally apply to
BT itself in support of its own PhoneBook and DQ services.

5.13

For DQ providers, the attractiveness of a comprehensive database is likely to be
increased by regulation. PhonePayPlus (formerly ICSTIS) is the regulatory body for
all premium rate charged telecommunications services. It maintains and enforces a
Code of Practice which contains the rules governing the content and promotion of
premium rate services. This includes a requirement on all DQ providers that market
themselves as providing numbers for the generality of end-users in the UK to have
an up-to-date and comprehensive set of directory information.51 If OSIS ceased to be

51

7.8.1 (a) of the Code of Practice says “In respect of a DQ service which is held out as providing
numbers for the generality of end-users in the United Kingdom (or a part of the United Kingdom), that
service must be provided using sources which include up-to-date information about all end-users in
the United Kingdom (or that part of the United Kingdom) in relation to whom directory information can

43

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

comprehensive, then DQ providers using it would not be able to market themselves
as covering the generality of the UK. BT itself, as one of the two main DQ providers,
would also have to make this clear in its marketing.
5.14

Given the above, we consider that there is considerable internal and external
pressure on BT to continue to maintain a comprehensive database.
Question 5.1: Do you consider that BT will have sufficient commercial incentive to
maintain the comprehensiveness of OSIS? Or do you consider that Ofcom should
consider additional regulation to ensure that it will remain comprehensive?

Availability of OSIS data to DIPs
5.15

BT could use its ownership of OSIS to restrict competition in the DQ services and
directories markets. Ultimately this could damage consumer interest through higher
prices for DQ services and electronic directories.

5.16

The ways in which BT could restrict competition in DQ services and the provision of
directories include:
•

Stopping the supply of wholesale directory information to other DIPs;

•

Charging high prices for wholesale directory information, or changing the price
structure in a way that is detrimental to competitors; and

•

Imposing unreasonable licensing terms for the supply of directory information.

5.17

In the event that BT took such action, it is possible that some DIPs would set up a
competing database of wholesale directory information. However, this is likely to take
time and it may not be efficient to have two competing databases. There is, therefore,
a significant risk that consumers will face higher charges for DQ services if BT were
to restrict access to OSIS.

5.18

While we recognise these risks, it does not necessarily follow that there is a need for
ex ante regulation of BT to ensure OSIS is available. BT, just like any other operator,
is, of course, subject to the EU and UK competition provisions and will be subject to
enforcement action if evidence of anti-competitive behaviour is uncovered.

Other possible models for wholesale directory information
5.19

The current UK model is of a single central database of wholesale directory
information. While other organisations and DIPs perform separate data enhancement
tasks and combine the OSIS data with that from other sources, the core of all DQ
services and directories is BT’s OSIS database.

5.20

Another possible model for wholesale directory information would be one involving
more than one wholesale directory information database. Consumers and/or DIPS
could potentially benefit from greater competition between database operators (for
example, greater incentives for cost efficiencies and incentives to innovate, driven by
competitive pressures). However, the benefits of greater competition would come at
the cost of additional transactions and duplication compared to one central database.

be obtained under General Condition 19.1 of the General Conditions of Entitlement (as amended by
Ofcom from time to time).”

44

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

5.21

When imposing USC7 on BT in 2003, Oftel stated that it considered requiring access
to OSIS to be the most proportionate and effective way to ensure that DIPs were in
practice able to access information to compile directories and make services
available.52

5.22

However, there are no constraints on other organisations setting up databases to
compete with OSIS. GC19 ensures that potential competitors would be able to obtain
access to directory information from all Communications Providers. The fact that the
UK currently has a single database rather than another model is therefore partly the
result of commercial decisions by third parties that it would not be efficient to build
their own competing comprehensive databases.

5.23

It is possible in the future that a company other than BT may begin to aggregate
wholesale directory information. This could be in the limited form of a DIP obtaining
data direct from Communications Providers under GC19 rather than buying data from
OSIS, or could even take the form of a competing comprehensive wholesale
directory information aggregator.

5.24

If there were two companies buying directory information direct from
Communications Providers, this could result in a completely different industry
structure than exists today. If the new aggregator made its wholesale directory
information database available to all DQ services and directories, then this could
result in two competing databases. If the new wholesale directory information
aggregator did not make its database available to all DQ services and directories (for
example, if it were itself a DQ provider), then the industry structure could tend
towards two competing integrated directory information retailers, each collecting
directory information directly from Communications Providers.

5.25

While it is possible that there may be significant changes to the industry structure in
the future, there are a number of factors that might suggest that a new database is
unlikely to be set up in the immediate future:
•

First, no new entry has occurred since the current regulatory regime was
established in 2003, despite the existence of GC19 which requires
Communications Providers to make directory information available. This suggests
that it is more commercially attractive to buy data from OSIS than to aggregate
directory information independently. However, it is possible that the clarity
provided by The Number/Conduit Determinations (for example, on the price for
GC19 data) and this policy review may change this.

•

Second, the fact that BT is itself the largest user of OSIS data may discourage
entry. BT uses OSIS data for its printed directories and DQ services, both of
which are profitable activities which we believe BT has a commercial incentive to
continue in the future. It is possible that when faced with competition from a new
aggregator, BT may find it more profitable to cease operating OSIS and buy
wholesale directory information from the new entrant. However, this would only
be possible if the new entrant made the data available to BT and would only
make sense for BT if it was more profitable to buy the data. In assessing which
was the most profitable way of obtaining the data, it would only be the costs of
maintaining OSIS that were relevant, even if the past sunk costs in the OSIS
system were not recovered. This would make it more difficult for a new entrant to
offer a more compelling offering than OSIS.

52

See in particular paragraphs 3.79 in the following.
http://www.ofcom.org.uk/static/archive/oftel/publications/eu_directives/2003/uso0703.pdf

45

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

•

Third, in a selection of six EU Member States that we considered, the most
common model for wholesale telephone directory information was the centralised
database, which is used in Germany, Ireland, Italy and Spain.
o In Germany, the centralised database is operated by the incumbent Deutsche
Telekom. However, DIPs may still source information directly from
Communications Providers, such as for data verification and enhancement.
o Italy mandated Telecom Italia to operate a central database in 2002, in large
part on the basis that continued fragmentation would lead to high transaction
costs and raise barriers to entry in the directory/DQ market.
o In Ireland, the centralised database is run by the regulator Comreg, whereas in
Spain the centralised data is managed but not actually operated by the
regulator CMT.
o In contrast, France and the Netherlands have not adopted a model for using a
centralised database. It is our understanding that neither France nor the
Netherlands have plans to introduce or otherwise pave the way for a
centralised database. The Dutch incumbent, KPN, needs to compile a
comprehensive directory information database to produce directories and a
DQ service, but this is not available to third parties. However, much of this
information in the Netherlands has traditionally been provided via
supplementary, commercial arrangements. In France, directory publishers
collect information from each operator.

5.26

In the event that there were significant changes to the provision of wholesale
directory information services in the future, we may need to review the industry
structure to ensure that the requirements of the Universal Service Directive continue
to be met in the way that is in the best interests of consumers. However, given the
current arrangements, we consider our policy options below.

Policy Options
5.27

As stated earlier, we consider that access to comprehensive wholesale directory
information on reasonable terms is essential for the requirements of the Universal
Service Directive for directories and DQ services to be met under normal market
conditions.

5.28

We therefore need to consider whether it is appropriate to take action to ensure the
continued access to wholesale directory information on reasonable terms. Given the
current industry structure, we see three main options:

46

•

No change: Currently, BT is making comprehensive OSIS data available to
competing DIPs. We believe BT has a commercial incentive to continue to
maintain a comprehensive OSIS database. Given this current position, one option
is for us to maintain the status quo. There is a risk that BT may cease to make
OSIS data available to DIPs on reasonable terms. However, we can use our
competition powers in the event that we believe BT to be behaving in an anticompetitive manner.

•

Impose new regulatory conditions on BT to make OSIS available to all DIPs:
If we were concerned by the difficulty of bringing ex post competition enforcement
action in relation to the provision of wholesale directory information, then it may
be worthwhile to consider the imposition of new regulatory conditions. This might

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

be achieved through the imposition of significant market power (“SMP”)
conditions in an appropriately defined market or through access-related
conditions. However, the introduction of such measures would require detailed
review in order to ensure that the stringent requirements, including European
Commission approval in certain circumstance, for such ex ante conditions are
met.
•

Establish a new database: We could establish a new central database, for
example through a tender process.

5.29

We are not attracted to the last option. Given that no commercial entity has chosen to
establish a new database, it is likely to be inefficient for us to do so. It could involve a
significant duplication of resources given that BT already has a functioning central
database. It could also result in considerable disruption for DIPs given the
established nature of the OSIS database and current system.

5.30

Subject to responses to this consultation, we, therefore, see the choice primarily
between the first two options, whilst noting that the second option is not straight
forward. The following section provides an overview of Ofcom’s legal powers to
require BT to make OSIS available to all DIPs.

Ofcom’s legal powers to require BT to make OSIS available to all DIPs
Sectoral regulation
5.31

From an initial legal analysis, there are only two types of conditions that we might
consider imposing, if the necessary pre-requisites are satisfied, to secure access to a
central database in the UK of telephone directory information (such as OSIS), which
are:
•

an access-related condition, under section 73 of the 2003 Act;

•

SMP service conditions, under one or more of sections 87 to 89 of the 2003 Act.

5.32

As regards access-related conditions, there is a question of whether these are
applicable to maintaining a central database comprising directory information. The
key question to consider is whether the condition would relate to the provision of
network access and service interoperability.

5.33

In addition, we may only impose access-related conditions if they are for the purpose
of securing the objectives of efficiency, sustainability and the greatest possible
benefit and if it appears to us that they are appropriate for this purpose.

5.34

As to imposing an SMP services condition, the permitted subject-matter is wideranging as set out in section 87 of the 2003 Act, including obligations of
transparency, non-discrimination, access and price control. To be able to impose
such conditions, we would need to consider whether the provision of a central
directory information database is an associated facility by reference to a public
electronic communications network. If not, we may impose a SMP services condition
about network access in exceptional cases upon the approval of the European
Commission under section 89 of the 2003 Act.

5.35

We may also, pursuant to section 46(7) of the 2003 Act, be able to apply SMP
services conditions on a particular person who is either a Communications Provider
or a person who makes associate facilities available, whom Ofcom has determined to

47

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

be a person having SMP in a specific market for ECN, ECS or associated facilities In
other words, we would need to carry out a market analysis in relation to the delivery
of directory and/or DQ services to establish whether the provision of a central
directory information database would constitute a relevant market and, if so, whether
the provider has SMP by enjoying a position which amounts to dominance in that
market.

Competition law remedies
5.36

Part 5 of the 2003 Act confers certain competition functions on Ofcom. Specifically, in
relation to commercial activities connected with communications matters, we can
apply the Competition Act 1998, concurrently with the Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”)
(and Articles 81 and 82 of the EC Treaty)

5.37

We may also make market investigation references to the Competition Commission
in relation to the communications sector. The purpose of these investigations is to
inquire into markets where it appears that the structure of the market or the conduct
of the suppliers or customers is harming competition.

5.38

When making a reference, we must have reasonable grounds for suspecting that one
or more features of a market prevents, restricts or distorts competition in relation to
the supply or acquisition of goods or services in the UK (or a part of the UK).
Question 5.2: Do you consider that there is no need for further regulation on the
maintenance and management of BT’s OSIS database and it is sufficient to rely on
existing market incentives on BT and the option of drawing on ex post competition
powers when competition issues are raised? Or do you consider that regulated
access to BT’s OSIS database is necessary in order to achieve Ofcom’s policy
objective? Or do you think that there are other options that Ofcom should consider?
Please state your reasons.
Question 5.3: Do you have any other comments on assessments made or the
matters affecting the issues discussed in this Section concerning access to a UK
central database?

48

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Section 6

6 Statutory duties under the
Communications Act 2003
6.1

The proposed policy initiatives outlined in this document together with the
modifications to the General Conditions and the revocation of USC7 need to be
made in accordance with our statutory duties in the 2003 Act. This consideration is
set out below.

Sections 3 and 4 of the 2003 Act
6.2

We have considered all our duties under section 3 of the 2003 Act, and, in particular,
our principal duties under section 3 of the 2003 Act, which are:
a) to further the interests of citizens in relation to communications matters; and
b) to further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where appropriate by
promoting competition.

6.3

We have also considered our duties under section 4 of the 2003 Act and, in
particular, the six Community obligations which are to:
a) promote competition:
b) contribute to the development of the European internal market;
c) promote the interests of all persons who are citizens of the European Union, and,
in particular, in this context, their rights under Article 8(4)(a) of the Framework
Directive which ensure access by end-users to universal services, specifically the
provision of directories and directory enquiry services;
d) carry out our functions in a manner which does not favour one technology or
service over another;
e) encourage the provision of network access and service interoperability; and
f)

encourage compliance with the standards necessary to facilitate service
interoperability and to secure freedom of choice for consumers.

6.4

We consider that our proposals are consistent with the principal duties under section
3 of the 2003 Act. We consider that our proposals would be likely to further the
interests of citizens and consumers because they directly address the delivery of the
rights of citizens and consumers by ensuring that they have affordable entry in, and
access to, comprehensive directories and directory enquiry services and that such
rights are secured through appropriate regulation which will support the competitive
delivery of these services.

6.5

We also consider that our proposals are consistent with the six Community
requirements. The proposals will: simplify the existing regulatory regime; ensure
necessary access to telephone directory information to allow the competitive

49

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

provision of directory and directory enquiry services; protect the privacy of European
Union citizens; and clarify the responsibilities of Communications Providers to allow
them to meet their responsibilities without undue difficulties. The rationalisation of
the provision of directory information proposed will also promote service
interoperability and, by reducing the complexity in the provision of information, further
encourage compliance by Communications Providers and, thus, secure continued
access and choice in the services by consumers.

Section 47(2) of the 2003 Act
6.6

We cannot modify the General Conditions unless the modifications meet the tests set
out under section 47(2) of the 2003 Act.

6.7

The tests in Section 47(2) of the 2003 Act are that the modifications must be:
a) objectively justifiable in relation to the networks, services, facilities, apparatus or
directories to which it relates;
b) not such as to discriminate unduly against particular persons or against a
particular description of persons;
c) proportionate to what it is intended to achieve; and
d) in relation to what it is intended to achieve, transparent.

Objectively justifiable
6.8

We consider that our proposals are objectively justifiable. The proposed changes are
required to ensure the continued delivery of directories and directory enquiry services
and are based on a thorough analysis of the market and set at the minimum level of
regulatory intervention required to ensure the rights of citizens are delivered.

6.9

We consider that without this level of regulation there would be insufficient certainty
as to the rights of directory information access and the responsibility for information
provision to ensure that a comprehensive directory or directory enquiry service is
delivered. We have, however, considered in detail the level of regulation required to
ensure that citizen and consumer rights are protected and, as a consequence,
recommended the removal of obligations on organisations which are no longer
considered to be necessary.

6.10

As set out in the impact assessment we have reviewed the potential options, costs
and benefits and consider that the resultant recommendations are objectively
justified.

Discrimination
6.11

50

We consider that the proposals do not discriminate against any particular person or
description of persons as all changes impact equally on all participants in each
section of the market. In fact, we have removed regulations where we considered
the burden of meeting the obligations fell disproportionately on some
Communications Providers. We have considered the potential for market changes to
impact on specific geographic areas or groups of consumers and determined that this
is not likely under the current market conditions but noted that we will continue to
monitor developments in the market to ensure that such circumstances do not arise
in future.

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Proportionate
6.12

We have reviewed the market and consider that the regulations proposed are the
minimum required to protect the rights of citizens and hence proportionate to the
outcome intended.

6.13

We have, as a consequence of this review, recommended a reduction in regulation in
most cases. Where additional requirements have been proposed (in the case of the
requirement for the provision of end-user data) this has been done in order to ensure
that the services fully meet the standard required under the EU framework and, after
an assessment of potential costs and existing practice, we consider them to be
proportionate in impact and cost.

Transparent
6.14

We are satisfied that the regulations and modifications proposed are transparent
insofar as the nature, purpose and impact of the regulations and modifications as set
out in this document.

6.15

We have also set out fully our consideration of the issues involved and the
alternatives considered. We have invited comment on our analysis and our
recommendations and summarised the potential implications in our impact
assessment.

51

7

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Section 7

Next steps
7.1

This document raises a number of issues and policy proposals linked with access to
telephone directory information. Subject to (and in light of the nature of) the
responses received by Ofcom to this consultation, Ofcom will implement through a
statement in mid 2008 the proposed changes to existing General Conditions and
Universal Service Conditions and consider what if any further consultation may be
required to refine further our approach on any outstanding issues.

7.2

The precise time scale for publishing a further consultation document is dependant
upon certain other factors, such as the possible need to carry out further research
and analysis. Specifically, as regards access to related universal services, the
consultation process could be further complicated if Ofcom decided that it would be
necessary to introduce a USC which would require designation of one or more
universal service providers for directories or DQ services. This is because we would
need to consider what the most appropriate way of proceeding would be in relation to
making any regulations (by way of a statutory instrument), including consulting on
proposals for any such designation mechanism.

52

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Annex 1

1 Responding to this consultation
How to respond
A1.1

Ofcom invites written views and comments on the issues raised in this document, to
be made by 5pm on 19 May 2008.

A1.2

Ofcom strongly prefers to receive responses using the online web form at
http://www.ofcom.org.uk/consult/condocs/dirinfo/howtorespond/form as this helps
us to process the responses quickly and efficiently. We would also be grateful if you
could assist us by completing a response (see Annex 3), to indicate whether or not
there are confidentiality issues. This response coversheet is incorporated into the
online web form questionnaire.

A1.3

For larger consultation responses - particularly those with supporting charts, tables
or other data - please email markham.sivak@ofcom.org.uk attaching your response
in Microsoft Word format, together with a consultation response coversheet.

A1.4

Responses may alternatively be posted or faxed to the address below, marked with
the title of the consultation.
Markham Sivak
Competition Policy Manager
Competition Group
Riverside House
2A Southwark Bridge Road
London SE1 9HA
Fax: 020 7783 4659

A1.5

Note that we do not need a hard copy in addition to an electronic version. Ofcom
will acknowledge receipt of responses if they are submitted using the online web
form but not otherwise.

A1.6

It would be helpful if your response could include direct answers to the questions
asked in this document, which are listed together at Annex 4. It would also help if
you can explain why you hold your views.

Further information
A1.7

If you want to discuss the issues and questions raised in this consultation, or need
advice on the appropriate form of response, please contact Markham Sivak on 020
7783 4659.

Confidentiality
A1.8

We believe it is important for everyone interested in an issue to see the views
expressed by consultation respondents. We will therefore usually publish all
responses on our website, www.ofcom.org.uk, ideally on receipt (when respondents
confirm on their response coversheet that this is acceptable).

53

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

A1.9

All comments will be treated as non-confidential unless respondents specify that
part or all of the response is confidential and should not be disclosed. Please place
any confidential parts of a response in a separate annex so that non-confidential
parts may be published along with the respondent’s identity.

A1.10

Ofcom reserves its power to disclose any information it receives where this is
required to facilitate the carrying out of its statutory functions.

A1.11

Please also note that copyright and all other intellectual property in responses will
be assumed to be licensed to Ofcom to use in order to meet its legal requirements.
Ofcom’s approach on intellectual property rights is explained further on its website
at http://www.ofcom.org.uk/about/accoun/disclaimer/

Next steps
A1.12

Following the end of the consultation period Ofcom intends to publish a statement in
2008 and possibly a further consultation document.

A1.13

Please note that you can register to receive free mail Updates alerting you to the
publications of relevant Ofcom documents. For more details please see:
http://www.ofcom.org.uk/static/subscribe/select_list.htm

Ofcom's consultation processes
A1.14

Ofcom seeks to ensure that responding to a consultation is easy as possible. For
more information please see our consultation principles in Annex 2.

A1.15

If you have any comments or suggestions on how Ofcom conducts its consultations,
please call our consultation helpdesk on 020 7981 3003 or e-mail us at
consult@ofcom.org.uk . We would particularly welcome thoughts on how Ofcom
could more effectively seek the views of those groups or individuals, such as small
businesses or particular types of residential consumers, who are less likely to give
their opinions through a formal consultation.

A1.16

If you would like to discuss these issues or Ofcom's consultation processes more
generally you can alternatively contact Vicki Nash, Director Scotland, who is
Ofcom’s consultation champion:
Vicki Nash
Ofcom
Sutherland House
149 St. Vincent Street
Glasgow G2 5NW
Tel: 0141 229 7401
Fax: 0141 229 7433
Email vicki.nash@ofcom.org.uk

54

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Annex 2

2 Ofcom’s consultation principles
A2.1

Ofcom has published the following seven principles that it will follow for each public
written consultation:

Before the consultation
A2.2

Where possible, we will hold informal talks with people and organisations before
announcing a big consultation to find out whether we are thinking in the right
direction. If we do not have enough time to do this, we will hold an open meeting to
explain our proposals shortly after announcing the consultation.

During the consultation
A2.3

We will be clear about who we are consulting, why, on what questions and for how
long.

A2.4

We will make the consultation document as short and simple as possible with a
summary of no more than two pages. We will try to make it as easy as possible to
give us a written response. If the consultation is complicated, we may provide a
shortened version for smaller organisations or individuals who would otherwise not
be able to spare the time to share their views.

A2.5

We will normally allow ten weeks for responses to consultations on issues of
general interest. In this case, however, we have decided to allow 12 weeks in
consideration of the consultation running over the Christmas/New Year holiday
period.

A2.6

There will be a person within Ofcom who will be in charge of making sure we follow
our own guidelines and reach out to the largest number of people and organizations
interested in the outcome of our decisions. This individual (who we call the
consultation champion) will also be the main person to contact with views on the
way we run our consultations.

A2.7

If we are not able to follow one of these principles, we will explain why. This may be
because a particular issue is urgent. If we need to reduce the amount of time we
have set aside for a consultation, we will let those concerned know beforehand that
this is a ‘red flag consultation’ which needs their urgent attention.

After the consultation
A2.8

We will look at each response carefully and with an open mind. We will give
reasons for our decisions and will give an account of how the views of those
concerned helped shape those decisions.

55

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Annex 3

3 Consultation response cover sheet
A3.1

In the interests of transparency, we will publish all consultation responses in full on
our website, www.ofcom.org.uk, unless a respondent specifies that all or part of
their response is confidential. We will also refer to the contents of a response when
explaining our decision, without disclosing the specific information that you wish to
remain confidential.

A3.2

We have produced a coversheet for responses (see below) and would be very
grateful if you could send one with your response (this is incorporated into the
online web form if you respond in this way). This will speed up our processing of
responses, and help to maintain confidentiality by allowing you to state very clearly
what you don’t want to be published. We will keep your completed coversheets
confidential.

A3.3

The quality of consultation can be enhanced by publishing responses before the
consultation period closes. In particular, this can help those individuals and
organisations with limited resources or familiarity with the issues to respond in a
more informed way. Therefore Ofcom would encourage respondents to complete
their coversheet in a way that allows Ofcom to publish their responses upon receipt,
rather than waiting until the consultation period has ended.

A3.4

We strongly prefer to receive responses via the online web form which incorporates
the coversheet. If you are responding via email, post or fax you can download an
electronic copy of this coversheet in Word or RTF format from the ‘Consultations’
section of our website at www.ofcom.org.uk/consult/.

A3.5

Please put any confidential parts of your response in a separate annex to your
response, so that they are clearly identified. This can include information such as
your personal background and experience. If you want your name, address, other
contact details, or job title to remain confidential, please provide them in your
coversheet only so that we don’t have to edit your response.

56

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Cover sheet for response to an Ofcom consultation
BASIC DETAILS
Consultation title:
To (Ofcom contact):
Name of respondent:
Representing (self or organisation/s):
Address (if not received by email):

CONFIDENTIALITY
What do you want Ofcom to keep confidential?
Nothing

Name/contact details/job title

Whole response

Organisation

Part of the response

If there is no separate annex, which parts?

DECLARATION
I confirm that the correspondence supplied with this cover sheet is a formal consultation
response. It can be published in full on Ofcom’s website, unless otherwise specified on this
cover sheet, and I authorise Ofcom to make use of the information in this response to meet
its legal requirements. If I have sent my response by email, Ofcom can disregard any
standard e-mail text about not disclosing email contents and attachments.
Ofcom seeks to publish responses on receipt. If your response is
non-confidential (in whole or in part), and you would prefer us to
publish your response only once the consultation has ended, please tick here.
Name

Signed (if hard copy)

57

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Annex 4

4 Questions raised in this consultation
Section 3
Question 3.1: Do you agree with Ofcom’s proposed revocation of USC7? If you
disagree, what are your reasons for this view?
Question 3.2: Ofcom considers that the current directory services meet the criteria of
comprehensiveness, affordability, quality and availability. Do you agree with this
assessment? If not please provide a detailed response as to which criteria is not
fulfilled and in what way.
Question 3.3: Do you agree with Ofcom’s analysis [on the removal of the obligations
to provide a printed directory]? If you do not agree please provide your reasons.
Question 3.4: Ofcom considers that the DQ market is robust and delivering the level
of service required by the Universal Service Directive. It also considers that it is
appropriate to maintain the condition on Communications Providers to ensure access
to a DQ service to ensure that the universality of provision is maintained. If you do
not agree please provide your reasons.
Question 3.5: Do you agree with the redrafting of GC8 set out above [at the end of
Section 3]? If you do not agree please provide your reasons.

Section 4
Question 4.1: Do you agree with Ofcom’s view that GC19 should be modified so as
to clarify persons having ‘rights of access’ as set out above (a redrafted version of
condition GC19 and related definitions is set out at the end of this section)? If you
disagree, please provide detailed reasons for this view.
Question 4.2: Do you have any other comments about ‘rights of access’?
Question 4.3: Do you agree with Ofcom’s view that GC19 should be modified so that
responsibility for the provision of information rests with the Communications Provider
controlling the telephone number (a proposed redrafting of GC19 incorporating this
change is set out at the end of this section)? If you disagree, please provide detailed
reasons for this view.
Question 4.4: Do you agree with Ofcom’s view that GC19 should be modified so as
to capture actual end-users of the relevant telephone numbers assigned by the
relevant Communications Provider to its subscribers, where these users are not the
same persons as the subscribers themselves (a proposed redrafting of the definition
of directory information is set out at the end of this section)? If you disagree, please
provide detailed reasons for this view.
Question 4.5: Do you consider that Ofcom should consider modifying GC19 (and
related definitions, such as ‘Directory Information’) to include non-geographic
telephone numbers assigned for use in public Electronic Communications Service
(including, but not limited to, PATS)(a proposed redrafting of the condition and

58

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

definition is set out at the end of this section)? If you disagree, please provide
detailed reasons for this view. Or if you disagree in part only (e.g. a reference to
public Electronic Communications Service being too wide), how do you suggest that
Ofcom should address this matter?
Question 4.6: Do you consider that Ofcom should modify GC19 (and related
definitions, such as ‘Directory Information’) such that:
o end-user name and address are also required to be provided; and
o business and non-geographic numbers to replace geographic information in
the end-user address with more relevant data that would allow the
identification of the number by a third party (a proposed redrafting of the
condition and related definitions is set out at the end of this section)? If you
disagree, please provide detailed reasons for this view. Or if you disagree in
part, how do you suggest that Ofcom should address this matter?
Question 4.7: Do you consider that there is a requirement for a wider mandated set
of information beyond subscriber and end-user name and address under GC19? If
so, what additional information do you think should be made available under GC19 –
please provide reasons and any evidence to support why you consider that users
regard such additional information as necessary to find the persons they are looking
for by indicating what specific circumstances exist in the UK?
Question 4.8: Do you agree with our assessment of Communications Providers
responsibilities with respect to the provision of GC19 data? If not, please provide
details of your objection to this assessment and your proposed alternative.
Question 4.9: Do you agree that it is appropriate for the Opt-in approach to assume
that not opting-in is equivalent to selecting an unlisted option? If not, please provide
your reasons and your proposed alternative.
Question 4.10: Do you consider whether there are any issues arising in respect of
the DIPs collection of additional data? If so, please provide details of any such
concerns.
Question 4.11: Do you agree that there is no requirement for specific additional
protection of end-user information? If not, please provide details of your objection to
this assessment and any proposed alternative.
Question 4.12: Do you have any comments about the operation of the requirements
in Privacy Regulation 18(3) and 18(5)?
Question 4.13: Do you have any comments about the operation of the requirement
in Privacy Regulation 18(4) as it applies to GC19? We would also be interested to
hear your views on whether Privacy Regulation 18(5) is sufficient to protect end-user
data.
Question 4.14: Do you agree that GC19 should be modified so as to referring also to
the word “objective” in the context of the terms on which GC19 data should be
provided (a proposed redrafting of the condition and related definitions is set out at
the end of this section)? If you disagree, please provide detailed reasons for
maintaining this view.
Question 4.15: Do you agree with the proposed redrafting of GC19 and related
definitions as set out above [at the end of Section 4] and discussed through that
section? If you disagree, please provide detailed reasons for this view.

59

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Section 5
Question 5.1: Do you consider that BT will have sufficient commercial incentive to
maintain the comprehensiveness of OSIS? Or do you consider that Ofcom should
consider additional regulation to ensure that it will remain comprehensive?
Question 5.2: Do you consider that there is no need for further regulation on the
maintenance and management of BT’s OSIS database and it is sufficient to rely on
existing market incentives on BT and the option of drawing on ex post competition
powers when competition issues are raised? Or do you consider that regulated
access to BT’s OSIS database is necessary in order to achieve Ofcom’s policy
objective? Or do you think that there are other options that Ofcom should consider?
Please state your reasons.
Question 5.3: Do you have any other comments on assessments made or the
matters affecting the issues discussed in this Section concerning access to a UK
central database?

60

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Annex 5

5 Notification of proposed revocation of
Universal Service Condition 7
Notification of a proposed revocation under section 48(2) of the
Communications Act 2003 (the “Act”)
Proposal for revocation of Universal Service Condition 7 of Part 2 of the Universal
Service Order notification regarding BT’s maintenance and supply of a Directory
Information database and Directories, which is set out in the Schedule to that
notification under regulation 4(10) of the Universal Service Regulations 2003
published by the Director General of Telecommunications on 22 July 2003.
1. OFCOM, in accordance with section 48(2) of the Act, hereby states that it proposes to
revoke Universal Service Condition 7 regarding BT’s maintenance and supply of a Directory
Information database and Directories.
2. The effect of, and OFCOM’s reasons for making, the proposal referred to in paragraph 1
above are set out in Section 3 of the accompanying explanatory statement.
3. In making this proposal, OFCOM has considered and acted in accordance with its
general duties in section 3 of the Act, and the six Community requirements in section 4 of
the Act.
4. Representations may be made to OFCOM about its proposal set out in this Notification
and the accompanying explanatory statement by 19 May 2008.
5. Copies of this Notification and the accompanying explanatory statement have been sent
to the Secretary of State in accordance with section 50(1)(a) of the Act and to the European
Commission in accordance with section 50(6) of the Act.
6. In this Notification:
(i) “Act” means the Communications Act 2003 (c. 21);
(ii) “BT” means British Telecommunications plc;
(iii) “OFCOM” means the Office of Communications;
(iv) “Universal Service Condition 7” means Condition 7 (entitled ‘Maintenance and supply
of a Directory Information database and Directories’) as set out in Part 2 of the Schedule to
the Universal Service Order notification, which condition is to have effect after the
commencement of that section as a condition set by OFCOM under section 45 of the Act
pursuant to paragraph 7(2) of Schedule 18 to the Act;
(v) “Universal Service Regulations 2003” means The Electronic Communications
(Universal Service) Regulations 2003 (S.I. 2003 No. 33); and
(vi) “Universal Service Order notification” means the notification under regulation 4(10) of
the Universal Service Regulations 2003, as set out in Annex A to the document entitled
‘Designation of BT and KCOM as universal service providers, and the specific universal
service conditions - A statement and Notification issued by the Director General of

61

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Telecommunications on the implementation of the Universal Service Directive’, as published
on 22 July 2003.
7. For the purposes of interpreting this Notification:
(i) except in so far as the context otherwise requires, words or expressions shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in paragraph 6 above and otherwise any word or expression shall
have the same meaning as it has in the Universal Service Order notification and, subject to
such meanings, otherwise any word or expression shall have the same meaning as it has in
the Act;
(ii) the Interpretation Act 1978 (c. 30) shall apply as if this Notification were an Act of
Parliament; and
(iii) headings and titles shall be disregarded.

Signatory: David Stewart
Position: Competition Policy Director
A person duly authorised in accordance with paragraph 18 of the Schedule to the Office of
Communications Act 2002 (c. 11)
Date: 10 March 2008

62

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Annex 6

6 Notification of proposed modifications to
General Conditions 8, 14 and 19 and
associated definitions
Notification of modifications under section 48(2) of the Communications Act
2003 (the “Act”) of General Condition 8, 14 and 19 of Part 2 of the General
Conditions and associated definitions of Part 1 of the General Conditions
directories, directory information and directory enquiry facilities, which is set
out in the Schedule to the Notification under Section 48(1) of the
Communications Act 2003 published by the Director General on 22 July 2003
as amended by the notification made by Ofcom on 30 March 2006.
1. OFCOM in accordance with section 48(2) of the Act hereby make the following
modifications to General Conditions 8, 14 and 19 of Part 2 of the General Conditions and
associated definitions of Part 1 of the General Conditions regarding directories, directory
information and directory enquiry facilities.
2. The proposed modifications are set out in Schedules 1, 2, 3 and 4 to this Notification.
3. The effect of, and OFCOM’s reasons for making, the modifications referred to in
paragraph 1 above are set out at sections 3 to 5 of the accompanying explanatory
statement.
4. OFCOM considers that the modifications referred to in paragraph 1 above comply with the
requirements of sections 45 to 50 of the Act, as appropriate.
5. In making the modifications set out in this Notification, OFCOM has considered and acted
in accordance with its general duties in section 3 of the Act and the six Community
requirements in section 4 of the Act.
6. Copies of this Notification and the accompanying statement have been sent to the
Secretary of State in accordance with section 50(1)(a) of the Act and to the European
Commission in accordance with section 50(6) of the Act.
7. In this Notification:
(i)
(ii)

(iii)

“the Act” means the Communications Act 2003;
“General Conditions” means as set out in the Schedule to the Notification under
Section 48(1) of the Communications Act 2003 published by the Director
General on 22 July 2003 as amended from time to time; and
“OFCOM” means the Office of Communications.

8. Except insofar as the context otherwise requires, words or expressions shall have the
meaning assigned to them in this Notification and otherwise any word or expression shall
have the same meaning as it has in the Act.
9. For the purpose of interpreting this Notification:
(i)
headings and titles shall be disregarded; and

63

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

(ii)

the Interpretation Act 1978 shall apply as if this Notification were an Act of
Parliament

10. The Schedules to this Notification shall form part of this Notification.

Signed by
David Stewart
Competition Policy Director
A person authorised by Ofcom under paragraph 18 of the Schedule to the
Office of Communications Act 2003
10 March 2008

64

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Schedule 1
Draft Modification to General Condition 8 of Part 2 of the General Conditions,
which is set out in the Schedule to the Notification under Section 48(1) of the
Communications Act 2003 published by the Director General on 22 July 2003
as amended by the notification made by Ofcom on 30 March 2006
General Condition 8 on Operator Assistance, Directories and Directory Enquiry
Facilities shall be modified as set out below:
Delete the existing paragraphs 8.1- 8.6 and replace with those set out below:
8.1 The Communications Provider shall ensure that any End-User can access:
(a) operator assistance services; and
(b) a Directory Enquiry Facility containing Directory Information on all Subscribers in the
United Kingdom who have been assigned Telephone Numbers by any Communications
Provider, except those Subscribers who have exercised their right to have their
Directory Information removed, except where such services or facilities have been rendered
inaccessible to a particular End-User by the Communications Provider at the End-User’s
request or for the purposes of debt management.
8.2 The Communications Provider may charge End-Users a reasonable fee for making
available a Directory Enquiry Facility and may charge its Subscribers a reasonable fee for
inclusion of Directory Information in a Directory or as part of a Directory Enquiry Facility.
8.3 This Condition applies subject to the requirements of Relevant Data Protection
Legislation.
8.4 For the purposes of this Condition, “Communications Provider” means a person who
provides Publicly Available Telephone Services (except Public Pay Telephones).

65

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Schedule 2
Draft Modification to General Condition 14 of Part 2 of the General Conditions,
which is set out in the Schedule to the Notification under Section 48(1) of the
Communications Act 2003 published by the Director General on 22 July 2003
as amended by the notification made by Ofcom on 30 March 2006
General Condition 14 on Codes of Practice and Dispute Resolution shall be modified as
set out below:
Delete the fourth bullet point of paragraph 14 of Annex 4 to General Condition 14 Code on the provision by Service Providers of consumer information to Domestic and Small
Business Customers for the provision of Services which states:
“•

66

provision of a Directory on request;”

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Schedule 3
Draft Modification to General Condition 19 of Part 2 of the General Conditions,
which is set out in the Schedule to the Notification under Section 48(1) of the
Communications Act 2003 published by the Director General on 22 July 2003
as amended by the notification made by Ofcom on 30 March 2006
General Condition 19 on Provision of Directory Information shall be modified as set out
below:
Delete paragraphs 19.1, 19.2 and 19.3 and replace with those set out below:
19.1 The Communications Provider shall meet all reasonable requests from any
person under 19.2 to make available the Directory Information of its Subscribers who
have been assigned Telephone Numbers for the purposes of the provision of
Directories and Directory Enquiry Facilities.
19.2 Persons eligible to request information are:
19.2 (a) directory information providers, that is, any person in the business of
providing or intending to provide to end-users telephone numbers by:
o

a publicly available telephone directory, whether printed
or electronic; or

o

a publicly available telephone directory enquiry service.

19.2(b) intermediate suppliers of telephone directory information, that is any
person in the business of providing or intending to provide telephone
directory information to any directory information provider by operating
and making available a database containing such information.
19.3 Where the Communications Provider is requested to supply Directory
Information in accordance with paragraphs 19.1 or 19.2, it shall do so on terms which
are fair, objective, cost-oriented and non-discriminatory, and in a format which is
agreed between the Communications Provider and the person requesting the
information. The Communications Provider shall comply with any direction made by
Ofcom from time to time with respect to the format to be applied to the information.
Additional paragraph 19.4 to be inserted
19.4 Where, in accordance with Data Protection legislation, the telephone number
must be withheld, no Directory Information need be provided other than an
explanation that the Directory Information may not be supplied.
Existing paragraphs 19.4 and 19.5 to be renumbered 19.5 and 19.6.

67

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Schedule 4
Draft Modification to Definitions of Part 1 of the General Conditions, which is
set out in the Schedule to the Notification under Section 48(1) of the
Communications Act 2003 published by the Director General on 22 July 2003
as amended by the notification made by Ofcom on 30 March 2006
Delete the definitions of Directory, Directory Enquiry Facilities and Directory Information and
replace as follows:
“Directory” means a printed or electronic document containing Directory Information
related to an assigned telephone number as agreed with the Subscribers of Publicly
Available Telephone Services or other Electronic Communications Services offering
non-geographic numbers in the United Kingdom which is made available to members
of the public;
“Directory Enquiry Facility” means Directory Information provided by
means of a Public Telephone Network, or the provision of onward connection
services using Directory Information;
“Directory Information” means the name and address of the Subscriber, and where
different, end-user associated with a Telephone Number as provided by the
Subscriber and the Telephone Number assigned to the Subscriber for their use of
Publicly Available Telephone Services or other Electronic Communications Services
offering non-geographic numbers:
•

“end-user name” can include any Subscriber defined individual or
business name intended to support the identification of the end-user in
a Directory or through a Directory Enquiry Facility; and

•

“end-user address” shall be:



68

the address of the end-user as confirmed by the Subscriber; or
a functional description, provided by the Subscriber, of a
business or non-geographic number where a physical address
will not be useful for the identification of the number in a
Directory or through a Directory Enquiry Facility.

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Annex 7

7 Impact Assessment
Introduction
A7.1

The analysis presented in this annex represents an impact assessment, as defined
in section 7 of the Communications Act 2003 (the Act).

A7.2

You should send any comments on this impact assessment to us by the closing
date for this consultation. We will consider all comments before deciding whether to
implement our proposals.

A7.3

Impact assessments provide a valuable way of assessing different options for
regulation and showing why the preferred option was chosen. They form part of
best practice policy-making. This is reflected in section 7 of the Act, which means
that generally we have to carry out impact assessments where our proposals would
be likely to have a significant effect on businesses or the general public, or when
there is a major change in Ofcom’s activities. However, as a matter of policy Ofcom
is committed to carrying out and publishing impact assessments in relation to the
great majority of our policy decisions. For further information about our approach to
impact assessments, see the guidelines, Better policy-making: Ofcom’s approach to
impact assessment, which are on our website:
http://www.ofcom.org.uk/consult/policy_making/guidelines.pdf

Ofcom’s policy objective Revocation of USC7
A7.4

The determination of the disputes between The Number/Conduit and BT have led to
a number of policy issues arising that are considered in this policy review. Ofcom’s
policy objectives for this review are twofold:
•

To ensure that consumers continue to have reasonable access to directory
information; and

•

To ensure that the requirements of the Universal Service Directive are met in the
UK.

A7.5

We believe USC7 is unlawful for the reasons set out in Section 3. Given this, we
believe that we have no option but to revoke it. The consequences of revoking
USC7 are that BT will no longer be required by Ofcom to maintain a central
database of directory information. Nor will BT be required to make available (on
regulated terms) wholesale directory information to DQ providers or other directory
information providers, or to provide directories to other Communications Providers
to enable them to comply with GC8. Arguably, of course, BT’s obligation was not
enforceable but up to this point BT has acted in accordance with these
requirements.

A7.6

USC7 was one part of the arrangements put in place by Oftel to ensure that
consumers had access to a DQ service and a directory. With its removal, there is a
risk that consumers will not have adequate access to directory services and that the
requirements of the Universal Service Directive will not be met. We therefore
consider these risks below and the policy options for addressing them.

69

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Access to related universal service
Access to directories in the future
A7.7

The current arrangements for ensuring the availability of directories involve GC8.2
and USC7. GC8.2 requires all Communications Providers to supply, on request, a
printed local directory. USC7 supports this by requiring BT to make directories
available to other Communications Providers. With the proposed revocation of
USC7, Ofcom has considered three options for ensuring that consumers continue to
have reasonable access to directories and that the requirements of the Universal
Service Directive on directories are met:
•

Option 1: do nothing and maintain GC8.2;

•

Option 2: remove GC8.2 and impose a Universal Service Obligation to make
directories available to customers by one or more entity; and

•

Option 3: remove GC8.2 and rely on normal market conditions to deliver
directories without any regulatory requirement to do so.

A7.8

The disadvantage of Option 1 is that, when USC7 is revoked, it could potentially be
onerous for Communications Providers to have to supply a printed local directory on
request. Other than BT, there are currently no other potential providers of such
directories (with the exception of the Hull area) and Communications Providers will
not typically have experience of producing such directories. Because of the
potential impact on Communications Providers, Ofcom is therefore not attracted to
Option 1.

A7.9

Option 2 has the advantage of removing the potentially onerous GC8.2. By
imposing a Universal Service Obligation this option would ensure that consumers
still had access to a directory by requiring the designated Universal Service entity or
entities to provide it. The potential disadvantage is that, if directories are likely to be
provided anyway for commercial reasons, then this would involve imposing an
unnecessary regulatory condition.

A7.10

Option 3 has the advantage of removing the potentially onerous GC8.2 without
imposing any new regulatory requirements. The risk with Option 3 is that, with the
removal of GC8.2, printed directories will cease to be universally available. If this
were the case, then there would be a danger that the UK would not be compliant
with the Universal Service Directive as well as depriving individuals of a service
they have come to expect. This would depend on whether electronic directories
(e.g. on line directories) were still available and whether the availability of such
directories was sufficient to meet the Universal Service Directive. There would be
particular concern over whether households without access to the internet had
sufficient access to an electronic directory. At Q1 2007, 36% of households did not
have the internet at home (although this number is expected to decline over time)53.
We believe that at the current time local printed directories are likely to be
necessary to satisfy the Universal Service Directive and provide consumers with
reasonable access to directory information.

A7.11

The choice between Options 2 and 3 therefore depends on whether we think it likely
that printed local directories will continue to be provided in the future once GC8.2 is

53

Ofcom’s The UK Communications Market 2007, Figure 4.72
http://www.ofcom.org.uk/research/cm/cmr07/telecoms/telecoms.pdf

70

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

revoked. There are currently two types of printed comprehensive directories
delivered in the UK. BT delivers around 170 local editions of its directory, the
‘Phone Book’, which together cover all of the UK except for the Hull area. KCOM
publishes a directory in the Hull area, the ‘Hull White Pages’. We are interested in
whether BT and KCOM have commercial incentives to continue to produce their
comprehensive directories, even without a regulatory obligation. We discuss them
in turn below.

BT’s Phone Book
A7.12

The Phone Book is now a bundled product containing both a comprehensive
directory for residential and business numbers in an A-to-Z format and also
classified advertisements, in which entries are organised under business
classifications such as ‘plumbers’ or ‘taxis’. BT began to include classified
advertisements in some local versions of the Phone Book in 2002, and by 2005 all
170 local versions contained classified advertisements.

A7.13

Based on confidential information provided by BT, it is clear that the Phone Book is
currently profitable and likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. This appears
consistent with the report by the Competition Commission in December 2006 of its
investigation into the Classified Directory Advertising Services market, primarily
regarding the position of Yell which is the market leader.54 In that report, the
Competition Commission says that BT is becoming a more significant operator in
the classified advertisement market, and its market share had grown rapidly since
2002.

A7.14

It is possible that if the regulatory requirement to publish the A-Z directory listing
were removed, BT may choose to publish only the classified advertising section of
the Phone Book. However, we consider that there are a number of commercial
reasons why BT would not. Firstly, BT obtains revenue from producing the A-Z
section from the wholesale line rental (WLR) charge and also from selling
advertising in the A-Z section. Secondly, the bundling of the A-Z part of the Phone
Book and the classified advertisements is likely in part to increase classified
advertisements revenues as it is the main unique selling point of the Phone Book.
The A-Z sections of the Phone Book may help to give the Phone Book as a whole
greater prominence and make it more attractive for businesses to advertise in the
classified section.

A7.15

Even if BT continues to produce a bundled Phone Book, there are other risks that
could threaten the continued provision of the printed directory. BT may stop
delivering the Phone Book to certain geographical areas, or to non subscribers or
that it may stop producing it on a 12 monthly basis.

A7.16

As BT considers the profitability of the Phone Book as a whole, rather than by
geographical area, we cannot directly consider the profitability by geographical
area. However, we can compare the average profitability per directory of all
directories with delivery costs per directory by area. BT has supplied Ofcom with
information on the delivery costs of the Phone Book for different geographical
areas, and these vary significantly between different areas. However, even for the

54

http://www.competition-commission.org.uk/rep_pub/reports/2006/fulltext/521.pdf. The Competition
Commission estimated that Yell has around 75 per cent of the UK advertising revenues for major
classified directory advertising services. The Competition Commission found that Yell had market
power and this could lead to Yell setting excessive prices. The remedies the Competition Commission
imposed included a price control on Yell’s rate card.

71

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

areas with the highest delivery costs, these costs are significantly less than the
average profit per directory. There may also be benefits from increased classified
advertising revenue from providing near uniform geographical coverage. The
Competition Commission notes that some businesses, such as insurance
companies, seek national coverage for their advertisements.
A7.17

BT’s delivery to non-subscribers was based on a commercial decision related to the
economics of delivery and entering the classified advertising market. Given the
need to compete for advertisers with the universal coverage of Yellow Pages and
Thompson, it seems highly unlikely BT would move back to subscriber delivery
only.

A7.18

Another concern may be that without the requirement to produce a new directory
every 12 months, BT may only update the Phone Book over a longer period than 12
months. This may be particularly a concern because BT only used to update the
Phone Book every 18 months. However, classified advertising revenue is the most
important source of revenue for the Phone Book. The other two major classified
directories, Yellow Pages and Thomson Local, both use an annual publication
cycle.55 An annual publication cycle is therefore the norm for the classified
directories market, and BT is therefore likely to have commercial reasons to retain
an annual production cycle.

A7.19

On balance, Ofcom believes that BT is likely to have commercial reasons to
continue to deliver a bundled Phone Book that includes both A-Z and classified
advertisements in the future, and that it will do so every 12 months.

KCOM Communication’s Hull White Pages
A7.20

KCOM publishes a comprehensive ‘A to Z’ business and residential directory for its
area, known as Hull White Pages. This is published separately from its classified
advertising directory, Hull Colour Pages. KCOM does not produce separate
management accounts for its White Pages, rather this is subsumed in KCOM’
directory publishing business (which includes the production of both). Based on
confidential information provided by KCOM, the directory publishing business as a
whole appears profitable.

Conclusion on future of printed directories
A7.21

BT and KCOM are able to offer a self-financing printed directory service which
delivers net returns to their company thereby ensuring that the market satisfies the
need for a directory to be made available to all end users. We believe it is likely that
comprehensive local printed directories will continue to be provided in the future for
commercial reasons without any regulatory requirement. This is based on the
assumption that wholesale directory information continues to be available in the
future at reasonable cost, which is discussed further below.

A7.22

We therefore believe that Option 3 is the most appropriate option and propose to
remove GC8.2 and rely on normal market conditions to deliver directories without
any regulatory requirement to do so.

A7.23

We recognise that there is some risk that directories will not be provided in the
future. We will monitor this. If circumstances change, for example if BT were to
cease to make available universally a printed local directory, then Ofcom would

55

As confirmed in Thomson’s and Yell’s submissions to the Competition Commission.

72

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

need to assess consumer access to directory information at that time. If Ofcom
were concerned that consumers do not have reasonable access to directory
information or the Universal Service Directive is not being implemented, then we
would consider imposing a regulatory obligation at that time.

Access to DQ services in the future
A7.24

Ofcom does not propose to make any changes in relation to DQ services. Assuming
there continues to be access to wholesale directory information at reasonable cost
(which is discussed further below), Ofcom believes that the market will continue to
satisfy the Universal Service Directive requirements in the future.

A7.25

There is a risk that DQ services will cease to be provided, but Ofcom regards this
risk as being very low, given the number of providers currently and the fact that the
main providers appear to be profitable.

A7.26

A separate risk is that, even though they are available, DQ services may become
unaffordable for consumers. For the large majority of consumers, their use of DQ
services is very low and affordability issues are very unlikely to arise. This risk is
therefore greater for heavy users of DQ services, but is mitigated by competition
between DQ services. Heavy users of DQ services are more likely to be aware of
the price of DQ services and more inclined to switch to a cheaper service if the
price from their current supplier increases.

Access to telephony directory information
Persons having ‘rights of access’ to telephony directory information
A7.27

In The Number/Conduit Determinations, Ofcom gave guidance on who had a ‘right
of access’ to GC19 directory information from Communications Providers. Ofcom’s
guidance was that it considered that those persons with a right to GC19 directory
information should include both:
•

intermediate suppliers, who do not themselves provide either directories or DQ
services to end-users; and

•

business classified directories providers.

A7.28

A7.29

In this policy review, Ofcom has considered three options:
•

Option 1: do nothing and do not change the existing wording;

•

Option 2: changing the wording to clarify that any person seeking to provide
relevant directory information services has, on request, ‘rights of access’ to such
information falling under GC19; and

•

Option 3: changing the wording of GC19 so as to restrict access to those who
themselves provide retail directory enquiries or directory services.
Option 1 involves no changes. This has the potential disadvantage of leaving some
ambiguity in the wording of the condition, notwithstanding the fact that Ofcom has
clarified its understanding of the wording in its guidance. In contrast, Options 2 and
3 have the advantage of providing greater clarify to the regulatory framework.

73

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

A7.30

Option 2 would clarify the wording of GC19 to make explicit that any person seeking
to provide relevant directory information services has, on request, ‘rights of access’
to such information falling under GC19. Persons with rights of access would include
any directory information providers and intermediate supplier of telephone directory
information (that is to say any person in the business of providing or intending to
provide telephony directory information to any directory information provider
referred to above by operating and making available a database containing such
information, but who does not itself necessarily provide such directories or DQ
services to end-users).

A7.31

In providing greater clarity in relation to the parties who may have a “right of access”
to GC19 directory information, Option 2 could result in more requests to
Communications Providers for GC19 directory information compared to Option 3.
This could raise a number of potential concerns:
•

Data protection: concerns from the Communications Provider that directory
information provided will only be used for the provision of directories or DQ
services, as an intermediary could on-sell the information to a party with whom
the Communications Provider had no contractual relationship;

•

Burden on Communications Providers: An increase in requests for GC19
directory information from different parties could result in an increased burden on
Communications Providers; and

•

Commercial implications for OSIS: the greater clarity on who has access to
GC19 directory information (combined with the other changes that Ofcom is
proposing in this policy review) may make it more likely that intermediate
suppliers may buy GC19 data directly and effectively compete with OSIS. This
could eventually threaten the financial viability of OSIS.

A7.32

On data protection, subject to stakeholder responses to this consultation, Ofcom
regards this potential issue as low risk, because we believe it should be possible to
address this concern contractually (for example by ensuring contractually that the
person supplied with data undertakes to procure the compliance of relevant
regulatory and legal obligations when it sells the data onwards).

A7.33

Regarding the burden on Communications Providers, we recognise that this could
become onerous if there were many DIPs requesting information directly from
Communications Providers. Communications Providers would be required to
assess whether the party requesting information is entitled to it and that data
protection rules are adhered to. Option 2 potentially imposes additional costs on
Communications Providers compared to Option 3. In practice, however, we think
that OSIS is likely to remain the main point of supply for wholesale directory
information for DIPs.

A7.34

Regarding the potential commercial threat to OSIS, Ofcom recognises this
possibility but does not believe this is a valid reason for not extending access to
GC19. There are potential advantages for consumers in changing GC19 so that it is
easier to establish a rival database that competes with OSIS. While there would be
some duplication, the competitive pressures that would result from a second
database may tend to lower costs and provide a greater spur to innovation. We
therefore do not see this as a potential disadvantage of Option 2, but rather as a
potential advantage over Option 3.

74

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

A7.35

While Option 3 would impose less of a burden on Communications Providers and
not raise any data protection concerns, it has the disadvantage of potentially
preventing some wholesale directory information services which ultimately could
lead to less retail directory information services for consumers, and it removes the
potential threat of a competing database being established. Such a potential threat
could be in consumers’ interests by exerting pressure on OSIS to ensure costs are
reasonable.

A7.36

We think that it is important for the regulatory framework to be as clear as possible
and propose to move away from Option 1 to achieve this. We think that, on balance,
the potential benefits of Option 2 compared to Option 3 outweigh the additional
costs on Communications Providers. We therefore propose to clarify the wording of
GC19 to make explicit that any person seeking to provide relevant directory
information services has, on request, ‘rights of access’ to such information falling
under GC19.

Responsibility for provision of information
A7.37

At present the primary responsibility for the provision of directory information to
those with the right of access under GC19 rests with the Communications Provider
which was originally allocated the telephone number. In accordance with GC19.2,
any Communications Provider who has subsequently been authorised (either
directly to indirectly) to use a telephone number assigned to another
Communications Provider has only the responsibility to provide information to
either:
‘(a) the person who was originally Allocated such Telephone
Numbers; or
(b) if different from the above, the person who authorised the use of
such Telephone Numbers by it’.

A7.38

In terms of the responsibility for the provision of directory information, Ofcom has
considered two options:
•

Option 1: do nothing and retain the obligation on the Communications Provider
that is currently required to provide GC19 directory information; and

•

Option 2: Require the Communications Provider that currently controls the
telephone number to provide GC19 directory information (irrespective of whether
the number was obtained directly or through assignment), and no longer require
the Communications Provider that originally allocated the number to provide the
data.

A7.39

The main disadvantage we see with Option 1 (the current approach) is that it will
become increasingly complex to manage over time. As number portability
increases, it will become increasingly complex for the original organisation to which
the number was allocated to have responsibility for directory information. Because
of this complexity, we think this option is likely to become increasingly costly to
operate over time.

A7.40

In contrast, Option 2 would not become more complex over time. The responsibility
would always be with the current Communications Provider. As a Communications
Provider takes over the retail relationship with a customer, it will enter into a
contract with that customer for the supply of PATS and, in so doing, will hold and

75

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

collect directory data. One disadvantage of Option 2 is that it could lead to some
smaller Communications Providers having to manage direct third party approaches
for directory information for the first time. This could represent a greater burden on
these Communications Providers than simply passing the data back to the
organisation which had originally requested the number allocations. However, it
may be possible for smaller Communications Providers to mitigate this burden
through commercial agreements. For example, Communications Providers may be
able to delegate responsibility for providing GC19 directory information to a third
party.
A7.41

Another disadvantage of Option 2 is that it may become more difficult for directory
information aggregators (such as BT with OSIS) to find and establish contractual
relationships with all Communications Providers, as the number of Communications
Providers with an obligation to provide GC19 directory information to DIPs will
increase. This could make it harder for directory information aggregators to compile
comprehensive directory information. However, this issue would increase anyway,
as more Communications Providers take on direct allocations of numbers. We do
not believe we are materially increasing this risk.

A7.42

Despite these disadvantages, we believe that, on balance, Option 2 is better than
the current arrangements. If Option 2 is more cost effective to implement than the
current arrangements, then this should ultimately feed through to consumers in
terms of cheaper directory information. We therefore propose to require the
Communications Provider that currently controls the telephone number to provide
GC19 directory information.

Inclusion of non-geographic numbers
A7.43

Currently GC19 only relates to PATS numbers. This means that non-geographic
numbers (such as ‘0845’ and ‘0870’) are not covered by GC19. Ofcom has
considered two options:
•

Option 1: do nothing and do not extend GC19 to non-geographic numbers; and

•

Option 2: explicitly extend GC19 to cover non-geographic numbers.

A7.44

Compared to Option 1, Option 2 has the disadvantage of imposing an additional
regulatory burden on Communications Providers that have end users with these
numbers. This may includes some Communications Providers who are not currently
under any obligation to provide GC19 data. For example, this may be the case for
Number Translation Services. This may result in additional costs to these
Communications Providers. However, we believe that this will be unlikely to result in
a significant extra burden for the Communications Providers in practice. This is
because non-geographic numbers are currently entered into OSIS through
commercial arrangements. Additional costs will only be imposed on these
Communications Providers if DIPs seek GC19 data direct from them.

A7.45

We believe that the additional burden imposed on some Communications Providers
by Option 2 is outweighed by the importance of ensuring that DIPs have access to
non-geographic numbers, which are an accepted and important component of
business communication in the UK. These numbers therefore represent an
important element in a comprehensive directory service.

76

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

A7.46

To ensure that DIPs will continue to be able to access directory information for nongeographic numbers in the future, Ofcom is proposing to extend the coverage of
GC19 to include non-geographic numbers.

The scope of telephony directory information
A7.47

On the issue of what data GC19 should cover, Ofcom has considered three options:
•

Option 1: do nothing and retain the current requirement, which requires a
Communications Provider to provide only directory information about the
subscriber;

•

Option 2: revise GC19 to require the Communications Provider to provide
additional directory information including the end-user ‘name’ and ‘address’ as
defined by the subscriber, where the end-user is different from the subscriber;
and

•

Option 3: revise GC19 to require the Communications Provider to provide
additional directory information with the ‘user’ and ‘address’ as defined by the
subscriber and also with other data, potentially including titles and a business
description.

A7.48

Option 1 has the advantage of not extending regulation, but means that the
directory information provided may not always be useful, as the subscriber is not
always the user of the telephone number. It is the information that relates to the
actual user which is useful to DIPs and ultimately to consumers.

A7.49

Options 2 and 3 address this issue, by allowing the inclusion of end-user ‘name’
and ‘address’ to be defined by the subscriber. However, there would be an
increased regulatory burden on Communications Providers who would be required
to clarify with the subscriber what name and address should be used for directory
information. There is a risk that this will impose an extra cost on Communications
Providers, who will have to check how the subscriber wants its details to be
recorded. In practice, we believe any additional burden will be limited because
Communications Providers effectively already do this, as this information is similar
to what is passed to OSIS. There may, however, be an additional burden on those
Communications Providers that were not previously covered by GC19 but who will
be covered as a result of the proposed changes to GC19.

A7.50

The more additional data that was required under Options 2 and 3, the greater the
additional burden would be on Communications Providers. However,
Communications Providers would be allowed to recover the additional costs of
gathering this information.

A7.51

Because of the benefits of ensuring the information provided to DIPs is more useful,
Ofcom prefers Options 2 and 3 to Option 1. Ofcom proposes to revise GC19 to
require Communications Providers to provide additional directory information with
the inclusion of end-user ’name’ and ‘address’ which are to be defined by the
subscriber. We are seeking stakeholders’ views on whether any additional
information should be made available under GC19, while recognising that any extra
information is likely to impose additional burden on Communications Providers.

77

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Access to wholesale directory information
A7.52

Our assessment that the DQ market and provision of directories will continue in the
future to meet the Universal Service Directive requirements was conditional on
wholesale directory information being available on reasonable terms. With the
proposed revocation of USC7, there is a risk that this will not be the case.

Options for ensuring access to wholesale directory information
A7.53

Ofcom has considered three options for ensuring the availability of wholesale
directory information:
•

Option 1: do nothing and rely on the future provision of OSIS data on reasonable
terms by BT;

•

Option 2: the possibility, all be it difficult, of imposing new regulatory conditions
on BT to make OSIS available to all DIPs; and

•

Option 3: establish a new comprehensive database that makes data available to
all DIPs.

A7.54

Option 1 has the advantage of being the least intrusive, requiring no new regulation.
However, it has a number of potential disadvantages:
•

There is a risk that BT may cease to maintain OSIS. However, subject to their
being no fundamental change in the industry structure, we regard this as low risk
because we believe that BT has a commercial incentive to maintain OSIS.

•

BT may exploit its ownership of OSIS to damage competition in the supply of DQ
services and directories. This might include through:
o Stopping the supply of wholesale directory information to other DIPs;
o Charging higher prices for wholesale directory information, or changing the
price structure in a way that is detrimental to competitors; and
o Imposing unreasonable licensing terms for the supply of directory information.

A7.55

However, BT, like all other undertakings, is subject to the Competition Act 1998.
Ofcom would expect companies to comply with their competition law obligations or
be subject to enforcement action.

A7.56

Option 2 would involve imposing new regulatory conditions on BT, subject to the
stringent requirements set out in the 2003 Act being satisfied. This might be through
an access-related condition or an SMP condition. The advantage of Option 2 over
Option 1 is that it more effectively ensures access to wholesale directory
information, but this comes at the cost of more regulation. However, the
disadvantage is, that it is not certain that the requirements for adopting ex ante
regulation can be satisfied.

A7.57

Option 3 would, like the second option, ensure the availability of wholesale directory
information to all DIPs. The disadvantages are that it is unlikely that it would be
efficient for Ofcom to do this, given that no commercial entity has chosen to
establish a new database to date. It could involve a significant duplication of
resources given that BT already has a functioning central database and could also

78

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

result in considerable disruption for DIPs given the established nature of the OSIS
database and current system. We view these disadvantages as significant, making
Options 1 and 2 more attractive than Option 3.
A7.58

We have not yet reached a view about the relatively attractiveness of Options 1 and
2 and are seeking stakeholders views on this, although we do see difficulties in
seeking to impose ex ante regulations.

Significant changes in industry structure
A7.59

It is possible in future that a company other than BT may begin to aggregate
wholesale directory information. This could be in the limited form of a DIP obtaining
data direct from Communications Providers under GC19 rather than buying data
from OSIS, or could even take the form of a competing comprehensive wholesale
directory information database. Equally, the economics of maintaining the database
by BT may adversely change.

A7.60

While, at least in the first instance, the outcome could be beneficial, in the event of
significant changes, Ofcom may need to review the industry to ensure that the
requirements of the Universal Service Directive continue to be met in the way that is
in the best interests of consumers. Ofcom will monitor any significant industry
developments to ensure the interests of consumers are protected.

79

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

Annex 8

8 Relevant legal and regulatory framework
A8.1

Set out below are relevant extracts from the Universal Service Directive, the Privacy
Directive, the Universal Service Order, the Privacy Regulations and the full text of
the current General Conditions 8 and 19 and Universal Service Condition 7 plus
supporting definitions.

Universal Service Directive
A8.2

Article 5 (entitled ‘Directory enquiry services and directories’) is as follows:
“1. Member States shall ensure that:
(a) at least one comprehensive directory is available to end-users in
a form approved by the relevant authority, whether printed or
electronic, or both, and is updated on a regular basis, and at least
once a year;
(b) at least one comprehensive telephone directory enquiry service
is available to all end-users, including users of public pay
telephones.
2. The directories in paragraph 1 shall comprise, subject to the
provisions of Article 11 of Directive 97/66/EC, all subscribers of
[PATS].
3. Member States shall ensure that the undertaking(s) providing the
services referred to in paragraph 1 apply the principle of nondiscrimination to the treatment of information that has been provided
to them by other undertakings.”

A8.3

Article 25 (entitled ’Operator assistance and directory enquiry service’) is as follows:
“1. Member States shall ensure that subscribers to publicly available
telephone services have the right to have an entry in the publicly
available directory referred to in Article 5(1)(a).
2. Member States shall ensure that all undertakings which assign
telephone numbers to subscribers meet all reasonable requests to
make available, for the purposes of the provision of publicly available
directory enquiry services and directories, the relevant information in
an agreed format on terms which are fair, objective, cost oriented
and non-discriminatory.
3. Member States shall ensure that all end-users provided with a
connection to the public telephone network can access operator
assistance services and directory enquiry services in accordance
with Article 5(1)(b).
4. Member States shall not maintain any regulatory restrictions
which prevent end-users in one Member State from accessing
directly the directory enquiry service in another Member State.

80

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

5. Paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 apply subject to the requirements of
Community legislation on the protection of personal data and privacy
and, in particular, Article 11 of Directive 97/66/EC .”

The Privacy Directive
A8.4

Article 12 of the Privacy Directive provides:
“1. Member States shall ensure that subscribers are informed, free
of charge and before they are included in the directory, about the
purpose(s) of a printed or electronic directory of subscribers
available to the public or obtainable through directory enquiry
services, in which their personal data can be included and of any
further usage possibilities based on search functions embedded in
electronic versions of the directory.
2. Member States shall ensure that subscribers are given the
opportunity to determine whether their personal data are included in
a public directory, and if so, which, to the extent that such data are
relevant for the purpose of the directory as determined by the
provider of the directory, and to verify, correct or withdraw such data.
Not being included in a public subscriber directory, verifying,
correcting or withdrawing personal data from it shall be free of
charge.
3. Member States may require that for any purpose of a public
directory other than the search of contact details of persons on the
basis of their name and, where necessary, a minimum of other
identifiers, additional consent be asked of the subscribers.
4. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply to subscribers who are natural
persons. Member States shall also ensure, in the framework of
Community law and applicable national legislation, that the
legitimate interests of subscribers other than natural persons with
regard to their entry in public directories are sufficiently protected.”

A8.5

The 38th and 39th recitals to the Privacy Directive’s preamble elaborate on the
substantive provisions in Article 12 as follows:
“(38) Directories of subscribers to electronic communications
services are widely distributed and public. The right to privacy of
natural persons and the legitimate interest of legal persons require
that subscribers are able to determine whether their personal data
are published in a directory and if so, which. Providers of public
directories should inform the subscribers to be included in such
directories of the purposes of the directory and of any particular
usage which may be made of electronic versions of public directories
especially through search functions embedded in the software, such
as reverse search functions enabling users of the directory to
discover the name and address of the subscriber on the basis of a
telephone number only.
(39) The obligation to inform subscribers of the purpose(s) of public
directories in which their personal data are to be included should be
imposed on the party collecting the data for such inclusion. Where

81

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

the data may be transmitted to one or more third parties, the
subscriber should be informed of this possibility and of the recipient
or the categories of possible recipients. Any transmission should be
subject to the condition that the data may not be used for other
purposes than those for which they were collected. If the party
collecting the data from the subscriber or any third party to whom the
data have been transmitted wishes to use the data for an additional
purpose, the renewed consent of the subscriber is to be obtained
either by the initial party collecting the data or by the third party to
whom the data have been transmitted.”

The Universal Service Order
A8.6

The Universal Service Order made by the Secretary of State under section 65 of the
2003 Communications Act:
“Universal service obligations
3. The extent to which the things falling within section 65(2) of the
Act must be provided, made available or supplied throughout the
United Kingdom is set out in the Schedule to this Order.
Guidance on the pricing of universal service obligations
4. The matters set out in the Schedule should be offered at prices
that are:
(a) affordable for all end-users; and
(b) uniform throughout the United Kingdom, unless OFCOM have
determined that there is clear justification for not doing so.
SCHEDULE
Directories
2.—(1) At least one comprehensive directory shall be made
available to end-users in a form approved by OFCOM, whether
printed or electronic, or both, and it shall be updated at least once a
year.
(2) This directory shall comprise, subject to the provisions of the
Telecommunications (Data Protection and Privacy) Regulations
1999, the details of all subscribers of publicly available telephone
services and their telephone numbers, including fixed and mobile
telephone numbers.
Directory Enquiry Facilities
3.—(1) At least one comprehensive telephone directory enquiry
facility shall be made available to end-users, including users of
public pay telephones.
(2) This facility shall comprise, subject to the provisions of the
Telecommunications (Data Protection and Privacy) Regulations

82

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

1999, the details of all subscribers of publicly available telephone
services and their telephone numbers, including fixed and mobile
telephone numbers.

The Privacy Regulations
A8.7

The Privacy Directive has been implemented by the Privacy and Electronic
Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 200356 (the “Privacy Regulations”),
which were made by the Secretary of State under section 2(2) of the European
Communities Act 1972 on 18 September 2003 and came into force on 11
December 2003.

A8.8

Regulation 18 provides:
“Directories of subscribers
18.—(1) This regulation applies in relation to a directory of
subscribers, whether in printed or electronic form, which is made
available to members of the public or a section of the public,
including by means of a directory enquiry service.
(2) The personal data of an individual subscriber shall not be
included in a directory unless that subscriber has, free of charge,
been—
(a) informed by the collector of the personal data of the purposes of
the directory in which his personal data are to be included, and
(b) given the opportunity to determine whether such of his personal
data as are considered relevant by the producer of the directory
should be included in the directory.
(3) Where personal data of an individual subscriber are to be
included in a directory with facilities which enable users of that
directory to obtain access to that data solely on the basis of a
telephone number—
(a) the information to be provided under paragraph (2)(a) shall
include information about those facilities; and
(b) for the purposes of paragraph (2)(b), the express consent of the
subscriber to the inclusion of his data in a directory with such
facilities must be obtained.
(4) Data relating to a corporate subscriber shall not be included in a
directory where that subscriber has advised the producer of the
directory that it does not want its data to be included in that directory.
(5) Where the data of an individual subscriber have been included in
a directory, that subscriber shall, without charge, be able to verify,
correct or withdraw those data at any time.

56

S.I. 2003/2426.

83

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

(6) Where a request has been made under paragraph (5) for data to
be withdrawn from or corrected in a directory, that request shall be
treated as having no application in relation to an edition of a
directory that was produced before the producer of the directory
received the request.
(7) For the purposes of paragraph (6), an edition of a directory which
is revised after it was first produced shall be treated as a new
edition.
(8) In this regulation, “telephone number” has the same meaning as
in section 56(5) of the Communications Act 2003 but does not
include any number which is used as an internet domain name, an
internet address or an address or identifier incorporating either an
internet domain name or an internet address, including an electronic
mail address.”
A8.9

As regards the meaning of “subscriber”, regulation 2(1) provides that it “…means a
person who is a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic
communications services for the supply of such services”. The term “public
electronic communications services” is defined as simply as having the meaning
given in section 151 of the 2003 Act, that is to say any Electronic Communications
Service that is provided so as to be available for use by members of the public. As
seen from regulation 18, a distinction is then drawn between individual and
corporate subscribers, which terms are defined as follows:
““corporate subscriber” means a subscriber who is—
(a) a company within the meaning of section 735(1) of the
Companies Act 1985;
(b) a company incorporated in pursuance of a royal charter or letters
patent;
(c) a partnership in Scotland;
(d) a corporation sole; or
(e) any other body corporate or entity which is a legal person distinct
from its members;
…
“individual” means a living individual and includes an unincorporated
body of such individuals;”

The General Conditions
A8.10

General Condition 8
“8. OPERATOR ASSISTANCE, DIRECTORIES AND DIRECTORY
ENQUIRY FACILITIES
8.1 The Communications Provider shall ensure that any End-User
can access:

84

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

(a) operator assistance services; and
(b) a Directory Enquiry Facility containing Directory Information on all
Subscribers in the United Kingdom who have been assigned
Telephone Numbers by any Communications Provider, except those
Subscribers who have exercised their right to have their Directory
Information removed,
except where such services or facilities have been rendered
inaccessible to a particular End-User by the Communications
Provider at the End-User’s request or for the purposes of debt
management.
8.2 Where the Communications Provider assigns Telephone
Numbers to Subscribers, it shall ensure that each of those
Subscribers is, on request, supplied with a Directory containing
Directory Information on all Subscribers who have been assigned
Telephone Numbers in the Subscriber’s local area. Directories
containing Directory Information for all other Subscribers outside the
local area who have been assigned Telephone Numbers by any
Communications Provider must be supplied to the Subscriber on
request. Any Directories supplied shall not contain Directory
Information for those Subscribers who have exercised their right to
have their Directory Information removed.
8.3 A Directory may be produced by the Communications Provider,
or by another person. Where a Directory is produced by the
Communications Provider, the Communications Provider shall
ensure that it is updated on a regular basis (at least once a year).
The Director may from time to time direct that a Directory is available
in a particular form.
8.4 The Communications Provider may charge End-Users a
reasonable fee for making available a Directory Enquiry Facility,
local Directory and any additional Directories, and may charge its
Subscribers a reasonable fee for inclusion of Directory Information in
a Directory or as part of a Directory Enquiry Facility.
8.5 This Condition applies subject to the requirements of Relevant
Data Protection Legislation.
8.6 For the purposes of this Condition, “Communications Provider”
means a person who provides Publicly Available Telephone
Services (except Public Pay Telephones).
A8.11

General Condition 19
19. PROVISION OF DIRECTORY INFORMATION
19.1 Where the Communications Provider has been Allocated
Telephone Numbers in accordance with Condition 17, it shall meet
all reasonable requests from any person to make available the
Directory Information of:

85

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

(a) its Subscribers who have been assigned those Telephone
Numbers; and
(b) any other End-User assigned a Telephone Number originally
Allocated to the Communications Provider,
for the purposes of the provision of Directories and Directory Enquiry
Facilities.
19.2 Where the Communications Provider has been authorised
(either directly or indirectly) to use Telephone Numbers Allocated to
another person, it shall on request supply to:
(a) the person who was originally Allocated such Telephone
Numbers; or
(b) if different from the above, the person who authorised the use of
such Telephone Numbers by it,
the Directory Information of the Communications Provider’s
Subscribers and of any other End-User assigned a Telephone
Number from such Telephone Numbers.
19.3 Where the Communications Provider is requested to supply
Directory Information in accordance with paragraphs 19.1 or 19.2, it
shall do so on terms which are fair, cost-oriented and nondiscriminatory, and in a format which is agreed between the
Communications Provider and the person requesting the
information. The Communications Provider shall comply with any
direction made by the Director from time to time with respect to the
format to be applied to the information.
19.4 This Condition applies subject to the requirements of Relevant
Data Protection Legislation.
19.5 For the purposes of this Condition, “Communications Provider”
means a person who provides an Electronic Communications
Network or an Electronic Communications Service.”
A8.12

Part I of the Schedule to the GC notification contains definitions which apply,
throughout the Schedule. Part I includes the following definitions of particular
relevance to GCs 8 and 19:
““Directory” means a printed document containing Directory
Information on Subscribers of Publicly Available Telephone Services
in the United Kingdom which is made available to members of the
public;
“Directory Information” means, in the case of a Directory, the name
and address of the Subscriber and the Telephone Number assigned
to the Subscriber for their use of Publicly Available Telephone
Services and, in the case of a Directory Enquiry Facility, shall be
either such a Telephone Number of the Subscriber or information
that such a Telephone Number of the Subscriber may not be
supplied;

86

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

“Directory Enquiry Facility” means Directory Information provided by
means of a Public Telephone Network;
“Subscriber” means any person who is party to a contract with a
provider of Public Electronic Communications Services for the
supply of such services; and
“End-user”, in relation to a Public Electronic Communications
Service means:
(a)

a person who, otherwise than as a Communications
Provider is a Customer of the provider of that service;

(b)

a person who makes use of the service otherwise than as
a Communications Provider; or

(c)

a person who may be authorised, by a person falling within
paragraph (a), so to make use of the service.

Universal Service Condition 7
A8.13

Universal Service Condition 7 reads:
Condition 7: Maintenance and supply of a Directory Information
database and Directories
7.1 BT shall maintain a database containing Directory Information for
all Subscribers who have been allocated Telephone Numbers by any
Communications Provider (‘the database’). BT shall ensure that the
database is updated on a regular basis.
7.2 BT shall, in accordance with paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 below, and
on request, make available:
(a) to any Communications Provider subject to paragraph 8.2 of
General Condition 8 for the purpose of allowing that
Communications Provider to comply with that paragraph, such
Directories as BT compiles which comply with the requirements of
that General Condition;
(b) to any person seeking to provide publicly available Directory
Enquiry Facilities and/or Directories, the contents of the database, in
machine readable form.
7.3 BT shall supply the items in sub-paragraph (a) and (b) of
paragraph 7.2 above at the reasonable request of the person
requesting such items. Without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing, BT may refuse to supply such items if:
(a) the person requesting such items does not undertake to process
the data or information contained in them in accordance with any
Relevant Code of Practice, and/or
(b) BT has reasonable grounds to believe that the person requesting
such items will not comply with Relevant Data Protection Legislation.

87

Telephone directory information obligations and regulations

7.4 BT shall supply the items in sub-paragraph (a) and (b) of
paragraph 7.2 above on terms which are fair, objective, cost oriented
and not unduly discriminatory, and in a format which is agreed
between BT and the person requesting the information. Where no
such agreement is reached, the Director may determine the format
to be applied to the information in accordance with his dispute
resolution functions.
7.5 In complying with the obligations set out in paragraphs 7.1 to 7.4
above, BT shall:
(a) not unduly discriminate in the treatment of data or information
supplied to it by other persons; and
(b) have due regard, in such manner as is appropriate, to any
Subscriber who has expressed opposition to inclusion of Directory
Information about that Subscriber in a Directory or as part of a
Directory Enquiry Facility.
7.6 This Universal Service Condition applies subject to the
requirements of Relevant Data Protection Legislation.

88

