H N P

D I S C U S S I O N

P A P E R

Human Resources for Health Policies:
A Critical Component in Health Policies

About this series...
This series is produced by the Health, Nutrition, and Population Family
(HNP) of the World Bank’s Human Development Network. The papers
in this series aim to provide a vehicle for publishing preliminary and
unpolished results on HNP topics to encourage discussion and debate.
The findings, interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this paper
are entirely those of the author(s) and should not be attributed in any
manner to the World Bank, to its affiliated organizations or to members
of its Board of Executive Directors or the countries they represent.
Citation and the use of material presented in this series should take
into account this provisional character. For free copies of papers in
this series please contact the individual authors whose name appears
on the paper.

Gilles Dussault and Carl-Ardy Dubois

Enquiries about the series and submissions should be made directly to
the Managing Editor Joy de Beyer (jdebeyer@worldbank.org) or HNP
Advisory Service (healthpop@worldbank.org, tel 202 473-2256, fax
202 522-3234). For more information, see also www.worldbank.org/
hnppublications.

THE WORLD BANK
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC USA 20433
Telephone:
202 473 1000
Facsimile:
202 477 6391
Internet: www.worldbank.org
E-mail: feedback@worldbank.org

September 2004

HUMAN RESOURCES FOR HEALTH POLICIES:
A CRITICAL COMPONENT IN HEALTH POLICIES

Gilles Dussault and Carl-Ardy Dubois

September 2004

Health, Nutrition and Population (HNP) Discussion Paper
This Discussion Paper Series is produced by the Health, Nutrition, and Population Family (HNP)
of the World Bank’s Human Development Network. The series provides a vehicle for publishing
preliminary and unpolished results on HNP topics to encourage discussion and debate. The
findings, interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this paper are entirely those of the authors
and should not be attributed in any manner to the World Bank, to its affiliated organizations, or
to members of the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors or the countries they represent. Citation
and the use of material presented in this series should take into account this provisional
character. For free copies of papers in this series, please contact the individual authors whose
name appears on the paper.
Enquiries about the series and submissions should be made directly to the Managing Editor, Joy
de Beyer (jdebeyer@worldbank.org). Submissions should have been previously reviewed and
cleared by the sponsoring department which will bear the cost of publication. No additional
reviews will be undertaken after submission. The sponsoring department and authors bear full
responsibility for the quality of the technical contents and presentation of material in the series.
Since the material will be published as presented, authors should submit an electronic copy in a
predefined format. Rough drafts that do not meet minimum presentational standards may be
returned to authors for more work before being accepted. Guidelines for authors and the template
file in the standard format may be found at www.worldbank.org/hnp/publication.asp
The Editor in Chief of HNP publications is Alexander S. Preker (apreker@worldbank.org). For
information regarding this and other World Bank publications, please contact the HNP Advisory
Services (healthpop@worldbank.org)at: Tel (202) 473-2256; and Fax (202) 522-3234.

© 2005 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
All rights reserved.

ii

Health, Nutrition and Population (HNP) Discussion Paper
Human Resources for Health Policies:
A Critical Component in Health Policies
Gilles Dussaulta and Carl-Ardy Duboisb
a

Senior Health Specialist (Policy), World Bank Institute, The World Bank, Washington, DC, USA
Assistant Professor, Faculty of Nursing Sciences, University of Montreal, Montreal, Canada

b

Paper prepared for the World Bank’s Resource Allocation and Purchasing Project
Abstract: In the last few years, increasing attention has been paid to the development of health policies.
But side by side with the presumed benefits of policy, many analysts share the opinion that a major
drawback of health policies is their failure to make room for issues of human resources. Current
approaches in human resources suggest a number of weaknesses: a reactive, ad hoc attitude towards
problems of human resources; dispersal of accountability within human resources management (HRM); a
limited notion of personnel administration that fails to encompass all aspects of HRM; and finally the
short-term perspective of HRM.
There are three broad arguments for modernizing the ways in which human resources for health are
managed: a) the central role of the workforce in the health sector; b) the various challenges thrown up by
health system reforms; and c) the need to anticipate the effect on the health workforce (and consequently
on service provision) arising from various macroscopic social trends impinging on health systems.
The absence of appropriate human resources policies is responsible, in many countries, for a chronic
imbalance with multifaceted effects on the health workforce: quantitative mismatch, qualitative disparity,
unequal distribution and a lack of coordination between HRM actions and health policy needs. Four
proposals have been put forward to modernize how the policy process is conducted in the development of
human resources for health (HRH): a) to move beyond the traditional approach of personnel administration
to a more global concept of HRM; b) to give more weight to the integrated, interdependent and systemic
nature of the different components of HRM when preparing and implementing policy; c) to foster a more
proactive attitude among human resources (HR) policy-makers and managers; and d) to promote the full
commitment of all professionals and sectors in all phases of the process.
The development of explicit human resources policies is a crucial link in health policies and is needed
both to address the imbalances of the health workforce and to foster implementation of the health services
reforms.
Keywords: resource allocation and purchasing, health care financing, human resources for health ,
health workforce, health policy, human resource policy
Disclaimer: The findings, interpretations and conclusions expressed in the paper are entirely those of the
authors, and do not represent the views of the World Bank, its Executive Directors, or the countries they
represent.

Correspondence Details: Gilles Dussault, The World Bank Institute, 1818 H Street, NW,
(MSN J2-200), Washington, DC 20433, Tel: +1 (202) 473-8709, Fax: (202) 614-1137, Email:
gdussault@worldbank.org Carl-Ardy Dubois, Faculté des sciences infirmières, Université de
Montréal, CP. 6128 Succursale Centre-ville, Montréal (Québec), H3C 3J7, Tel : (514)-343-7293,
Fax : (514)-343-2306, Email: Carl.Ardy.Dubois@umontreal.ca, Web: http://www.umontreal.ca/

iii

iv

Table of Contents
FOREWORD............................................................................................................................VII
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS ..................................................................................................... IX
BACKGROUND ..........................................................................................................................1
DISCUSSION ...............................................................................................................................2
WHY HRH POLICIES ARE NEEDED ...............................................................................................2
The usefulness of health policies ............................................................................................2
Limitations of current approaches to human resources management (HRM) .......................3
Workforce issues and health policies .....................................................................................5
The challenges of health system reforms................................................................................7
The need to anticipate the potential effects of macroscopic social trends affecting health
systems on the health workforce (and consequently on the provision of services) ................9
WHICH HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES? ......................................................................................11
What is a policy? ..................................................................................................................11
Characteristics of HR activities in the health sector............................................................13
The content of HRH policies.................................................................................................15
PRESCRIPTIONS FOR MODERNIZING THE POLICY PROCESS IN HEALTH WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
..................................................................................................................................................17
CONDITIONS FOR SUCCESS OF HUMAN RESOURCE POLICIES .....................................................19
Institutional/technical capacities .........................................................................................19
Political feasibility................................................................................................................20
Social acceptability ..............................................................................................................20
Affordability..........................................................................................................................21
IN SUMMARY...........................................................................................................................21
BIBLIOGRAPHY ......................................................................................................................23

Table of Figures
Figure 1 Relationship between the performance of human resources and the performance of
services............................................................................................................................................ 7
Figure 2 Policy Cycle ................................................................................................................... 12
Figure 3 The relationship between needs and objectives in the health sector .............................. 16

Table of Boxes
Box 1 Usefulness of health policies................................................................................................ 3
Box 2 The strategic role of HR: the resource-based view.............................................................. 5
Box 3 Dimensions of HRH performance [9] .................................................................................. 6
Box 4 Implications of health system reforms for the workforce .................................................. 11
v

Box 5 Workforce Imbalances [20,53]........................................................................................... 11
Box 6 Limitations of a rational and linear approach to policy-making ........................................ 13

vi

FOREWORD
The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), adopted by the international community in 2000,
include three which are directly related to health. This Discussion Paper examines the critical
role of human resources in achieving these goals.
In Africa, countries have been progressing towards the MDG more slowly than in other regions.
In some countries there is even a decline in health status due to failing health challenged by the
traditional scourges of poverty (e.g. reproductive health, childhood diseases, and malnutrition,
etc.) and new health threats (e.g. HIV/AIDS, drug resistant tuberculosis, and new strains of
malaria, etc.). Shortage of financial resources is a recognized major constraint being addressed
by the Bank and other major donors, either directly or through various new global initiatives
such as the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Lack of adequate funding
translate into shortages drugs and other critical supplies. Some of these are being addressed by
initiatives such as GAVI, Roll-Back-Malaria, STOP-TB etc..
But adequate number, training and distribution of health workers (nurses, doctors, pharmacists,
etc.) those who needed medical care do not benefit from the many initiatives that are intended to
address the known problems in financing drugs and supplies. Strengthening the health
workforce has, therefore, become the single greatest challenge to reverse the negative health
trends in Africa and to attain the health related MDGs. There is a consensus that these will not
be achieved, unless good quality health care services are made accessible to the most vulnerable
populations.
The Africa Region of the Bank conducted a review of this topic in collaboration with the African
Regional Office of the World Health Organization at a consultative meeting in 2002 in Addas
Ababa. Following this meeting, The Rockefeller Foundation launched a Joint Learning Initiative
(JLI) on Human Resource in Health which has brought together more than 100 leaders from the
health sector worldwide and mobilized support from most major donor agencies. The key
recommendation from this report have just been published.
In this Discussion Paper, Dussault and Dubois, review the key challenges faced in the area of
human resource in health and major policy options available to low-income countries and the
international development community.
Alexander S. Preker
Lead Economist
Editor of HNP Publications

vii

viii

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This paper was supported by the Department of Health Service Provision of the World Health
Organization (Geneva). Thanks are expressed to Orvill Adams, Mario Dal Poz, the Human
Resources for Health Team. Addition support was provided by the BNPP Trust Fund, for which
we also express thanks.
The authors of this Report are grateful to the World Bank for having published the Report as an
HNP Discussion Paper.

ix

x

BACKGROUND
The concern with growing inequalities in health status, problems of access and falling returns for
investments in health care and the difficulty of controlling the growth of costs have prompted
most countries to engage in reforms of their health sector. In low-income countries, multilateral
and bilateral international organizations as well as major foundations now give a high priority to
health as an essential part of the fight against poverty. Major investments are currently made by
international agencies and foundations to increase vaccination rates in countries (for example,
via the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations) and to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis
and malaria (Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; Roll Back Malaria alliance).
Concurrently, the debt relief process launched by international financial agencies is increasing
the resources available for health in the poorest and most disease-ridden countries. Forty-two
countries (34 in Africa alone) are eligible for debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries initiative (HIPC), launched by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
A report of May 2002 estimated that the 26 countries that have reached the decision point (at
which they have access to the full advantages of the initiative) would see their total debt reduced
by two-thirds between the beginning of the initiative (1999) and 2005. This represents a sum of
about USD 40 billion, of which 60% is expected to go to education (40%) and health (20%, not
including AIDS), an average amount of USD 830 million per year to the social sector. Five more
countries are expected to reach the decision point before the end of 2002 [1].
Paradoxically, the ability of poor countries to pursue actions made financially viable by access to
new resources has never been so limited. This is due to major problems with regard to their
health workforce, such as loss of personnel and productivity linked to the effects of AIDS,
migration from the public sector to the private sector, and migration from the health sector to
other sectors, as well as migration to richer or more stable countries. These problems are often
caused, or at least exacerbated, by inadequate policies and practices at the levels of training,
planning and deployment of staff, management of performance and definition of working
conditions.
While acknowledging the fundamentally political character of human resources for health (HRH)
issues, this article argues for the need for more rational health workforce policies as a sine qua
non for the successful implementation of health policies. The discussion is structured into four
sections. Drawing on the recent literature, Section A formulates the rationale for including
explicit human resources policies in health policies, which most countries, rich and poor, have
yet to do. Section B presents the specificities of the process of devising, adopting, introducing
and evaluating HRH policies. Sections C and D formulate proposals on how better to develop
HRH policies and discuss what is known about their conditions of success.

1

DISCUSSION

WHY HRH POLICIES ARE NEEDED
The usefulness of health policies
The idea of formulating health policies is relatively recent. Until the end of the 1940s, national
policies tended to be a distinctive feature of planned economies. As the Marshall Plan made the
drafting of national plans a condition for the financing of Europe's reconstruction [2], national
policies became a normal instrument of policy.
In poor countries, the drafting of national policies also became a condition of access to aid [3,4].
In the health sector, it took the form of statements and plans aiming at reaching the goal of
Health for All by the Year 2000 (HFA) set by the World Health Organization (WHO) in the late
1970s. Following Alma-Ata, the Member States of WHO adopted a strategy in 1981 setting
objectives and priorities within the framework of HFA. Three years later, a regional strategy was
adopted by 38 Member countries of the European Region of WHO. This movement was
followed up nationally and in all continents, by measures taken by ministries of health aimed at
devising policies in which priority-setting continues to be an essential part. Although countries
have hardly come close to achieving the goal of HFA, policy-makers now agree that health
policies are nonetheless crucial tools that can help in various ways (see Box 1):
•

A health policy facilitates planning. According to WHO, policies help to develop a
vision of the future, to define short-, medium- and long-term references, to determine
objectives, to set out priorities, to delegate roles and to define means of action and
institutional arrangements [5,6].

•

A health policy can support decision-making in a context of greater public awareness
of the harmful effects of incoherent policies and of greater public scrutiny of decisionmakers regarding the costs and benefits of proposed options. The public expects
governments to be more selective and to adopt strategies that are effective, efficient and
reliably high performing [7,8]. An explicit framework for identifying problems, for
choosing priorities and objectives, and for rational assessment of alternatives for
intervention can be a tool for decision-makers to justify their choices [9]. The complexity
of the health field is another argument that pleads in favor of the development of a policy
framework for guiding decision-making [10]. Health problems are multifaceted and may
require various sectors to work in conjunction. Actions undertaken in the health sector
may have significant and long-lasting effects both on the health of individuals and on
other economic and social sectors. Wrong decisions in this field may therefore have
particularly disastrous effects. Thus, it is important that in the health sector, more than in
any other field, the decision-making process should be anchored in solid analytical skills,
based on the best available knowledge, supported by proven management techniques, and
guided by a clear vision of the hoped-for future and the means needed to get there.

2

•

A health policy provides a framework for evaluating performance. By setting
expectations, objectives, priorities and strategies and the resources required to achieve
them, policy simultaneously sets out criteria on the basis of which actions can be
evaluated while providing a frame of reference that may be used by health professionals
at different levels to understand their responsibilities.

•

A health policy can help to rally professionals and other sectors around health
problems and to legitimize actions. When it is part of a judicious planning of change,
the development of health policies provides a unique opportunity for building consensus
around health issues and for allowing citizens to voice their opinion, thus giving a greater
degree of legitimacy to actions that will be proposed later. Critical and difficult decisions,
such as new allocation of resources or rationing services, may be made more acceptable
to interest groups if they are taken in the context of a political process that has brought
the main players together.
Box 1 Usefulness of health policies
The development of health policies may help to:
•

specify health objectives and priorities

•

identify means and resources required to achieve these objectives

•

rationalize decision-making

•

define the frame of reference required for evaluation and reporting

•

rally professionals and other stakeholders around health issues

•

build consensus

•

facilitate the introduction of viable and effective actions

(Source: [9]

Limitations of current approaches to human resources management (HRM)
It is not enough for health policies to be intrinsically good. If they remain at the planning stage
and do not take economic and social realities into sufficient consideration, their influence is
likely to remain minimal [6]. Their success depends heavily on how their development and
implementation process is conducted. Many analysts argue that a major failing of health policies
is precisely the insufficient consideration given to HRH issues [11,12]. In many reforms, there is
discordance between the elevated attention given to issues of financing and structural
transformation and the low attention given to HRH issues [13], which are often treated as just
another production factor [14]. The implications of reforms for HRH are often considered only in
retrospect when it emerges that proposed plans (a) cannot be implemented because of
unaffordable personnel costs; (b) they are opposed by professional groups; (c) they are shown to
be unrealistic in view of the baseline situation; or (d) they require modifications in the
organization of work that are too difficult, in view of the current organizational capacity or of the
political acceptability of the modifications [15]. The low level of interest in human resources
issues is surprising if we consider the crucial role played by the health workforce in the process

3

of achieving the objectives set by health policies [16]. But it is more easily understood when the
difficulties of addressing these issues are considered, as will be illustrated later.
Even where HRH issues receive attention, the way they are addressed is usually characterized
by:
•

A limited vision of HRM, reduced to personnel administration, i.e. operational tasks
relating to recruitment, maintaining discipline and handling complaints. This lowers the
status of HRH administrators and isolates them within the organization [17]. HRM of this
type does not address all aspects of workforce issues.

•

Dispersal of accountability and lack of coordinated actions. Those responsible for
HRH development in health ministries often limit their role to staff planning and
allocation, and leave other, more delicate matters to political decision-makers. This
practice has led to a cleavage between health policies and the HRH operations required to
implement them [18]. Training programs, for instance, may duplicate each other and not
always correspond to needs. The absence of regular strategic consultations with the main
actors concerned with workforce planning and development opens the door to
uncoordinated, even contradictory interventions [19].

•

Reactive attitudes in the management of the health workforce. It has been observed,
for example in Turkey [20], that governments often set very broad, annually adjusted
HRH objectives outside a general policy framework and without an explicit link to health
needs. Opening new schools, increasing admissions in existing schools or even
temporarily easing restrictions on immigration of health personnel are often decided
punctually to address problems that could easily have been anticipated [21].

•

Subordination of HRH decisions to economic criteria. In many instances, health
workers are treated as mere production tools, such as when financial incentives are
introduced to increase productivity, without taking into account other dimensions of
work. As a result, these measures regularly fail to produce the expected results [22].
Governments tend to be more concerned with macroeconomic issues, such as the size of
the workforce and the wage bill [23], and easily overlook other issues of importance
relating to work organization, personnel motivation and individual performance.

•

A short-term view of HRM. This refers to the tendency to provide symptomatic
responses to problems without looking at their causes or considering their long-term
consequences. In Canada, nursing is in a critical situation because of difficulties in
recruiting and retaining personnel. The causes of these problems are well known to be
linked to conditions of practice, working conditions and the image of the profession, but
little is done to address them, even when radical reactions from the nursing profession,
such as long-lasting strikes, have to be faced [24]. In other cases, staff numbers have
been reduced to meet fiscal constraints, which subsequently created shortages much more
difficult to rectify. In Quebec, such across-the-board reductions in the mid-1990s as part
of a commitment to balance the government budget led to shortages of certain
professional categories, both clinical and managerial; excessive workload; disruption of
4

performing teams; and increased psychological distress among staff and users of services
[25]. This short-term management is also common among aid donors, who tend to
support actions that fit their project cycle and to ignore problems that require long-term
interventions, but whose impact may remain uncertain [19].
These observations give an idea of the difficulties that need to be addressed before HRH issues
can be more firmly incorporated into health policy. Workforce problems are among the most
complex matter on the international health reform agenda. Even in countries where national
plans for the development of HRH have been made, they have been implemented only partially,
and few countries evaluate policy advances in this area [5]. Hence, HRH issues remain of crucial
importance and their omission from health policy agendas can only be prejudicial to health
sector reforms.
Workforce issues and health policies
There are at least three arguments for giving serious attention to workforce issues in policies and
even for designing specific HRH policies:
•

More than any other type of organization, health organizations are highly
dependent on their workforce. The growth and development of any organization
depend on the availability of an appropriate workforce, on its competences and level of
effort in trying to perform the tasks assigned to it [26,27]. HR are a strategic capital in
any organization (see Box 2), especially in service and health organizations, where the
various clinical, managerial, technical and other personnel are the principal input making
it possible for most health interventions to be performed. Staff diagnose problems and
determine which services will be provided and when, where and how. Health
interventions are knowledge-based and the providers are the "guardians" of this
knowledge [11].
Box 2 The strategic role of HR: the resource-based view
The literature on strategic management and more specifically on the resource-based view
stresses the comparative benefits HR provide to organizations in terms of their skill mix,
behaviour, values and distinctive qualifications [27]. This is related to the fundamental
heterogeneity in the productive potential of organizations. In most sectors, organizations use
the same inputs, but may differ in the processes used to combine these inputs and transform
them into products. While products or services can readily be replicated, competitive
advantages are provided by the unique mix of skills, knowledge and expertise possessed by
staff and which have been built into organizational routine [28]. Enhanced organizational
performance therefore stems from its ability to optimize HR to its own needs in order to obtain
an efficient and better quality product or service. Against this background, HR policy is
considered as an instrument that enables an organization to set up a strategic capital. Efficient
organizations are those which make use of better practices for developing and renewing the
distinctive attributes of their workforce. Empirical observations support such an assertion and
show that productivity is linked, at least in part, to the type of HRM policies and practices
implemented [29]. In a recent study of the domiciliary nursing care sector, Eaton examined HR
policies and concluded that different approaches in the management of these resources
corresponded to different levels of performance in terms of the quality of health care provided
to patients [30].

5

•

HR account for a high proportion of budgets assigned to the health sector [32]. The
health sector is a major employer in all countries. The International Labor Organization
reckons that 35 million persons are currently employed in the health sector worldwide
[33]. While health expenditure claims an increasingly important share of gross domestic
product, wage costs (salaries, bonuses and other payments) account for between 65% and
80% of the recurrent health expenditure [34,35]. These costs are strongly linked to the
ways in which HR are deployed and used [20]. In community-based health care, which
relies less on equipment and advanced technology, HR have an even more prominent role
and account for an even higher proportion of total costs [36]. In addition to representing
direct costs, health care providers, particularly those who have the autonomy to prescribe,
generate other costs. When incentives, such as payment by fee-for-service, encourage
production, there is a risk of inducing demand for non-essential services. Studies of
geographical variations of the use of health services show that it is often explained more
by professional decisions and patterns of practice rather than by population needs
[37,38].
Box 3 Dimensions of HRH performance [9]
•
•
•
•

•

•

Coverage: the extent to which the allocation of the workforce corresponds to needed
services in terms of type of services and of geographical access
Productivity: the ratio of outputs relative to inputs, such as number of consultations by
provider, number of children vaccinated by health centre
Technical quality: the extent to which services have a positive impact on health status
Sociocultural quality: the extent to which services are acceptable to users and meet their
expectations.
Organization stability: the use of the workforce so as to guarantee the viability of services
and their capacity to adapt to changing needs

The economic and human costs of poor HRM are particularly high in the health
sector. The quality of health services, their efficacy, efficiency, accessibility and viability
depend primarily on the performance of those who deliver them [5,39] The performance
of providers is, in turn, determined by the policies and practices that define number of
staff, their qualifications, their deployment and their working conditions [40]. Crucial
choices must therefore be made in relation to the processes that will influence the
performance of the workforce, as defined in Box 3, in terms of productivity of personnel,
technical and sociocultural quality of services and organizational stability, on which the
performance of health services will depend (see Fig. 1). Wrong choices may have
harmful effects on the functioning of health services and, consequently, on the ability of
these services in helping to attain health policy objectives. Also, given that they have
long-term effects, these decisions are usually difficult to correct.

6

Figure 1 Relationship between the performance of human resources
and the performance of services
External environment: social, cultural, political, economic

State
Government
Political undertakings/ institutional skills

Health care system

Policies,
resources

Personnel pool
Education
Allocation
Management

Performance of HR

Services

Financing

Health results
Financial protection
User satisfaction

Other ingoing costs
Demand and markets
Population

The challenges of health system reforms
The challenges raised by sector reforms aiming at reducing costs, improving performance,
increasing equity, decentralizing management and reviewing patterns of health care provision
have a direct impact on staff, the very people on whom the success of reform depends [22,41,42].
These are illustrated here:
•

Reduction of costs. The response to inflation in health expenditure is often to reduce
costs by stimulating efficiency. Given the proportion of the health budget absorbed by the
workforce, any attempt to reduce costs or to improve efficiency calls for measures that
directly affect staff. These typically include:
-

improved planning to avoid overstaffing. This requires more information on the
staffing situation, the application of more accurate methods for determining
personnel requirements, and closer coordination between supply of staff (often
independently controlled by education institutions) and demand or capacity of
absorption.

-

better distribution of personnel by categories: for example, increasing the
proportion of assistants and technicians in order to improve the productivity of
specialized staff in performing tasks requiring higher skills.

7

-

recognition of new categories of personnel, such as the clinical nurse, or giving
official recognition to existing providers, such as midwives or traditional healers,
that have been chosen in recent years.

-

modification of the working conditions to promote staff mobility and greater
flexibility in personnel deployment or to rationalize methods of remuneration to
bring them more in line with the expected performance.

•

The improvement of performance entails actions such as reviewing incentive systems,
the development of new skills, improving work organization, and the adoption of new
strategies of professional development.

•

The improvement of equity of access to services cannot be achieved without a more
balanced redistribution of personnel between isolated and urban areas, and between rich
and poor regions. It also depends on the provision of appropriate incentives for
recruiting, and above all, retaining staff in the less well-served areas.

•

The decentralization of services, which is on the agenda of many governments, entails
transfer of decision-making posts to intermediate and local levels. At the same time, it
raises urgent needs for the development of HRH required to fill these new posts,
particularly in management.

•

The proposed changes in health care models and the promotion of primary care are
major challenges in terms of redefining professional roles and integrating services. They
require health professionals to be more mobile, more versatile and to acquire new skills
and the ability to work in multiprofessional teams. They suppose that non-medical staff
will play an extended role in providing primary care services and that there will be a
higher use of alternative treatment methods and a greater acceptance of non-traditional
providers.

In labor-intensive sectors, the process of change entails important adjustments in the job market.
Evidence suggests that these could be implemented more easily if HRH issues are dealt with at
the policy development and planning stages. In Kazakhstan, the success in primary health care
reform has been attributed, in large part, to the policy for mobilizing HRH, either by fostering
professionalism among providers, providing adequate financial incentives or giving primary
health care units more autonomy. In Chile, however, the reform of the health sector begun in the
1990s has run up against the lack of engagement of health professionals, who had a different
perception of reform from that of the government [39]. The successful experience of Costa Rica
is another case that illustrates the benefits of making HRH policy part of a health policy [16].

8

The need to anticipate the potential effects of macroscopic social trends affecting health
systems on the health workforce (and consequently on the provision of services)
Health care systems are affected by a number of major trends that can have important effects on
the organization of work and may consequently require adjustments if the objectives of equity,
efficiency and quality are to be attained.
•

Technological transition. Technological innovations have already brought radical
changes in how most diseases are treated. Health professionals must adjust their roles and
skills accordingly. New information technologies and telecommunications have a high
potential for improving productivity, by allowing health professionals to exchange
clinical data over a distance in real time or to have immediate access to new knowledge.
They allow greater flexibility in the organization of work, improve communication
between professionals and create jobs in new sectors. At the same time, they eliminate
jobs, impose new skill requirements and require new investment in terms of training.

•

Telemedicine, the term given to the various applications of information technology and
telecommunications for health service delivery and health information over long and
short distances, has the potential importance of reducing costs and injuries linked to
patient transfer, of improving the provision of services in isolated regions, of giving
access to distance training and of fostering development of domiciliary care [43,44]. On
the other hand, it may require modifications in conventional modes of work organization
and remuneration or new working methods (teamwork and networking, sharing of
information, use of computers).

•

Sociodemographic transition. Demographic changes have a substantial effect both on
the demand for services and on the workforce providing them. The ageing of the
population in industrialized countries, likely to increase the use of health services [45],
will also be accompanied by a fall in the working population. For example, 42% of public
sector employees in Finland are due to retire in the next 10 years [46]. Tools for
management of human resources should be adapted to this ageing workforce. Training
programs and compensation programs ought to be adjusted to meet the specific needs of
both young staff and older staff. Another aspect linked to this transition is the growing
proportion of women in the job market and their desire to combine their career and their
familial roles. Female doctors work fewer hours per week, retire earlier and take time off
more frequently than their male colleagues, factors that affect the planning of the medical
workforce [47-49]. The impact of the HIV epidemic is worst in the most productive age
group, including the health workforce. In the low-income countries, especially African
countries, which are paying the heaviest toll, the epidemic has consequences on the
health workforce in the form of reduced numbers, absenteeism, reduced productivity and
psychological distress [50].

•

Globalization of markets. At least two factors linked to globalization of markets have
direct effects on the health workforce:

9

-

structural adjustment measures undertaken by states have included radical
reviews of their public sectors and often led to cuts in health and social programs,
reduced numbers of staff and, in most cases, to a deterioration of working
conditions [33].

-

the use of market mechanisms to manage health care systems has led to a
redefinition of the role of the state, expected to concentrate more on its role as
regulator and to give more scope to the private sector in the provision of services.
The case of Nicaragua may be cited in this regard [51]. The traditional
relationship between the employer-state and health personnel has been modified.
Centralized negotiations between national unions and governments are supplanted
by management of employment relations at the local level; the case of Great
Britain illustrates this point [52]. The career structure is no longer so clearly
defined, and as a consequence workers are less inclined to show loyalty to an
organization that may make them redundant when it restructures.

•

Changes in the behavior of consumers and in their relationships with health
professionals. In rich countries, consumer demands are more diversified, more
sophisticated and better informed, and consumers easily question the capacity of their
governments to meet these demands [45]. As taxpayers, they are concerned about the
rising costs of the health services, but as users, they want access to services of the highest
quality. They expect administrators and health professionals to do better with the same
resources. The same trend is seen in low-income countries when consumers become
better informed about which services are available to others or should be available to
them.

•

Mobility of the workforce and the brain drain. In industrialized countries, conditions
of mobility of the workforce, in particular the highly qualified workforce, are now
negotiated within the framework of regional agreements, aiming at greater
standardization of qualifications between countries [53]. In developing countries,
however, this mobility has often taken the form of a more brutal exodus of skills,
depriving countries of rare resources crucial for the development of their health systems
[53]. As the job market is rapidly changing and competition is increasing, public health
care systems must also cope with difficulties of retaining personnel who are attracted by
better offers from the private sector or who decide to pursue other more lucrative
professional activities [50].

As a result of these major trends, vertical, pyramidal and rigid forms of work organization are
replaced by more flexible structures and methods of deployment. The limited horizon of the local
or regional job market expands to cater to new global economic orders. The traditional focus on
products and services is supplanted by a client-centered approach that emphasizes needs and
preferences. The traditional division of work that put a premium on specialization is yielding to a
greater integration of health services provision and to teamwork. Production based on
information and knowledge is replacing a machine-based mode of production. Stable and
protected working relations, with the underlying assumption of a lifetime career, are giving way
to flexibility of work and employment [54,55].
10

Box 4 Implications of health system reforms for the workforce
Proposed changes
Reduced
efficiency

Implications for workforce (dimensions affected)

costs

and Staff planning
Staff distribution
Working conditions
Improved performance
Incentive systems
Work organization
Professional development processes
Training
Equity
Deployment of personnel
Methods for recruiting and retaining staff
Decentralization
Transfer of authority
Skills needed
Changes in the health model Redefinition of professional roles
Integration of services

The arguments outlined here indicate the crucial role of HRM in improving the performance of
health systems and implementing reforms and suggest that HR allocation cannot be left to the
unregulated market. Strategic planning is essential to control the effects of the complex factors
that affect HR. Technocratic planning as practiced in the past is highly ineffective, as illustrated
by the chronic imbalances (see Box 4) experienced by most countries [56,57], i.e. mismatch of
numbers, qualitative disparity, unequal distribution and a lack of coherence between HRM
practices and the overriding concerns of health policy (see Box 5). These imbalances prove to be
major limiting factors to achieving the objectives of health sector reforms or to implementing
health policy.
Box 5 Workforce Imbalances [20,53]
•
•
•
•

Imbalances between HR management practices and national policy objectives. This occurs,
for example, where health policies aim at developing primary health care while training
programmes continue to prioritize the training of specialized doctors.
Mismatches of numbers: shortages or surpluses.
Qualitative disparity, resulting from gaps between the training programmes and the
requirements of the country’s health policy.
Unequal distribution of workforce between geographical areas, professions and categories,
health establishments and specialties.

WHICH HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES?
What is a policy?
The notion of policy is not always conceived or understood in a uniform manner. Policy is
sometimes perceived as a product (principles, declaration, law) that serves as a frame of
reference for action; sometimes as a process that ought to lead to the attainment of certain goals

11

[58]. The policy process itself, however, gives rise to numerous interpretations. Two major
approaches can be distinguished [59].
The traditional approach understands public policy as a cyclic process, the different stages of
which can be separately analyzed (see Fig. 2). In order to resolve a problem, a policy is devised,
a number of objectives are set and strategies are defined to achieve them. The operational
implementation of the policy is expected to lead to resolution of the problem [60-64].
Figure 2 Policy Cycle

Problem identification
Policy developm ent

Evaluation

Adoption
Implem entation

Here, the policy process is assumed to be rational, to follow a logical succession of stages and to
be based on an objective evaluation of different alternatives and on scientific knowledge [65].
Critics [61,66-68] have shown that to understand policy-making, account had to be taken of the
uncertainty inherent in all decision-making, the limited rationality of the agents, the power
relations in social systems and the ideological biases influencing the decision-makers (see Box 6).

12

Box 6 Limitations of a rational and linear approach to policy-making
•

Conflicts of power and interest in decision-making. Those in the policy arena have
different levels of power and varying abilities to influence policy decision-making,
depending on their resources (financial, cultural, symbolic), their legitimacy, and to their
visibility.
• Uncertainty inherent in decision-making and the limited rationality of the participants. It is
unrealistic to imagine that decision-makers possess all information on all possible options
when confronted with a given problem. The choice of objectives and priorities occurs in a
context of limited rationality and it is difficult to predict with certainty the outcome of a
policy. In the health sector there is a great deal of ambiguity of cause-and-effect
relationships between policies and health status.
• Divergences and ideological biases. The arena in which the policy agenda is defined is
laden with emotions, conflicting interests and diverging values. Perceptions of the
problems and of the policy to be implemented differ from one group to another. Objectives
highlighted by the decision-maker are not totally unrelated to his own values and may
collide with some powerful interests. Technically perfect plans may fail because they have
not inspired commitment in those who must implement them.
• The dynamic nature of policy. The policy process is not cast in stone and a policy is not
drawn up once and for all. Results obtained may be different from those expected and may
lead to policy adjustments in order to produce the desired effects.
[58,63,64,65]

The alternative approach to technical rationality, from which only a very partial explanation of
policy can be derived [27], puts the emphasis on the interpersonal and contextual relations of the
policy process. Policy is conceived not as a sequential process but as an integrated process in
which values and differences are made explicit, consensus agreements sought, compromises
made, alliances formed and action justified [69-72]. This is a political exercise that goes beyond
technical activities and calls for a process of exchange and negotiation between various interest
groups. For Kingdon [73], political changes rarely stem from a linear process, but tend to result
from repeated interactions between three flows of ideas relating to defining problems, proposing
solutions and obtaining policy consensus. Change happens when these flows converge, creating
a window of opportunity that can be seized by policy-makers [73].
Characteristics of HR activities in the health sector
In HRM the two planning approaches are not mutually exclusive, and can even be
complementary. The rational approach encourages a recognition of the role of information, of
modern analytical techniques and of decision-making tools for developing coherent policies
These are necessary but not sufficient conditions. The second approach brings an appraisal of the
political, economic, cultural and social context in which the development and implementation of
policies take place. But there are also some specifics to the health context that need to be taken
into account in the process of developing and implementing HRH policies:
•

The intersectoral nature of issues linked to HRH and the variety of participants and
sectors involved. The causes of HR problems in the health sector are various and
complex. Solutions depend on many inputs (financial resources, education programs,
working conditions), which are in many instances outside the control of the health sector
decision-makers or HRM administrators [74,75]. In most industrialized countries, such as

13

Canada or the countries of Western Europe, central unions negotiate working conditions
directly with the government and sign collective agreements that leave administrators of
health organizations little room for independent decisions [17,25]. Responsibility for the
production of personnel, for the definition of curricula and for certification criteria is
usually in the hands of independent training institutions. Practice standards are generally
defined by professional bodies. In other words, strategies for intervening on the health
workforce cannot be decided autonomously by a single organization or single unit at the
ministry of health. They have to incorporate the viewpoints of a wide variety of
institutions, participants and interest groups who have a stake in the decision-making and
in implementing actions.
•

The time-lag between decision-making and outcome. Contextual changes influencing
the demand for health services and tendencies within the workforce cannot be dealt with
in a short time. For a number of decisions relating to the health workforce, short-term or
medium-term projections are not sufficient. Hall [76] shows that a 10% rise in the
number of students registering with medical schools will produce only a 2% increase in
the supply of doctors after 10 years. A substantial lapse of time is therefore required to
bring about major quantitative and qualitative changes in the health workforce or to
rectify the adverse effects of poor decisions [77]. Accordingly, HRH policies in reforms
and attempts to expand health services should allow for the intervals needed to train and
develop the workforce. They must equally anticipate the long-term impact some major
trends such as ageing of the population are likely to have on the demand for services and
on the workforce demand.

•

Strong professional dominance. Health care systems are widely influenced by the role
of professionals whose training emphasizes the value of autonomy and professional selfregulation [78]. Generally speaking, professional structures are well established,
supported by laws, guidelines, culture and history [79]. Various professional categories
assume distinct roles and have their own training structures and regulatory mechanisms.
These groups also tend to have a distinctive culture and a very pronounced identity that
may complicate implementation of changes. Strong in the conviction of their cultural and
symbolic power and in their ability to rally public opinion behind them, they may hinder
the implementation of new policies if there is no clear understanding of the proposed
changes, or if these changes are perceived as affecting them negatively [23,80]. All these
factors indicate that the process of development and implementation of workforce
policies in the health sector must be an ongoing process of adjustment, not only to the
needs of the population but also to the changing expectations of the personnel, and that it
should be conducted with their full participation [81,82].

•

The interdependence of the different professional categories. Most health occupations
are highly interdependent when carrying out their tasks. Problems in one professional
category may spill over into another. For example, a shortage of nurses resulting from
inadequate planning may have adverse effects on the work of doctors.

•

The role of the state as the principal employer. The state remains the principal
employer in the health sector, despite a tendency to give increasingly greater scope to the
14

private sector in the provision of services [33]. HRH are expensive to produce and in
terms of recurrent expenditure. Any inadequate workforce policy that encourages
overproduction of personnel, excess consumption of resources or poor utilization of
available personnel has a direct effect on public finances and further reduces scarce
resources that could have been assigned to other sectors of the economy.
•

The high proportion of women employed in health services. The health sector is also
recognized as being a major employer of women [83], who are increasingly active in the
job market while fulfilling family responsibilities. As seen in Zimbabwe, women working
in the health sector often receive lower salaries and have fewer opportunities than their
male colleagues to rise to the higher echelons of the hierarchy [84]. Concentrated in
specific professional categories such as nursing, they often pay the highest toll when
budgets are cut [33].

•

The ambiguity of the relationship between health needs, service requirements and
resource needs (human or material) in the supply of these services. Understanding of
health needs is imperfect. Understanding of the services required to respond to needs is
also imperfect. The relative contribution of health services is not well understood. The
development of HRH policy has to deal with uncertainty and with many other factors –
political, economic, social and cultural – that influence these relationships [85].

•

Deficiencies of the market. In other sectors of the economy, the job market responds to
the law of supply and demand, and adjustment processes may be both more easy and less
costly [82]. But in health, where there are imperfections as in any market, the state may
be required to intervene in order to see through the necessary adjustments within the
framework of the political process. The challenge here is to overcome the rigidity
associated with certain institutional mechanisms (unions, professional regulations, etc.)
that may restrain the implementation of the adjustments required or render them more
costly.

The content of HRH policies
Martinez and Martineau [41] suggest four categories of issues that HRH policies should address:
•

Planning for the supply of personnel. This aims to ensure adequate numbers of
personnel in the different employment categories and that personnel are available and
distributed equitably and coherently between geographical regions, establishments and
levels of care. The challenge is to deploy personnel of adequate quality in sufficient
numbers at the right time and place; this includes equitable gender distribution within the
limits of what the country can afford.

•

Education and training. This involves providing the different categories of personnel
with the skills required by the objectives set by health policies. Policy actions may
include: adaptation of the training curricula to health policy objectives and to service
requirements; development of new teaching and learning methods; monitoring of skills

15

and training requirements; development of training infrastructures; training of trainers;
and the regulation of training institutions and programs.
•

Management of performance. This relates to the optimization of the service production
process and to making sure that staff are encouraged to provide effective, efficient, highquality services that meet the needs and expectations of citizens. Guidelines regarding the
organization and division of work, practice standards, payment methods, circulation of
information, management practices and tools, evaluation and accountability mechanisms
and, more generally, the strategies for maintaining and upgrading the quality of services
provided are included here.

•

Working conditions. Expected policy guidelines address methods of recruiting and
retaining staff, career management, mechanisms of mobility, methods and levels of
remuneration incentives, management of labor relations, and systems of evaluation.

As critical choices are made in relation to objectives and defining priorities and strategies, the
question arises: Which criteria can help? Two sets of considerations can help answer that
question.
First, HRH-related objectives – which need to be coherent with health objectives and health
needs – should be subordinated to health services [86] (see Fig. 3).
Figure 3 The relationship between needs and objectives in the health sector
The relationship between Needs /
Objectives in the Health Sector
Health needs

Health objectives

Service needs

Service objectives

Resource needs

Resource objectives

(Adapted from Pineault. Daveluy, 1995 )

Second, policy choices are not neutral, but are always derived from sets of values that condition
their social acceptability, legitimacy and consequently the probability of success of their
implementation. Accordingly, the following would help the choice of objectives, priorities and
strategies:

16

•

an explicit statement of the values that will inspire policy and to which decision-makers
will be bound: equity in access? the importance of the personnel as associates in the
development and implementation of the policies? equality between men and women? a
good balance between family and professional life?

•

a clear identification of service objectives to which HRH policies are expected to
contribute: more balanced distribution of services, level of quality sought, continuity of
services, efficiency.

•

quantifiable objectives, covering a specific period and covering all aspects of HR issues.
The policy should be able to justify how these objectives are linked to service objectives.

•

strategies considered and the required means for attaining these objectives.

•

monitoring and evaluation.
PRESCRIPTIONS FOR MODERNIZING THE POLICY PROCESS
IN HEALTH WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

The literature presents at least four "prescriptions" to adapt the policy process relating to the
health workforce.
First, HRH policies must be comprehensive, i.e. go beyond personnel administration and
incorporate all aspects of HRM. [11,18,41,87] HRM should be recognized as a set of transsectoral activities, all necessary, acting globally on the HR system so that the workforce is used
in ways that effectively contribute to meeting the health needs of the population. HRM will
continue to include traditional functions such as recruitment of personnel, but also others, such
as negotiations with professional groups and unions, as reforms usually envisage changes in
working conditions, allocation of responsibilities or training programs. Closer relations need to
be maintained with various ministries, such as that of education for training issues, or finance for
matters relating to remuneration and to incentive schemes. The policy challenges, therefore, are
to involve HR managers in all decisions relating to the workforce and to develop coordinated
(across both jurisdictions and stakeholders) "policy packages" [88,89].
Second, the development and implementation of HRH policies should reflect the integrated,
interdependent and systemic nature of the different components of HRM. Acknowledging the
systemic nature of HRM calls for a recognition of (1) the contribution of each of its functions
and their mutual dependencies; and (2) the links between HR policy, health policy and the
environment in which they are to be implemented.
The HRH subsystem brings together a number of interdependent functions working in synergy
that determine the performance of any health care system: staffing, management of performance,
training and definition of working conditions [41,81,90]. The challenge here is to ensure that
these basic functions are dealt with in a coherent manner. Any action affecting one of them may
have effects on other functions. Operations intended to balance the distribution of personnel

17

may, for instance, have consequences on staff motivation and performance. The development of
in-service training may have effects on the provision of services. Letting staff surplus build up
may make it difficult to provide professional development opportunities. Reducing staff to meet
cost restrictions may affect the quality of services. The internal coherence of the HR subsystem
depends on balancing its different functions. Youlong et al. [91], referring to China, showed how
a system of professional regulation, when not based on a systemic approach, may have an
unequal impact on rich and poor regions and work against an equitable distribution of care.
The HR subsystem also has exchange and interdependency relations with other parts of the
health care system. The quality of a service depends on its personnel, but also on the settings in
which it develops and on the resources available to provide services. In other words, the issue of
HRH cannot be dealt with or managed in isolation. HRH policy development and
implementation must allow for the fact that personnel is only one input among others that
contribute to a balanced health system. Steps must be taken to ensure that HR meet the
objectives of health policies while concurrently ensuring that the broad thrust of health policy
allows the conditions to be created for full development of the workforce.
Third, given the critical and strategic role of HR in health organizations, the implementation of
HRH policies requires that decision-making and management be more proactive [23]. A more
strategic conception of and approach to HRM require a higher degree of sensitivity to the many
signals of change emanating from both inside and outside health care organizations themselves:
changes in laws and other regulations; economic trends (labor market, growth rate, economic
priorities of the government); organizational changes; technological progress; and sociocultural
and demographic changes.
HRH managers should be capable of recognizing and interpreting these different signals, and of
acting judiciously in response to them by making appropriate adjustments to the workforce [92].
Permanent monitoring of macroscopic changes and of organizational changes and their
consequences for HRH is needed to identify new environmental challenges and emerging
problems [29]. The recruitment and retention of high-level HRH managers, with enough
autonomy to implement policies flexibly, is a correlate of this prescription and is the real test of
the commitment of political leaders to a more rational and need-centered HRM.
Fourth, the mobilization of all stakeholders is a key element in the development, implementation
and evaluation of HRH policies. Many players influence or have the potential to influence
changes in the workforce, given that they control or influence one or several of the key functions
cited above [40]. Minimally, these include:
•
•
•
•
•

those who define and negotiate working conditions: ministries of health, finance, civil
service, planning, unions, hospital boards.
those who define standards of professional practice: professional councils, governmental
regulatory agencies.
those who produce health workers: training establishments, ministry of education.
those who produce services: health establishments and their staff, both private and
public; professionals.
those who consume services: users, user associations.
18

•

those who finance services: governments, citizens, private insurers, donors.

Recognizing the roles of these players makes planning health workforce actions part of a
political process in which the different key players express their opinions and exert their
influence. Involvement of these different players in policy development, even though it will
demand more energy and time, may in fact facilitate the subsequent adoption and
implementation of policy and ensure that its effects are sustained.
These different prescriptions highlight a number of challenges and needed actions:
•

When developing policy: ensure that objectives and priorities affecting the different
aspects of HRM are made explicit; ensure that objectives and priorities are consistent
with the requirements of services, health needs and available resources; involve all
sectors concerned in the definition of objectives and priorities.

•

When implementing policy: ensure that the mechanisms required for coordination of the
different actions are properly in place; ensure continuing monitoring of signals from
inside and outside the system; mobilize resources required for the different actions; foster
synergy between the different HRM functions.

•

When evaluating policy: ensure wide participation in evaluation; collect relevant
information on the different components of HRM; use results of evaluation for creating
an evidence base and for upgrading actions.
CONDITIONS FOR SUCCESS OF HUMAN RESOURCE POLICIES

The success of policy remains conditional on a number of factors, of which four appear to be
especially crucial in the context of HRH:
Institutional/technical capacities

The development, implementation and evaluation of HRH policies is part of a complex process
relying on multiple analytical tasks: analysis of needs, planning, evaluation of programs,
economic evaluation, policy analysis, demographics and statistics, teaching methods, etc.
Capacities required for their performance are essential resources. Saltman and Figueras [93]
point out that countries that have had the most success in reforming their health systems are
precisely those that have been able to mobilize technical capacities to design coherent and viable
policies. Decision-makers who understand the specific features of the health workforce, its
critical role and HRM and its importance for supporting reforms are essential. But for planning
and implementing appropriate actions in relation to the many components of HRM, specialized
technical capacities are needed.
Policy implementation depends also on the strength and stability of institutions. Thain [94]
stresses the importance of constitutional, political, informational and technological resources that
help to construct an environment that promotes sound policy formulation and implementation.

19

National capacities for developing and implementing HRH policies are inadequate [74] because
skills are rare and institutions are weak, or the information base is deficient and good
information is not available. Regularly updated statistical data are essential to the formulation of
appropriate and coherent policies. This includes data on health needs, on existing services, and
on personnel and their distribution (in terms of geography, sex and professional categories), their
training and their working conditions.
To reinforce national capacities, Martineau and Buchan [95] suggest actions on two fronts: (1)
strategic, by providing national leaders with the means to develop a clear vision of health needs,
environmental constraints and options for the development of the workforce. HRH policies
externally imposed, by donors or otherwise, inhibit the development of this kind of national
leadership and hinder the adaptation of policies and programs to the national context [96]; (2)
operational, by developing the specific skills required by each component of HRM.
Stepping up technical capacities requires time for training and building experience. This also
applies to the consolidation of institutions. These actions change the power relationship between
actors, challenge old practices, and call for new regulatory mechanisms, all of which generate
resistance and require long periods of adaptation.
Political feasibility

Commitment is crucial for both the development and the implementation of policies. In a climate
of instability in which decision-makers are frequently replaced and priorities redefined, it may be
difficult to devise policies consistent with a long-term approach. Stability of the state apparatus
is a prerequisite for the credibility of the political process. Commitment is expressed when
government explicitly includes the development of the workforce in its priorities and treats it as
an essential public health function. It presupposes that government accepts the political risks of
promoting changes likely to provoke the opposition of powerful interest groups. Benveniste [97]
points out that change becomes possible only when a sufficient critical mass of stakeholders is
convinced of its necessity and supports it. Mobilizing the ministries of health, education, finance
and so on, and local governments, professional bodies and private organizations is not only a
good strategy, but probably a necessary one [98]. Some interest groups such as doctors are
particularly powerful, dominant and capable of mobilizing public opinion. Ignoring them is a
recipe for failure. HR actions have more chance of being coherent if they are concerted, and of
being implemented if they truly reflect the outcome of the political process, i.e. needs expressed,
proposals made and compromises reached. The challenge is to identify all the key players and
make their resources, interests and expectations explicit. Negotiating with them may pre-empt
the development of an active and organized opposition to the proposed changes.
Social acceptability

New policies may hurt the expectations, preferences, beliefs or values of some stakeholders [99],
such as when male personnel are used to deliver maternal and child care. Increasing the
acceptability of reforms is possible, either by adapting the policies to the social and cultural
environment, or by trying to change the latter through education or social marketing strategies,
or, of course, by combining the two.

20

Affordability

The correction of imbalances in personnel may require substantial short-term financial
commitments. Understaffing may require the opening of new training institutions or an increase of
the intake of existing schools. Overstaffing may be addressed by offering financially attractive
early retirement programs. Geographical redeployment of personnel requires systems of incentives
to attract workers to distant areas. Programs for improving quality and performance require
investment in infrastructure or equipment, or changes in working conditions (bonuses, salary
increases, etc.). It is important, therefore, that HRH policy be based on an accurate assessment of
its financial implications and of the capacity of the country to mobilize the necessary resources.

IN SUMMARY
Attaining health objectives in a population depends to a large extent on the provision of effective,
efficient, accessible, viable and high-quality services by personnel, present in sufficient numbers
and appropriately allocated across different occupations and geographical regions. The lack of
explicit policies for HRH development has produced, in most countries, imbalances that threaten
the capacity of health care systems to attain their objectives. The workforce in the health sector has
specific features that cannot be ignored. Health organizations are faced with external pressures that
cannot be effectively met without appropriate adjustments to the workforce. The development of
the workforce thus appears to be a crucial part of the health policy development process. Putting
workforce problems on the political agenda and developing explicit HRH policies is a way to
clarify objectives and priorities in this area, to rally all sectors concerned around these objectives,
and to promote a more comprehensive and systematic approach to HRM. In the long term, this
opens the prospect of developing health care systems more responsive to the expectations and
needs of populations.

21

22

BIBLIOGRAPHY
1.
The World Bank: Financial impact of the HIPC Initiative: first 26 country cases.
Washington, DC 2002
2.
Decosas J: Planning for primary health care: the case of the Sierra Leone national action
plan. Int J Health Plann Manage 1990, 20(1):167-177
3.
Cassels A, K Janovsky K: Better health in developing countries: Are sector-wide
approaches the way of the future? Lancet North Am Ed 1998, 35(9142):1777-1779
4.
Walt G, Pavignani E, Gilson L, Buse K: Health sector development: from aid
coordination to resource management. Health Policy Plan 1999, 14:207-218
5.
World Health Organization: World Health Report 2000. Health systems: improving
performance. Geneva 2000
6.
Cassels A: A guide to sector-wide approaches for health development. Genève,
Organisation Mondiale de la Santé/DANIDA/DFID/Commission Européenne 1997
7.
Beaglehole R, Davis P: Setting national health goals and targets in the context of a fiscal
crisis: the politics of social choice in New Zealand. Int J Health Serv 1992, 22(3):417-428
8.
Peters BG: La capacité des pouvoirs publics d'élaborer des politiques. Centre canadien
de gestion, Rapport de recherche No 18 1996
9.
Castley RJ: Policy-focused approach to manpower planning. Int J Manpower 1996,
17(3):15-24
10.
Dussault G: Cadre pour l'analyse de la main-d'œuvre sanitaire. Ruptures Revue
Transdisciplinaire Santé 2001, 7(2):64-78
11.
Pan American Health Organization (PAHO): Development and strengthening of human
resources management in the health sector. Washington DC, 128th Session of the Executive
Committee 2001
12.
Buchan J: Health sector reform and human resources: lessons from the United Kingdom.
Health Policy Plan 2000, 15:319-325
13.
Healy J, McKee M: Health sector reform in Central and Eastern Europe: the professional
dimension. Health Policy Plan 1997, 12(4):286-295
14.
Filmer D, Hammer JS, Pritchett LH: Weak links in the chain: a diagnosis of health policy
in poor countries. World Bank Res Obs (Int) 2000, 15(2):199-224
15.
SARA: A public health workforce crisis in sub-Saharan Africa. An issues paper. Support
for analysis and research in Africa (SARA) 2001
16.
Pan American Health Organization (PAHO): Human Resources: a critical factor in health
sector reform. Report of a meeting in San José. Costa Rica, 3–5 December 1997.Washington DC
1998

23

17.
Bach S: Changing public service employment relations. In: Public Service Employment
Relations in Europe, Transformation, Modernization and Inertia (Edited by: Bach S, Bordogna
L, Della RG, Winchester D). London: Routledge 1999
18.
Buchan J, Seccombe I: The changing role of the NHS personnel function. In: Evaluating
the NHS Reforms (Edited by: Legrand J, Robinson R). London: Kings Fund 1994
19.
Biscoe G: Human resources: the political and policy context. Human Resource Devel J
2000, 4:3
20.
Ozcan S, Taranto Y, Hornby P: Shaping the health future in Turkey – a new role for
human resource planning. Int J Health Plann Manage 1995, 10(4):305-319
21.
Adams OB, Hirschfeld M: Human resources for health – challenges for the 21st century.
World Health Stat Q 1998, 51(1):28-32
22.
Brito P, Galin P, Novick M: Labor relations, employment conditions and participation in
health sector. Annecy, World Health Organization Workshop on Global Workforce Strategy
2000
23.
Bach S: HR and new approaches to public sector management: improving HRM capacity.
Annecy, World Health Organization Workshop on Global Workforce Strategy 2000
24.
Dussault G: The nursing labor market in Canada: review of the literature. Cahiers du
groupe de recherche interdisciplinaire en santé (research paper r01–03). University of Montréal
2001
25.
CESSSS (Commission d'Etude sur les services de santé et les services sociaux): Rapport
et recommandations – Commission d'Etude sur les services de santé et les services sociaux – Les
Solutions émergentes. Gouvernement du Québec 2000
26.
Evans RG: Strained mercy: the economics of Canadian health care. Toronto: Butterworth
& Co 1984
27.
Murray VV, Dimick DE: Contextual influences on personnel policies and programs: an
explanatory model. Acad Manage Rev 1978, 750-761
28.
Pfeffer J: The human equation: building profits by putting people first. Boston: Harvard
University Press 1998
29.
Zairi M: Managing human resources in healthcare: learning from world class practices –
part I. Health Manpow Manage 1998, 24(2):88-99
30.
Koch MJ, McGraith RJ: Improving labor productivity: human resource management
policies do matter. Strategic Manage J 1996, 17:335-354
31.
Eaton S: Beyond unloving care: linking human resource management and patient care
quality in nursing homes. Int J Hum Resour Manage 2000, 11(3):591-616
32.
Narine L: Impact of health system factors on changes in human resource and
expenditures levels in OECD countries. J Health Hum Serv Adm 2000, 22(3):292-307

24

33.
International Labor Organization: Terms of employment and working conditions in
health sector reforms. Report for discussion at the Joint meeting on terms of employment and
working conditions in health sector reforms. Geneva 1998
34.
Saltman RB, von Otter C: Implementing planned markets in health care: balancing social
and economic responsibility.Ballmoor: Open University Press 1995
35.
Kolehamainen-Aiken RL: Decentralization and human resources: implications and
impact.Human Resource Devel J 1997, 2(1):1-14
36.
Pong RW, Saunders D, Church J, Wanke M, Cappon P: Health human resources in
community-based health care: a review of the literature. Health Canada, Health Promotion and
Programs Branch 1995
37.
Wennberg JE, Freeman JL, Shelton RM, Bubolz TA: Hospital use and mortality among
Medicare beneficiaries in Boston and New Haven.N Engl J Med 1989, 321:1168-1173
38.
McPherson K, Wennberg JE, Hovind OB, Clifford P: Small-area variation in the use of
common surgical procedures: an international comparison of New England, England and
Norway. New Engl J Med 1982, 307:1310-1314
39.
Bennett S, Franco LM: Health worker motivation and health sector reform. PHR Primer
for policy makers. Washington: PHR Project 2000
40.
Martineau T, Martinez J: Human resources in the health sector: guidelines for appraisal
and strategic development. Brussels: European Commission, Directorate General for
Development, "Health and Development Series" 1997
41.
Martinez J, Martineau T: Rethinking human resources: an agenda for the millennium.
Health Policy Plan 1998, 13:345-358
42.
Thompson D, Snape E, Stokes C: Health services reform and human resource
management in Hong Kong public hospitals. Int J Health Plann Manage 1999, 14:19-39
43.
Industrie Canada: L'industrie de la télésanté. La série descadres de compétitivité
sectorielle. Principales caractéristiques de l'industrie. Ottawa, Ontario 2001
44.
ORTECH: L'imagerie médicale: document de travail Report No. 98-X11-C06-1534-1.
For Industry Canada: Ottawa: Ontario 1999
45.
Svehla TA, Crosier GC: Managing the mosaic. Addressing workforce diversity and
managing institutional change in healthcare. Chicago: American Hospital Pub 1994
46.
Organisation pour la Coopération et le Développement Economique (OCDE): Récents
développements et défis a venir de la gestion des ressources humaines dans les pays membres de
l'OCDE. Réunion du Groupe de travail sur la gestion des ressources humaines. Paris: OCDE
2000
47.
Woodward CA, Williams AP, Ferrier B, Cojhen M: Time spent on professional activities
and unwaged domestic work: is it different for male and female primary care physicians who
have children at home? Can Fam Physician 1996, 42:1935-1938

25

48.
Kletke PR, Marder WD, Silberger AB: The growing proportion of female physicians:
implications for US physician supply. American Journal of Public Health 1990, 80(3):300-304
49.
Warde CA, Gelberg L: Physician role conflict and resulting career changes: gender and
generational differences. J Gen Intern Med 1996, 12(7):407-411
50.
Tawfik L, Kinoti SN: The impact of HIV/AIDS on the health sector in sub-Saharan
Africa: the issue of human resources. The SARA Project 2001
51.
Nigenda G, Machado MH: From state to market: the Nicaraguan labor market for health
personnel.
Health Policy Plan 2000, 15:312-318
52.
Buchan J: Health sector reform and human resources: lessons from the United Kingdom.
Health Policy Plan 2000, 15:319-325
53.
Chanda R: Trade in health services. Geneva: World Health Organization, Commission on
Macroeconomics and Health 2001
54.
Chiavenato I: Advances and challenges in human resource management in the new
millennium. Public Pers Manage 2001, 30(1):17-25
55.
J Lipiec J: Human resources management perspective at the turn of the century. Public
Pers Manage 2001, 30(2):137-145
56.

Mejia A: Le déséquilibre des personnels de santé. World Health Stat Q 1987, 40:335-348

57.
Egger D, Adams O: Imbalances in human resources for health: Can policy formulation
and planning make a difference? Human Resource Devel J 1999, 3:1
58.
Wildavsky A: Speaking truth to power: the art and craft of policy analysis. Boston: Little,
Brown & Co 1979
59.
Leppo K: Strengthening capacities for policy development and strategic management in
national health systems. A background paper prepared for the Forum of senior policy-makers
and managers of health systems. Geneva: World Health Organization 2001
60.
Siler-Wells G: An implementation model for health system reform. Soc Sci Med 1987,
24(10):821-832
61.

Walt G: Health policy: an introduction to process and power. London: Zed Books 1994

62.
Pederson AP, Edwards RK, Kelner M: Coordination de la politique publique favorisant la
santé. Analyse documentaire et bibliographie. Toronto: Département des Sciences du
comportement, Université de Toronto 1988
63.
Lee K, Mills A: Policy-making and planning in the health sector. London: Croom Helm
1982
64.

Jones CO: An introduction to the study of public policy. California: Belmont 1970

65.
Ziglio E: Policy-making and planning in conditions of uncertainty: theoretical
considerations for health promotion policy. Edinburgh: Research Unit in Health and
Behavioural Change 1987
26

66.
Simon HA: Administrative behavior. a study of decision-making processes in
administrative organization. New York: Macmillan 1957
67.
Friedberg E: Le pouvoir et la règle: dynamiques de l'action organisée. Paris: Editions du
Seuil 1993
68.

Barker C: The health care policy process. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications 1996

69.

Nutt PC: Planning methods: for health and related organizations. Toronto: Wiley 1984

70.
Linder SH, Peters BG: From social theory to policy design. J Public Policy 1984,
4(3):237-259
71.
Roberts MJ, Hsiao W, Berman P, Gleich MR: Getting health reform right. New York:
Oxford University Press , in press
72.
Reich MR: Political analysis. The World Bank Flagship Course. Boston: Harvard School
of Public Health 2000
73.

Kingdon JW: Agendas, alternatives, and public policies. Boston: Little, Brown 1984

74.
Egger D, Lipson D, Adams O: Achieving the right balance: the role of policy-making
processes in managing human resources for health problems. Geneva: World Health
Organization 2000
75.
Dovlo D: Ghana: HRD policy reform issues. In Workshop on human resources and
health sector reforms (Edited by: Martinez J, Martineau T). Liverpool: Liverpool School of
Tropical Medicine 1996
76.
86

Hall T: Why plan human resources for health? Human Resource Devel J 1998, 2(2):77-

77.
Siddiqui J, Kleiner BH: Human resource management in the health care industry. Health
Manpow Manage 1998, 24(4):143-147
78.
Freidson E: Professional dominance: the social structure of medical care. New York:
Atherton Press 1970
79.
Committee on Quality of Health Care in America. Institute of Medicine (IOM): Crossing
the quality chasm: a new health system for the 21st century. Washington, DC: National
Academy Press 2001
80.
Collins C: Management and organization of developing health systems. Oxford: Oxford
University Press 1994
81.
Dussault G: Human resources development: the challenge of health sector reform.
Washington, DC: Latin America and the Caribbean Department, Human Development Division,
World Bank 1999
82.
Smith DA, Preker AS: Labor market adjustment in health systems. Annecy, World Health
Organization Workshop on Global Workforce Strategy 2000
83.
Standing H: Gender – a missing dimension in human resource policy and planning for
health reforms. Human Resource Devel J 2000, 4:1
27

84.
United Nations Industrial Development Organization: Human resources in Zimbabwe's
industrial development – the current and prospective contribution of women. Vienna: Regional
and Country Studies Branch Industrial Policy and Perspectives Division PPD 1989
85.

Hossain B: Discussion notes. Human Resource Devel J 1998, 2:2

86.
Pineault R, Daveluy C: La planification de la santé: concepts, méthodes, stratégies.
Montréal: Éditions Nouvelles 1995
87.
Davidson CH: Organizing a human resource function. In Human Resource Management
In Health Care (Edited by: Brown M). Gaithersburg, Md: Aspen Publishers 1992, 3-9
88.

Storey J: Developments in the management of human resources. Oxford: Blackwell 1992

89.
Barer ML, Stoddart GL: Improving access to needed medical services in rural and remote
Canadian communities: recruitment and retention revisited. Canada, Discussion paper prepared
for Federal/Provincial/Territorial Advisory Committee on Health Human Resources 1999
90.
Hernandez SR, Fottler MD, Joiner CL: Strategic management of human resources in
health services organizations. In Strategic management of human resources in health services
organizations (Edited by: New York: John Wiley & Sons). Fottler MD, Hernandez SR, Joiner CL
1988, 3-19
91.
Youlong G, Wilkes A, Bloom G: Health human resource development in rural China.
Health Policy Plan 1997, 12:320-328
92.
Thomas MA: What is a human resources strategy? Health Manpow Manage 1996,
22(2):4-11
93.
Saltman RB, Figueras J: European health care reform. analysis of current strategies.
Copenhagen: World Health Organization Regional Office for Europe 1997
94.
Thain C: Implementing economic policy: an analytical framework. Policy Polit 1987,
15(2):67-75
95.
Martineau T, Buchan J: HR and the success of health sector reform. "Eliminating health
disparities". 128th Annual Meeting of the American Public Health Association. Boston 2000
96.
Milèn A: Que savons-nous du renforcement des capacités? Aperçu des connaissances et
bonnes pratiques existantes. Geneva: World Health Organization 2001
97.
Benveniste G: Mastering the politics of planning: crafting credible plans and policies that
make a difference. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass 1990
98.
Martinez J, Collini L: A review of the human resources issues in the health sector: a
briefing paper. London: DFID Health Systems Resource Center (HSRC) 1999
99.

Thrasher M: Exchange networks and implementation. Policy Polit 1983, 11(4):375-391

28

H N P

D I S C U S S I O N

P A P E R

The Economics of Priority Setting for
Health Care: A Literature Review

About this series...
This series is produced by the Health, Nutrition, and Population Family
(HNP) of the World Bank’s Human Development Network. The papers
in this series aim to provide a vehicle for publishing preliminary and
unpolished results on HNP topics to encourage discussion and debate.
The findings, interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this paper
are entirely those of the author(s) and should not be attributed in any
manner to the World Bank, to its affiliated organizations or to members
of its Board of Executive Directors or the countries they represent.
Citation and the use of material presented in this series should take
into account this provisional character. For free copies of papers in
this series please contact the individual authors whose name appears
on the paper.

Katharina Hauck, Peter C. Smith and Maria Goddard

Enquiries about the series and submissions should be made directly to
the Managing Editor Joy de Beyer (jdebeyer@worldbank.org) or HNP
Advisory Service (healthpop@worldbank.org, tel 202 473-2256, fax
202 522-3234). For more information, see also www.worldbank.org/
hnppublications.

THE WORLD BANK
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC USA 20433
Telephone:
202 473 1000
Facsimile:
202 477 6391
Internet: www.worldbank.org
E-mail: feedback@worldbank.org

September 2004

