MEMORANDUM
TO:

Equity Market Structure Advisory Committee (EMSAC)

FROM:

EMSAC Customer Issues Subcommittee

DATE:

July 25, 2016

SUBJECT:

Recommendations Relating to Customer Issues

The Customer Issues Subcommittee was formed to consider initiatives to protect investor
interests and promote investor confidence. The Subcommittee is charged with making
recommendations to the full Committee that would support more granular information to
investors and enhance transparency. Topics include issues around meaningful execution
quality and review of order routing disclosures (Rules 605 and 606), payment for order
flow, as well as processes to educate retail customers on order types and market
volatility.
The primary focus of the Customer Issues Subcommittee has revolved around four topics:
(1) understanding the retail investor perspective on equity market structure, (2) use of
stop order types by retail customers, (3) review of execution quality statistics from a
retail perspective, and (4) payment for order flow.
We note that with respect to the use of stop orders, FINRA has already issued Regulatory
Notice 16-19 relating to the use of stop orders in periods of extreme market volatility.
The guidance provided is consistent with the Subcommittee’s recommendations
presented in the April 2016 Customer Issues Subcommittee Status Report. With respect
to payment for order flow, the subcommittee has not come to any specific
recommendations. Discussions spanned several topics including prohibiting the use of
payment for order flow, managing conflicts of interest and opportunities for enhancing
existing or requiring new disclosures. The subcommittee notes that the Commission has
recently released a proposal on order handling disclosures including new disclosures
related to payment for order flow. The subcommittee believes comment on these
disclosures is appropriate.
As part of its deliberations, the Subcommittee considered input from market participants
including retail broker dealers, industry groups and members of the SEC’s Investor
Advisory Committee. Statistical information reviewed by the subcommittee demonstrates
that retail execution quality has improved over the last several years. While the
Commission’s recent order handling proposal recognizes the need to modernize Rule 606
disclosures in light of changes to market structure, the Subcommittee recommends
additional modifications to Rule 605 and Rule 606 related to retail order flow as outlined

1

below. 1 Additionally, the subcommittee recommends that the Commission perform
surveys in order to benchmark and monitor investor confidence as described below.
Recommendation #1 – Benchmark and monitor investor confidence in U.S. equities
market structure.
• The SEC should always have an informed and current view of the state of
individual investor confidence in our equity markets. The SEC should
periodically sponsor or conduct surveys of individual investors to establish
benchmarks and trends over time for investor confidence in the U.S. equities
markets.
• Existing academic and industry studies on confidence, stock market participation
levels and investor trust in the markets should inform the SEC’s view.
Partnerships and coordination of efforts to extend and enhance the knowledge of
these issues should be considered and undertaken.
• The SEC should use the survey information and other indications to examine
views on market structure, disclosures and volatility and the implications of these
views on investor behavior, asset allocation decisions, readiness for retirement,
and perceptions on the advisability of and risk associated with investing in
equities.
• Results of the surveys and the SEC’s understanding of individual investor
perceptions and behaviors should be used to inform rule-making and educational
efforts. Testing the usability, clarity, and effectiveness of disclosures on a
representative sample of individual investors, including those recommended
below, should be undertaken prior to implementation and revised in response to
the testing results. In addition, disclosures or investor educational materials to
improve investors’ understanding of different business models and market
structure should also be tested and revised if needed.
Recommendation #2 – Modify Rule 605 and Rule 606 to provide meaningful
execution quality and order handling disclosures from a retail perspective.
•

Improve the accessibility of Rule 605 and 606 reports
o Leverage the SEC’s existing Market Structure Data and Analysis website as a
central repository Rule 605 and 606 reports.
o Incorporate Rule 605 and 606 data into the SEC’s Data Visualization Tool.

•

Expand the scope of Rule 605 by requiring every broker-dealer to report with an
exemption for broker dealers with de minimis order flow, aligning scope of Rule
605 reporting with Rule 606.
o Today, Rule 605 requires market centers 2 to publish reports. Broker-dealers
who route order flow to other execution venues only produce Rule 606
reports.

1

Recommendations will be updated to reflect the SEC’s recently issued proposal on order handling
disclosures after the Subcommittee reviews the proposal.

2

o While there would be compliance and implementation costs, the use of third
party vendors may mitigate some of these concerns.
o By having all broker dealers provide Rule 605 data, there would be an
opportunity for market participants, academics and the press to evaluate these
statistics in a consistent manner.
•

To further improve standardization and the consistency of reporting, the SEC
could consider centralizing report creation in an unbiased and trusted source such
as FINRA.

•

For market data driven calculations in Rule 605 and Rule 606, require that
calculations to be based on either SIP or proprietary feeds depending on what
feeds were used for routing and execution. Include disclosure identifying type of
market data used in report.

•

Modify Rule 605 to reflect changes in market structure since the rule was initially
adopted:
o Include odd-lots
o Segregate Immediate or Cancel (IOC) orders
o Include the following new data elements: “quoted spread 3” and “enhanced
liquidity4”
o Expand execution time buckets to include more granular measurements
including: less than 50 milliseconds, 50 milliseconds – 500 milliseconds; 500
milliseconds to 1 second
o Revise FAQs regarding methodology to assign an NBBO for orders received
in the same second as a quote change such that all firms reference the NBBO
from the closest millisecond prior to the receipt of a covered order.

•

Expand the scope of Rule 606 reporters to include exchanges and ATSs that route
orders.

•

Modify Rule 606 enhancements to reflect changes in market structure since the rule
was initially adopted:
o Instead of dividing data by listing markets, divide by S&P 500 and Other
NMS equities
o Include a new section for OTC Equity Data
o Segregate data currently in the “Other” category with separate columns for
market open/close orders and stop/stop on quote orders. Based on order
attributes, odd lots would fall into the market, limit, market open/close,
stop/stop on quote, or other category

2

As defined by Regulation NMS, market center means any exchange market maker, OTC market maker,
alternative trading system, national securities exchange, or national securities association.
3
Quoted spread would be the prevailing National Best Bid or Offer (“NBBO”) at the time a market center
receives an order.
4
Enhanced Liquidity would indicate for the proportion of shares greater than the available shares displayed
at NBBO that were executed at or better than the NBBO.

3

o
o
o
o

Segregate marketable limit orders from non-marketable limit orders
Consistently identify routing destinations across Rule 606 reporters
Include plain English descriptions, definitions and FAQs
Include execution quality statistics by routing destination, e.g., effective
spread /quoted spread.

4

