U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Equity Market Structure Advisory Committee
Recommendations Regarding Enhanced Industry Participation
in Certain SRO Regulatory Matters
June 10, 2016
AFTER CONSIDERING THAT:
•

The Trading Venues Regulation Subcommittee (Subcommittee) of the Equity Market
Structure Advisory Committee (EMSAC) was formed to review and analyze whether the
current regulatory model for trading venues is optimally serving the market as a whole
and providing a level and fair playing field for all market participants.

•

The Subcommittee has held several meetings to discuss the range of issues under its
purview and also held a meeting with industry representatives to gather further
information and insights. Based on these discussions and analysis, the Subcommittee
believes that overall, the current regulatory structure for trading venues works well and
generally is operating fairly and effectively. As such, the Subcommittee does not believe
a significant overhaul of the current structure is needed.

•

The Subcommittee recognizes that potential conflicts and tensions do exist within and
among the current trading venue models. As a result, the Subcommittee presented a set
of four recommendations for discussion and preliminary consideration at the EMSAC’s
recent public meeting, on April 26, 2016. The Subcommittee’s recommendations were
posted to the SEC’s public website on April 19, 2016.

•

The EMSAC discussed the Subcommittee’s recommendations at its public meeting held
on April 26, 2016, with the assistance of guest panelists including representatives from
Wellington Management, NASDAQ, and JP Morgan Securities. Based on the public
discussion at the EMSAC meeting and the opportunity for public comment, and for the
reasons stated in Appendix C (Supporting Rationale), the EMSAC determined that two
of the four Subcommittee recommendations were appropriate to prioritize at this time.

THEREFORE, the EMSAC recommends that the SEC take action to make the role of NMS Plan
Advisory Committees more significant, formalized, and uniform, as specifically set forth in
Appendix A (NMS Plan Recommendation), and to promote more efficient technical
implementation of rule changes, as specifically set forth in Appendix B (Rule Change
Implementation Recommendation).

1

APPENDIX A – NMS PLAN RECOMMENDATION
Full Text of Recommendation: Changes should be implemented to the NMS Plan
governance structure and the role of NMS Plan Advisory Committees (AC) should be
expanded, formalized and made uniform.
•

Clarify the Process for Selecting AC Representatives:
o NMS Plan Participants should publish on their websites solicitation of AC
members in advance of selection and Participants may also recommend
candidates.
o Once the AC has been established and is operational, the AC can nominate its
own replacement candidates.
o Selections should be approved by simple majority of Operating Committee (OC).

•

Expand and Formalize the Role of AC:
o The AC should have the right to a formal vote before any matter on which the OC
votes. If the OC subsequently approves any action that was opposed by a
majority of the AC, the OC should explain and document its reasons for
proceeding contrary to AC input. In the event that the matter is the subject of a
rule filing, the OC also should summarize and explain the results of the OC and
AC votes in the filing submitted to the SEC.
o The AC should be permitted to initiate its own recommendations to the OC and
the OC should respond formally to the AC’s recommendations.

•

Significantly Narrow the Use of Executive Sessions by NMS Plans:
o AC members generally should have right to attend all meetings and receive all
information concerning Plan matters distributed to Participants (except executive
sessions and other specific related materials as noted below).
o The Plans should limit the acceptable use of executive sessions to only matters
that present a clear conflict for AC members, such as matters relating to members’
regulatory compliance, or matters subject to potential or ongoing litigation
between AC members and Plan Participants. To determine that AC members are
conflicted for this purpose, the OC should specifically articulate the conflict and
agree by a 2/3 supermajority vote to authorize the executive session.
o The OC may also by majority vote authorize ongoing working groups, made up of
a subcommittee of the OC, to resolve a particular issue or finalize a
recommendation. The size of subcommittee working groups would not exceed
half of the total number of votes represented on the OC (note recommendation
below on allocation of OC voting rights). These working groups would not
require AC participation provided that the working group must submit regular
updates and its ultimate work product to the full OC and AC, and the OC must
allow for an AC vote (as described above) prior to taking any action on a working
group recommendation.

•

Limit NMS Plan Provisions Requiring Unanimous Vote:
2

o OC Voting Requirements should be 2/3 supermajority vote for substantive
changes, plan amendments and fees.
o Should be simple majority vote for administrative or technical matters such as
requesting system changes and interpretive matters.
•

Revisit Allocation of Voting Rights Among SROs:
o Current “one vote per exchange registration” model should be replaced with
allocation of voting rights at the exchange group level, i.e., one for each
“exchange family.”
o However, if an exchange family also has consolidated market share of 10% or
more in the particular market relevant to the NMS Plan, it would have two votes.

Procedural Mechanisms for the SEC or SEC Staff to Consider to Implement the
Recommendation
With respect for the authority and customary procedure of the SEC and the Division of Trading
and Markets, the EMSAC recommends that the SEC consider engaging in formal administrative
rulemaking to revise Rule 608 of Regulation NMS to specify that NMS Plans must contain
governance provisions consistent with the objectives specified in this Recommendation.

3

APPENDIX B –RULE CHANGE IMPLEMENTATION RECOMMENDATION
Full Text of Recommendation: If a rule change will require technology changes by the
industry that will be prescribed through the publication of technical specifications, the SEC
and the SROs should link the implementation date of those rule changes to the publication
of technical specifications or FAQs where appropriate.
•

Draft technical specifications should be published prior to SEC approval of any related
rule change. 1 Where possible, industry/affected parties should be provided an
opportunity to review and provide comment on draft technical specifications.

•

Except in limited circumstances that necessitate expedited implementation, the
implementation date of technology-driven rules/systems changes should be linked to the
issuance of final technical specifications (or, where there are interpretive issues that drive
system changes, the issuance of FAQs and similar interpretive guidance as appropriate),
that provide firms sufficient detail to implement the changes. The SRO rule filing should
explicitly note the proposed implementation time period (e.g., 6 months from the
issuance of final technical specifications/FAQs).

•

Where possible, the duration of the implementation period should be determined after the
draft specifications/FAQs are issued to allow the industry to better evaluate and provide
input on the necessary timeframe.

Procedural Mechanisms for the SEC or SEC Staff to Consider to Implement the
Recommendation
With respect for the authority and customary procedure of the SEC and the Division of Trading
and Markets, the EMSAC recommends that the SEC or SEC staff consider issuing guidance, for
example through an interpretive statement, policy statement, or staff legal bulletin, to advise
SROs that they should, as a matter of practice, satisfy existing Rule and Form 19b-4
requirements by describing their implementation timeline for proposed rule changes, including
the publication of technical specifications or frequently asked questions, as applicable, consistent
with the objectives specified in this Recommendation.

1

The Subcommittee recognizes that in limited circumstances, it may not be possible to publish draft
technical specifications before rule change approval. However, given that technical specifications are
required for firms to determine implementation effort, the Subcommittee believes this
Recommendation is a best practice and that technical specifications should be published with as much
time for industry review to help determine feasible and appropriate implementation timelines.
4

APPENDIX C – SUPPORTING RATIONALE

Overview
The Trading Venues Regulation Subcommittee (Subcommittee) of the EMSAC was formed to
review and analyze whether the current regulatory model for trading venues is optimally serving
the market as a whole and providing a level and fair playing field for all market participants.
Topics considered by the Subcommittee include the appropriate regulatory structure for today’s
trading venues, the impact of exchanges’ limitation of liability, governance of NMS Plans and
consolidated market data feeds.
The Subcommittee has held several meetings to discuss the range of issues under its purview and
also held a meeting with industry representatives to gather further information and insights.
Based on these discussions and analysis, the Subcommittee believes that overall, the current
regulatory structure for trading venues works well and generally is operating fairly and
effectively. As such, the Subcommittee does not believe a significant overhaul of the current
structure is needed.
However, the Subcommittee recognizes that potential conflicts and tensions do exist within and
among the current trading venue models. 1 As a result, the Subcommittee presented a set of four
recommendations for discussion and preliminary consideration at the EMSAC’s recent public
meeting, on April 26, 2016. 2 The Subcommittee’s four recommendations were:

1

A recent comment letter to the EMSAC file states that the Subcommittee has not sufficiently
identified or analyzed these potential conflicts or tensions as a foundation for its recommendations.
(See Letter from Elizabeth King, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, NYSE, dated May 13,
2016 (“NYSE Letter”).) The Subcommittee notes that the potential conflicts at play in the SRO
model were identified in an SEC staff memorandum that was presented at the EMSAC meeting held
on October 27, 2015, and that the memorandum in turn catalogued the SEC’s previous public efforts
to study the benefits and drawbacks of self-regulation, including the 1961-1963 Special Study of
Securities Markets, the 1994 review of SROs for the “Market 2000” Report, and the 2004 SRO
Concept Release. In addition, these issues were among the market structure questions raised by the
SEC’s 2010 Concept Release on Equity Market Structure, which was provided as a briefing material
for the EMSAC’s initial meeting. The Subcommittee notes further that the topic of conflicts in NMS
Plan governance has been publicly discussed by EMSAC members and EMSAC guest panelists
during at least two EMSAC meetings. These issues have been discussed and analyzed at considerable
length by the Subcommittee, as reflected by minutes of the Subcommittee’s meetings.

2

A second recent comment letter to the EMSAC file suggests that the Subcommittee has focused its
recommendations too narrowly on exchanges, rather than “trading venues” more broadly. (See Letter
from Joan Conley, Senior Vice President and Corporate Secretary, Nasdaq, dated May 24, 2016
(“Nasdaq Letter”).) As the Subcommittee Chair noted when a Nasdaq representative raised this point
at the April 26 EMSAC meeting, the Subcommittee’s recommendations focus largely on issues
affecting SRO regulation. While the Subcommittee discussed and considered issues affecting the
regulation of other trading venues, including alternative trading systems (ATS), at several
Subcommittee meetings, it has not formulated any recommendations targeted at ATS regulation in
light of the SEC’s pending proposal to revise Regulation ATS.
5

1. Evaluate and clarify exchange functions subject to SRO immunity and increase rulebased exchange liability levels.
2. Implement changes to the NMS Plan governance structure primarily to make the role of
NMS Plan Advisory Committees more significant, formalized, and uniform.
3. For rule changes that will require technological changes by the industry, link the
implementation schedule for those changes to required publication of technical
specifications or FAQs, where appropriate.
4. Formalize by SEC rule the centralization of common regulatory functions across SROs
into a single regulator.
To facilitate robust discussion at the EMSAC meeting, the Subcommittee submitted these four
recommendations to SEC staff in writing to prior to the meeting, and the recommendations were
posted to the SEC’s public website on April 19, 2016. Based on the EMSAC’s discussion of the
recommendations, the Subcommittee has decided to prioritize two of its four recommendations –
specifically, Recommendations 2 and 3 in the list above – which it now submits for the
EMSAC’s official consideration and vote. The Subcommittee will continue to review potential
action on Recommendations 1 and 4, as well as other issues the Subcommittee has identified,
including the consolidation of equity market data feeds and the distribution of associated
revenues, and expects to provide recommendations in those areas in the future. With respect to
timing, Recommendations 1 and 4 merit continued consideration and advancement with
additional opportunity to solicit and consider input from market participants.
Recommendation 2: NMS Plan Recommendation
The Subcommittee solicited feedback on its recommendations through several channels. First, as
noted above, the Subcommittee’s initial package of four recommendations was posted on the
SEC’s website on April 19, 2016. To date, two written comments were submitted on the
Subcommittee’s NMS Plan Recommendations. 3 Second, the Subcommittee invited panelists to
engage in discussion with EMSAC members at the public April 26 EMSAC meeting. The
panelists included representatives from Wellington Management, NASDAQ and JP Morgan
Securities.
To the extent panelists expressed views on the NMS Plan Recommendation, they were generally
supportive. The representative from Wellington thought that the proposed revisions to NMS
Plan governance could improve the operation of the current NMS Plans for market data
consolidation. The representative from JP Morgan stated that adopting this Recommendation
“as-is” would be a marked step forward for NMS Plan governance. The representative from
Nasdaq did not share views on the Recommendation at the EMSAC meeting; however, Nasdaq
subsequently submitted a comment letter on the Recommendation, which is discussed in greater
detail below.
Beyond general support, some commenters have questioned particular elements of the NMS Plan
Recommendation. Most notably, the EMSAC received conflicting views on the appropriate
level of Advisory Committee involvement in NMS Plan decision making. On the one hand, the
3

See NYSE Letter at 8 – 10; Nasdaq Letter at 5 – 8. The EMSAC comment file also received the
written statement of one of the panelists, the representative from JP Morgan. The views expressed in
the written statement reflect the panelist’s spoken comments at the EMSAC meeting.
6

JP Morgan representative argued for greater Advisory Committee involvement; specifically, he
recommended that the Advisory Committee should have an official seat – and vote – on plan
operating committees. On the other hand, NYSE argued in its comment letter that Section 11A
of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule 608 of Regulation NMS enable only SROs to become
official voting members or participants of NMS Plans, consistent with SROs’ regulatory
obligations. The Nasdaq Letter expressed similar concern that enhanced industry participation in
NMS Plans could frustrate the regulatory obligations that attach to SROs as Plan participants. 4
The Subcommittee recognizes the efforts that have been made to grant industry representatives
direct voting rights on NMS Plan operating committees. However, the Subcommittee also is
aware of the potential statutory or regulatory limits on permissible NMS Plan Participants.
Moreover, the Subcommittee acknowledges that, at least in the context of the Consolidated Audit
Trail NMS Plan, the SEC noted the “regulatory imperative” that the operations and decisions
regarding the consolidated audit trail be made by SROs who have a statutory obligation to
regulate the securities markets, rather than by members of the SROs, who have no corresponding
statutory obligation to oversee the securities markets. The Recommendation reflects the
Subcommittee’s attempt to improve NMS Plan governance in a way that would be less likely to
raise interpretive concerns, but that would nonetheless offer a meaningful, formalized, and
uniform role for industry Advisory Committees. 5
The JP Morgan representative also questioned whether the Recommendation should be changed
to allow industry groups to nominate the initial Advisory Committee representatives, rather than
providing that NMS Plan participants should solicit nominees through websites. The
Subcommittee believes that this Recommendation, as originally proposed, allows sufficient input
from industry members and industry groups. The Subcommittee envisions that the nomination
process would occur through the public websites of NMS Plan participants, which would provide
an open forum for AC candidates to be suggested. The Subcommittee further notes that, if the
Recommendation were to be implemented, NMS Plan participants would only be involved in the
selection of the initial Advisory Committee; once the Advisory Committee has been established
and is operational, Advisory Committee members would nominate their own replacements.
In addition, the JPMorgan representative expressed concern that the concept of “working
groups” in the Recommendation could be misused to improperly limit Advisory Committee
4

5

Both NYSE and Nasdaq also questioned the need for the recommendation because, in their view,
NMS Plan governance already functions well and incorporates industry input as intended. The
Subcommittee believes there is a sufficient record of deliberation on this topic, at both the
Subcommittee and full EMSAC level, to justify the Recommendation. See footnote 1 above for
additional detail.
The Subcommittee notes that this Recommendation should also avoid the potential concerns that
Nasdaq raised about undermining NMS Plan regulation. Under the Recommendation, if a Plan
Advisory Committee objected to a particular change that SRO Plan participants felt was necessary to
satisfy their regulatory obligations, the SRO participants would not be prevented from moving
forward with the change, provided they explain their reasons for doing so. Furthermore, the
Recommendation would not prevent SRO Plan participants from meeting in executive session to
discuss matters that present a clear conflict for Advisory Committee members, such as matters
relating to members’ regulatory compliance, or matters subject to potential or ongoing litigation
between Advisory Committee members and Plan Participants.
7

participation. The Subcommittee believes that the Recommendation, as presented, strikes a
balance between enhanced Advisory Committee participation and the need for NMS Plan
participants to practically resolve certain technical matters. The Subcommittee notes that the
Recommendation would provide for working sessions only when specifically authorized by a
majority vote of an NMS Plan’s Operating Committee – which the Advisory Committee would
also have a right to vote on under the Recommendation. The Recommendation further
contemplates that a working group would be required to submit regular updates and any work
product to the full Operating Committee and Advisory Committee, and that the Advisory
Committee would have additional voting rights before any working group matter was acted on
by an NMS Plan Operating Committee. Moreover, the Subcommittee has modified the
Recommendation to provide a further measure of protection against the potential misuse of
working group sessions. The Recommendation now would limit the size of subcommittee
working groups to no more than half of the number of votes represented on the Operating
Committee, to limit situations where all or most of the Operating Committee could engage in
substantive discussion outside the presence of the Advisory Committee.
Finally, NYSE and Nasdaq objected to the elements of the Recommendation that would limit
unanimous voting requirements in NMS Plans and reallocate votes among NMS Plan
participants by “exchange family.” The Subcommittee recommends limiting the use of
unanimity requirements to prevent undue friction or delay in Plan voting matters. The
Subcommittee’s recommendation on the reallocation of voting rights is intended to better reflect
the proportional interests of NMS Plan participants. Overall, the Subcommittee continues to
believe that these elements are important parts of the overall Recommendation package, which is
intended to improve NMS Plan governance on balance.
Recommendation 3: Rule Change Implementation Recommendation
Like the NMS Plan Recommendation, this Recommendation was subject to public comment
after it was posted on the SEC’s website, and it was also subject to discussion by panelists at the
April 26 EMSAC meeting. To date, two written comments have been received on this
Recommendation. 6
Panelists at the EMSAC were generally supportive of this Recommendation. 7 NYSE, in its
written comment letter, also supported a portion of the Recommendation. Specifically, NYSE
supported the Recommendation to the extent it would enhance technical implementation of NMS
Plan rule changes. However, NYSE opposed the Recommendation to the extent it would apply
to other SRO rule changes, on the grounds that SROs already provide sufficient guidance and
notice to their members of impending technological changes. The Subcommittee believes that
NYSE’s rationale for supporting the Recommendation with respect to NMS Plan changes is
applicable as well to other SRO rule changes. The Subcommittee continues to believe that this
Recommendation could provide for more efficient technical acceptance of SRO-driven
regulatory changes. To the extent that SROs voluntarily provide specifications as part of their
6

See NYSE Letter at 10 – 11; Nasdaq Letter at 7 – 8.

7

As with the NMS Plan Recommendation, the Nasdaq panelist did not express a view on this
Recommendation at the EMSAC meeting. Nasdaq later submitted written comments on the
Recommendation.
8

rule-making process currently, this Recommendation would serve to encourage all SROs to do
the same going forward.
Finally, the Subcommittee notes that the Nasdaq Letter raised concerns that the
Recommendation could require the disclosure of proprietary information or create an
impediment to rule change approval, potentially inconsistent with Exchange Act Rule 19b-4 and
Form 19b-4. It should be noted that all SRO specifications related to trading interfaces and
regulatory reporting are currently publicly available. Nothing in this recommendation would
require the disclosure of proprietary information. The focus of this Recommendation is on the
timing of technical specification release and the importance of technical specifications in
determining implementation timeframes. The Subcommittee added a footnote to the
Recommendation clarifying that its intent is to see technical specifications published with as
much time for industry review and input to achieve feasible and appropriate implementation
timeframes, while recognizing that may not be possible in limited circumstances.

9

