Investor Bulletin: The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act –
Prohibition of the Payment of Bribes to Foreign Officials
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) generally prohibits the bribing of foreign officials.
The FCPA also requires publicly traded companies to
maintain accurate books and records and to have a system of internal controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are executed and assets
are accounted for in accordance with management’s
authorization and recorded as necessary to permit the
preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles (known as
“GAAP”).
The FCPA can apply to prohibited conduct anywhere
in the world, even, in certain circumstances, where
there is no U.S. territorial connection, and extends
to publicly traded companies (“issuers”) and their
officers, directors, employees, agents, and stockholders. Agents can include third party agents, consultants,
distributors, joint-venture partners, and others.

Anti-Bribery Provisions
The anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA generally
prohibit any offer, payment, promise, or authorization
to pay money or anything of value to any foreign official, foreign political party, or candidate for public office, intended to influence any act or decision in order
to assist in obtaining or retaining business.

Investor Assistance (800) 732-0330

•	 The term “anything of value” may include,
among other things, cash, computer equipment, medical supplies, and vehicles.
•	 The term “foreign official” is defined broadly
and can include any officer or employee of a
foreign government or any department, agency, or instrumentality thereof, or of a public
international organization, or anyone acting
on behalf of such government or department.
For example, foreign officials would include
foreign military officers in charge of procurement contracts, ministry-level officials, and
officers and employees of government-owned
or government-controlled entities.
The FCPA also prohibits bribes made to any person
(“indirect bribes”) while “knowing” that some or all
of the payments will be used by the person, directly or
indirectly, to bribe foreign officials or other prohibited
recipients. In this context, “knowing” includes willful
blindness to the high probability of bribery.

An Exception – and Two Affirmative
Defenses
Generally, there are three situations in which payments to foreign officials would not result in liability
under the FCPA. One approach is to show that the

www.investor.gov

1

challenged conduct falls within the so-called “routine
governmental action” exception to the FCPA. The
other two situations involve invoking what are known
as “affirmative defenses.”
An affirmative defense generally is an assertion of facts
and arguments that, if true, will defeat the prosecution’s claim, even if all the allegations made by the
prosecution are true. There are two affirmative defenses under the FCPA.
The exception and the two affirmative defenses are
discussed in greater detail below.

The “Routine Governmental Action”
Exception
The FCPA does not apply to any “facilitating or expediting payment,” the purpose of which is to expedite
or secure the performance of a “routine governmental
action.”
Routine governmental action encompasses those actions which ordinarily and commonly are performed
by a foreign official in: (a) obtaining permits, licenses,
or other official documents to qualify a person to do
business in a foreign country; (b) processing governmental papers, such as visas and work orders; (c) providing police protection, mail pick-up and delivery, or
scheduling inspections associated with contract performance or inspections related to transit of goods across
country; (d) providing telephone service, power and
water supply, loading and unloading cargo, or protecting perishable products or commodities from deterioration; or (e) actions of a similar nature. Routine
governmental action does not include, among other
actions, any decision by a foreign official whether, or
on what terms, to award new business to or to continue business with a company, or any action taken
by a foreign official involved in the decision-making
process to encourage a decision to award new business
to, or continue business with, a company.
It is critical for those issuers that permit facilitation

Investor Assistance (800) 732-0330

payments to have appropriate internal controls and
compliance procedures designed to provide that such
payments satisfy the exception for routine governmental action and are properly approved and documented
in the issuer’s books and records.

The Two Affirmative Defenses under
the FCPA
There are two circumstances under which a payment,
gift, offer, or promise of anything of value to a foreign
official may qualify as an “affirmative defense” under
the FCPA: (1) the payment, gift, offer, or promise of
anything of value is lawful under the written laws and
regulations of the foreign official’s, political party’s,
party official’s, or candidate’s country; or (2) the payment, gift, offer, or promise of anything of value is a
reasonable and bona fide expenditure, such as travel and
lodging expenses, directly related to the promotion,
demonstration, or explanation of products or services,
or the execution or performance of a contract with a
foreign government or agency thereof.
This means that, if you are accused of bribing a foreign
official, you would have an affirmative defense if you
could show that the payment, gift, offer, or promise
of anything of value to the foreign official was lawful
under the written laws and regulations of that foreign
official’s country, or was related to a reasonable and
bona fide expenditure as described above.
In relying on the local law of the foreign country as
an affirmative defense for a payment, gift, offer, or
promise of anything of value to a foreign official, the
law or regulation being relied upon, at the time of the
conduct, must be “written.” Local practice, custom, or
other unwritten policies do not qualify as an affirmative defense.
In addition, recent FCPA enforcement actions have
involved travel, lodging, and entertainment provided to
foreign officials. As with the exception for facilitation
payments, issuers that incur these types of expenses on
behalf of foreign government officials must have the

www.investor.gov

2

appropriate internal controls and compliance procedures in place to provide that these expenses satisfy the
“reasonable” and “bona fide” criteria of this affirmative
defense and are properly approved and documented in
the issuer’s books and records.

Accounting Provisions
The FCPA has two related accounting requirements:
(1) books and records; and (2) internal controls. The
“books and records” provisions require a company to
make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company.
The “internal controls” provisions require a company
to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances
that: (a) transactions are executed in accordance with
management’s authorization; (b) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements and to maintain accountability for assets;
(c) access to assets is limited to management’s authorization; and (d) the recorded accountability for assets is
compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any
differences.

Enforcement of the FCPA
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
and the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) are jointly
responsible for enforcing the FCPA. The SEC brings
civil enforcement actions against issuers and their
officers, directors, employees, and agents. The DOJ
criminally prosecutes issuers and their officers, directors, employees, agents, and domestic concerns, as well
as foreign persons and entities (acting within the U.S.).
The DOJ also has civil anti-bribery enforcement
authority over persons and non-issuers subject to the
FCPA. Violations of the FCPA can constitute violations of other federal securities laws and criminal laws.

Investor Assistance (800) 732-0330

Penalties
The sanctions for FCPA violations can be significant. Companies that have committed either civil or
criminal FCPA violations may have to pay back profits
obtained by making improper payments through
disgorgement or restitution plus prejudgment interest,
pay substantial criminal fines or civil penalties, and/or
be subject to oversight by an independent compliance
monitor, and for criminal violations they may also be
subject to suspension and debarment actions limiting
business opportunities with the U.S. government.
For individuals, conviction of a criminal FCPA violation may result in imprisonment and significant fines.
The FCPA prohibits companies from paying fines
incurred by individuals, either directly or indirectly.
Individuals also are subject to significant civil penalties
and disgorgement plus prejudgment interest.

Related Information
Press Release: SEC Charges Liquor Giant Diageo
with FCPA Violations (July 27, 2011)
Press Release: SEC Charges Armor Holdings, Inc.
With FCPA Violations in Connection With Sales to
the United Nations (July 13, 2011)
Press Release: SEC Charges Tyson Foods with
FCPA Violations (February 10, 2011)
Press Release: SEC Charges RAE Systems for Illegal
Payments Made Through Joint Ventures to Win Chinese Government Contracts (Dec. 10, 2010)
Press Release: SEC Charges Seven Oil Services and
Freight Forwarding Companies for Widespread Bribery of Customs Officials (Nov. 4, 2010)
Press Release: OECD Commends U.S. Regulators
for Efforts to Fight Transnational Bribery (Oct. 20,
2010)
Press Release: SEC Charges ABB for Bribery
Schemes in Mexico and Iraq (Sept. 29, 2010)

www.investor.gov

3

The Office of Investor Education and Advocacy has
provided this information as a service to investors. It
is neither a legal interpretation nor a statement of
SEC policy. If you have questions concerning the
meaning or application of a particular law or rule,
please consult with an attorney who specializes in
securities law.

Investor Assistance (800) 732-0330

October 2011

4

