Recommendation of the Investor Advisory Committee
Broker-Dealer Fiduciary Duty

Findings:
•

Both broker-dealers and investment advisers play an important role in helping Americans
organize their financial lives, accumulate and manage retirement savings, and invest
toward other important long-term goals, such as buying a house or funding a child’s
college education.

•

When the federal securities laws were enacted, Congress drew a distinction between
broker-dealers, who were regulated as salespeople under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, and investment advisers, who were regulated as advisers under the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940.

•

Over the last several decades, however, the roles of some broker-dealers and investment
advisers have converged. While differences remain, many broker-dealers today offer
advisory services, such as investment planning and retirement planning, that are similar
to the services offered by investment advisers. In addition, many broker-dealers use titles
such as financial adviser for their registered representatives and market themselves in
ways that highlight the advisory aspect of their services.

•

Because federal regulations have not kept pace with changes in business practice, brokerdealers and investment advisers are subject to different legal standards when they offer
advisory services. Those legal standards – a suitability standard for broker-dealers and a
fiduciary duty for investment advisers – afford different levels of protection to the
investors who rely on those services. Key differences include the requirements that
investment advisers, as fiduciaries, act in the best interests of their clients and
appropriately manage and fully disclose conflicts of interest that could bias their
recommendations.

•

Investors typically make no distinction between broker-dealers and investment advisers,
and most are unaware of the different legal standards that apply to their advice and
recommendations. Although many investors don’t understand the meaning of “fiduciary
duty,” or know whether it or suitability represents the higher standard, investors generally
treat their relationships with both broker-dealers and investment advisers as relationships
of trust and expect that the recommendations they receive will be in their best interests.

•

Investors may be harmed if they choose a financial adviser under a mistaken belief that
the financial adviser is required to act in their best interest when that is not the case,
receive recommendations that comply with a suitability standard but carry additional
costs or risks without affording additional benefits, or fail to receive the on-going account
supervision that they expect based on the manner in which brokers’ advisory services are
sometimes marketed.

•

Although they are more subtle and more difficult to measure than the harm that results from
outright fraud, these types of harm can nonetheless have a significant impact on investors’
financial well-being. Despite the difficulty of quantification, the Committee believes it is
essential that the economic analysis currently being undertaken by the Commission acknowledge
both the existence and importance of investor harms of this type that can result from advice
delivered under a suitability standard.
Recommendations
The Investor Advisory Committee believes that personalized investment advice to retail
customers should be governed by a fiduciary duty, regardless of whether that advice is provided
by an investment adviser or a broker-dealer. 1 The Committee further believes that the fiduciary
duty for investment advice should include, first and foremost, an enforceable, principles-based
obligation to act in the best interest of the customer. In approaching this issue, the SEC’s goal
should be to eliminate the regulatory gap that allows broker-dealers to offer investment advice
without being subject to the same fiduciary duty as other investment advisers but not to eliminate
the ability of broker-dealers to offer transaction-specific advice compensated through
transaction-based payments. Though it may require both regulatory flexibility to permit the
existence of conflicts of interest and some regulatory changes to reduce the most severe conflicts
of interest in the broker-dealer business model, the Committee believes that advisory services
offered as part of a transaction-based securities business can and should be conducted in a way
that is consistent with a fiduciary standard of conduct.
Recommendation 1
The Commission should conduct a rulemaking to impose a fiduciary duty on brokerdealers when they provide personalized investment advice to retail investors.
A. The Committee favors an approach that involves rulemaking under the Investment
Advisers Act to narrow the broker-dealer exclusion from the Act while providing a
safe harbor for brokers who do not engage in broader investment advisory services or
hold themselves out as providing such services.
B. At the same time, the Committee recognizes that the Commission is considering
rulemaking under Section 913(g) of the Dodd-Frank Act. Should the Commission
choose to conduct rulemaking under Section 913, the Committee supports the
following approach:
a. In order to ensure that the standard is no weaker than the existing Advisers
Act standard, any fiduciary rule adopted must incorporate an enforceable,
principles-based obligation to act in the best interests of the customer.

1

While this recommendation deals specifically with advice to retail customers, the Committee notes that DoddFrank authorizes the SEC to extend fiduciary protections to other vulnerable market participants. The Commission
should consider whether action beyond the retail arena is needed and appropriate.

b. In order to ensure the continued availability of transaction-based
recommendations, any standard adopted should be sufficiently flexible to
permit the existence of certain sales-related conflicts of interest, subject to a
requirement that any such conflicts be fully disclosed and appropriately
managed.
c. While recognizing that some forms of transaction-based payments would be
acceptable under a fiduciary standard, the Commission should fulfill its DoddFrank mandate to “examine and, where appropriate, promulgate rules
prohibiting or restricting certain sales practices, conflicts of interest, and
compensation schemes for brokers, dealers, and investment advisers that the
Commission deems contrary to the public interest and the protection of
investors.”
Supporting Rationale:
The Commission should conduct a rulemaking to impose a fiduciary duty on brokerdealers when they provide personalized investment advice to retail investors.
A broad consensus exists among widely disparate groups (representing investors, state
securities regulators, investment advisers, and broker-dealers) that broker-dealers and investment
advisers should be subject to a uniform fiduciary standard when they provide personalized
investment advice to retail investors. In a recent letter to the Commission, the Securities
Industry Financial Markets Association stated, for example, that it “has long supported a uniform
fiduciary standard for BDs and RIAs when providing personalized investment advice about
securities to retail clients.” 2 Meanwhile, organizations such as the North American Securities
Administrators Association (NASAA), Consumer Federation of America (CFA), AARP, Fund
Democracy and the various investment adviser/financial planning groups have been calling for
enhanced fiduciary protections for the advisory clients of broker-dealers for two decades or
more. Adoption of a uniform fiduciary standard was also the recommendation of the SEC staff
in its 913 Study. 3
Rather than opposing fiduciary rulemaking, the leading broker-dealer trade associations
have sought to ensure that any rules adopted provide sufficient clarity regarding their regulatory
obligations and continue to permit them to offer traditional, transaction-based brokerage

2

July 5, 2013 letter from Ira D. Hammerman, Senior Managing Director and General Counsel, SIFMA, to Elizabeth
M. Murphy, Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, available here: http://www.sec.gov/comments/4606/4606-3128.pdf. See also, July 5, 2013 letter from David T. Bellaire, Executive Vice President and General
Counsel, Financial Services Institute to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission,
(available here: http://www.sec.gov/comments/4-606/4606-3138.pdf), which listed a uniform fiduciary standard as
one component of a regulatory approach that can provide “widespread benefits to all stakeholders.”
3
SEC Staff, Study on Investment Advisers and Broker-Dealers, As Required by Section 913 of the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, January 2011 (available here:
http://www.sec.gov/news/studies/2011/913studyfinal.pdf).

services. 4 While there are disagreements among the various stakeholder groups over some
important implementation issues, there is general agreement that the Commission should adopt a
regulatory approach that preserves the ability of brokers to offer transaction-specific
recommendations compensated through transaction-based payments. 5 In keeping with this goal,
the various stakeholder groups also generally agree that the fiduciary duty should not apply to all
brokerage services, but only to those services that fall within a reasonable definition of
personalized investment advice to retail customers. The Committee shares these views.
The limited opposition that exists to rulemaking in this area is based first on the argument
that broker-dealers are already extensively regulated under existing state and federal laws and
self-regulatory organization rules. While this is true, it is largely irrelevant to the question of
what standard should apply when broker-dealers provide personalized investment advice to retail
customers. Put another way, the question is not whether broker-dealers are adequately regulated
when they act as salespeople but whether they are adequately regulated when they act as
advisers. In the view of the Committee, the existing securities regulatory scheme that treat
broker-dealers as salespeople does not offer adequate investor protection when broker-dealers
offer advisory services, since under a suitability standard they generally remain free to put their
own interests ahead of those of their customers. As SIFMA stated in its recent comment letter to
the SEC, “a uniform fiduciary standard would result in a heightened focus on serving the best
interests of retail clients.”
Some others have suggested that regulation is not needed because investors are capable
of choosing for themselves whether they prefer to work with a broker-dealer operating under a
suitability standard or an investment adviser who is a fiduciary. This might have been true if the
Commission had over the past several decades adopted a regulatory approach that maintained a
bright line between broker-dealers and investment advisers. But that has long since ceased to be
the case. As the RAND Study, 6 the SEC’s recent financial literacy study, 7 and numerous outside
surveys have all documented, investors today do not have the tools to make an informed choice.
Specifically, investors do not distinguish between broker-dealers and investment advisers, do not
know that broker-dealers and investment advisers are subject to different legal standards, do not
understand the differences between a suitability standard and a fiduciary duty, and expect brokerdealers and investment advisers alike to act in their best interests when giving advice and making
recommendations. This is the natural result of regulatory policy that has allowed brokers to
rebrand themselves as advisers without being regulated as advisers.
4

See, for example, the July 14, 2011 letter from Ira D. Hammerman, SIFMA Senior Managing Director and General
Counsel, to SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro regarding a “Framework for Rulemaking under Section 913 (Fiduciary
Duty) of the Dodd-Frank Act” (File No. 4-604).
5
See, for example, March 28, 2012 letter from CFA, Fund Democracy, AARP, Certified Financial Planner Board of
Standards, Inc., Financial Planning Association, Investment Adviser Association, and National Association of
Personal Financial Advisors to SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro (available here: http://www.sec.gov/comments/4606/4606-2973.pdf), which provides a framework for rulemaking that seeks to enhance investor protection without
sacrificing investor choice.
6
Hung, Angela A. et al, Technical Report: Investor and Industry Perspectives on Investment Advisers and BrokerDealers, sponsored by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, RAND Institute for Civil Justice, 2008
(available here: http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2008/2008-1_randiabdreport.pdf).
7
Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Study Regarding Financial Literacy Among Investors (As
Required by Section 917 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act), August 2012.

In light of the evidence that the blurring of the lines between broker-dealers and
investment advisers has made it difficult, if not impossible, for typical retail investors to make an
informed choice between broker-dealers and investment advisers, the Committee believes that a
regulatory solution that reduces the potential for investor harm is necessary. As the SEC staff
stated in the 913 Study, “Retail investors are relying on their financial professional to assist them
with some of the most important decisions of their lives. Investors have a reasonable expectation
that the advice that they are receiving is in their best interest. They should not have to parse
through legal distinctions to determine whether the advice they receive was provided in
accordance with their expectations.”
The Commission has a range of options available to it for achieving this regulatory goal.
These include the approach recommended in Section 913(g) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act. But the Commission also has other grounds for action,
including existing authority under the Investment Advisers Act to regulate non-incidental advice
by broker-dealers. In deciding on the optimal regulatory approach, the Commission should
weigh its various options with an eye toward determining which will best ensure an outcome that
strengthens investor protections, preserves investor choice with regard to business models and
compensation methods, and is workable for broker-dealers and investment advisers alike.
A. The Committee favors an approach that involves rulemaking under the Investment
Advisers Act to narrow the broker-dealer exclusion from the Act while providing a
safe harbor for brokers who do not engage in broader investment advisory services
or hold themselves out as providing such services.
The Committee believes that the dual goals of strengthening investor protections while
preserving investor choice could best be achieved through rulemaking under the Advisers Act.
By significantly narrowing of the broker-dealer exclusion from the Investment Advisers Act,
such an approach would restore the functional regulation intended by Congress when it adopted
the ’34 and ’40 Acts. Under such an approach, broker-dealers who choose to offer personalized
investment advice to retail investors, such as retirement planning or investment planning, that
goes beyond the buy/sell recommendations inherent to securities transactions would be regulated
in the same fashion as other investment advisers when they engage in those advisory activities. 8
Broker-dealers who “hold themselves out” as advisers, based either on the titles they use or the
manner in which they market their services, would be precluded from relying on the exclusion.
(This is consistent with the approach the Commission adopted with regard to accountants and
attorneys when it was first interpreting how the Advisers Act applied to those professionals who
held themselves out as financial planners.) 9
One significant benefit of such an approach is that it would provide a firm assurance that
the fiduciary standard for investment advice by broker-dealers and investment advisers would be
the same and would be no weaker than the existing standard. It would, for example, ensure that
the existing legal precedent, staff interpretations, and no-action positions developed under the
8

The Commission would still need to define what activities by broker-dealers constitute investment advice subject
to regulation under the Advisers Act and which do not. Non-advisory activities by these broker-dealers would
continue to be regulated under the Securities Exchange Act.
9
See, for example, SEC Investment Advisers Act Rel. No. 770 (1981) as well as SEC Rel. No. IA-1092 (1987).

Advisers Act and accompanying rules would also apply to investment advice by brokers. And it
would achieve this without the necessity of creating a whole new parallel body of law under the
’34 Act. To the degree that specific aspects of that existing body of Advisers Act law and
interpretation would need to be amended or revised for the purpose of applying it to the brokerdealer business model, that could be accomplished through adoption of appropriate rules and
guidance under the Advisers Act. 10
Under this approach, there would be minimal risk that existing investor protections would
be weakened as a result of efforts to accommodate the broker-dealer business model. Under
such an approach, broker-dealers who wish to avoid regulation under the Advisers Act could do
so by limiting themselves to transaction-specific recommendations while avoiding holding
themselves out as advisers or as providing advisory services. In order to ensure clear
communication to investors, it may also be necessary for the Commission to require some sort of
affirmative disclosure in such circumstances to the effect that the broker-dealer is acting solely as
a salesperson and not as an objective adviser. Broker-dealers who complied with these
conditions would in effect have a safe harbor from Advisers Act regulation.
Brokerage firms would then face a clear business decision: do the benefits of offering
advisory services and marketing themselves accordingly outweigh the costs of regulation under
the Advisers Act? Faced with a similar decision when the courts determined that fee-based
accounts were advisory accounts, most broker-dealers chose to accept regulation under the
Advisers Act. We believe the outcome would be similar in this instance. But investors would
also benefit even if certain broker-dealers chose to avoid Advisers Act regulation if the result
was that those broker-dealers stopped characterizing their services as advisory services when
making recommendations that are not required to promote the best interests of the customer.
Thus, this approach would also preserve investors’ ability to choose to receive transaction-based
advice subject to a fiduciary duty or non-advisory transaction-based services subject to a
suitability standard, and their ability to distinguish between those different types of services
would be enhanced.
B. At the same time, the Committee recognizes that the Commission is considering
rulemaking under Section 913(g) of the Dodd-Frank Act. Should the Commission
choose to conduct rulemaking under Section 913, the Committee supports the
following approach:
a. In order to ensure that the standard is no weaker than the existing Advisers
Act standard, any fiduciary rule adopted must incorporate an enforceable,
principles-based obligation to act in the best interests of the customer.

10

This is the approach that the Commission has taken in the wake of the court decision requiring all fee-based
accounts to be regulated as advisory accounts. Without taking a position on the temporary principal trading rules
adopted by the Commission in the wake of that decision, the Committee believes this show the feasibility of
providing targeted carve-outs for broker-dealers from Investment Advisers Act rules that are incompatible with the
broker-dealer business model. The goal in devising any such carve-outs should be to ensure that the best interests of
the customer are protected.

b. In order to ensure the continued availability of transaction-based
recommendations, any standard adopted should be sufficiently flexible to
permit the existence of certain sales-related conflicts of interest, subject to a
requirement that any such conflicts be fully disclosed and appropriately
managed.
c. While recognizing that some forms of transaction-based payments would be
acceptable under a fiduciary standard, the Commission should fulfill its
Dodd-Frank mandate to “examine and, where appropriate, promulgate rules
prohibiting or restricting certain sales practices, conflicts of interest, and
compensation schemes for brokers, dealers, and investment advisers that the
Commission deems contrary to the public interest and the protection of
investors.”
The Committee recognizes that, since passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, much of the
impetus behind fiduciary rulemaking has had as its source the authorizing language contained in
Section 913(g) of that act. In insisting that the fiduciary standard be the same for broker-dealers
and investment advisers and no weaker than the existing Advisers Act standard, Section 913
provides an appropriate basis for rulemaking. Importantly, it recognizes that a fiduciary duty
that is identical in principle is, because of its facts-and-circumstances-based application, flexible
enough to be applied differently in different circumstances and to different business models.
This is key to developing an approach that strengthens investor protections without unduly
limiting investor choice.
However, the statutory language of Section 913 poses some significant implementation
challenges as well. Specifically, it includes provisions specifying that certain prevalent brokerdealer business practices – such as earning commissions, selling proprietary products, and selling
from a limited menu of products – should not automatically be deemed to constitute a violation
of the fiduciary standard. It intentionally avoids applying Advisers Act provisions with regard to
principal trades to brokers, but without specifying how principal trades by brokers should be
regulated under a fiduciary standard. And it specifies that brokers would not have an on-going
duty of care “after” the advice is rendered. Depending on how certain of these provisions are
interpreted and enforced – particularly those with regard to selling from a limited menu of
products and the on-going duty of care – such an approach could result in a significant
weakening of the existing Advisers Act standard.
We encourage the Commission to arrive at a rule based on Section 913 that is strong and
effective, but it is also possible that rulemaking under Section 913 could weaken protections for
investors who receive advice from investment advisers without providing meaningful
improvement in protections for those who invest through broker-dealers. For example, if the
Commission were to interpret Section 913 as permitting sale from a menu of products so limited
as to preclude any recommendation from that menu’s being in the best interests of the customer,
that would leave unchallenged some of the most troubling practices permitted under the
suitability standard. Similarly, if the Commission were to interpret Section 913 as permitting
broker-dealers to switch in and out of a fiduciary duty even where there is an on-going
relationship with that client and an implication of ongoing account management, such an

approach could leave investors more confused than ever and at greater risk of being misled. 11
Furthermore, Section 913 anticipates that the Commission would undertake parallel rulemaking
under both the Investment Advisers Act and the ’34 Act and produce rules that are the same for
broker-dealers and investment advisers. Because new rules would supersede past interpretation
of the Advisers Act standard, any weaknesses in the rules adopted in order to accommodate the
broker-dealer business model and the specific directives in the Section 913 statutory language
would have a spill-over effect, weakening existing protections under the Advisers Act for clients
of investment advisers. The Committee would strongly oppose such a result and urges the
Commission to avoid this outcome at all costs.
In order to do so, the Commission must include, in its definition of fiduciary duty, an
enforceable principles-based obligation to act in the best interests of the customer. This is
consistent with the statutory language of Section 913(g), which authorizes the Commission to
“promulgate rules to provide that the standard of conduct for all brokers, dealers, and investment
advisers, when providing personalized investment advice about securities to retail customers
(and such other customers as the Commission may by rule provide), shall be to act in the best
interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or
investment adviser providing the advice.” Such an interpretation is also consistent with the
recommendation of the SEC staff in its 913 Study, which notes that an important distinction
between the fiduciary duty and suitability standard is the inclusion in the fiduciary duty of an
obligation to act in the best interests of clients.
The Committee believes this legislative mandate can be achieved through a fiduciary rule
that requires all those who provide personalized investment advice to retail investors to have a
reasonable basis for believing their recommendations are in the best interest of the customer. In
addition to performing the analysis necessary to determine the customer’s best interest
(comparable to the current know-your-customer obligations), those providing investment advice
should be required to document the basis for their belief that their recommendation is in the
customer’s best interests. Such an approach would not require broker-dealers to avoid all
conflicts of interest. But it would require them to attempt to act in their customers’ best interests
despite their conflicts of interest, put policies and procedures in place to better ensure
compliance, and hold them accountable when they fail to do so.
Both SIFMA and FSI have voiced support for a fiduciary standard that includes a best
interest obligation. Their key concern has been to ensure that they have adequate guidance
before a rule is finalized for how that standard would be applied in the context of the brokerdealer business model. The Committee agrees that brokers and investors alike will be best
served if brokers understand their obligations under a new fiduciary standard. In the
Committee’s view, however, it would be a mistake to try to spell out every aspect of a broker’s
fiduciary obligations through rules. Instead, the Commission should adopt guidance before the
11

The Committee believes that it is important that an ongoing fiduciary duty apply in circumstances in which
broker-dealers hold themselves out in ways that imply they are providing ongoing account oversight and
management. Thus, the ongoing duty of care would not apply to all brokerage services, but only in those instances
in which a reasonable expectation of ongoing advice had been created. If the Commission were to proceed with
rulemaking under Section 913, it would be important that it interpret the provision regarding ongoing duty of care in
a way that is consistent with this principle.

rule is implemented to help clarify how the fiduciary duty in general and the best interest
obligation in particular would apply in the context of the transaction-based broker-dealer
business model. The guidance should cover the key issues brokers are likely to face in adapting
to the new standard. While avoiding an overly prescriptive rules-based approach, the
Commission should supplement that guidance by adopting supporting rules in areas such as
disclosure obligations where more specific standards are needed. Such an approach would
provide the clarity that brokers need while preserving the flexibility of the fiduciary duty as a
facts-and-circumstances-based standard.
Another way to ensure that the rule is compatible with the broker-dealer business model
is for the Commission to adopt a regulatory approach that permits the existence of certain salesrelated conflicts of interest while requiring that any such conflicts be disclosed and appropriately
managed. Toward that end, we recommend that the Commission adopt a rule that requires
broker-dealers and investment advisers who provide personalized investment advice to retail
customers: to identify any material conflicts of interest that a reasonable investor would view as
compromising their ability to act in the customer’s best interest; to develop a plan for
appropriately managing those conflicts to ensure that the best interests of the customer prevail; to
have policies and procedures in place designed to ensure that the individuals providing the
advice have a reasonable basis for believing their recommendations are in the best interest of the
customer and document the basis on which they reached that conclusion; and to monitor
compliance. Such an approach should preserve the ability of broker-dealers to receive
transaction-based compensation and preserve this option for customers who prefer to receive
transaction-based advice.
At the same time, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commission to “examine and, where
appropriate, promulgate rules prohibiting or restricting certain sales practices, conflicts of
interest, and compensation schemes for brokers, dealers, and investment advisers that the
Commission deems contrary to the public interest and the protection of investors.” We believe it
is of important for the Commission to conduct this analysis both as part of its fiduciary
rulemaking and as an ongoing aspect of its market oversight. Where it finds practices that are
clearly inconsistent with a broker-dealer or investment adviser’s fiduciary obligations and that
cannot be appropriately managed through other means, it has an obligation to act through
rulemaking to limit or ban those practices. As previously discussed, outright prohibitions would
not be appropriate in instances where conflicts can be managed through other means and where
the provider of the investment advice can document a reasonable basis for believing
recommendations are in the best interest of the customer.
Recommendation 2
As part of its rulemaking, the Commission should adopt a uniform, plain English
disclosure document to be provided to customers and potential customers of broker-dealers and
investment advisers at the start of the engagement, and periodically thereafter, that covers basic
information about the nature of services offered, fees and compensation, conflicts of interest, and
disciplinary record.
Supporting Rationale:

The Committee does not believe that disclosure alone is sufficient to address the harm
that can result when broker-dealers are free to offer “advice” that puts their own interests of
ahead of the interests of their customers. On the other hand, we do believe that improved
disclosure should be included as part of any fiduciary rulemaking. One area needing
improvement is the disclosure investors receive to help them select a financial professional.
While investment advisers are required to provide pre-engagement disclosure to all prospective
clients, broker-dealers are not subject to a comparable requirement.
We believe investors would benefit from receiving uniform, plain English disclosure
documents from broker-dealers and investment advisers covering key factors that are relevant to
the selection of an investment professional. 12 Relevant topics might include: What services do
you provide? What and how do I pay? How are you compensated? What are your conflicts of
interest? Are there other limitations on your services? What is your professional background?
Are there any blemishes on your disciplinary record? And, particularly if the Commission fails
to adopt a uniform fiduciary standard, what is your legal obligation to me?
The ADV form that investment advisers use to disclose to their clients provides a
reasonable starting point for designing such a document. However, we encourage the
Commission to continue to review the ADV form to determine whether it could be further
refined to make it a more user-friendly document. The results of the SEC’s recent financial
literacy study suggest that additional work may be needed to improve investors’ ability to make
good use of disclosed information whose significance they struggle to comprehend. Among
other things, we encourage the Commission to develop an approach to disclosure of disciplinary
record that makes it easier for investors to assess the significance of disclosed events,
particularly for firms that may have a large number of relatively insignificant technical
violations. As part of that analysis, the Commission should look at whether it might be
beneficial to adopt a layered approach to such disclosures, with the goal of developing a more
abbreviated, user-friendly document for distribution to investors. In general, we would
encourage the Commission to work with disclosure design experts to ensure that any document it
develops is effective in conveying the relevant information to investors in a way that enables
them to act on that information.

12

While the content of the disclosures would vary to reflect differences in the businesses of broker-dealers and
investment advisers, the topics covered, format, and presentation of the information should, to the degree possible,
be consistent.

