United States
Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, D.C. 20549

OMB APPROVAL
OMB Number:
3235-0073
Expires:
March 31, 2018
Estimated average burden
hours per response . . . ... 472.48

FORM S-3
REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
(Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including area code, of registrant’s principal executive offices)
(Name, address, including zip code, and telephone number, including area code, of agent for service)
(Approximate date of commencement of proposed sale to the public)
If the only securities being registered on this Form are being offered pursuant to dividend or interest reinvestment plans, please check
the following box:
If any of the securities being registered on this Form are to be offered on a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the
Securities Act of 1933, other than securities offered only in connection with dividend or interest reinvestment plans, check the following
box:
If this Form is filed to register additional securities for an offering pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act, please check the following box and list the Securities Act registration statement number of the earlier effective registration statement for the same offering.
If this Form is a post-effective amendment filed pursuant to Rule 462(c) under the Securities Act, check the following box and list the
Securities Act registration statement number of the earlier effective registration statement for the same offering. 				
												
If this Form is a registration statement pursuant to General Instruction I.D. or a post-effective amendment thereto that shall become
effective upon filing with the Commission pursuant to Rule 462(e) under the Securities Act, check the following box. 	
If this Form is a post-effective amendment to a registration statement filed pursuant to General Instruction I.D. filed to register additional securities or additional classes of securities pursuant to Rule 413(b) under the Securities Act, check the following box. 	

SEC 1379 (11-14)

Persons who are to respond to the collection of information contained in this form
are not required to respond unless the form displays a currently valid OMB control
number.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act.
	
Large accelerated filer 						
Accelerated filer 		
	
Non-accelerated filer
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
Smaller reporting company
CALCULATION OF REGISTRATION FEE
	
	
	

Title of each		
class of securities	
Amount to be	
to be registered	
registered	

Proposed maximum	
offering price	
per unit	

Proposed maximum
aggregate offering	
price	

Amount of
registration fee

Notes to the “Calculation of Registration Fee” Table (“Fee Table”):
1. Specific details relating to the fee calculation shall be furnished in notes to the Fee Table, including references to provisions of Rule
457 (§230.457 of this chapter) relied upon, if the basis of the calculation is not otherwise evident from the information presented in the
Fee Table.
2. If the filing fee is calculated pursuant to Rule 457(o) under the Securities Act, only the title of the class of securities to be registered,
the proposed maximum aggregate offering price for that class of securities, and the amount of registration fee need to appear in the
Fee Table. Where two or more classes of securities are being registered pursuant to General Instruction II.D., however, the Fee Table
need only specify the maximum aggregate offering price for all classes; the Fee Table need not specify by each class the proposed
maximum aggregate offering price (see General Instruction II.D.).
3. If the filing fee is calculated pursuant to Rule 457(r) under the Securities Act, the Fee Table must state that it registers an unspecified
amount of securities of each identified class of securities and must provide that the issuer is relying on Rule 456(b) and Rule 457(r). If
the Fee Table is amended in a post-effective amendment to the registration statement or in a prospectus filed in accordance with Rule
456(b)(1)(ii) (§230.456(b)(1)(ii) of this chapter) , the Fee Table must specify the aggregate offering price for all classes of securities in
the referenced offering or offerings and the applicable registration fee.
4. Any difference between the dollar amount of securities registered for such offerings and the dollar amount of securities sold may be
carried forward on a future registration statement pursuant to Rule 457 under the Securities Act.
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
I. Eligibility Requirements for Use of Form S-3
	
This instruction sets forth registrant requirements and transaction requirements for the use of Form S-3. Any registrant which meets
the requirements of I.A. below (“Registrant Requirements”) may use this Form for the registration of securities under the Securities Act
of 1933 (“Securities Act”) which are offered in any transaction specified in I.B. below (“Transaction Requirement”) provided that the
requirement applicable to the specified transaction are met. With respect to majority-owned subsidiaries, see Instruction I.C. below. With
respect to well-known seasoned issuers and majority-owned subsidiaries of well-known seasoned issuers, see Instruction I.D. below.
A.	Registrant Requirements. Registrants must meet the following conditions in order to use this Form S-3 for registration
under the Securities Act of securities offered in the transactions specified in I. B. below:
l.	

The registrant is organized under the laws of the United States or any State or Territory or the District of Columbia and
has its principal business operations in the United States or its territories.

2.	 The registrant has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(“Exchange Act”) or a class of equity securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act or is required
to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
3.	 The registrant:
		
	
(a) has been subject to the requirements of Section 12 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and has filed all the material
2

required to be filed pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) for a period of at least twelve calendar months immediately
preceding the filing of the registration statement on this Form; and
	

(b) has filed in a timely manner all reports required to be filed during the twelve calendar months and any portion of a
month immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement, other than a report that is required solely pursuant
to Item 1.01, 1.02, 2.03, 2.04, 2.05, 2.06, 4.02(a) or 5.02(e) of Form 8-K (§249.308 of this chapter). If the registrant has
used (during the twelve calendar months and any portion of a month immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement) Rule 12b-25(b) (§240.12b-25(b) of this chapter) under the Exchange Act with respect to a report or a
portion of a report, that report or portion thereof has actually been filed 	within the time period prescribed by that rule.

4. 	 Neither the registrant nor any of its consolidated or unconsolidated subsidiaries have, since the end of the last fiscal
year for which certified financial statements of the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries were included in a report
filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act: (a) failed to pay any dividend or sinking fund installment
on preferred stock; or (b) defaulted (i) on any installment or installments on indebtedness for borrowed money, or (ii)
on any rental on one or more long term leases, which defaults in the aggregate are material to the financial position of
the registrant and its consolidated and unconsolidated subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
5.	 A foreign issuer, other than a foreign government, which satisfies all of the above provisions of these registrant eligibility requirements except the provisions in I. A. l. relating to organization and principal business shall be deemed to
have met these registrant eligibility requirements provided that such a foreign issuer files the same reports with the
Commission under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as a domestic registrant pursuant to I. A. 3. above.
6.	 If the registrant is a successor registrant, it shall be deemed to have met conditions 1., 2., 3., and 5., above if: (a) its
predecessor and it, taken together, do so, provided that the succession was primarily for the purpose of changing the
state of incorporation of the predecessor or forming a holding company and that the assets and liabilities of the successor at the time of succession were substantially the same as those of the predecessor; or (b) if all predecessors met
the conditions at the time of succession and the registrant has continued to do so since the succession.
7.	 Electronic filings. In addition to satisfying the foregoing conditions, a registrant subject to the electronic filing requirements of Rule 101 of Regulation S-T (§232.101 of this chapter) shall have:

			(a) Filed with the Commission all required electronic filings, including electronic copies of documents 		
			
			

submitted in paper pursuant to a hardship exemption as provided by Rule 201 or Rule 202(d) of Regulation 		
S-T (§232.201 or §232.202(d) of this chapter); and

			
			
			
			
			

(b) Submitted electronically to the Commission and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, all Interactive 		
Data Files required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this 		
chapter) during the twelve calendar months and any portion of a month immediately preceding the filing of 		
the registration statement on this Form (or for such shorter period of time that the registrant was required to 	
submit and post such files).

B. Transaction Requirements. Security offerings meeting any of the following conditions and made by a registrant meeting
the Registrant Requirements specified in I.A. above may be registered on this Form:
1.	 Primary Offerings by Certain Registrants. Securities to be offered for cash by or on behalf of a registrant, or outstanding
securities to be offered for cash for the account of any person other than the registrant, including securities acquired by
standby underwriters in connection with the call or redemption by the registrant of warrants or a class of convertible
securities; provided that the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates
of the registrant is $75 million or more.
	

Instruction. For the purposes of this Form, “common equity” is as defined in Securities Act Rule 405 (§230.405 of
this chapter). The aggregate market value of the registrant’s outstanding voting and non-voting common equity shall
be computed by use of the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices
of such common equity, in the principal market for such common equity as of a date within 60 days prior to the date
of filing. See the definition of “affiliate” in Securities Act Rule 405., as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of
filing. See the definition of “affiliate” in Securities Act Rule 405 (§230.405 of this chapter).

2.	 Primary Offerings of Non-Convertible Securities Other than Common Equity. Non-convertible securities, other than
common equity, to be offered for cash by or on behalf of a registrant, provided the registrant:
3

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

(i) has issued (as of a date within 60 days prior to the filing of the registration statement) at least $1 billion in nonconvertible securities, other than common equity, in primary offerings for cash, not exchange, registered under the
Securities Act, over the prior three years; or
(ii) has outstanding (as of a date within 60 days prior to the filing of the registration statement) at least $750 million of
non-convertible securities, other than common equity, issued in primary offerings for cash, not exchange, registered
under the Securities Act; or
(iii) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in 17 CFR 230.405); or
(iv) is a majority-owned operating partnership of a real estate investment trust that qualifies as a well-known seasoned
issuer (as defined in 17 CFR 230.405); or
(v) discloses in the registration statement that it has a reasonable belief that it would have been eligible to use Form
S-3 as of September 1, 2011 because it is registering a primary offering of non-convertible investment grade securities,
discloses the basis for such belief, and files a final prospectus for an offering pursuant to such registration statement
on Form S-3 on or before September 2, 2014.

		Instruction. For purposes of Instruction I.B.2(i) above, an insurance company, as defined in Section 2(a)(13) of the 		
		
Securities Act, when using this Form to register offerings of securities subject to regulation under the insurance laws 	
		
of any State or Territory of the United States or the District of Columbia (“insurance contracts”), may include 		
		
purchase payments or premium payments for insurance contracts, including purchase payments or premium pay-		
		
ments for variable insurance contracts (not including purchase payments or premium payments initially allocated to 		
		
investment options that are not registered under the Securities Act), issued in offerings registered under the Securi-		
		
ties Act over the prior three years. For purposes of Instruction I.B.2(ii) above, an insurance company, as defined in 		
		
Section 2(a)(13) of the Securities Act, when using this Form to register offerings of insurance contracts, may include 	
		
the contract value, as of the measurement date, of any outstanding insurance contracts, including variable insurance 		
		
contracts (not including the value allocated as of the measurement date to investment options that are not registered 		
		
under the Securities Act), issued in offerings registered under the Securities Act.
3.	 Transactions Involving Secondary Offerings. Outstanding securities to be offered for the account of any person other
than the issuer, including securities acquired by standby underwriters in connection with the call or redemption by
the issuer of warrants or a class of convertible securities, if securities of the same class are listed and registered on a
national securities exchange or are quoted on the automated quotation system of a national securities association. (In
addition, attention is directed to General Instruction C to Form S-8 (§239.16b) for the registration of employee benefit
plan securities for resale.)
4. 	 Rights Offerings, Dividend or Interest Reinvestment Plans, and Conversions or Warrants and Options.
(a) 	 Securities to be offered (1) upon the exercise of outstanding rights granted by the issuer of the securities to be
offered, if such rights are granted on a pro rata basis to all existing security holders of the class of securities to
which the rights attach, (2) under a dividend or interest reinvestment plan, or (3) upon the conversion of outstanding convertible securities or the exercise of outstanding warrants or options issued by the issuer of the securities
to be offered, or by an affiliate of such issuer.
(b) 	 However, Form S-3 is available for registering these securities only if the issuer has sent, within the twelve calendar months immediately before the registration statement is filed, material containing the information required
by Rule 14a-3(b) (§240.14a-3(b) of this chapter) under the Exchange Act to:
1.	 all record holders of the rights,
2. 	 all participants in the plans, or
3. 	 all record holders of the convertible securities, warrants or options, respectively.
(c) 	 The issuer also must have provided, within the twelve calendar months immediately before the Form S-3 registration statement is filed, the information required by Items 401, 402, 403 and 407(c)(3), (d)(4), (d)(5) and (e)(4) of
Regulation S-K (§229.401 - §229.403 and §229.407(c)(3),(d)(4), (d)(5) and (e)(4) of this chapter) to:
4

(1) 	 holders of rights exercisable for common stock,
(2) 	 holders of securities convertible into common stock, and
(3) 	 participants in plans that may invest in common stock, securities convertible into common stock, or warrants
or options exercisable for common stock, respectively.
5. 	 This Form shall not be used to register offerings of asset-backed securities, as defined in 17 CFR 229.1101(c).
	
6. Limited Primary Offerings by Certain Other Registrants. Securities to be offered for cash by or on behalf of a
	
registrant; provided that:
			
(a) the aggregate market value of securities sold by or on behalf of the registrant pursuant to this
			
Instruction I.B.6. during the period of 12 calendar months immediately prior to, and including, the sale is 		
			
no more than one-third of the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by 		
			
non-affiliates of the registrant;
			
(b) the registrant is not a shell company (as defined in §230.405 of this chapter) and has not been a shell 		
		
company for at least 12 calendar months previously and if it has been a shell company at any time previ 		
			
ously, has filed current Form 10 information with the Commission at least 12 calendar months previously 		
			
reflecting its status as an entity that is not a shell company; and
			
(c) the registrant has at least one class of common equity securities listed and registered on a national
			
securities exchange.
Instructions.
	 1. “Common equity” is as defined in Securities Act Rule 405 (§230.405 of this chapter). For purposes of computing the 		
aggregate market value of the registrant’s outstanding voting and non-voting common equity pursuant to General Instruction 		
I.B.6., registrants shall use the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices of 	
such common equity, in the principal market for such common equity as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of sale. See
the definition of “affiliate” in Securities Act Rule 405 (§230.405 of this chapter).
	 2. For purposes of computing the aggregate market value of all securities sold by or on behalf of the registrant in offerings
pursuant to General Instruction I.B.6. during any period of 12 calendar months, registrants shall aggregate the gross proceeds
of such sales; provided, that, in the case of derivative securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of the registrant’s
common equity, registrants shall calculate the aggregate market value of any underlying equity shares in lieu of the market
value of the derivative securities. The aggregate market value of the underlying equity shall be calculated by multiplying the
maximum number of common equity shares into which the derivative securities are convertible or for which they are exercisable as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of sale, by the same per share market price of the registrant’s equity used for
purposes of calculating the aggregate market value of the registrant’s outstanding voting and non-voting common equity pursuant to Instruction 1 to General Instruction I.B.6. If the derivative securities have been converted or exercised, the aggregate
market value of the underlying equity shall be calculated by multiplying the actual number of shares into which the securities
were converted or received upon exercise, by the market price of such shares on the date of conversion or exercise.
	 3. If the aggregate market value of the registrant’s outstanding voting and nonvoting common equity computed pursuant to
General Instruction I.B.6. equals or exceeds $75 million subsequent to the effective date of this registration statement, then the
one third limitation on sales specified in General Instruction I.B.6(a) shall not apply to additional sales made pursuant to this
registration statement on or subsequent to such date and instead the registration statement shall be considered filed pursuant to
General Instruction I.B.1.
	 4. The term “Form 10 information” means the information that is required by Form 10 or Form 20-F (§249.210 or §249.220f
of this chapter), as applicable to the registrant, to register under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 each class of securities
being registered using this form. A registrant may provide the Form 10 information in another Commission filing with respect
to the registrant.
	 5. The date used in Instruction 2 to General Instruction I.B.6. shall be the same date used in Instruction 1 to General
Instruction I.B.6.
	 6. A registrant’s eligibility to register a primary offering on Form S-3 pursuant to General Instruction I.B.6. does not mean
that the registrant meets the requirements of Form S-3 for purposes of any other rule or regulation of the Commission apart
from Rule 415(a)(1)(x) (§230.415(a)(1)(x) of this chapter).
	 7. Registrants must set forth on the outside front cover of the prospectus the calculation of the aggregate market value of the
registrant’s outstanding voting and nonvoting common equity pursuant to General Instruction I.B.6. and the amount of all
securities offered pursuant to General Instruction I.B.6. during the prior 12 calendar month period that ends on, and includes,
the date of the prospectus.
	 8. For purposes of General Instruction I.B.6(c), a “national securities exchange” shall mean an exchange registered as such
under Section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
5

C. Majority-owned Subsidiaries. If a registrant is a majority-owned subsidiary, security offerings may be registered on this Form if:
l.	

the registrant-subsidiary itself meets the Registrant Requirements and the applicable Transaction Requirement;

2.	 the parent of the registrant-subsidiary meets the Registrant Requirements and the conditions of Transaction Requirement B. 2. (Primary Offerings of Non-convertible Investment Grade Securities) are met;
3.	 the parent of the registrant-subsidiary meets the Registrant Requirements and the applicable Transaction Requirement,
and provides a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X (§210.3-10 of this chapter),
of the payment obligations on the securities being registered, and the securities being registered are non-convertible
securities, other than common equity;
4.	 the parent of the registrant-subsidiary meets the Registrant Requirements and the applicable Transaction Requirement,
and the securities of the registrant subsidiary being registered are full and unconditional guarantees, as defined in Rule
3-10 of Regulation S-X, of the payment obligations on the parent’s non-convertible securities, other than common
equity, being registered; or
5.	 the parent of the registrant-subsidiary meets the Registrant Requirements and the applicable Transaction Requirement,
and the securities of the registrant subsidiary being registered are guarantees of the payment obligations on the nonconvertible securities, other than common equity, being registered by another majority-owned subsidiary of the parent
where the parent provides a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, of such nonconvertible securities.
Note to General Instruction I.C.: With regard to paragraphs I.C.3, I.C.4, and I.C.5 above, the guarantor is the issuer of a separate
security consisting of the guarantee, which must be concurrently registered, but may be registered on the same registration statement
as are the non-convertible guaranteed securities.
	
D. Automatic shelf offerings by well-known seasoned issuers. Any registrant that is a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in
Rule 405 (§230.405 of this chapter) at the most recent eligibility determination date specified in paragraph (2) of that definition may
use this Form for registration under the Securities Act of securities offerings, other than pursuant to Rule 415(a)(1)(vii) or (viii)
(§230.415(a)(1)(vii) or (viii) of this chapter), as follows:
	
(1) The securities to be offered are:
		
(a) Any securities to be offered pursuant to Rule 415, Rule 430A, or Rule 430B (§230.415, §230.430A, or 			
		
§230.430B of this chapter) by:
			
(i) A registrant that is a well-known seasoned issuer by reason of paragraph (1)(i)(A) of the definition in 		
		
Rule 405; or
			
(ii) A registrant that is a well-known seasoned issuer only by reason of paragraph (1)(i)(B) of the definition 		
		
in Rule 405 if the registrant also is eligible to register a primary offering of its securities pursuant to Transac		
		
tion Requirement I.B.1 of this Form;
				
		
(b) Non-convertible securities, other than common equity, to be offered pursuant to Rule 415, Rule 430A, or Rule 		
		
430B by a registrant that is a well-known seasoned issuer only by reason of paragraph (1)(i)(B) of the definition in 		
		
Rule 405 and does not fall within Transaction Requirement I.B.1 of this Form;
		
		
(c) Securities of majority-owned subsidiaries of the parent registrant to be offered pursuant to Rule 415, Rule 430A, 		
		
or Rule 430B if the parent registrant is a well known seasoned issuer and the securities of the majority-owned
		
subsidiary being registered meet the following requirements:
			
(i) Securities of a majority-owned subsidiary that is a well-known seasoned issuer at the time it becomes a 		
		
registrant, other than by virtue of paragraph (1)(ii) of the definition of well-known seasoned issuer in
			
Rule 405;
			
			
(ii) Securities of a majority-owned subsidiary that are non-convertible securities, other than common
			
equity, and the parent registration provides a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 3-10 of 		
			
Regulation S-X, of the payment obligations on the non-convertible securities;
			
6

			
(iii) Securities of a majority-owned subsidiary that are a guarantee of:
				
(A) Non-convertible securities, other than common equity, of the parent registrant being
				
registered;
				
(B) Non-convertible securities, other than common equity, of another majority-owned subsidiary 		
				
being registered and the parent has provided a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 		
				
3-10 of Regulation S-X, of the payment obligations on such non-convertible securities.; or
			
			
(iv) ) Securities of a majority-owned subsidiary that meet the conditions of Transaction Requirement I.B.2. 		
		
of this Form (Primary Offerings of Non-Convertible Investment Grade Securities).
		
		
(d) Securities to be offered for the account of any person other than the issuer (“selling security holders”), provided 		
		
that the registration statement and the prospectus are not required to separately identify the selling security holders 		
		
or the securities to be sold by such persons until the filing of a prospectus, prospectus supplement, post-effective 		
		
amendment to the registration statement, or periodic or current report under the Exchange Act that is incorporated by 	
		
reference into the registration statement and prospectus, identifying the selling security holders and the amount of 		
		
securities to be sold by each of them and, if included in a periodic or current report, a prospectus or prospectus 		
		
supplement is filed, as required by Rule 430B, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(7)(§230.424(b)(7) of this chapter);
	
	
(2) The registrant pays the registration fee pursuant to Rule 456(b) and Rule 457(r) (§230.456(b) and §230.457(r) of this 		
	
chapter) 	or in accordance with Rule 456(a)(§230.456(a) of this chapter);
	
	
(3) If the registrant is a majority-owned subsidiary, it is required to file and has filed reports pursuant to section 13 or section 		
	
15(d) of the Exchange Act and satisfies the requirements of this Form with regard to incorporation by reference or
	
information about the majority-owned subsidiary is included in the registration statement (or a post-effective amendment to 		
	
the registration statement);
	
	
(4) The registrant may register additional securities or classes of its or its majority-owned subsidiaries’ securities on a post-		
	
effective amendment pursuant to Rule 413(b) (§230.413(b) of this chapter); and
	
	
(5) An automatic shelf registration statement and post-effective amendment will become effective immediately pursuant to 		
	
Rule 462(e) and (f) (§230.462(e) and (f) of this chapter) upon filing. All filings made on or in connection with automatic shelf
	
registration statements on this Form become public upon filing with the Commission.
II. Application of General Rules and Regulations
A. Attention is directed to the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Act, particularly Regulation C thereunder
(l7 CFR 230.400 to 230.494). That Regulation contains general requirements regarding the preparation and filing of registration statements.
B.	 Attention is directed to Regulation S-K (17 CFR Part 229) for the requirements applicable to the content of the non-financial
statement portions of registration statements under the Securities Act. Where this Form directs the registrant to furnish
information required by Regulation S-K and the item of Regulation S-K so provides, information need only be furnished to
the extent appropriate. Notwithstanding Items 501 and 502 of Regulation S-K, no table of contents is required to be included
in the prospectus or registration statement prepared on this Form. In addition to the information expressly required to be
included in a registration statement on this Form S-3, registrants also may provide such other information as they deem
appropriate.
	

	
		
		

C. 	 A smaller reporting company, defined in Rule 405 (17 CFR 230.405), that is eligible to use Form S-3 shall use the
disclosure items in Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.10 et seq.) with specific attention to the scaled disclosure provided
for smaller reporting companies, if any. Smaller reporting companies may provide the financial information called
for by Article 8 of Regulation S-X in lieu of the financial information called for by Item 11 in this form.

	D.
	
	
	
	
	
	

Non-Automatic Shelf Registration Statements. Where two or more classes of securities being registered on this
Form pursuant to General Instruction I.B.1. or I.B.2. are to be offered pursuant to Rule 415(a)(1)(x) (§230.415(a)
(1)(x) of this chapter), and where this Form is not an automatic shelf registration statement, Rule 457(o) permits
the registration fee to be calculated on the basis of the maximum offering price of all the securities listed in the
Fee Table. In this event, while the Fee Table would list each of the classes of securities being registered and the
aggregate proceeds to be raised, the Fee Table need not specify by each class information as to the amount to be
7

	

registered, proposed maximum offering price per unit, and proposed maximum aggregate offering price.

	E. Automatic Shelf Registration Statements. Where securities are being registered on this Form pursuant to General 	
Instruction I.D., Rule 456(b) permits, but does not require, the registrant to pay the registration fee on a pay-as-you-go basis and Rule
457(r) permits, but does not require, the registration fee to be calculated on the basis of the aggregate offering price of the securities to
be offered in an offering or offerings off the registration statement. If a registrant elects to pay all or a portion of the registration fee on
a deferred basis, the Fee Table in the initial filing must identify the classes of securities being registered and provide that the registrant
elects to rely on Rule 456(b) and Rule 457(r), but the Fee Table does not need to specify any other information. When the registrant
amends the Fee Table in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1)(ii), the amended Fee Table must include either the dollar amount of securities
being registered if paid in advance of or in connection with an offering or offerings or the aggregate offering price for all classes of
securities referenced in the offerings and the applicable registration fee.
	
F. Information in Automatic and Non-Automatic Shelf Registration Statements. Where securities are being registered
on this Form pursuant to General Instruction I.B.1, I.B.2, I.C., or I.D., information is only required to be furnished as of 		
the date of initial effectiveness of the registration statement to the extent required by Rule 430A or Rule 430B. Required 		
information about a specific transaction must be included in the prospectus in the registration statement by means of a 		
prospectus that is deemed to be part of and included in the registration statement pursuant to Rule 430A or Rule 430B, a 		
post-effective amendment to the registration statement, or a periodic or current report under the Exchange Act incorporated by reference into the registration statement and the prospectus and identified in a prospectus filed, as required by Rule 430B, pursuant to Rule
424(b) (§230.424(b) of this chapter).
	G. Selling Security Holder Offerings. Where a registrant eligible to register primary offerings on this Form pursuant to 		
General Instruction I.B.1 registers securities offerings on this Form pursuant to General Instruction I.B.1 or I.B.3 for the 		
account of persons other than the registrant, if the offering of the securities, or securities convertible into such securities, 		
that are being registered on behalf of the selling security holders was completed and the securities, or securities convert		
ible into such securities, were issued and outstanding prior to the original date of filing the registration statement covering 		
the resale of the securities, the registrant may, as permitted by Rule 430B(b), in lieu of identifying selling security holders 		
prior to effectiveness of the resale registration statement, refer to unnamed selling security holders in a generic manner by 		
identifying the initial transaction in which the securities were sold. Following effectiveness, the registrant must include in a 		
prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)(7), a post-effective amendment to the registration statement, or an Exchange Act 		
report incorporated by reference into the prospectus that is part of the registration statement (which Exchange Act report 		
is identified in a prospectus filed, as required by Rule 430B, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(7)) the names of previously
unidentified selling security holders and amounts of securities that they intend to sell. If this Form is being filed pursuant to 		
General Instruction I.D. by a well-known seasoned issuer to register securities being offered for the account of persons 		
other than the issuer, the registration statement and the prospectus included in the registration statement do not need to 		
designate the securities that will be offered for the account of such persons, identify them, or identify the initial transaction 		
in which the securities, or securities convertible into such securities, were sold until the registrant files a post-effective 		
amendment to the registration statement, a prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b), or an Exchange Act report (and prospectus 		
filed, as required by Rule 430B, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(7)) containing information for the offering on behalf of such 		
persons.
	
III. Dividend or Interest Reinvestment Plans: Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Requests for Confidential
Treatment
	
A registration statement on this Form S-3 relating solely to securities offered pursuant to dividend or interest reinvestment plans
will become effective automatically (Rule 462, §230.462 of this chapter) upon filing (Rule 456, §230.456 of this chapter). Post-effective
amendments to such a registration statement on this Form shall become effective upon filing (Rule 464, §230.464 of this chapter). All
filings made on or in connection with this Form become public upon filing with the Commission. As a result, requests for confidential
treatment made under Rule 406 (§230.406 of this chapter) must be processed with the Commission staff prior to the filing of such a registration statement. The number of copies of the registration statement and of each amendment required by Rules 402 and 472 (§§230.402
and 230.472 of this chapter) shall be filed with the Commission: provided, however, That the number of additional copies referred to in
Rule 402(b) may be reduced from ten to three and the number of additional copies referred to in Rule 472(a) may be reduced from eight
to three, one of which shall be marked clearly and precisely to indicate changes.
IV. Registration of Additional Securities and Additional Classes of Securities
	
	A. Registration of Additional Securities Pursuant to Rule 462(b). With respect to the registration of additional securities
for an offering pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act, the registrant may file a registration statement consisting only of the
following: the facing page; a statement that the contents of the earlier registration statement, identified by file number, are incorporated
by reference; required opinions and consents; the signature page; and any price-related information omitted from the earlier registration
8

statement in reliance on Rule 430A that the registrant chooses to include in the new registration statement. The information contained in
such a Rule 462(b) registration statement shall be deemed to be a part of the earlier registration statement as of the date of effectiveness
of the Rule 462(b) registration statement. Any opinion or consent required in the Rule 462(b) registration statement may be incorporated
by reference from the earlier registration statement with respect to the offering, if: (i) such opinion or consent expressly provides for such
incorporation; and (ii) such opinion relates to the securities registered pursuant to Rule 462(b). See Rule 411(c) and Rule 439(b) under
the Securities Act.
	
B. Registration of Additional Securities or Classes of Securities or Additional Registrants After Effectiveness. A
well-known seasoned issuer relying on General Instruction I.D. of this Form may register additional securities or classes of securities,
pursuant to Rule 413(b) by filing a post-effective amendment to the effective registration statement. The well-known seasoned issuer
may add majority-owned subsidiaries as additional registrants whose securities are eligible to be sold as part of the automatic shelf
registration statement by filing a post-effective amendment identifying the additional registrants, and the registrant and the additional
registrants and other persons required to sign the registration statement must sign the post-effective amendment. The post-effective
amendment must consist of the facing page; any disclosure required by this Form that is necessary to update the registration statement
to reflect the additional securities, additional classes of securities, or additional registrants; any required opinions and consents; and the
signature page. Required information, consents, or opinions may be included in the prospectus and the registration statement
through a post-effective amendment or may be provided through a document incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference into
the registration statement and the prospectus that is part of the registration statement, or, as to the required information only, contained
in a prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) that is deemed part of and included in the registration statement and prospectus that is
part of the registration statement.

PART I
INFORMATION REQUIRED IN PROSPECTUS
Item 1.	 Forepart of the Registration Statement and Outside Front Cover Pages of Prospectus.
	

Set forth in the forepart of the registration statement and on the outside front cover page of the prospectus the information
required by Item 501 of Regulation S-K (§229.501 of this chapter).

Item 2.	Inside Front and Outside Back Cover Pages of Prospectus.
	

Set forth on the inside front cover page of the prospectus or, where permitted, on the outside back cover page, the information required by Item 502 of Regulation S-K (§229.502 of this chapter).

Item 3.	 Summary Information, Risk Factors and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
	

Furnish the information required by Item 503 of Regulation S-K (§229.503 of this chapter).

Item 4.	 Use of Proceeds.
	

Furnish the information required by Item 504 of Regulation S-K (§229.504 of this chapter).

Item 5.	Determination of Offering Price.
	

Furnish the information required by Item 505 of Regulation S-K (§229.505 of this chapter).

Item 6.	Dilution.
		
	
Furnish the information required by Item 506 of Regulation S-K (§229.506 of this chapter).
Item 7.	 Selling Security Holders.
	

Furnish the information required by Item 507 of Regulation S-K (§229.507 of this chapter).

Item 8.	 Plan of Distribution.
	

Furnish the information required by Item 508 of Regulation S-K (§229.508 of this chapter).
9

Item 9.	Description of Securities to be Registered.
	

Furnish the information required by Item 202 of Regulation S-K (§229.202 of this chapter), unless capital stock is to be registered and securities of the same class are registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act.

Item 10.	Interests of Named Experts and Counsel.
	

Furnish the information required by Item 509 of Regulation S-K (§229.509 of this chapter).

Item 11.	Material Changes.
(a)	 Describe any and all material changes in the registrant’s affairs which have occurred since the end of the latest fiscal year
for which certified financial statements were included in the latest annual report to security holders and which have not
been described in a report on Form 10-Q (§249.308a of this chapter) or Form 8-K (§249.308 of this chapter) filed under
the Exchange Act.
(b) 	 Include in the prospectus, if not incorporated by reference therein from the reports filed under the Exchange Act specified
in Item 12(a), a proxy or information statement filed pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, a prospectus previously
filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) or (c) under the Securities Act (§230.424(b) or (c) of this chapter) or, where no prospectus
is required to be filed pursuant to Rule 424(b), the prospectus included in the registration statement at effectiveness, or a
Form 8-K filed during either of the two preceding years: (i) information required by Rule 3-05 and Article 11 of Regulation
S-X (17 CFR Part 210); (ii) restated financial statements prepared in accordance with Regulation S-X if there has been a
change in accounting principles or a correction in an error where such change or correction requires a material retroactive
restatement of financial statements; (iii) restated financial statements prepared in accordance with Regulation S-X where
one or more business combinations accounted for by the pooling of interest method of accounting have been consummated
subsequent to the most recent fiscal year and the acquired businesses, considered in the aggregate, are significant pursuant
to Rule 11-01(b), or (iv) any financial information required because of a material disposition of assets outside the normal
course of business.
Item 12.	Incorporation of Certain Information by Reference.
(a)	 The documents listed in (1) and (2) below shall be specifically incorporated by reference into the prospectus by means of
a statement to that effect in the prospectus listing all such documents:
(1)	 the registrant’s latest annual report on Form 10-K (17 CFR 249.310) filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act that contains financial statements for the registrant’s latest fiscal year for which a Form 10-K was required
to be filed; and
(2)	 all other reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act since the end of the fiscal year covered
by the annual report referred to in (1) above; and
(3)	 if capital stock is to be registered and securities of the same class are registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act,
the description of such class of securities which is contained in a registration statement filed under the Exchange Act,
including any amendment or reports filed for the purpose of updating such description.
(b)	 The prospectus shall also state that all documents subsequently filed by the registrant pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14
or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, prior to the termination of the offering shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference into
the prospectus.
	
Instruction. Attention is directed to Rule 439 (§230.439 of this chapter) regarding consent to use of material
	
incorporated by reference.	
(c)	 (1)	 You must state
(i)	 that you will provide to each person, including any beneficial owner, to whom a prospectus is delivered, a copy of
any or all of the information that has been incorporated by reference in the prospectus but not delivered with the
prospectus;
(ii)	 that you will provide this information upon written or oral request;
(iii)	that you will provide this information at no cost to the requester; and
10

(iv)	 the name, address, and telephone number to which the request for this information must be made.
	

Note to Item 12(c)(1). If you send any of the information that is incorporated by reference in the prospectus to security
holders, you also must send any exhibits that are specifically incorporated by reference in that information.

(2)	 You must
(i)	 identify the reports and other information that you file with the SEC; and
(ii)	 state that the public may read and copy any materials you file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room
at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. State that the public may obtain information on the operation of
the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. If you are an electronic filer, state that the
SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov). You
are encouraged to give your Internet address, if available.
	
	
	

(d) Any information required in the prospectus in response to Item 3 through Item 11 of this Form may be included in the 		
prospectus through documents filed pursuant to Section 13(a), 14, or 15(d) of the Exchange Act that are incorporated or 		
deemed incorporated by reference into the prospectus that is part of the registration statement.

Item 13.	 Disclosure of Commission Position on Indemnification for Securities Act Liabilities.
Furnish the information required by Item 510 of Regulation S-K (§229.510 of this chapter).

PART II
INFORMATION NOT REQUIRED IN PROSPECTUS
Item 14.	Other Expenses of Issuance and Distribution.
	

Furnish the information required by Item 511 of Regulation S-K (§229.511 of this chapter).

Item 15.	 Indemnification of Directors and Officers.
	

Furnish the information required by Item 702 of Regulation S-K (§229.702 of this chapter).

Item 16.	Exhibits.
	
	
Subject to the rules regarding incorporation by reference, furnish the exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K (§229.601
of this chapter).
Item 17.	 Undertakings.
	

Furnish the undertakings required by Item 512 of Regulation S-K (§229.512 of this chapter).

11

SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, the registrant certifies that it has reasonable grounds to believe that it meets all
of the requirements for filing on Form S-3 and has duly caused this registration statement to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, in the City of _______________________________________, State of ____________________________
_____, on _________________________________, 20____ .
	

	

	
		
	By
		

(Registrant)
(Signature and Title)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, this registration statement has been signed by the following persons in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.
		
		

(Signature)

		

(Title)

		

(Date)

Instructions.
l.	

The registration statement shall be signed by the registrant, its principal executive officer or officers, its principal financial officer,
its controller or principal accounting officer and by at least a majority of the board of directors or persons performing similar functions. If the registrant is a foreign person, the registration statement shall also be signed by its authorized representative in the United
States. Where the registrant is a limited partnership, the registration statement shall be signed by a majority of the board of directors
of any corporate general partner signing the registration statement.

2.	 The name of each person who signs the registration statement shall be typed or printed beneath his signature. Any person who occupies more than one of the specified positions shall indicate each capacity in which he signs the registration statement. Attention
is directed to Rule 402 concerning manual signatures and to Item 601 of Regulation S-K concerning signatures pursuant to powers
of attorney.
3. 	 Where eligibility for use of the Form is based on the assignment of a security rating pursuant to Transaction Requirement B.5., the
registrant may sign the registration statement notwithstanding the fact that such security rating has not been assigned by the filing
date, provided that the registrant reasonably believes, and so states, that the security rating requirement will be met by the time of
sale.

12

