Classified
Employee Handbook
(Revised October 2013)

Human Resources Policies and Procedures
Georgia State University

Published by
Georgia State University
For Internal Distribution Only
Georgia State University
Department of Human Resources
Third Floor – One Park Place South
Atlanta, Georgia 30303
October 2013
Seventh Edition

This handbook is not a contract or guarantee of employment. Georgia State University reserves the right to
unilaterally modify, amend or terminate policies, procedures, and/or benefits described in this handbook at
any time, or require and/or increase contributions towards these benefits at its discretion. This October
2013 edition of the Classified Employee Handbook supersedes any and all previous editions.
Georgia State University, a unit of the University System of Georgia, is an equal opportunity educational
institution and is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.

A Message to Employees
Welcome to Georgia State University. As an employee of one of the nation’s leading research universities, you
join other faculty and staff members who have made a steadfast commitment to strengthen the learning experiences
of our students and build a university of which our alumni and friends can forever be increasingly proud.
This “Classified Employee Handbook” is intended as a general guide to help you understand the rules that direct
us as we carry out the University mission of teaching, research and service. I encourage you to familiarize
yourself with its contents and to contact the appropriate office within the Department of Human Resources if you
have any questions about a particular section.
I hope your time at Georgia State will be as enjoyable as it is productive.
Sincerely,

Mark P. Becker
President

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

About Our Handbook

This handbook is designed to tell you about your association with Georgia State University. It includes basic
University information, governance, structure, compensation and benefits programs, and employee relations policies.
There are many things about the University that you will want to know. To answer some of these questions, we have
written this handbook. Please read through it and retain it for future reference. The policies, procedures, and
processes stated in this handbook are to work in conjunction with the policies, procedures, and processes set by your
division or department and are subject to change without notice at the discretion of the University and its governing
body. Violation of any of these policies could result in disciplinary action, including termination of your employment
with Georgia State University. From time to time, you will receive information from your department that addresses
the administration of the information contained in this handbook. If you have any questions regarding any of the
statements in the handbook, please see your supervisor or contact a member of the Employee Relations Office.

You were carefully selected for your position and you are one of the University’s most valuable resources. Georgia
State University is committed to maintaining an environment in which each employee is able to realize his/her
maximum potential while contributing to the working efficiency and success of the University. To achieve these
objectives, it is important that lines of communication remain open at all times. These lines of communication are
essential to ensure that all employees know what is expected of them in terms of work performance and can interact
effectively with peers, supervisors, and subordinates.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

Quick Facts about Georgia State
Georgia State University is the Southeast's leading urban research institution. It is on the list of the top 100 public
universities for doctoral degrees awarded. More than 250 fields of study are offered through some 62 accredited
degree programs at the bachelor’s, master’s, specialist, and doctoral levels. Students may enroll in day or evening
classes and in part-time or full-time study.


Location: Atlanta, Georgia



Founded: 1913



Status: Public



Libraries: University and Law combined holdings (volumes and micro text): 3,321,320



Degrees: 62 degree programs with 250 fields of study offered through six colleges



Economic impact: Contributes more than $1.4 billion annually to Atlanta’s economy

Athletics


17 NCAA Division I intercollegiate athletic teams



Nickname: Panthers, Lady Panthers



Mascot name: Pounce



Colors: Blue and White



Conference: Colonial Athletic Association

Governance
Georgia State University is part of The University System of Georgia, which began operation in 1932, and is
among the oldest unified statewide systems of public higher education in the United States and includes all state
operated universities, four-year colleges, and two-year colleges in Georgia.

Board of Regents
The Board of Regents is the single governing and management authority for public higher education in Georgia.
Today, the Board of Regents is composed of 18 members, five of whom are appointed from the state-at-large,
and one from each of the 13 congressional districts.

Staff Council
The Staff Council is an elected body of staff members who represent the academic colleges and each vice
presidential unit. The Council seeks to make Georgia State University the best possible place to work by
fostering effective communication and providing a productive forum for addressing policies and issues affecting
the staff of the University.

Student Government Association (SGA)
The SGA serves as the official voice of students in academic, institutional and campus affairs; provides a
responsive forum for student concerns and interests; and identifies and acts upon University-wide issues specific
to academic affairs, student services, student life, budget and finance, and public relations.

University Senate
The University Senate exercises legislative functions dealing with the general educational policy of the
University, the discipline of students and all other student activities and affairs, including all matters where the
President determines there is a need for uniform policy throughout the University. A legislative action of the
University Senate is subject to veto by the University faculty and/or by the President. View the University
Strategic Plan as approved by the University Senate.

University Statutes
The University Statutes provide for the internal governance of Georgia State University.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised March 2013

i

Colleges and Schools:
Andrew Young School of Policy Studies
Consistently achieving high rankings with U.S. News & World Report, the Andrew Young School of Policy
Studies house the departments of economics, public administration and urban studies and six research units.
The College is committed to creating and disseminating knowledge and analytical methods that are highly valued
by policy makers and leaders in the public, nonprofit, and business worlds; and to educating students who are
highly qualified and sought after as policy analysts, program evaluators, and designers of administrative
systems. Their mission is focused on economic and social development policy issues and problems, and on the
design, implementation, management, and evaluation of policies that address issues of economic and social
development on the local, regional, national and global levels.

College of Arts and Sciences
From the classroom to the laboratory to the performance hall, the College of Arts and Sciences is the home for
excellence and innovation in instruction, research, creative activity, and community service. The college offers
over 40 undergraduate and graduate majors in the fine arts, humanities, natural and computational sciences, and
social and behavioral sciences. The College prepares students for professional careers and provides them with the
foundation for lifelong learning. Students can work with faculty experts, respected artists and top scientists while
taking advantage of the facilities of a major research institution. The reach of the college’s faculty and students
extends beyond campus, enriching the community and touching people around the world through service
opportunities, cultural events, study abroad and joint research programs.

College of Education
The College of Education is known for its outstanding programs in education and related fields. The College has
comprehensive programs in all areas of teacher education as well as in counseling and sports-related fields. All of
these programs are NCATE accredited and Georgia Professional Standards Commission approved. Many of the
programs also have received special recognition from their professional organizations and other accrediting agencies.
Graduate students may choose from over 30 degrees.

College of Health and Human Sciences
The college is charged with the mission of preparing undergraduate and graduate students to function as
professionals in challenging settings in the health and human services arena. The college's interdisciplinary learning
approach offers students a richly diverse, practical education founded on an academic regimen of excellence.
Undergraduate and graduate students gain valuable field experience while serving the public. Students graduate as
well-prepared professionals who go on to become leaders in their fields.

College of Law
The College of Law is committed to providing an excellent, affordable, and distinctive legal education to a diverse
student body; to promoting legal scholarship and service that enrich the legal profession and the communities we
serve; and to capitalizing on the unique environment in which we are located. The College of Law is accredited by the
American Bar Association and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools.

J. Mack Robinson College of Business
The J. Mack Robinson College of Business is committed to academic excellence through advancing the creation and
dissemination of knowledge in business and management. It’s Flex program has been listed in U.S. News and World
Report's top 10 for the past 15 consecutive years. The new MBA curriculum offers a non-traditional approach to
global business education that captures the complexity and changing demands of business in the 21 st century. The
undergraduate program also is ranked in the top 50 by U.S. News and the top 100 by Business Week.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised March 2013

ii

TABLE OF CONTENTS
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
(SECTION 100) EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
101 Policy Philosophy
101.1 Equal Opportunity Statement
101.2 Americans with Disabilities, Disabled Veterans and Veterans of the Vietnam Era
101.2a Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act (ADAAA)
101.3 Sexual Harassment Policy
101.3a Definition of Sexual Harassment
101.3b Reporting Procedures
101.3c Sexual Identity Policy
101.3d Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972
101.4 Discriminatory Harassment Policy and Non-Discrimination Policy Statement
101.5 Drug and Alcohol Policy
101.5a Drug-Related Disciplinary Actions
101.6 Intellectual Property Policy
101.7 Staff Grievance Procedure
101.8 Performance Policy
101.9 Conflict of Interest and Commitment (including Outside Employment/Activities)
101.10 Political Activities
101.11 Visa Purchase Cards (P-Cards)
101.12 Panther PERQs
101.13 Gratuities Prohibited Receipt of Gifts
101.14 Possession of Dangerous Weapons/Workplace Violence
101.14a Possession of Dangerous Weapons
101.14b Workplace Violence
101.15 Smoking/Tobacco Free Campus Policy
101.16 Policy on Amorous Relationships
101.16a Power Advantages
101.16b Conflict of Interest
101.16c Malicious Use of This Policy
101.16d Due Process
101.17 Ethics Policy
101.17a Actively Employed
101.17b Ethics Training
101.17c Applicability
101.17d Employee’s Failure to Complete Ethics Training
102 Categories of Employment
102.1 Regular
102.1a Full-Time
102.1b Part-Time
102.1c Limited Term
102.1d Employment on a Project
102.2 Temporary
102.2a Temporary Non-Student
102.2b Panther Temps
102.2c Temporary Student
102.2d Seasonal Employee
102.2e Occasional Employee
102.2f Consultant/Independent Contractor
102.2g Outside Agencies
102.3 Variable
102.3a Academic Variable
102.3b Fiscal Variable
102.4 Special Employment Situations
102.4a Employment of Foreign Nationals
102.4b Employment of Relatives
102.4c Employment of Retirees

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

3

102.4d Employment of Minors
103 Hiring and Termination Guidelines
103.1 Pre-Employment Screening
103.1a Background Check
103.1b Credit Check
103.1c Drug Testing
103.1d Skill Proficiency Demonstrations
103.2 Conditions of Employment
103.2a Completion of I-9
103.2b Direct Deposit of Paycheck
103.2c Federal and State Withholding Forms
103.2d Benefits Forms Completion
103.2e Loyalty Oath
103.2f State Security Questionnaire
103.2g Transcripts
104 Orientation
104.1 Identification Card
104.2 Duty to Report Criminal Charges/Determinations
104.2a Criminal Charges
104.2b Criminal Determinations
104.3 Official Forms and Updates
104.4 Participation in Teachers Retirement System (TRS), Optional Retirement Plans (ORP) or Georgia
Defined Contribution Plan
105 Provisional Period
105.1 Provisional Period for New Hires, Transfers and Rehires
105.2 Benefit Status during Provisional Period
106 Reduced Hours and Shift Modifications
107 Termination Guidelines
107.1 Clearance/Exit interview
107.2 Involuntary Termination
107.3 Reductions in Force (RIF)
107.4 Rehire after Termination
107.5 Resignation
107.6 Retirement
(SECTION 200) CLASSIFICATION AND COMPENSATION/PAYROLL
201 Compensation
202 BCat Classification System
203 Pay Plan/Salary Structure
203.1 Broadband Structure
203.2 General Pay Plan
203.3 Employment Classification
203.3a Exempt
203.3b Non-Exempt
204 Employment Opportunities Posting
205 Minimum Hiring Standards
205.1 New Hire
205.2 Promotion
205.3 Transfer
205.4 Employment in Multiple Positions

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

4

206 Pay Adjustments
206.1 Merit Increases
206.2 Promotion
206.3 Stipend
206.4 Lateral Transfer
206.5 Demotion
207 Job Evaluation Process
207.1 Position Review Form (PRF)
207.2 Job Analysis and Job Audit
208 Administrative Salary Adjustments
209 Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)
209.1 Overtime pay
210 Stipend or Additional Pay for Interim/Acting Appointment
211 Deductions
211.1 Payroll Deductions
211.2 Required Deductions
211.3 Optional Deductions
212 Garnishments and Withholding
213 Pay Periods
213.1 Timesheets
213.2 Paychecks
213.3 Direct Deposit
213.4 Report of Absence
(SECTION 300) BENEFITS
301 General Benefits Information
302 Benefits Eligibility
302.1 New Employees
302.2 Eligible Dependents
302.3 Domestic Partners
303 Health Insurance
304 Dental Insurance
305 Accident Insurance
306 Life Insurance
306.1 Group Life Insurance
306.2 Supplemental Life Insurance
306.3 Dependent Life Insurance
306.4 Optional Term Life Insurance
307 Disability Insurance
308 Flexible Spending Accounts
308.1 Healthcare Spending Account
308.2 Dependent Care Spending Account
308.3 Transportation and Parking Spending Account
309 Health Savings Account

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

5

310 Section 125 Plan
310.1 Qualifying Events for Mid-Year Changes
310.2 Transfer of Benefits to Another Unit within the University System of Georgia
310.3 Transfer of Benefits from State Agency to University System of Georgia Institution
311 Continuing Benefit Plans at Termination
311.1 COBRA Disabled Status
311.2 COBRA Dependents
312 Georgia Higher Education Savings Plan (Path2College529)
313 Tuition Assistance Program (TAP)
314 Professional Liability Insurance
315 Retirement Plans
315.1 Social Security
315.1a Employees Covered by Social Security
315.1b Employees Not Covered by Social Security
315.2 Teachers Retirement System of Georgia
315.2a Vesting
315.2b Eligibility for Retirement
315.2c Disability Retirement
315.3 Optional Retirement Plan (Regents Retirement Plan)
315.3a Vesting
315.3b Eligibility for Retirement
315.4 Voluntary Supplemental Retirement Accounts
316 Appealing Denied Benefit Claims
317 Employment After Retirement
(SECTION 400) VACATION, SICK LEAVE AND LEAVE OF ABSENCE
401 Time-Off Benefits
401.1 Holidays
401.2 Vacation
401.2a Eligibility
401.2b Carryover of Unused Vacation Days
401.2c Terminal Vacation Pay
402 Sick Leave
402.1 Eligibility
402.2 Annual Allowance and Accumulation
402.3 Reporting Absences Due to Illness
402.4 Licensed Physician’s Statement
402.5 Return to Work Certification
402.6 Donated Sick Leave Pool
402.7 Sick Leave without Pay
402.8 Terminating Sick Leave
403 Workers’ Compensation
403.1 Work Related Injuries
403.2 Return to Work from Workers' Compensation Leave
404 Personal Leave
404.1 Benefits during Personal Leave
404.2 Unapproved Personal Leave
404.2a Termination Due to Inability to Work

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

6

405 Administrative Leave
406 Family and Medical Leave
406.1 Traditional Family and Medical Leave
406.1aEligibility
406.1b Reasons for Leave
406.1c Unpaid Leave
406.1d Health Benefits
406.1e Notice of Leave
406.1f Eligibility Notice/Notice of Rights and Responsibilities
406.1g Medical Certification Required
406.1h Designation Notice
406.1i Duration of FMLA Leave
406.1j Re-certification
406.1k Return to Work
406.2 Military Family and Medical Leave Act Policy
406.2a Eligibility
406.2b Reasons for Leave
406.2c Covered Service Member
406.2d Notice of Leave
406.2e Eligibility Notice/Rights and Responsibilities
406.2f Certification for Qualifying Exigency Military Leave
406.2g Certification for Military Caregiver Leave
406.2h Duration of Military Family and Medical Leave
407 Military Leave
407.1 Definition of Military Leave
407.2 Duration of Military Leave
407.3 Benefits during Military Leave
407.4 Return from Military Leave
407.5 Military Physical Examination Leave
408 Maternity Leave
408.1 Worksite Lactation
408.1a Lactation Rooms
408.1b Reasonable Break Times
408.1c Time away from Work - Instructions for Supervisors
408.1d Distribution
409 Educational Leave
410 Organ and Marrow Donation Leave
411 Death in the Family
412 Court Duty
413 Voting
414 Mandated Leave
415 University Closing
(SECTION 500) WORKPLACE PRACTICES
501 Work Schedule
501.1 Attendance
501.2 Personnel Action Form (PAF)
501.3 Time Reporting
501.4 Exempt Employee Absence Reporting
501.5 Breaks
501.5a Lactation Breaks

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

7

501.6 Flexible Scheduling
501.7 Alternate Work Schedule
502 Employee Records
502.1 Access to Employee Records
502.2 Disclosure of Information
502.3 Updating Information
503 Duty to Report Criminal Charges/Determinations
503.1 Criminal Charges
503.2 Criminal Determinations
504 Employee Health and Safety
504.1 Georgia State University Police
504.2 Emergency Treatment
504.3 Campus Safety and Security Fire and Emergency Services
504.4 Employee Right to Know
505 Use of University Services and Property
505.1 Use of Georgia State Stationery
505.2 Use of Telephones
505.3 Personal Activities
505.3a Mail and Packages
505.3b Visitors
505.3c Children in the Workplace
505.3d Business Activities
505.3e Pets
505.4 PantherCards
505.5 Recycling Programs on Campus
506 Workplace Ethics Policy

(SECTION 600) STAFF DEVELOPMENT
601 Performance Reviews
602 Training and Development Programs
603 Auditing Courses at Georgia State (Non-Credit Courses)
603.1 Eligibility for Auditing Courses at Georgia State (Non-Credit Courses)
603.2 Approvals for Auditing Courses
(SECTION 700) INTERNAL COMPLAINT PROCESSES
701 Staff Grievance Procedure
701.1 Availability of a Grievance Procedure
701.1a Eligibility
701.1b Grievance Issues
701.1c Other Issues
702 Discrimination or Harassment Complaint Process
702.1 Informal Resolution Process
702.2 Formal Complaint Process
(SECTION 800) EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE AND CONDUCT
801 Performance Policy
802 Performance Expectations
803 Performance Evaluations
803.1 Interim Evaluation

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

8

804 Conduct Guidelines
804.1 Examples of Inappropriate Conduct
804.2 Progressive Discipline
804.2a Progressive Discipline Steps
804.2b Verbal Counseling
804.2c Written Disciplinary Action
804.2d Suspension
804.2e Performance Improvement Plan (PIP)
804.2f Dismissal Action
804.3 Job Abandonment
804.3a Termination Procedure for Job Abandonment
804.4 Personal Appearance
804.5 Work Environment Appearance
(SECTION 900) CORPORATE CREDIT CARD PROGRAM
901 VISA Purchase Card (P-Card)
901.1 Obtaining a VISA Purchase Card
901.2 Policies and Procedures for Use of VISA Purchase Card
901.3 VISA Purchase Card Legislation Passed During the 2007 - 2008 General Assembly
902 American Express Corporate Travel Card
(SECTION 1000) ELECTRONIC DEVICE USAGE PROCEDURES – COMPUTERS AND CELL PHONES
1001 Computer Usage
1002 Social Media
1002.1 Productivity
1002.2 Unauthorized Use of Georgia State University’s Name, Logo, or Insignia
1002.2a Endorsements
1002.3 Representation
1002.4 Confidentiality and Personal Information
1002.4a Social Media Referencing
1002.4b Attribution
1002.5 Recommendations for Posting as an Individual
1003 Cell Phone/Electronic Device Usage
1003.1 Use of Cell Phone/Electronic Device for University Business
1003.2 Limitation of Cell Phone/Electronic Device
(SECTION 1100) ADDITIONAL RESOURCES FOR EMPLOYEES
1101 General Information
1102 Faculty and Staff Assistance (FASA)
1103 Ombudsperson
1104 Opportunity Development and Diversity Education Planning Office
1105 Employee Relations Division of the Human Resource Department

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

9

(SECTION 100)
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES

101 Policy Philosophy
Georgia State University recognizes that the performance capacity of its employees is its greatest asset and thus
endeavors to support employees’ efforts to realize their full potential by:
 employing and promoting on the basis of merit;
 providing opportunities for training and development to all employees; and
 providing opportunities for advancement to all employees.
The pages of this handbook expand on these employment principles, setting forth guidelines that affect employment.
101.1 Equal Opportunity Statement
It continues to be the policy of Georgia State University to implement affirmative action and equal
opportunity for all employees, students, contractors, consultants and applicants for employment or
admission without regard to race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, age, veteran status or disability.
The University’s affirmative action program and related policies are developed in compliance with Executive
Orders 11246 and 11375, as amended; the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Sections 503 & 504) and the
Americans with Disabilities Amendments Act of 2008 (Title II) and their implementing regulations; the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967; and the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act of
1974, as it amends 38 U.S.C. 4212.
In conformance with the federal regulations listed above, Georgia State University does not discriminate
against any employee or applicant for employment with regard to any opportunity for which the employee is
qualified.
Persons wishing to file complaints under the provisions of this policy should contact the
Opportunity Development/Diversity Education Planning Office.
Every member of the Georgia State University community is expected to uphold this policy as a matter of
mutual respect and fundamental fairness in human relations. The policy has the unequivocal support of the
Office of the President. All members of the faculty, staff, and student body are expected to ensure that
nondiscriminatory practices are followed at Georgia State University.
Specifically, the University will:
 comply with both the letter and spirit of the laws and regulations governing equal opportunity in the
workplace providing equal opportunity to all employees and to all applicants for employment;



review all of its personnel policies, including benefits, compensation, employment, promotion, training,
tuition assistance, and separation, to ensure there is no unlawful discrimination or harassment because
of a person’s age, color, marital status, national origin, disability, race, religion, gender sexual identity or
status as a disabled veteran or veteran of the Vietnam Era, and for people in any other legally protected
groups;



make reasonable accommodations for the physical and/or mental disabilities of qualified employees and
applicants;



inform employees of the right to refer complaints to their supervisor, the Opportunity
Development/Diversity Education Planning Office, the Human Resources Department, or the Office of
Legal Affairs without being subject to intimidation or retaliation in any form.

101.2 Americans with Disabilities, Disabled Veterans and Veterans of the Vietnam Era
It is the policy of Georgia State University not to discriminate against any employee or applicant for
employment because he or she is an individual with a disability, a disabled veteran or a veteran of the
Vietnam Era. It is also the policy of Georgia State University to take affirmative action to employ and
advance in employment qualified disabled veterans, veterans of the Vietnam Era and individuals with
disabilities. This policy applies to all employment actions including, but not limited to, advertising,
recruitment, hiring, compensation, retention, training, demotion, promotion or transfer, layoff, Reduction in
Force (RIF) or termination and tenure.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

10

Persons wishing to self-identify as an individual with a disability, disabled veteran or veteran of the Vietnam
era should contact the Human Resources Department.
An individual wishing to file a complaint should contact the Opportunity Development/Diversity Education
Planning Office.
All personnel actions involving individuals with disabilities, disabled veterans and veterans of the Vietnam
Era will be governed by the affirmative action programs developed in compliance with 41 CFR Parts 60-741
and 60-250.
In order to ensure compliance, operational responsibility for implementing and monitoring this policy and
maintaining and updating the affirmative action plan for individuals with disabilities, disabled veterans and
veterans of the Vietnam Era lies with the Opportunity Development/Diversity Education Planning Office.
This affirmative action plan is available for inspection by any employee or applicant for employment, during
normal business hours, in the Georgia State University Opportunity Development/Diversity Education
Planning Office or the University Library. Every member of the University community is expected to uphold
this policy as a matter of mutual respect and fundamental fairness in human relations. This policy has the
unequivocal support of the Office of the President. All members of the faculty, staff, and student body are
expected to ensure that nondiscriminatory practices are followed at Georgia State University.
101.2a Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act (ADAAA)
Georgia State University prohibits discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities who
can perform the essential functions of the job, with or without reasonable accommodation(s). An
individual is disabled under the Act if he or she:




Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life
activities; or
Has a record of such an impairment; or
Is regarded as having such impairment.

Georgia State University has and will continue to provide reasonable accommodations to enable
Georgia State University to hire and retain qualified employees who are able to perform the
essential functions of their positions. Employees may contact the Human Resources Department
for questions.
Any person wishing to self-identify as disabled or request a reasonable accommodation due to a
disability should contact Human Resources during normal business hours.
101.3 Sexual Harassment Policy
Sexual harassment is prohibited by Georgia State University, the University System of Georgia and by state
and federal law. Sexual harassment is a form of prohibited sex discrimination. Georgia State University is
firmly committed to maintaining a work environment free of sexual harassment and does so by providing
training for all employees explaining the definition of sexual harassment, how to report sexual harassment
and the consequences for sexually harassing a member of the University community. Sexual harassment of
any member of the University community is prohibited and will subject the offender to disciplinary action
which may include termination.
101.3a Definition of Sexual Harassment
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission definition, adopted by Georgia State University,
states that unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical
conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual harassment when:

submission to such conduct is made explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an
individual’s employment or academic standing; or

submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as a basis for
employment or academic decisions affecting an individual; or

such conduct unreasonably interferes with an individual’s work or academic
performance or creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive working or academic environment.

such conduct that can be implicitly or explicitly categorized under Sex Discrimination,
a prohibited form of Sexual harassment under Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972.
Georgia State University will not tolerate any form of harassing behavior to or from employees,
consultants, contractors, or other non-employees.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

11

101.3b Reporting Procedures
Any employee who feels that he or she has been the victim of harassment is encouraged to use the
University’s internal procedures to resolve complaints. The supervisor is also responsible to report
any knowledge of harassment. The complainant may elect to use any of three University
procedures. The complainant may consult informally with a counselor (employees contact Faculty
and Staff Assistance), with the University Ombudsperson, or the complainant may submit a formal
complaint with the Opportunity Development/Diversity Education Planning Office. Complainants
should note that informal resolution through the Ombudspersons Office or Faculty and Staff
Assistance does not constitute “putting the University on notice” of sexual harassment.
A counselor from Faculty and Staff Assistance or the Counseling and Testing Center is used when
the complainant desires personal assistance in dealing with what appears to be a sexual
harassment problem, and is outside the University’s mechanism for resolving complaints.
Actions of the Ombudsperson focus on communication, education, and possible resolution.
Formal complaint procedures through the Opportunity Development/Diversity Education Planning
Office focus on investigation and discipline. A complainant may use any of the procedures initially,
and may move among them as the situation dictates. Employees may also file harassment
complaints with the appropriate state or federal agencies under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 and Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972.
101.3c Sexual Identity Policy
It is the policy of Georgia State University that an individual’s sexual identity will not be considered
when making any personnel decisions. One’s sexual identity is strictly personal, and such
information is prohibited from being used in any way by the University or its employees in
employment decisions.
101.3d Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972
Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 was the first comprehensive federal law to prohibit
sex discrimination against students and employees of educational institutions. Title IX states, in
part:
No person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied benefits of, or be
subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving federal financial
assistance.
The policy of Georgia State University is to implement affirmative action and equal opportunity for
all employees, students and applicants for employment or admission without regard to race, color,
religion, national origin, sex, age, veteran status or disability.
Title IX prohibits sex discrimination. Sexual harassment is a form of prohibited sex discrimination.
Students (male and female) and employees (faculty and staff) are protected from sexual
harassment and may recover monetary damages.
The Title IX Coordinator is responsible for enforcing the law. Faculty, staff, and students can file
complaints of sex discrimination with the Title IX Coordinator. Retaliation against complainants is
prohibited.
The Title IX Coordinator is the Assistant Vice President of Opportunity Development and Diversity
Education Planning. The Title IX Coordinator can be contacted at:
Opportunity Development and Diversity Education Planning
Mailing Address
In Person Address
P.O. Box 3983
1 Park Place, Suite 527
Atlanta, GA 30302-3983
Atlanta, Georgia 30303
Office: (404) 413-2567
Fax: (404) 413-3295
Email: oddep@langate.gsu.edu
Website: http://www.gsu.edu/oddep
101.4 Discriminatory Harassment Policy and Non-Discrimination Policy Statement
Georgia State University allows the free inquiry into all ideas and the free expression of opinions by those
within it as a part of the basic process of education. In the presence of harassing behavior, a person’s

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

12

learning or working ability may be impaired. This discriminatory harassment policy acknowledges protection
for free speech, which is guaranteed by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution, while at the
same time requiring that the dignity and worth of the individual be nurtured and protected.
The University will not tolerate discrimination on the basis of race, color, gender, sexual identity, age,
disability, national origin or religion. Every student and employee in the University community has the
responsibility not to engage in any unlawful discrimination.
The right of free speech, although fundamental to our democratic system of government and essential to the
exchange of ideas in a University, is not absolute. The Supreme Court of the United States has held that
certain categories of speech are not entitled to First Amendment protection. These categories include
obscenity, fighting words, and to a limited extent, defamation. There is no place on a University campus for
speech or other expression that personally vilifies another individual. Such personal vilification is even more
distasteful when it involves insults that are based on race, color, gender, sexual identity, age, disability,
national origin, or religion.
Complainants who believe that they are victims of discriminatory harassment are encouraged to use the
University’s internal procedures to resolve complaints which are listed under Section 700 of the Classified
Employee Handbook. They may also file discriminatory harassment complaints with appropriate state or
federal agencies under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
The complainant may elect any of several internal procedures. The complainant may seek an informal
resolution by:
 conferring with the University Ombudsperson;
 consulting with administrators who oversee the respondent;
 initiating formal procedures through the Opportunity Development/Diversity Education
Planning Office;
 obtaining personal counseling through Faculty and Staff Assistance; such counseling lies
outside the University’s mechanisms for resolving complaints of discriminatory
harassment, and is intended solely for the personal benefit of the individual.
101.5 Drug and Alcohol Policy
The use, consumption, possession, distribution or sale of any narcotic, dangerous drug, or controlled
substance by any employee of the University for which such employee does not have a legal license or valid
prescription is strictly prohibited.
The University supports all federal, state and local laws relating to the use of alcoholic beverages. The use,
possession, consumption, distribution or sale of alcoholic beverages on any property owned or leased by the
University is strictly prohibited. Exceptions may be made only by the President or a designee. In these
instances, all laws surrounding alcohol consumption, including but not limited to the drinking age of 21, will
be adhered to. No University funds may be used for the purchase of alcoholic beverages.
If a unit or subunit of the University holds a function where alcohol is to be served, the rules and regulations
outlined in the “University Student Alcohol and Drug Policy” apply.
The adherence to these policies on alcohol and drugs shall be the individual and personal responsibility of
each employee of the University. Any employee who violates the policy on alcohol and/or drugs shall be
subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination from the University and referral to the
appropriate federal, state and/or local authorities for prosecution, as appropriate.
101.5a Drug-Related Disciplinary Actions
Any employee who is convicted of unlawful manufacture, distribution, sale, use or possession of a
controlled substance, an illegal or dangerous drug, or who admits guilt of any such offense in a
court proceeding, shall be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination. It is the
employee’s responsibility to inform the University of such convictions and/or admittance of guilt.
Employment following a drug related offense may be conditioned on the employee’s completion of
a drug abuse treatment and education program approved by the President.
If, prior to arrest for an offense involving a controlled substance, or a dangerous and/or illegal drug,
an employee notifies his or her immediate supervisor that he or she illegally uses a controlled
substance, marijuana, or a dangerous drug and is receiving treatment or agrees to receive
treatment under a drug abuse and education program approved by the President, such employee
Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

13

shall be retained for up to one year as long as the employee follows the treatment plan and the
quality of his/her work remains satisfactory. Retention of such employee shall be conditioned upon
satisfactory completion of the program. The employee’s work activities may be restructured if, in the
opinion of the immediate supervisor, it is deemed advisable. No statement made by an employee to
a supervisor or other person, in order to comply with this policy shall be admissible in any civil,
administrative or criminal proceeding as evidence against the employee. The rights herein granted
shall be available to a University employee only once during a five-year period and shall not apply
to any such employee who has refused to be tested or who has tested positive for a controlled
substance, marijuana or a dangerous and/or illegal drug.
101.6 Intellectual Property Policy
The purpose of the Georgia State University Intellectual Property Policy is to encourage and recognize
research and innovation by members of the University community, clarify ownership of intellectual property
rights, create opportunities for public use of University innovations, and provide for the sharing of revenue
with the creators of intellectual property when such revenue is derived from licensing of intellectual property.
For complete policy please reference:
http://www2.gsu.edu/~wwwosp/IntellectualPropery/IPFINALAPPROVEDPOLICY12-9-02-ForWeb.PDF
101.7 Staff Grievance Procedure
The Staff Grievance Procedure is available to any classified employee working at least .5 FTE (full-time
equivalency) who has completed the provisional employment period. The Staff Grievance Procedure is not
available to temporary employees, faculty, students or non-University employees (consultants, contractors,
etc.).
The Staff Grievance Procedure may be used by an eligible employee to bring a grievance about:

an involuntary termination (involuntary terminations do not include resignation or
retirement);

a suspension;

a demotion; or

an adverse action or decision that allegedly violates, misinterprets, or improperly applies a
specific University policy, procedure, rule or regulation.
This Grievance Procedure may not be used to bring a grievance about:

performance evaluations;

letters of reprimand, performance development or action plans, or other similar disciplinary
actions;

flexible work options decisions;

reductions in force;

furloughs;

salary and grade classification determinations;

reassignment of job duties and responsibilities;

organization of a department or allocation of its resources;

termination of grant funding;

non-renewal of a limited term position;

voluntary separation agreements; or

allegations of discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age,
sexual orientation, veteran status, or disability, or allegations of retaliation. Complaints
regarding allegations of such discrimination or retaliation should be filed with the
University’s Opportunity Development/Diversity Education Planning (“ODDEP”) Office. In
the event that an eligible employee files a grievance while he/she has an open ODDEP
investigation, the eligible employee’s grievance will be placed on hold until the conclusion
of the ODDEP investigation and all deadlines will be modified accordingly
All staff of the University are encouraged to view the entire Staff Grievance Procedure on line at:
http://www.gsu.edu/hr/31971.html

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

14

101.8 Performance Policy
Georgia State University supports a consistent, continuous and communicated performance management
process. As required by Board of Regents policy, a formal, written performance evaluation is to be
completed at least once every fiscal year. The performance evaluation must include an evaluation of the
employee's job knowledge, accuracy and quality, customer service, attendance and punctuality, productivity,
supervision required, adaptability, organizational skills, communication skills and interpersonal
relations/teamwork. Merit based compensation should be based upon performance as measured by the
performance evaluation instrument.
101.9 Conflict of Interest and Commitment (Including Outside Employment/Activities)
The University encourages employees to participate in activities of professional associations, governmental
entities, industry organizations and other public and/or private groups that serve to benefit the participants
and the University. While the University recognizes the benefits of such participation, it is also committed to
ensuring that these activities are conducted properly and responsibly. The Georgia State University Policy
on Conflict of Interest and Commitment is intended to increase awareness to the potential for conflicts of
interest and commitment and to establish procedures whereby such conflicts may be avoided or properly
managed. For complete policy, please reference: http://www2.gsu.edu/~wwwfhb/fhb.html.
101.10 Political Activities
As responsible and interested citizens in a democratic society, employees are encouraged to fulfill their civic
obligations and otherwise engage in the normal political processes of society. Nevertheless, it is
inappropriate for employees to manage or enter political campaigns while on duty, to perform services at the
University or to hold elective political office at the state or federal level while employed by the University.
Therefore, the following policies governing political activities are hereby adopted:
 Employees may not manage or take an active part in a political campaign which interferes
with the performance of duties or services for which receives compensation from Georgia
State University.
 Employees may not hold elective political office at the state or federal level.
 A candidate for or holder of an elective political office at the state or federal level may not
be employed or hold a faculty, staff, or other position at Georgia State University, with or
without compensation.
 Employees seeking elective political office at the state or federal level must first request a
leave of absence without pay prior to qualification as a candidate in a primary or general
election and ending after the general or final election. If elected to state or federal office
such person must resign prior to assuming office.
 Employees may seek and hold elective office at other than the state or federal level, or
appointive office, when such candidacy for or holding of the office does not conflict or
interfere with the employee's duties and responsibilities to the University or the System.
101.11 Visa Purchase Cards (P-Cards)
The Purchase Card is a VISA card issued for the purpose of quickly and efficiently purchasing and paying for
goods and services valued at $4,999 or less. However, no single items of equipment or furniture costing
$3,000 or more (those items which must be inventoried and decaled) shall be purchased with the P-Card.
This tool can be advantageous to the individual purchaser, the purchaser's department, the University, and
the supplier. Benefits of the P-Card include the ability to reduce petty cash purchases, check requests
(express vouchers), and purchase requests (requisitions) while maintaining an audit trail and accountability
of expenditures for P-Card transactions. For more details, please see Section 900.
101.12 Panther PERQs
The Panther PERQs program is a partnership with local, statewide and national businesses that offer
discounts or other incentives to Georgia State University employees and students with valid University
identification cards. To use the program, a Georgia State University employee and/or student must identify
themselves when making a purchase by showing a valid GSU picture ID or by giving the code, numbers, or
following the instruction listed on the Panther PERQs page. Some discounts will require registering for
membership, account numbers, brochures, order forms, or other information. To attain that information,
please follow the instruction on the PERQs Program page. Georgia State University does not evaluate,
endorse, or warrant the products and services offered by the Panther PERQs business partners. Georgia
State University and Panther PERQs business partners have the right to discontinue the partnership at any
time. For more information please visit: http://www.gsu.edu/hr/31421.html

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

15

101.13 Gratuities Prohibited Receipt of Gifts
An employee of Georgia State University shall not directly or indirectly solicit, receive, accept, or agree to
receive a thing of value by inducing the reasonable belief that the giving of the thing will influence
employee’s performance or failure to perform any official action. The acceptance of a benefit, reward or
consideration where the purpose of the gift is to influence an employee in the performance of official
functions is a felony under O.C.G.A. § 16-10-2.
An employee of Georgia State University or any other person on the employee’s behalf, is prohibited from
knowingly accepting, directly or indirectly, a gift from any vendor or lobbyist as those terms are defined in
Georgia statutes (O.C.G.A. 21-5-70(6) and 45-1-6(a)(5)b). If a gift has been accepted, it must be either
returned to the donor or transferred to a charitable organization. A gift may be accepted by the employee on
behalf of the institution subject to reporting requirements of the Board of Regents. If the gift is accepted, the
person receiving the gift shall not maintain custody of the gift for any period of time beyond that reasonably
necessary to arrange for the transfer of custody and ownership of the gift.
For purposes of this policy a gift is defined as lodging, transportation, personal services, a gratuity,
subscription, membership, trip, loan, extension of credit, forgiveness of debt, advance or deposit of money,
or anything of value. A gift shall not include:
 Food or beverage consumed at an occasional meal or event, provided the value is
reasonable under the circumstances but in no event exceeds $100 per person;
 Food, beverages, and registration at group events to which substantial numbers of
employees of an institution are invited;
 Food, beverage, or expenses afforded employees, relatives or others that are associated
with normal and customary business or social functions or activities;
 Actual and reasonable expenses for food, beverages, travel, lodging and registration
provided to permit participation in a meeting, demonstration, or training related to official
or professional duties if participation has been approved in writing by the Chancellor, the
President, or his/her designee;
 Promotional items generally distributed to the general public;
 Textbooks, software, and instructional materials to be reviewed by teaching faculty;
 An award, plaque, certificate, memento, or similar item given in recognition of the
recipient's civic, charitable, political, professional, private or public service or achievement;
 Legitimate salary, honoraria, benefit, fees, commissions, or expenses associated with the
recipient's non-public business, employment, trade, or profession;
 Gifts from a person or entity who is neither a lobbyist nor a vendor as those terms are
defined in State Statutes, nor a student or patient at an institution;
 Consulting fees, honoraria, or financial benefits from sponsors or foundations, received in
conformance with University System, campus policies, and Georgia law;
 Gifts to or from University System foundations or other separately incorporated, charitable
entities. (BOR 8.2.13 GRATUITIES)
101.14 Possession of Dangerous Weapons/Workplace Violence
Georgia State University is committed to creating and maintaining a working, learning, and social
environment that is free from danger and violence for all members of the University community.
101.14a Possession of Dangerous Weapons
University employees, whether working or not, are not permitted to carry firearms or other weapons
on property owned or leased by the University. This policy also applies to those who may have
licenses granted by other authorities to carry weapons. University Police Officers are specifically
exempted from this prohibition to the extent as authorized by Police directives.
101.14b Workplace Violence
The University is committed to providing a safe workplace free from violence, threats of violence, or
disruptive behavior of a violent or threatening nature. The University does not tolerate behavior,
whether direct, indirect, or through the use of university facilities, property, or resources that:






Is violent;
Threatens violence;
Harasses or intimidates others;
Interferes with an individual's legal rights of movement or expression; or

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

16



Disrupts the workplace, the academic environment, or the University's ability to provide service
to the public and/or its students, faculty, or staff.

Violent or threatening behavior can include, but is not limited to: physical acts, oral or written
statements, harassing email messages, harassing telephone calls, bullying, or behaviors such as
stalking.
Individuals who engage in violent behavior, including but not limited to physical attacks,
intimidation, bullying, threats, or property damage, may be removed from the premises, and be
subject to dismissal or other disciplinary action, up to termination, arrest and/or criminal
prosecution.
Violence in the workplace includes relationship violence that intrudes into the workplace,
endangering a person in the relationship or others in the workplace.
This policy applies to all Georgia State University work locations including offices, classrooms,
worksites, vehicles, and field locations.
Workplace is defined as any location, either permanent or temporary, where an employee performs
any work-related duty. This includes, but is not limited to, the buildings and the surrounding
perimeters, including the parking lots, field locations, alternate work locations, and travel to and
from work assignments.
If an employee has been confronted with a violent incident, the employee is encouraged to report
such incident to Employee Relations at (404)413-3356 during business hours, Faculty and Staff
Assistance at (404)4133-3345, during non-business hours and/or to the University Police at
(404) 413-3333 immediately.
101.15 Smoking/Tobacco Free Campus Policy
Georgia State University (GSU) promotes a clean, healthy, productive and safe environment for all students,
faculty, staff, and visitors.
Smoking and tobacco use, of any kind, is prohibited on all GSU owned and/or leased locations/premises; all
internal and external areas; all parking garages and parking lots; and in all GSU owned and/or leased vehicles.
Smoking is also prohibited within 25-feet of all GSU building entrances and exits. University Housing will
designate limited exterior smoking/tobacco use areas within the grounds of residential facilities.
GSU reserves the right to initiate disciplinary procedures against any individual found to be in continuous
violation of this policy; however all faculty, staff, and students have a collective responsibility to promote the
safety and health of the campus community and therefore share in the responsibility of enforcement.
Individuals observed smoking/using tobacco are to be reminded in a professional and courteous manner of
this policy.
101.16 Policy on Amorous Relationships
The integrity of academic and work relationships is the foundation of the University's educational mission.
These relationships vest considerable trust in persons with authority whether as mentor, educator, evaluator
and/or administrator. The unequal institutional power inherent in University academic and work relationships
heightens the vulnerability of those in subordinate positions. The University must protect itself from
influences or activities that interfere with intellectual, professional and personal growth, or with the
University’s financial interests. Consequently, people in positions of authority within the University
community must be sensitive to the potential for conflict of interest as well as sexual harassment in amorous
relationships with people over whom they have a professional power/status advantage. (Please see Section
101.3 of the Classified Employee Handbook for the Sexual Harassment Policy of the University.)
The individual in authority bears the primary responsibility for any negative consequences resulting from an
amorous relationship. It is in the interest of the University to provide clear direction and educational
opportunities to the University community about potential professional risks associated with consensual
amorous relationships between members of the University community where a power/status advantage
exists.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

17

101.16a Power Advantages
Staff Advantage: A staff member will always be treated as having a power advantage when the
staff member has the authority to evaluate, determine salary, and/or make employment decisions.
Other Power Advantage: Power advantages also can occur between junior and senior faculty,
faculty and administrators, and faculty/administrators and staff.
101.16b Conflict of Interest
Relationships that are mutual and consensual may be viewed by others as exploitative and may
adversely affect the work environment in that serious conflicts of interests may be perceived to
exist. In particular, the parties to an amorous relationship should be aware that such relationships
often create general conflicts of interest and the fear from co-workers or students of unfair
treatment in terms of promotions, grades, etc. Therefore, Georgia State University prohibits the
parties who are or have been involved in any amorous relationship from supervising each other.
There are situations sufficiently complex that judgments may differ as to whether there is or may be
a conflict of interest, and individuals may inadvertently place themselves in situations where conflict
exists. Accordingly, for the common good, should a situation arise in which parties who are or have
been involved in any amorous relationship come into a position in which they would normally be
called upon to evaluate one another, the individual in authority must promptly report this fact to his
or her supervisor. The supervisor will then make arrangements to see that those who are or have
been involved in any amorous relationship do not evaluate each other. In particular, if a faculty
member has had or comes to have an amorous relationship with a student over whom the faculty
member has authority as described above, the faculty member must promptly report this to the
department/school chair who will make arrangements for an alternate evaluation mechanism.
Should the individual in authority fail to promptly report an amorous relationship with a person the
individual in authority evaluates, the individual in authority has violated University policy and is
subject to disciplinary action as outlined in the Classified Employee Handbook or appropriate
college regulations (depending on whether the individual in authority is faculty, staff or a student).
101.16c Malicious Use of This Policy
It is important to avoid conflict of interests resulting from amorous relationships; it is equally
important to recognize that malicious accusations of inappropriate amorous relationships have the
potential to severely damage a person's career and reputation. Therefore, Georgia State University
prohibits making knowingly false accusations that an unreported amorous relationship exists or
existed between two parties now in a position to evaluate each other.
101.16d Due Process
Due process rights are matters of fundamental fairness. Therefore, any disciplinary action initiated
will be taken in accordance with the procedures set out in the Classified Employee Handbook or
appropriate college regulations.
101.17 Ethics Policy
In order to ensure that all actively employed University System of Georgia (USG) employees are cognizant
of and adhering to their obligations with respect to the USG Ethics Policy, certain criteria for employment
have been designated by the University System of Georgia. These conditions of employment include
successful completion of initial and ongoing training and certification as required by the Board of Regents’
Policy on Ethics training and certification. For more information, see Section 8.2.20 University System of
Georgia Ethics Policy in the Board of Regents Policy Manual at:
http://www.usg.edu/policymanual/section8/policy/8.2_general_policies_for_all_personnel/#p8.2.20_universit
y_system_of_georgia_ethics_policy

101.17a Actively Employed
Actively employed is defined as employed by the University System of Georgia or an institution
thereof and currently engaged in the performance of assigned duties. For the purposes of this
policy, employees on Family and Medical Leave (not including intermittent FMLA leave), military
leave, or other extended leave shall not be deemed active employees until such time as that
employee has returned to work.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

18

101.17b Ethics Training
Each actively employed University System of Georgia (USG) employee, to include institutional
employees, is expected to complete the Ethics Training and Certification within 90 days of their
initial day of employment as a condition of employment. Additionally, the USG may require periodic
“refresher” ethics training and related certification courses.
101.17c Applicability
The University System of Georgia (USG) Ethics Policy applies to all members of the USG
community. The USG community includes:


All individuals employed by the USG or one of the USG institutions, including faculty, staff,
student assistants, graduate assistants (lab, research, or teaching), and fee-based
employees (regardless of full-time, part-time, limited term, grant or project funded,
temporary, seasonal, or occasional classification);



All individuals acting on behalf of the USG or one of the USG institutions, including
consultants, contractors, venders, and volunteers; and



Members of the governing boards and employees of all cooperative organizations
affiliated with the USG or one of its institutions.

All individuals employed by the USG or one of its institutions in any capacity shall participate in
USG Ethics Policy training and shall certify compliance with the USG Ethics Policy on a periodic
basis.
The USG Ethics Policy governs only official conduct performed by or on behalf of the USG.
Violations of the USG Ethics Policy may result in disciplinary action, up to and including
termination.
101.17d Employee’s Failure to Complete Ethics Training
Staff
In the event an actively employed employee fails to complete Ethics training and certification or
other required training, the employee shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including
termination. Upon initial failure to complete the required training and certification, the immediate
supervisor of the employee shall convene a meeting and issue a verbal warning. If the employee
does not remediate this requirement within three (3) business days of having received the verbal
warning, the employee will be relieved of all duties and responsibilities until such time as the
employee successfully completes the training and certification. All non-faculty employees shall
have a total of ten (10) business days from the date of the verbal warning to complete the training
and certification. If the employee still fails to complete the training and certification at the end of the
10-business day period, then the employee shall receive a final written warning and will be given
ten (10) additional business days to complete the training. If the employee continues to fail to
complete the training by the regular close of business on the 10th day after the issuance of the final
written warning, then she/he shall be terminated.
Faculty
In the event a tenured or non-tenured employee with faculty rank continues to fail to complete the
training and certification, the President shall remove the faculty member for cause consistent with
the policy and procedures outlined in the USG Board Policy. If the faculty member is tenure-track,
non-tenure, or part-time and/or adjunct and refuses to complete the training and certification, the
faculty member shall also be subject to non-renewal of contract or non-reappointment. For more
information, see Section 8.3.9 (Discipline and Removal of Faculty Members) in the Board of
Regents Policy Manual at:
http://www.usg.edu/policymanual/section8/policy/8.3_additional_policies_for_faculty/
Students
All student employees shall be subject to the ethics training and certification requirements and
associated disciplinary procedures as outlined in the “Staff” section above. Failure to complete the
training will result in the student employee being terminated.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

19

For more information on the University System of Georgia’s Ethic Policy, please refer to the Board
of Regents’ Human Resources Administrative Practice Manual for Employment at:
http://www.usg.edu/hr/manual/general_criteria_for_employment/
102 Categories of Employment
Depending on the number of hours worked, employees will be designated as a full-time or part-time employee. At
Georgia State University, employees whether full-time or part-time, are classified as either exempt or non-exempt in
accordance with the requirements of applicable wage and hour laws. The terms exempt and non-exempt are from
federal law (the Fair Labor Standards Act, or FLSA). The FLSA designates the types of jobs that must be tracked and
paid on an hourly (non-exempt) basis, and the types of jobs that may be paid on a salaried (exempt) basis.
The University’s employment categories are as follows:
102.1 Regular
Personnel employed for a continuous period expected to exceed one semester, or six calendar months are
“regular” employees. Classification and Compensation, Department of Human Resources is responsible for
determining if a position is to be designated as either exempt or non-exempt in compliance with Federal law.

102.1a Full-Time
Full-time employment consists of a regular schedule of 40 hours per week and is generally eligible
for all University benefits.
102.1b Part-Time
Part-time employment consists of a regular schedule of less than 40 hours per week. Employees
regularly scheduled to work 20 or more hours per week may be eligible for participation in most
benefit programs, subject to any specific requirements described under each benefit program.
102.1c Limited Term
Limited Term or fixed-duration employment is more than six months' duration but with a date of
termination specified at the time of hire (not to exceed three years). Limited Term appointments
may be governed by specific terms and conditions of employment established at the time of hire
and approved by the Department of Human Resources. Unless eligibility for benefits is modified by
the specific terms of the appointment, Limited Term employees scheduled to work more than 20
hours per week are eligible for participation in most employee benefit programs.
102.1d Employment on a Project
If a position at Georgia State University is funded by a grant or a project, it is subject to the
availability of funds. In the event that the grant or project funds are exhausted or reduced, or the
grant or project is completed or canceled, this employment may terminate without the right of
employee appeal. An employee working in a position funded by a grant or project should take
accrued vacation during the term of the project since funds may not be available to pay for
accumulated vacation after the grant or project ends.
102.2 Temporary
Personnel who are not employed as regular classified employees are considered temporary employees.
Temporary employees may be employed part time or full time for a period no longer than six calendar
months. However, such employees may be terminated at the conclusion of this six month period and may be
rehired as a temporary worker after a period of 30 calendar days has elapsed. Temporary employment may
be extended up to an additional six months at the request of the supervisor or department head, with
approval from the Office of Staff Recruitment and Retention. After 12 months of temporary employment, the
individual must be terminated and may be rehired only after a period of 30 calendar days has elapsed.
Under no circumstances shall an individual serve as a temporary employee for more than eighteen (18)
months within any twenty-four (24) month period.
Although student assistants are considered temporary employees, they are NOT subject to these service
and reemployment restrictions.
Temporary employees can be terminated at any time with or without cause at the discretion of the
supervisor or department head without employee recourse. Temporary employees are not eligible for
benefits. There are five types of temporary personnel.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

20

102.2a Temporary Non-Student
All temporary, hourly employees who are not currently enrolled in classes at the University and who
are not identified as student assistants are designated as temporary non-student employees.
Temporary non-student employees may work no more than 40 hours per week in a University
department or in combination with a job elsewhere in the University, except in cases of preapproved authorization by the immediate supervisor. For further clarification, contact Payroll and
Employee Records in the Department of Human Resources.
102.2b Panther Temps
Panther Temps are temporary non-benefitted employees. Assignments are offered on a part-time
or full-time basis. Assignments generally have durations of one day to a maximum of six months.
At the end of the six month period, Panther Temps must either be hired for regular employment or
take a break of 30 calendar days. During the 30 calendar days, the Panther Temp is unable to be
employed at Georgia State University as a temporary employee in any capacity. If a Panther Temp
returns to the University as a temporary employee, following the 30 day break but before 90 days,
he/she must return as a Panther Temp. Panther Temps may apply for regular positions; however,
work as a Panther Temp does not guarantee regular, full-time employment at Georgia State
University.
The Panther Temp program provides the University with efficient support staff in a timely manner at
a lower cost than traditional temporary staffing agencies. The Board of Regents encourages all
departments and hiring managers to hire temporary staff through the University’s internal staffing
agency. For all your temporary staffing needs, please contact Panther Temps at (404) 413-3270.
Panther Temp services include the following areas:












Accounting/Finance
Administrative
Business Manager I, II, III
Clerical
Custodial/Maintenance
Customer Service
Human Resources
Management/Marketing
Professionals – Graphic Designers, IS&T, Asst. Directors, etc.
Tech Support
And More

102.2c Temporary Student
1. Student Assistants
All hourly employees who are currently enrolled in classes at the University and are not
identified as temporary non-student employees or as regular classified employees are
designated as student assistants.
Student assistant employment is considered temporary employment. Student assistants
are exempt from FICA withholdings (Social Security) if they are enrolled and regularly
attending classes in pursuit of a course of study. The individual must be at least a halftime undergraduate or a half-time graduate or professional student. As a general rule,
students should not be scheduled to routinely work more than 20 hours per week.
Students who do not meet the criteria will be taxed as a temporary non-student employee.
Student assistants may not work more than 40 hours per week in a University department
or in combination with a job elsewhere in the University, except in cases of pre-approved
authorization by the immediate supervisor. Student assistants are temporary, nonbenefitted employees. Please note that the FICA Exemption does not apply to an
individual who is not enrolled in classes during school breaks of more than five (5) weeks
(including summer breaks of more than five weeks).
2. Graduate Assistants
Graduate assistants are temporary exempt positions and include the following titles:
Graduate Laboratory Assistant
(GLA)
Graduate Research Assistant
(GRA)

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

21

Graduate Teaching Assistant

(GTA Levels A and B)

For information, please see the Graduate Assistant Policy at:
http://www.gsu.edu/images/HR/GRAPolicy.pdf
102.2d Seasonal Employee
Seasonal employees are temporary non-benefitted employees who work an average of ten hours
per week over a one year period.
102.2e Occasional Employee
Persons whose work assignment is part-time, on-call, as needed. Employees in this category work
no more than 10% FTE (never > 20%) over the course of the year, but may be used on a recurring
basis for longer than six (6) months. Employees in this category are not benefits eligible.
102.2f Consultant/Independent Contractor
Persons in this category are not University employees. They are on a contract to provide services to
a department or unit and are not subject to the benefits outlined in this Employee Handbook.

102.2g Outside Agencies
Hiring supervisors should seek to fill temporary needs by using Panther Temps prior to approaching
an outside employment agency or signing a contract for services from an outside employment
agency. If an outside employment agency is identified, the hiring manager should first contact the
Purchasing Department and the Office of Legal Affairs for contract review.
102.3 Variable
Variable employees are personnel who are paid hourly, but are eligible for benefits. There are two types of
variable employment at Georgia State University: academic variable employees and fiscal variable
employees.
102.3a Academic Variable
Employees work only during the time that classes are in session and not during semester breaks.
Employees in this status will not be entitled to claim sick leave or vacation time during the semester
break nor will vacation or sick leave be accrued during these periods. Vacation and sick leave
balances are frozen until the first day of the semester. The employee will not be required to
complete time sheets during the semester break.
102.3b Fiscal Variable
Employees work fifty-two weeks per year with an established schedule that is outside of a standard
work week. These employees have established hours per day and must claim sick leave and
vacation accordingly. If a holiday falls on a normally scheduled workday, fiscal year variable
employees may be required to work on the holiday. The employee is to take the holiday at a later
date upon the approval of his or her supervisor. The holiday must be noted accordingly on the time
sheet. Holiday pay will be at the same rate as a normal payday.
102.4 Special Employment Situations
102.4a Employment of Foreign Nationals
The employment and/or payment of nonresident foreign nationals shall be in compliance with all
applicable federal laws and shall comply with all relevant visa restrictions. (BOR 8.2.4
EMPLOYMENT OF FOREIGN NATIONALS)
102.4b Employment of Relatives
The basic criteria for the appointment and promotion of employees in the University System shall be
appropriate qualifications and performance as set forth in the policies of the Board of Regents.
Relationship by family or marriage shall constitute neither an advantage nor a disadvantage. No
individual shall be employed in a department or unit with the result being the existence of a
subordinate-superior relationship between such individual and any relative of such individual
through any line of authority. As used herein, "line of authority" shall mean authority extending
vertically through one or more organizational levels of supervision or management. This standard
does not apply to the temporary or part-time employment of children under age 25, nor to any

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

22

individual employed as of February 14, 1990, at any institution where a relative of such individual
then held a superior position at least one level of supervision removed from such individual in any
line of authority. Exceptions may be approved by the Board of Regents upon recommendation of
the Chancellor as being clearly in the best interest of the institution and the University System.
For the purpose of this policy, relatives are defined as husbands and wives, parents and children,
brothers, sisters, and any in-laws of any of the foregoing. (BOR 8.2.3 EMPLOYMENT OF
RELATIVES)
102.4c Employment of Retirees
When an employee has retired from the University System of Georgia or State of Georgia and is
receiving benefits from the Teachers Retirement System, the Employees’ Retirement System, or
the Regent's Retirement Plan, he/she may be re-employed by the University System under the
following conditions:

The reemployment of a University System of Georgia retiree must be approved
by the Board of Regents;

A rehired retiree must have a minimum break of 30 days between the effective
date of his/her retirement and the effective date of his/her reemployment;

The work commitment of a rehired retiree must be less than half-time; i.e., less
than 50%;

The salary that is paid to a rehired retiree must be less than 50% of the annual
benefit-based compensation amount that he/she was earning at the time of
his/her retirement; and

The salary that is paid to a rehired retiree must be consistent with his/her work
commitment. (BOR 8.2.8.3 EMPLOYMENT BEYOND RETIREMENT)
102.4d Employment of Minors
The employment of all persons under the age of 18 years shall be in compliance with the
regulations of the U.S. Department of Labor.
103 Hiring and Termination Guidelines
103.1 Pre-Employment Screening
The pre-employment screening process consists of a background check, credit check (and may include drug
testing for any position), as well as a probable skills proficiency demonstration based on the assigned
position and departmental requirements.
103.1a Background Check
As a condition of employment with Georgia State University, employees shall submit to a
background investigation. A background check shall also be performed on any existing employee
being transferred, reassigned, reclassified, or promoted to a “position of trust”, unless a background
investigation confirming this procedure was conducted less than six (6) months of the transfer,
reassignment, reclassification, or promotion. (Positions of trust are determined by the hiring unit in
conjunction with the Office of Legal Affairs and are positions that routinely, as part of the job,
involve interaction with children, after-hours access to facilities, access to financial resources, or
have been otherwise identified by the hiring unit in conjunction with the Office of Legal Affairs to
require a more extensive background investigation).
Offers of employment shall be conditional pending the result of the background investigation, which
shall include, at a minimum, the following:






A state and federal criminal history check covering seven (7) years;
A nationwide sex offender registry search;
A social security number check;
For positions of trust with financial responsibility, a financial report; and
For all professional, faculty and academic positions, an academic credentials check.

Offers of employment for positions of trust may be conditional pending the result of a state and
federal criminal history check covering more than the minimum of seven (7) years. For more
information, please see the Background Investigation Policy and Procedure at:
http://www.gsu.edu/images/HR/BackgroundInvestPolicy.pdf
103.1b Credit Check
Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

23

A criminal background investigation plus credit check will be conducted on final candidate(s) if the
position handles cash, checks or financial information.
If a credit check has been conducted within the last year, a new investigation will not be conducted.
103.1c Drug Testing
Employees holding position(s) considered to be “high risk” shall be subject to random drug testing
for illegal drugs for pre-employment screening, reasonable suspicion, post-accident, and required
random testing. Additionally, an employee who has notified his/her supervisor that he/she has a
drug related problem and maintains employment under the conditions set forth in Section 101.5a
(Drug-Related Disciplinary Actions), shall be subject to random drug testing.
A “high risk” employee is defined as one whose job responsibilities pose a potential for significant
risk or harm to the employee, other employees, or the general public in the event of inattention to
duty or errors in judgment while on duty. This policy also includes law enforcement officers as well
as individuals employed by private organizations which contract with the University to provide
security services. Officers who are engaged full-time in purely administrative or clerical duties are
not considered high risk. Furthermore, applicants for “high risk” positions and employees who have
not previously performed high risk duties shall be required to successfully complete drug testing
prior to being placed in the high risk position.
Random testing is defined as a process in which the names of “high risk” employees to be tested
are chosen purely by lot. Such testing shall not, at any one time, be given to more than one
employee on each work shift who has previously been classified as a “high risk” employee. All
testing will be held in accordance with the procedures used by the State of Georgia, State
Personnel Administration.
All employees shall be subject to drug testing for evidence of use of illegal drugs in cases of
“reasonable suspicion”. Any affected employee may be required to submit to drug testing when
their supervisor has reasonable suspicion to believe that the employee is under the influence of
illegal drugs. The determination of reasonable suspicion shall be made by a supervisor or other
official who is trained to make such determinations. The Chief Human Resources Officer or the
Office of Legal Affairs may also make a determination whether reasonable suspicion exists to
requests an employee take a drug test. With the approval of the Chief Human Resources Officer or
Office of Legal Affairs, the supervisor can require testing after making specific, well-articulated
observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech, or odor of the employee.
Any employee who declines a drug test, or who tests positive for drug use may be terminated from
employment. Any candidate for employment who declines a drug test or who tests positive for drug
use, may have their application removed from consideration for employment with Georgia State
University.
103.1d Skill Proficiency Demonstrations
For certain positions, candidates may be asked to demonstrate proficiency in word processing,
spreadsheet software, data entry, ten key or other job-related skills.
103.2 Conditions of Employment
The following Actions are required of all Employees as a condition of employment.
103.2a Completion of I-9
This form identifies an individual’s legal right to employment in the United States and must be
completed within three days of employment.
103.2b Direct Deposit of Paycheck
All employees of Georgia State University are encouraged to use the automatic payroll deposit
service, which provides for the direct deposit of pay to a participating bank.
103.2c Federal and State Withholding Forms
These documents indicate the amount of federal and state taxes to be withheld by the employer
and must be completed upon employment.
103.2d Benefits Forms Completion

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

24

For benefits eligible employees only: optional benefit forms (for example, health insurance) must be
completed within 31 days of the employee’s original hire date with the University in order to
participate in benefit programs.
103.2e Loyalty Oath
All employees of the University System of Georgia who receive public funds for services rendered
as employees are required to affirm that they will support the Constitution of the United States and
the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
The Loyalty Oath must be completed as required by the laws of the State of Georgia. This form
must be retained in the permanent files of Georgia State University.
103.2f State Security Questionnaire
The State Security Questionnaire must be completed for all persons employed for 30 or more days.
This form will be prepared and filed appropriately by Georgia State University.


The Sedition and Subversive Activities Act of 1953 (Georgia Law 16-11-5 et seq.) requires
each new employee to sign, prior to employment in State Government, a questionnaire
which is designed to establish that there are no reasonable grounds to believe that he/she
is a subversive person. A subversive person is defined as one who commits, advocates,
or teaches any act intended to overthrow or destroy the government of the United States
or government of the State of Georgia by force or violence, or who is a knowing member
of a subversive organization.

103.2g Transcripts
The University may require copies of transcripts to verify education and degrees awarded.
104 Orientation
Orientation is required of all employees. A general orientation program is regularly scheduled for all new regular
classified employees.
The orientation program provides critical information concerning policies, procedures and employee benefits. All new
classified employees are required to attend the orientation program. On the first day of work, new employees will be
scheduled for orientation by the Payroll, Benefits & HRIS Office. In addition to attending the general orientation
program, each new employee should meet with his or her supervisor, who will explain the duties and responsibilities
of the position. Any specific departmental policies, procedures, and regulations will be explained by the supervisor at
that time.
104.1 Identification Card
A new employee will receive a PantherCard (identification card) as soon as his/her payroll information is
added to the automated system. PantherCards can be obtained in the Auxiliary and Support Services Office.
The card is the bearer's official University identification and should be carried at all times. It is to be shown
upon request to any University employee whose assigned responsibilities authorize him/her to verify
employee identification. The card is not transferable and is the property of Georgia State University. It
should be returned to the University upon termination of employment. Loss of a PantherCard should be
reported immediately to the Auxiliary and Support Services Office.
104.2 Duty to Report Criminal Charges/Determinations
Employees have the responsibility to report criminal charges/determinations.
104.2a Criminal charges
An employee of Georgia State University who is charged with a crime (other than a minor traffic
offense and/or local ordinance violation) shall report having been charged to his/her supervisor
within 3 days of becoming aware of such charge. The employee shall report the crime(s) he/she
has been charged with and provide documentation of the charges upon request. Within 3 days of
receiving notice from the employee, the supervisor will contact the Office of Legal Affairs and
Employee Relations so a determination can be made as to what action, if any, is immediately
warranted.
104.2b Criminal Determinations
Within 3 days of the employee receiving a determination of the criminal charges (e.g. charges
dismissed, allowed to plead nolo contendere, found guilty, acquitted), he/she will notify his/her
supervisor and provide documentation of the disposition. Within 3 days of receiving notice from the

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

25

employee, the supervisor will contact the Office of Legal Affairs and Employee Relations so a
determination can be made as to what action, if any, is warranted.
Failure to report under this policy may result in disciplinary action, including termination of
employment.
104.3 Official Forms and Updates
New employees will be asked to fill out information forms for payroll and benefit purposes and will be
responsible for the continuing accuracy of all information, including all criminal actions. If necessary, new
forms may be obtained from Payroll, Benefits & HRIS. Be certain to notify Payroll, Benefits & HRIS of
change of address. To change federal or state withholding, pick up the forms at Payroll, Benefits & HRIS.
104.4 Participation in Teachers Retirement System (TRS), Optional Retirement Plans (ORP) or
Georgia Defined Contribution Plan

When applicable, application for membership in the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia or one
of the Optional Retirement Plans must be made. Employees eligible for the optional retirement
plans have 60 days from their hire date to make an election. This election is irrevocable.

Georgia Defined Contribution Plan (temporary non-student employees and part time instructors)—
the COBRA ’90 legislation contained a provision that all state employees except student employees
must be part of a public retirement system or participate in Social Security during their employment
with Georgia State University. The State of Georgia has created a retirement plan for temporary
employees called the Georgia Defined Contribution Plan to comply with this legislation. When
employment ends with Georgia State University, the temporary employee will be entitled to a
refund of all the contributions made to the plan. Georgia Defined Contribution “Application for
Refund of Contribution Form” is available from Payroll, Benefits & HRIS. Employees terminating
with Georgia State University must complete a refund form in order to get their contribution
refunded from this plan.
105 Provisional Period
105.1 Provisional Period for New Hires, Transfers and Rehires
Each new classified employee is required to serve the first six (6) months of employment at Georgia State
University in a provisional status. During this time, the new employee has the first opportunity to evaluate the
University as a place to work. Likewise, the supervisor will evaluate the employee’s job performance. If the
employee’s work performance is not satisfactory, the employee will be notified in writing during the sixmonth provisional period and the employee may be terminated at that time without the right of appeal.
In the event of an approved leave of greater than thirty (30) days, an equivalent extension of the provisional
period may be granted with the approval of the President or the Assistant Vice President for Human
Resources. An extension should be granted only in exceptional circumstances, and in no instance shall the
provisional period be extended such that the total provisional period would exceed nine (9) months.
University System employees transferring to another University System institution or the University System
Office are subject to a new six (6) month provisional period upon beginning at the new location.
Police Department employees are subject to the same provisional employment requirement as other
classified employees, except that the six month provisional period will not begin until any person employed
as a police officer has completed his/her mandated training for certification as a police officer. This special
provision only applies to those Police Department employees for who specified training is mandated by state
law and such training occurs after their employment.
Employees in the six-month provisional period are eligible for transfer or promotion within the University
during that period only when granted permission by the Dean/Vice President of their current college/division.
Employees who have successfully completed a provisional period and who are transferring to or being
promoted into a new position will not be subject to another provisional period.
Former employees who are rehired will be considered new employees and will have another provisional
period.
105.2 Benefit Status during Provisional Period

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

26

A new hire must be employed on or before the fifteenth of a month to qualify for accrual of vacation/annual
leave for that month. Employees on provisional status, who are otherwise eligible, may enroll in benefit
programs.
106 Reduced Hours and Shift Modifications
Occasionally, due to the needs of the University, employees may be required, with sufficient notification, to reduce
their hours worked per week. In these instances, the employee will be given a two-week notice when possible.
107 Termination Guidelines
107.1 Clearance/Exit interview
Employees who are terminating employment must complete the Georgia State University clearance process.
It is the responsibility of the employee to assure the University that he or she does not have any outstanding
obligations to various departments on campus. This process is normally completed on the last working day.
A terminating employee must obtain a Termination Clearance form from their department or from Payroll,
Benefits & HRIS.
When notified of termination, the employee must return all University property and must leave the University
premises by the date specified. See Termination Clearance under Resignation.
A representative from each department listed on the form must sign to indicate that the employee has no
outstanding obligations. If the employee owes money to the University, Georgia State is authorized to hold
accrued vacation pay to cover the obligation. Important: if the employee does not complete the clearance
process, any regular pay and vacation pay that is due the employee may be delayed.
By 4:00 pm on the last day of work, the employee should report in person with the completed Termination
Clearance form, and final timesheets or Report of Absence form to Payroll, Benefits & HRIS for clearance
from the University. Completion of the automated exit interview should occur at this time. A final paycheck
will be mailed or deposited directly into the terminated employee’s account.
107.2 Involuntary Termination
Staff employees may be terminated for cause. Georgia State University encourages all supervisors to follow
the progressive discipline process; however, there are certain offenses that warrant immediate termination.
Those offenses should be discussed with employees by their supervisor. When notified of termination, the
employee must return all University property and must leave the University premises by the date specified.
See Clearance/Exit Interview.
107.3 Reductions in Force (RIF)
Should it become necessary to reduce the work force at the University, job eliminations or job consolidation
may be required. When personnel reductions become necessary, affected employees will be given 90 days
notice when possible so that they may seek employment elsewhere within or outside of Georgia State
University. For more information, please see the Reduction in Force Policy at:
http://www.gsu.edu/hr/31338.html
Classified employees who are terminated, demoted or otherwise adversely affected by reorganization,
redirection, program modification or financial exigency, as approved or determined by the University
president or designee, are not governed by the procedures described in the Grievance Process.
107.4 Rehire after Termination
Former employees who are terminated for cause are generally not eligible for rehire. However, former
employees who were terminated for cause may request the Assistant Vice President of Human Resources
to review the case and determine eligibility for rehire six months from the effective date of the termination.
The Assistant Vice President’s decision will be rendered after a review of the employee’s work records at the
University and other information as deemed appropriate.
107.5 Resignation
Resignation is voluntary relinquishment of employment by an employee. An employee should submit written
notification of termination a minimum of two weeks prior to his or her last day worked. Before leaving, the
employee must return all University property including keys, I.D. cards, etc. Employees who resign for any
reason are requested to give as much notice as possible. See Clearance/Exit Interview.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

27

107.6 Retirement
No staff member may be required to retire because of age.
The requirements for retirement under TRS can be found in the Board of Regents Policy Manual, Section
8.2.8. Employees planning retirement are encouraged to discuss their plans with representatives in the
Benefits Office well in advance of their planned retirement dates.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

28

(SECTION 200)
CLASSIFICATION AND COMPENSATION/ PAYROLL

201 Compensation
Georgia State University’s uniform classification and compensation program for classified staff employees is
administered by the Classification and Compensation Office in the Department of Human Resources. The program
consists of a General Pay Plan and Broadband Structure that are designed to group positions that have similar
duties, levels of responsibility, skills, and educational requirements into the same general levels of pay. It also
consists of a few unclassified job titles that are not assigned to a specific compensation level or pay rate. The pay
rates for each job title are determined by the knowledge, training, skills and level of responsibility assigned to that
position. In addition, every effort is made to ensure equitable salary ranges are in keeping with other universities in
the University System of Georgia and similar positions in the local, regional and national markets.
202 BCat Classification System
The BCat system is based on general job categories that are linked to the Federal Integrated Post-secondary
Education and Data System (IPEDS) job classifications. Every employee’s job title is assigned a specific BCat
Identification code. The BCat system uses a logic that assembles similar types of positions by function allowing
institutions to “customize” their campus working titles and to build compensation programs appropriate to their
own competitive job markets.
203 Pay Plan/Salary Structure
203.1 Broadband Structure
The Broadband Structure places Director level job titles into a series of broad pay "bands," and "zones"
within those bands. The Broadband Structure allows for certain flexibility as required to meet market
competitive salary demands, particularly for positions that might be recruited regionally or nationally.
203.2 General Pay Plan
The General Pay Plan consists of pay grades which provide a means for the University to group comparable
positions together into common ranges of pay, based on job scope, complexity and other factors. The
salaries for similar positions should fall within a designated range, or Pay Grade. The ranges overlap, but
each range specifies three guide points:
A Minimum (all individuals would expect to make at least this pay level)

A Midpoint (a benchmark to the external market for similar positions)

A Maximum (the most that someone would expect to make for a position at a particular pay level)
203.3 Employment Classification
All employee job titles at Georgia State University are assigned a Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) status
either exempt or non-exempt.
203.3a Exempt
Exempt status is assigned to positions that are not eligible for overtime pay as defined by the Fair
Labor Standards Act (FLSA). Employees in executive, administrative, and professional positions
are typically exempt under the FLSA and are paid a designated salary, regardless of the number of
hours they might work in a week. Such positions are hence “exempt” from the FLSA. Exempt
employees are not entitled to additional pay or compensatory time off for hours worked in excess of
40 hours in a given work week. Any schedule adjustments for an exempt employee must be
approved by his/her immediate supervisor.
203.3b Non-Exempt
Non-exempt employees are subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and
are eligible to be compensated for hours worked in excess of 40 per week. Employees that are
assigned non-exempt status must complete timesheets and be paid on an hourly basis for all hours
worked over 40 in a workweek. If a non-exempt employee works more than 40 hours in the
workweek, they must be paid overtime at a rate of time-and-a-half. OVERTIME MUST BE
APPROVED IN ADVANCE BY THE SUPERVISOR, SUPERVISOR'S DESIGNEE, OR
DEPARTMENT HEAD. Failure to get over time approved may result in disciplinary action up to and
including termination.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

29

204 Employment Opportunities Posting
The Office of Employment, Department of Human Resources, posts the Job Opportunity Bulletin Board, which is a
current listing of classified and temporary position vacancies. Employees are encouraged to use the bulletin board as
a resource for potential promotion or transfer opportunities. Interested employees should consult the printed Job
Opportunity Bulletin Board located in the Employment Office. The bulletin can be accessed online at
www.gsu.edu/jobs.
A posted position may specify that it is restricted to applicants within the Georgia State University community.
Such a vacancy will be indicated as for “internal applicants only”. Internal applicants include regular classified
staff only and do not include temporary staff. If a position holds a title that has been identified in the Georgia
State University Affirmative Action Plan as underutilized by minorities or women, the vacancy must be posted
externally. If a position is not deemed to be underutilized, the hiring manager may select either internal (only
regular staff members may apply) or external recruitment (anyone can apply).
205 Minimum Hiring Standards
Minimum Hiring Standards (or MHS) are intended to help ensure comparable basic hiring standards for
comparable positions across campus. A MHS is the minimum threshold of education and experience required to
perform a given job. An individual with an education level and/or experience below the stated MHS for a job title
is not considered minimally "qualified" for the position, and is not referred by the Employment Office to a hiring
department.
205.1 New Hire
The salaries of new employees are set based on the classification of the position, the salaries paid in the
market, and the applicant's education, skills, and previous related experience. When an individual meets the
minimum qualifications of the position, the salary is normally set at the minimum of the salary range.
However, if an individual has directly related prior job experience, or if the market warrants, the salary may
be established above the minimum. Starting salaries are not normally set above the midpoint of the salary
range. Exceptions to this practice must be approved by the Office of Classification and Compensation.
205.2 Promotion
Salary advancement and promotions will be based on merit. A promotion is the shift of an employee from
one job title or position to another having more responsible duties or involving more skill (higher
classification). To be promoted, the employee must meet the minimum job qualifications or MHS required by
the new job title or position.
Employees can only be promoted in place during the fiscal year as a result of significant changes in
assigned duties, the organizational structure, mission, or funding of the department/project. The supervisor
is responsible for completing all of the necessary paperwork for this action. Any promotion to a vacant
position within the same budgetary unit cannot be made without advertising the position via the Job
Opportunity Bulletin.
The salary increase for unadvertised promotions should be at least the minimum of the pay grade assigned
to the position. The salary should not exceed the midpoint of the pay grade assigned to the new position.
Employees in the six-month provisional period are eligible for promotion only when granted written
permission by the Dean/Vice President of the employee’s area.
205.3 Transfer
An internal transfer is the movement of an employee from one position to another within the University. All
vacant positions must be formally advertised through the Office of Employment. A formal recruitment
process will be required to fill all vacant staff positions.
Employees in the six-month provisional period are eligible for transfer within the University under the
following circumstances:

When granted written permission by the Dean/Vice President.

When an employee of the University System transfers from one institution to another within the
system.
All accumulated sick leave, retirement benefits and service date will be transferred if there is no break in
service and the effective date may not be a holiday.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

30

Utilization or transfer of accrued vacation leave will be based upon Board of Regents policy. Transferring
employees should notify the hiring official of the intent to transfer eligible benefits and service date.
Employees transferring to or from a State of Georgia or other institution in the University System of Georgia
should consult with Payroll, Benefits, and HRIS regarding the transfer of their benefits.
205.4 Employment in Multiple Positions
Employees of Georgia State University may be employed in only one full-time position or classification within
the University System of Georgia at any given time. If an employee wishes to accept another position in
addition to a current position at the University or within the University System of Georgia, the following rules
will apply:

The combined work time for both positions cannot exceed 100 percent of full time status

(or 40 hours per week).

Both positions must be the same FLSA classification, either exempt or non-exempt.

Acceptance of the second position must be approved by the employee’s department head and
the Assistant Vice President of Human Resources or designee.
Questions concerning specific circumstances should be directed to the Payroll, Benefits, and HRIS Office in
the Department of Human Resources for more detailed information.
206 Pay Adjustments
206.1 Merit Increases
The University recognizes and rewards individual performance by awarding merit increases. The funds
available for merit increases vary from year to year depending upon budgetary constraints set by state
legislators, the University System of Georgia, and identified marketplace and economic conditions. The
University System of Georgia develops merit increase guidelines which establish ranges for individual merit
increases based on performance criteria. Individual departments and supervisors designate how merit
increases will be awarded to employees.
206.2 Promotion
A promotion is an authorized reassignment from one position to another position in a higher salary grade.
Upon promotion, an employee is eligible for a salary increase. Promotion increases are determined on an
individual-case basis within guidelines.
The salary increase for unadvertised promotions should be at least the minimum of the pay grade assigned
to the position. The salary should not exceed the midpoint of the pay grade assigned to the new position.
206.3 Stipend
Additional compensation is appropriate when an individual is assigned, in writing, a major component of a
job at a higher pay grade and is held accountable for the full scope of the job on a temporary basis in the
absence of another member of the organization. All employees are expected to fill in for their co-workers
during vacations and other short-term absences. The supervisor should determine if a stipend or additional
temporary compensation is warranted. The amount of temporary compensation or a stipend should typically
be up to 10% of the employee's current base salary. Requests for additional compensation must be made in
advance and in writing to the Office of Compensation and Classification in the Department of Human
Resources. Stipends generally should not continue for more than 12 months. Stipend Request Forms are
available at: http://www2.gsu.edu/~wwwhre/forms/StipendRequestForm.doc and
http://www.gsu.edu/images/HR/StipendRequestForm.pdf.
If a position has changed over time or if substantive duties have been assumed that are beyond the scope of
what is generally considered for a the position, the supervisor in collaboration with the incumbent should
complete a Position Review Form (PRF). The PRF should be submitted for review to the Office of
Compensation and Classification in the Department of Human Resources for review. The position should
also be submitted to Payroll, Benefits, and HRIS for review. Stipend Request Forms are available at:
http://www2.gsu.edu/~wwwhre/forms/StipendRequestForm.doc
206.4 Lateral Transfer
A lateral transfer is defined as a movement from one position to another at the same pay grade. A lateral
transfer should not result in a change in salary since the assignments are in the same pay grade with the
same salary range. There are, however, certain rare situations that may justify salary adjustments, which
must be requested in writing and approved in advance by the Classification and Compensation Office.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

31

206.5 Demotion
A demotion is defined as a reassignment from one position to another position at a lower pay grade or salary
range. A demotion can also be defined as a reassignment of duties to a lower level of pay or responsibility
even if there is not a change in the employee’s job title or position.
Involuntary demotions may occur if work is eliminated, abolished or reorganized, as a disciplinary action or if
a staff member is unable to perform the work satisfactorily. The salary or pay grade for an individual who is
involuntarily reassigned will be established by the Office of Classification and Compensation in the
Department of Human Resources. In no case will the salary exceed the maximum of the new grade.
207 Job Evaluation Process
The University’s job evaluation process is designed to maintain consistency in the utilization of various job titles.
This process ensures that employees performing similar duties have the same or similar job titles with corresponding
pay levels. The job evaluation process requires a comparative analysis of a position to determine if the current
classification and/or compensation levels are appropriate. The job evaluation process also includes the review of
required knowledge, skills and abilities needed to perform duties assigned to a position. A review of current market
data may be required during the job evaluation process as a means of obtaining the University’s goals in:

Attracting and retaining qualified individuals by matching job skills with the assigned position

Ensuring that internal and external equity issues are addressed

Encouraging professional growth for employees

Recognizing necessary knowledge and skills required for a position and ensuring that the employee is
appropriately compensated for performing them
207.1 Position Review Form (PRF)
The Position Review Form (PRF) is the job evaluation instrument used for position reviews. The PRF must
be submitted to the Classification and Compensation Office whenever a formal review of a position is
requested by a department. This form is used to:

Classify a new position

Review a vacant position

Review incumbent position for update of duties

Any other reviews (i.e. FLSA review, market analysis, etc.)
The Position Review Form (PRF) is located on the Human Resources web site:
http://www2.gsu.edu/~wwwhre/forms/PositionReviewForm.doc
207.2 Job Analysis and Job Audit
Generally, a position only needs to be reviewed if its duties have changed significantly over time or if
substantive new duties have been assumed that are beyond the scope of what generally might be expected
for a position with that title.
If an employee believes their position should be reviewed for reclassification, the employee should discuss
the possibility with their immediate supervisor and/or the Human Resources Advisory Council (HRAC)
representative. If the manager or HRAC representative concurs, a PRF should be submitted to the
Classification and Compensation Department. Employees may be asked or may offer to help describe the
duties they perform so that their manager can fully reflect the current scope of their responsibilities in the
PRF.
The Classification and Compensation Office in Human Resources will review the information provided, and
make any recommendations to the manager or to the designated HRAC representative of the college or
division.
208 Administrative Salary Adjustments
Certain rare and exceptional circumstances may occur from time to time that warrant special salary adjustments.
Such adjustments are not part of the normal compensation plan for staff. Requests for special salary adjustments
must be sent in writing to the Classification and Compensation Office in the Human Resources Department.
209 Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)
The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) is a group of federal rules and regulations that determine eligibility for
overtime pay. In August 2004, major changes to these rules and regulations were implemented by the
Department of Labor (DOL). Generally under FLSA, if you perform duties that do not meet one of the exemption
tests developed by the DOL, your position is classified as non-exempt or “NE,” and you are eligible for overtime
pay. However, if you perform duties that meet one of the exemption tests developed by the DOL, your position is
classified as exempt or “E” and you are not eligible for overtime pay per the FLSA guidelines.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

32

209.1 Overtime Pay
Overtime pay is calculated at one and a half times your regular rate of pay. Overtime pay is applicable for
hours worked in excess of 40 in a work week.
210 Stipend or Additional Pay for Interim/Acting Appointment
The duties of all jobs evolve over time. Assuming a new task, responsibility, or special-project generally does not
warrant a pay adjustment. However, there are certain situations in which a temporary stipend may be appropriate.
For example, if a supervisory-level position becomes vacant, and a subordinate employee is asked to assume the
duties of the higher-level position on an interim basis until the position is filled, a stipend may be justified. Such a
stipend generally should not continue for more than 12 months.
211 Deductions
211.1 Payroll Deductions
Each employee’s paycheck will have specific deductions as required by law, Georgia State University’s
Regulation, and/or at the employee’s request as listed below.
211.2 Required Deductions

Federal and State Income Taxes

Social Security (FICA), if applicable

Teachers Retirement System Contributions or Optional Retirement Plan
Contributions.

Georgia Defined Contribution
211.3 Optional Deductions (This list is not all inclusive):

Credit Union savings or loan payments

Parking

State Charitable Contributions Program

U.S. Savings Bonds

Tax-Sheltered Annuity contributions under 403(b) of Internal Revenue Code

457 Deferred Compensation Plan

Insurance premiums

Annual Fund campaign gifts

Dependent Care Spending Account contributions

Flexible Medical Spending Account contributions

Recreation Center membership fee
All temporary employees are exempt from Teacher Retirement System contributions and Optional
Retirement Plan contributions and are not eligible for insurance benefits, but do participate in Georgia
Defined Plan contributions. Regular employees working less than half time are not eligible for insurance or
retirement benefits.
212 Garnishments and Withholding
The University considers the acceptance and settlement of just and honest debt to be a mark of personal responsibility.
The University is required by law to accept and process garnishments served by officials of the court. Failure to meet
financial obligations causes discredit to the University. Repeated instances of default in the payment of debt, after
appropriate counseling, are sufficient grounds to terminate employment for cause. The University is authorized to hold
paychecks and/or deduct from regular paychecks or vacation pay amounts owed by its employees for any fine, fee,
penalty or other financial obligation to the institution.
213 Pay Periods
213.1 Timesheets
Provisions of the Fair Labor and Standards Act require that non-exempt employees record and submit a
timesheet as a record of the hours worked per workweek per pay period. The official workweek for all
nonexempt employees begins at 12:00 a.m. Saturday morning and ends at 11:59 p.m. Friday evening.
Timesheets must reflect hours worked for each work week of the pay period and should include all absences
taken in the pay period.
Blank timesheets are located at the Department of Human Resources website under HR Forms. Timesheets
must be filled out completely by the employee and signed by the employee and the supervisor. The supervisor

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

33

is responsible for submitting the timesheets to Payroll and ensuring that the employee’s and supervisor’s
signatures are on the document.
Falsification of or failure to complete timesheets may result in failure to get paid and/or disciplinary action up
to and including termination.
ALL TIME RECORDS MUST BE SIGNED BY BOTH AN AUTHORIZED REVIEWING AUTHORITY AND
THE EMPLOYEE.
213.2 Paychecks
Non-exempt staff bi-weekly and variable staff are compensated for all hours worked every other Friday through
midnight the Friday before payday.
Exempt staff (monthly staff) are compensated on the last day of each month.
213.3 Direct Deposit
All employees of Georgia State University are encouraged to use the automatic payroll deposit service,
which provides for the direct deposit of pay to a participating bank. Employees using direct deposit are
required to complete an Authorization Agreement for Automatic Deposit of Net Pay form available in the
Payroll, Benefits, and HRIS Office.
If you do not have or are unable to obtain a bank account for direct deposit, please contact the Payroll, Benefits,
and HRIS Office.
213.4 Report of Absence
Exempt employees should report all absences from duty in ADP. If an absence occurs after the 20 th day of
the month, the employee must complete a Report of Absence form for all absences from duty. This form must
be signed by the employee and supervisor and filed with the Office of Payroll and Employee Records,
Department of Human Resources by the tenth day of the following calendar month. Report of Absence for
non-exempt employees should also be reported on their timesheets.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

34

(SECTION 300)
BENEFITS

301 General Benefits Information
Georgia State University offers eligible employees the opportunity to participate in various benefit plans provided by
the Board of Regents and/or Georgia State University, which includes but is not limited to health insurance, dental
insurance, vision insurance, life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, disability income
insurance, term life insurance, dependent life insurance, flexible spending accounts, and retirement plans. The
University contributes toward the premiums for health and basic life insurance and matches mandatory retirement
contributions based upon terms set by the Georgia Legislature and Teachers Retirement System of Georgia.
The Benefits Office provides each eligible employee with complete descriptions and comparisons of the available
benefit plans, along with the respective monthly premiums. For specific information on the available benefit plans,
please refer to the Human Resources, Benefits Office webpage at: http://www.gsu.edu/hr/benefits.html.
302 Benefits Eligibility
To be considered "benefits-eligible", an individual must be appointed to a regular faculty or staff position that has
an anticipated duration of greater than six months, and is at least half-time (.5 EFT for staff and .38 EFT for academic
year faculty). Benefits-eligible faculty and staff may cover their spouses and eligible dependent children.
302.1 New Employees
New benefits-eligible employees may enroll in available benefit plans within the first 30 days of employment.
Employees who do not enroll in benefit plans within the first 30 days of employment will be subjected to a
medical underwriting review and approval.
302.2 Eligible Dependents
Eligible dependents include the spouse and dependent children up to age 19 (up to age 26 with proof that
the dependent is either disabled or is enrolled at an accredited institution as a full-time student). If the
spouse or dependents’ last name is different from the employee’s, it is required that the employee present a
marriage license, birth certificate, or other documentation establishing a dependent relationship as a
condition of their coverage.
302.3 Domestic Partners
Domestic partners of employees are eligible to enroll in certain benefit plans offered by Georgia State
University. An affidavit of domestic partnership is required and is available from the Department of Human
Resources, Benefits Office. Please refer to the Georgia State University Human Resources website:
http://www.gsu.edu/hr/31423.html for the affidavit.
303 Health Insurance
New employees who are benefits-eligible have 30 days from their date of hire to select a medical plan for themselves
and any eligible dependents. During the Open Enrollment period, employees may change their healthcare plan
elections and/or levels of coverage. The University shares in the cost of health insurance. Medical premiums are
withheld from the payroll check on a pre-tax basis.
304 Dental Insurance
The University offers two voluntary dental programs (under Georgia State University or the Board of Regents) for all
eligible employees. The employee pays 100% of the monthly insurance premium and the premium is withheld from
the payroll check on a pre-tax basis.
305 Accident Insurance
All benefits-eligible employees under age 70 can enroll in accidental death and dismemberment insurance. The
employee pays 100% of the monthly insurance premium and the premium is withheld from the payroll check on a
post-tax basis.
306 Life Insurance
306.1 Group Life Insurance
The University provides $25,000 of basic life insurance for all eligible employees at no cost.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

35

306.2 Supplemental Life Insurance
Eligible employees may purchase supplemental life insurance in increments of 1, 2, or 3 times their annual
salary. The premiums are based on the age of the insured and the amount of coverage selected. This is
optional coverage and is paid by the employee on a post-tax basis. Upon retirement, the maximum amount
of coverage for supplemental life insurance is $40,000.
306.3 Dependent Life Insurance
Eligible employees may also insure their dependents (spouse & children). All dependents are insured for
$10,000 each between the ages of six months and 19 - 26 (if they are unmarried, full-time students at an
accredited institution).
306.4 Optional Term Life Insurance
Eligible employees may choose $10,000 to $100,000 as their initial guaranteed amount. Requests above
guaranteed amounts are subject to underwriting approval.
307 Disability Insurance
Eligible employees may participate in long-term and/or short-term disability insurance. These plans allow employees
to receive 60% of their salary (up to the established plan maximum) if ill, injured, and unable to perform their current
job duties. An enrollment request, after initial eligibility, requires medical underwriting review and approval.
308 Flexible Spending Accounts
These programs allow individuals to set aside funds on a pre-tax basis for certain healthcare, dependent care, and
transportation related expenses.
308.1 Healthcare Spending Account
The healthcare reimbursement account may be used to cover the out of pocket costs of medical, dental, and
vision related expenses. Any unspent funds left in the account after the end of the plan year must be
forfeited. This program requires annual re-enrollment.
308.2 Dependent Care Spending Account
The dependent care reimbursement account may be used to cover the cost of qualifying childcare, eldercare, or care of other legal dependents. IRS maximum election limits combined for both parents cannot
exceed $5000 in a plan year. Any unspent funds left in the account after the end of the plan year must be
forfeited. This program requires annual re-enrollment.
308.3 Transportation and Parking Spending Account
This allows eligible employees to pay for work-related transportation costs on a pre-tax basis. Enrollment in
this program is on a month-to-month basis and automatically continues into the next plan year.
309 Health Savings Account
This is a tax advantage account established to pay for qualified medical, dental, and vision expenses. An employee
must be enrolled in a high deductible health plan (HDHP). Any employee not covered by any other health plan that is
not an HDHP and is not currently enrolled in Medicare is eligible. Any unused funds are accumulated in the account
toward future expenses (i.e. this is not a ‘use it or lose it plan’). Maximum contributions are set annually according to
IRS guidelines.
310 Section 125 Plan
Georgia State University participates in a Section 125 Plan as authorized by the Internal Revenue Code. Employee
health, dental, vision, and flexible spending account premiums are deducted on a pre-tax basis and are not subject to
federal tax, state tax, or FICA. Choices made upon initial employment or during the open enrollment remain in effect
for the plan year unless there is a mid-year qualifying event.
The annual open enrollment period normally occurs during the month of October or November with coverage dates
effective January 1 of the following calendar year.
310.1 Qualifying Events for Mid-Year Changes
The IRS regulation, under Section 125, has rules regarding the operation of these plans. Exceptions are
permitted under IRS rules when a member has a mid-year qualifying event. Employees are required to make
the election change and submit documentation to the Benefits Office within 30 days of the qualifying event
which includes:


Change in marital status

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

36








Birth or adoption of a child
Death of a covered dependent
Loss of eligibility status by a covered dependent
Change in employment status that affects eligibility for coverage
Losing or gaining healthcare coverage eligibility under Medicare or Medicaid
Change in residence to a location outside of a healthcare plan’s service

Any benefits enrolled in on a pre-tax basis may not be cancelled until Open Enrollment to be effective the
end of a calendar year, unless the change is due to the IRS regulation qualifying events listed above.
310.2 Transfer of Benefits to Another Unit within the University System of Georgia
To transfer benefits to another unit of the University System of Georgia (USG), the employee must notify the
current institution at the time of clearance that they will be transferring to another unit of the University
System of Georgia. In addition, there must not be a break in service of more than 30 days. Benefit plans that
are consistent between the USG Institutions will transfer. Plans which are unique to Georgia State University
may not be transferred to an employee’s new employment. Plans unique to a given USG Institution are not
transferable.
When the external transfer occurs with no break in service, an employee must transfer accrued vacation
leave of between one (1) and twenty (20) days. For employees with accrued vacation leave of greater than
twenty (20) days, the employee may elect one of the following options:


Transfer of the total accrued vacation balance, not to exceed forty-five (45) days;



Payment by the institution from which the employee is moving of accrued vacation leave
greater than twenty (20) days. The total accrued vacation leave for which the employee
may be paid shall not exceed twenty-five (25) days; or



The transferring employee will restart the provisional period at the new location effective
on the first day of employment and serve his/her first six (6) months in a provisional
status, subject to all terms and conditions of the provisional period policy.

310.3 Transfer of Benefits from State Agency to University System of Georgia Institution
For more information please visit: http://www.usg.edu/hr/manual/transfers/.
311 Continuing Benefit Plans at Termination
Benefits remain intact until the last day of the month in which the employee terminates. Applicable premiums must be
paid. The cost for COBRA for employees and/or dependents is 100% of the total premium, plus a 2% administrative
fee. Employees are offered continued coverage under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act
(COBRA) for up to 18 months. In special instances, the 18-month period may be extended. The election period and
duration of coverage is outlined in the official notice sent by vendor to the former employee’s home address.
311.1 COBRA Disabled Status
If a qualified beneficiary is determined to be disabled under Title II or XVI of the Social Security Act at the
time employment ends, the qualified beneficiary may elect continuation for up to twenty-nine (29) months.
311.2 COBRA Dependents
Dependents who lose eligibility may continue coverage for thirty-six (36) months.
312 Georgia Higher Education Savings Plan (Path2College529)
The Georgia Higher Education Savings Plan (known as a 529 Plan) is administered by TIAA-CREF in the State of
Georgia. It allows employees to set aside money for higher education expenses - for designated beneficiaries. For
plan details visit http://www.path2college529.com/index.html
313 Tuition Assistance Program (TAP)
The Tuition Assistance Program is available to full-time, benefits-eligible employees of the University System of
Georgia. This program allows employees to gain further knowledge in their current position or seek to expand into
any academic area within the university system. An employee may receive a degree at any level from a bachelor’s to
a PhD. For plan details visit: http://www.usg.edu/hr/benefits/tuition_assistance_program_tap/.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

37

314 Professional Liability Insurance
The University, as a unit of the University System of Georgia, provides limited liability insurance protection to its
employees while in the conduct of business for the University. This insurance covers employees’ legal liability
to others for personal or bodily injury and property damage resulting from actions or inactions of an employee of
the University System of Georgia who is acting within the scope of his or her employment. The Office of the Attorney
General will defend the employee from such claims under most circumstances.
315 Retirement Plans
Georgia law requires membership in the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia (TRS) or the Board of Regents
Optional Retirement Plan (ORP). Membership in these plans is based upon exempt or non-exempt work status.
315.1 Social Security
Terms, conditions, requirements, reservations, benefits, privileges, and other conditions of Title II of the
Social Security Act, as amended, apply to all officers and employees of the University System except those
specifically excluded under the agreements with the Employee Retirement System of Georgia.
315.1a Employees Covered by Social Security
All employees eligible for the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia and Optional Retirement
Plans are covered by Social Security.
315.1b Employees Not Covered by Social Security
Non-resident aliens may be exempt, in accordance with their visas. All non-resident aliens are
required to undergo a tax analysis prior to claiming exemption from Social Security.
315.2 Teachers Retirement System of Georgia
The Teachers Retirement System of Georgia (TRS) is a defined benefit plan. All regular employees who are
under age 60 and who work 1/2 time or more are eligible. The employee’s contribution to TRS is 5.53% of
gross salary effective July 1, 2010 of the fiscal calendar year and is subject to change at any time without
notice. Employee contributions are deducted from salary before federal and state income taxes (pre-tax
dollars) are paid on contributions. Employees who leave the University before retirement are advised to
investigate their options regarding the TRS funds. For plan details and account login information visit:
http://www.trsga.com/.
315.2a Vesting
Vesting in TRS is the right to a retirement benefit after 10 years of creditable service and
attainment of age 60, provided the TRS contributions have not been withdrawn. For further plan
details visit: http://www.trsga.com and click on Publications.
315.2b Eligibility for Retirement
Eligibility for retirement is governed by the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia and the Board
of Regents. See section 8.2.8 in the Board of Regents Policy Manual at:
http://www.usg.edu/policymanual/section8/policy/8.2.8_retirement/
315.2c Disability Retirement
Permanent disability retirement is available at any age, if the member has at least 9 1/2 years of
service. Contact the Benefits Office for further details.
315.3 Optional Retirement Plan (Regents Retirement Plan)
The Optional Retirement Plan (ORP) is available to exempt employees hired after June 30, 2008.
Employee contributions are deducted from salary before federal and state income taxes (pre-tax dollars) are
paid on the contributions. Employees eligible for ORP have 60 days from their hire date to make an
election. This election is irrevocable.
315.3a Vesting
Vesting in ORP is immediate. This includes the employee and the employer’s contribution.
315.3b Eligibility for Retirement
See section 8.2.8 Retirement in the Board of Regents Policy Manual at:
http://www.usg.edu/policymanual/section8/policy/8.2.8_retirement/ for a complete description of all
covered employment situations.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

38

315.4 Voluntary Supplemental Retirement Accounts
Employees are eligible for two types of voluntary retirement programs: 1) a 403b tax sheltered annuity plan
and 2) a 457 deferred compensation plan. These programs allow employees to set aside additional funds for
retirement on a pre-tax basis. IRS mandated annual contribution limits are set on a calendar basis.
Employees may participate in both the 403(b) and the 457 maximum plan allowances.
316 Appealing Denied Benefit Claims
Denied benefit claims must be contested directly through the Benefits Office.
317 Employment After Retirement
When an employee has retired from the University System of Georgia, he/she may be re-employed by the University
System under the following conditions:

The re-employment of a University System of Georgia retiree must be approved by the
Provost’s Office;

A rehired retiree must have a minimum break of 30 days between the effective date of
his/her retirement and the effective date of his/her reemployment; and

The salary must be less than half-time (i.e. 49% or less).
For specific information on employment beyond retirement for the University System, see section 8.2.8.3
Employment Beyond Retirement in the Board of Regents Policy Manual at:
http://www.usg.edu/policymanual/section8/policy/8.2_general_policies_for_all_personnel/#p8.2.8_retirement

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

39

(SECTION 400)
VACATION, SICK LEAVE AND LEAVE OF ABSENCE

401 Time-Off Benefits
Time-off benefits are provided to eligible employees of the University for a variety of reasons, including rest and
enjoyment, jury/witness duty, illness, etc. The University has designed a comprehensive time-off benefits program.
Vacation and sick leave are not accrued while in an unpaid leave status.
401.1 Holidays
Georgia State University observes the following 12 official paid holidays each year. An exact schedule of these
holidays is published each year by the University administration. This schedule can be found at:
http://www.gsu.edu/hr/31413.html. Student assistants, graduate assistants, part-time instructors, and temporary
non-students are not eligible to receive holiday pay.









New Year’s Day
Martin Luther King Jr. Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day
Friday following Thanksgiving
Five days Winter Holiday

These holidays are observed in accordance with the rules and regulations set forth by the University. To receive
pay for the holidays, an employee must be in pay status either the day before or the day after the holiday. A
terminating employee will not be paid for any official holiday occurring after the last working day of his or her
employment.
401.2 Vacation
Vacation time must be approved in advance by the supervisor before it may be taken.
401.2a Eligibility
Regular, full-time and part-time benefits-eligible employees are eligible to accrue vacation hours.
Full-time employees accrue 10 hours vacation per month for the first five years of employment.
After the completion of the 5th year of service, vacation will accrue at 12 hours per month.
Employees with 10 or more years of service will accrue at 14 hours per month.
Regular Employees working at least one-half time but less than full time earn and accrue vacation
hours in an equivalent ratio to their percentage of time employed.
An employee must be hired on or before the 15th of the month to accrue leave for that month.
Leave is accrued on the last working day of the month.
401.2b Carryover of Unused Vacation Days
On December 31 of each calendar year, each employee's leave record shall be adjusted to reflect
no more than 45 days (360 hours) of accrued vacation/vacation.
401.2c Terminal Vacation Pay
All unused, accrued vacation/vacation, not to exceed 45 days (360 hours), shall be paid to an
employee upon his/her termination from employment or retirement. If any portion of an employee’s
compensation is funded by a grant or other funding sources, the terms set forth by the grant or
funding partner will determine if the payout of vacation hours is permitted
402 Sick Leave
402.1 Eligibility
Regular, full-time and part-time benefits-eligible employees are eligible to accrue sick leave hours. Full-time
employees accrue 8 hours of sick leave per month. Sick leave may be granted at the discretion of the
institution and upon approval by the supervisor for an employee's absence for any of the following reasons:

Illness or injury of the employee;

Medical and dental treatment or consultation;

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

40




Quarantine due to a contagious illness in the employee's household; or
Illness, injury, or death in the employee's immediate family requiring the employee's presence.

Employees are not to perform University related tasks while on sick leave.
402.2 Annual Allowance and Accumulation
For all benefits eligible, full-time employees, sick leave shall be accumulated at the rate of eight hours
per day per calendar month of service.
Benefits eligible will accumulate sick leave in an equivalent ratio to their percentage of time employed.
Sick leave for employees shall be cumulative.
402.3 Reporting Absences Due to Illness
Employees are expected to report all absences due to illness or injury directly to their supervisors or
department heads as soon as possible and should indicate probable length of absence so that schedule
adjustments may be made. All leave must be entered on e-Time and amended on historical edits for
processing and input.
402.4 Licensed Physician’s Statement
If an employee is out of work due to illness or care of an ill relative for more than five consecutive
business days, a physician's statement is required covering the dates of absence upon return to work.
Under some circumstances, supervisors may require an employee to provide a physician’s statement
for sick leave absences for less than five days.
402.5 Return to Work Certification
Return to Work Certification may also be requested of employees returning from FMLA leave.
402.6 Donated Sick Leave Pool
The purpose of the Donated Leave Program is to provide a means for University employees to donate
paid sick leave to a leave pool. The pool of donated leave is available to be used by fellow University
employees who are eligible for and require leave while experiencing a life-threatening or emergency
medical condition.
402.7 Sick Leave without Pay
Any employee unable to return to work after exhausting all accumulated sick leave and accrued
vacation leave may request sick leave without pay for a period not to exceed one year. This additional
sick leave without pay may be granted at the discretion of the department.
If additional sick leave is approved by the department, the employee will have the option to continue his
or her group insurance benefits while on sick leave. The institution will continue to pay its share of the
cost for such period, but the employee must continue to pay his or her share of premiums.
Upon return from approved, unpaid sick leave, the employee will be restored to his or her original
position, or to an equivalent job with equivalent pay, benefits, and other employment terms and
conditions. Georgia State University cannot guarantee that an employee will be returned to his or her
original job. Should an employee be unable to return to work after being granted sick leave without pay
for one year, the employee will be terminated.
402.8 Terminating Sick Leave
A terminating employee shall not be paid for any sick leave earned but not taken. However, employees
retiring may use accumulated sick leave to earn additional creditable service time with Teachers
Retirement System of Georgia (TRS).
403 Workers’ Compensation
All University employees are covered by the State of Georgia Workers’ Compensation Law,
(http://www.files.georgia.gov/SBWC/Files/Rules2010.pdf ) which may provide medical and income benefits if you are
injured on the job. Workers' Compensation also provides benefits to your dependents if you die as the result of a job
related illness or injury.
403.1 Work Related Injuries
In the event of an injury while performing job duties, the employee should immediately report the injury to the
supervisor or supervisor’s designee. It is the supervisor (or designated alternative) who is responsible for
Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

41

reporting employee injuries/accidents, following the established reporting system. Failure to report and file
the accident promptly could result in failure to receive benefits.
In the event of a life-threatening emergency, call 9-911 for immediate assistance.
If treatment is required, arrangements for medical attention can be arranged by following the established
procedures detailed at:
http://www.gsu.edu/images/AuxiliaryImages/Accident_Reporting_Procedures_At_Georgia_State_University
_And_Forms-FY2010.pdf
All care and follow-up care must be from an authorized/approved medical provider, even after an emergency
room visit. Treatment will not be authorized from any physician or facility without prior approval from the
University insurance carrier, the Department of Administrative Services (DOAS).
Information on accident and reporting instructions for Workers’ Compensation can be found at:
http://www.gsu.edu/auxiliary/36853.html
403.2 Return to Work from Workers' Compensation Leave
When an employee returns to work, it is the responsibility of the supervisor to inform the Occupational
Health and Safety Officer in the Department of Safety and Risk Management and the Benefits Office
immediately. Late notification of return to work status may result in incorrect payroll reporting for the
employee.
404 Personal Leave
At the discretion of the President, supervisor or chair, personal leave without pay for a period of up to one year may
be approved. Such approved personal leave allows the employee the right to elect to continue his or her group
insurance benefits with institutional participation in the cost.
Employees must exhaust all earned vacation before personal leave is used.
404.1 Benefits during Personal Leave
Approved unpaid leave allows employees to retain insurance benefits. However, employees on unpaid
leave will not continue to accrue vacation or sick leave.
404.2 Unapproved Personal Leave
When an employee is absent from work and has not made arrangements to be on official leave, accrued
vacation will be charged until exhausted. Once exhausted, the employee will be in an “hours without pay”
status. This means that paychecks will no longer be issued, unless Payroll, Benefits, & HRIS determines
otherwise. Employees may be terminated for taking unapproved leave.
404.2a Termination Due to Inability to Work
If an employee is not approved for leave and is unable to return to work for three consecutive,
scheduled work days, the employee may be terminated. Even if the employee communicates with
the department as to why the employee is unable to report to work, he/she may still be terminated.
This does not include circumstances covered by FMLA, Military Leave, or leave previously
approved by the department and/or the University.
405 Administrative Leave
Administrative leave is a leave of absence initiated by the University to deal with special circumstances in which it is
desirable to continue an employee's association with the University for the period of the leave. Administrative leave
may be with or without pay and carries no promise of future re-employment.
406 Family and Medical Leave
406.1 Traditional Family and Medical Leave
Pursuant to the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), the University provides eligible employees with:
(1) up to 12 workweeks of unpaid, job-protected leave in a rolling 12-month period for certain family and
medical reasons; or (2) up to 26 workweeks of leave for eligible employees to care for a covered service
member with a serious illness or injury, as specified in the University’s Military FMLA Policy
(see Section 406.2).

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

42

406.1a Eligibility
To be eligible for FMLA leave, an employee must have been: (1) employed by the University for at
least 12 months (need not be continuous); (2) have worked at least 1,250 hours during the previous
12-monthy period (unless absent on military leave); and (3) work at a location where the University
employs at least 50 people within a 75-mile radius. The rolling FMLA leave year begins on the
first day of the employee’s FMLA leave.
406.1b Reasons for Leave
Eligible employees can take leave for any of the following reasons:

Birth of employee’s child;

Placement with employee of child for adoption or foster care;

The employee’s own serious health condition, including pregnancy, childbirth and related
medical conditions; or

To care for the child, spouse, or parent of employee with a serious health condition.
406.1c Unpaid Leave
FMLA leave is unpaid. However, the University requires employees to use their accrued paid time
off concurrently with FMLA leave before going into an unpaid FMLA leave status. Accrued sick
leave will be applied first to FMLA leave and, if exhausted, accrued vacation time will then be
applied. Exceptions: (1) if an employee’s FMLA leave is a result of an on-the-job injury covered by
Workers’ Compensation, the University will not apply accrued sick and vacation time to the FMLA
leave unless so elected by the employee; and (2) if an employee on FMLA leave has short-term
disability insurance, he or she may elect to go into an unpaid leave status once the short-term
disability benefits begin, although the employee must use accrued sick leave and/or vacation
during the short-term disability waiting period.
During FMLA leave, employees continue to accrue paid time off during times when accrued leave
is being applied. FMLA leave does not constitute a break in service for purposes of longevity,
seniority or employee benefits plans.
406.1d Health Benefits
During FMLA leave, the University maintains health benefits for an employee under the same
conditions as when the employee is working (i.e. the University continues to be responsible for the
employer’s portion of the premium and the employee continues being responsible for the
employee’s portion of the premium) as follows:


During periods when accrued paid time off is being applied to the FMLA leave, the
University will continue to deduct the employee portion of the benefit premiums as regular
payroll deductions.



During periods when FMLA is unpaid, the employee must make arrangements with
Human Resource to timely pay the employee portion of the premiums. Failure to pay
premiums will cause health benefits to lapse.

An employee who does not return from FMLA leave may be required to reimburse the University for
the employer’s portion of employee benefit premiums paid by the University during the FMLA
leave.
406.1e Notice of Leave
A Request for Leave Form is available from Human Resources at:
http://www.gsu.edu/hr/31431.html.
If the need for FMLA leave is foreseeable, the employee must give the University at least 30 days
prior written notice. Where the need for FMLA leave is not foreseeable, the employee is expected
to notify the University as soon as it is possible. When an employee becomes aware of a need for
FMLA leave less than 30 days in advance, it should be possible for the employee to provide notice
of such either the same day or next business day.
To give notice to the University, the employee should report the need for leave to both the
employee’s supervisor and the Human Resources. Employees requesting a leave extension
should do so in writing, if possible, two weeks prior to their scheduled FMLA end date. Failure to

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

43

comply with these notice requirements will be grounds for, and may result in, deferral or denial of
the requested leave until the employee complies with these requirements.
406.1f Eligibility Notice/Notice of Rights and Responsibilities
Within 5 business days of an employee’s request to HR for leave, the University will provide
employees with: (1) an Eligibility Notice indicating eligibility for leave or providing the reason for
ineligibility (refer to definition of “eligibility”, above); and (2) a statement of the employee’s Rights
and Responsibilities. The FMLA Medical Certification Form will also be provided to the employee
at this time.
406.1g Medical Certification Required
Employees who request FMLA leave because of their own serious health condition or that of a
family member must submit a Medical Certification Form completed by the health care provider in
support of the leave request. The University’s FMLA Medical Certification Form is available from
Human Resources and must be returned to the University within 15 calendar days after it is
provided or requested, or as soon as possible under the circumstances.
If the Medical Certification Form returned to the University is not satisfactory, an employee will be
told of the deficiencies in writing and given 10 calendar days to complete the Form satisfactorily. If
the medical information is inadequate, designated University HR representatives may contact the
employee’s health care provider directly to authenticate or clarify information of the certification
without the employee’s consent. The University’s designated HR representatives may also directly
contact the employee’s health care provider with the employee’s permission to get more complete
information regarding the nature of the ailment, the duration of the leave needed, the need for
intermittent leave, etc. A Medical Information Release Form is available from Human Resources.
Failure to submit a complete and sufficient Medical Certification will be ground for, and may result
in, deferral or denial of the employee’s requested FMLA leave.
The University can request a second or third opinion regarding the employee’s condition and
treatment, at the University’s expense.
Employees requesting an extension of any FMLA leave must provide a new Medical Certification of
the need for the continued leave. This form may be found at: http://www.gsu.edu/hr/31431.html.
406.1h Designation Notice
Absent extenuating circumstances, the University will send employees a Designation Notice within
5 business days of having enough information to determine whether the requested leave is FMLAeligible. The Designation Notice will indicate whether or not the leave is designated FMLA leave
and the amount of leave that will be designated, if known. This designation may be retroactive.
Employees absent on medical leave will be required to complete and return to Human Resources
the Fitness to Return to Work Form before they may return back to the workplace. This form must
be completed by the health care provider, certifying the employee’s fitness to return to work. The
Fitness to Return to Work form is available from Human Resources at:
http://www.gsu.edu/hr/31431.html.
Any leave that qualifies as FMLA leave may be designated as FMLA leave by the University, in its
sole discretion, regardless of whether the employee requests FMLA leave or meets all employee
leave obligations.
406.1i Duration of FMLA Leave
Generally, eligible employees will be entitled to a cumulative total of 12 workweeks of FMLA leave
within a rolling 12-month period. However, when the leave time includes military caregiver or
qualifying exigency leave (described in the University’s Military Family and Medical Leave Act
Policy – Section 406.2 ), alone or in combination with regular traditional FMLA, the employee is
entitled to up to 26 workweeks of qualifying leave during any single 12 month period. Any
combination of FMLA leave may not exceed the maximum limit of 26 workweeks.
A husband and wife who both work for the University are entitled to a combined total of 12 weeks
leave in a 12-month period for the birth, adoption or foster care placement of their child; or to care
for a parent with a serious health condition. The mother and father are each entitled to take 12
workweeks of leave to care for a seriously ill child.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

44

Under some circumstances, FMLA leave may be taken on an intermittent basis or the employee
may work a reduced schedule. Intermittent leave must be certified by a health care provider as
necessary and should be scheduled to avoid disruption to the University to the extent reasonable.
406.1j Re-certification
An employee may be asked to re-certify a serious health condition every 30 days (if the employee
is absent during that period) for chronic/long-term illness or pregnancy. A re-certification may be
required in less than 30 days if: (1) the employee asks for an extension of leave; (2) circumstances
have changes; or (3) the University has doubts about employee’s FMLA status (e.g. Monday/Friday
absences).
Employees will be required to have annual medical certifications for their own serious health
condition lasting more than one year, including chronic/lifelong ailments.
406.1lkReturn to Work
Employee returning to work from FMLA leave will be returned to the same or an equivalent position
as was held prior to the leave unless the position has ceased to exist because of business
necessity. If the employee does not return to work in his or her original position or an equivalent
position as soon as he or she is able, the University will consider the employee to have voluntarily
resigned.
Certain “key employees” may not be eligible to be reinstated to the same or an equivalent position
at the conclusion of their FMLA leave. The University will notify such employees of the “key
employee” status and the conditions under which they may be denied reinstatement, if applicable.
406.2 Military Family and Medical Leave Act Policy
All procedures, notices, rights and responsibilities stated above as part of the University’s policy for
traditional FMLA leave apply to Military FMLA leave, unless specifically stated otherwise within this section.
Pursuant to the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), the University provides eligible employees with:
(1) up to 12 workweeks of unpaid, job-protected leave in a rolling 12-month period for a qualifying exigency;
or (2) up to 26 workweeks of leave for eligible employees within a single 12-month period to care for a
covered service member with a serious illness or injury.
406.2a Eligibility
To qualify for leave under the Military Family and Medical Leave Act provision, an employee must
be eligible for traditional FMLA leave and be either: (1) the parent, spouse, son or daughter of a
service member in the Regular Armed Forces, National Guard, or a Reserve component of the
Armed Forces, or of an Armed Forces retiree, who is on active duty (or has been notified of an
impending call or order to active duty) in a foreign country; or (2) the spouse, son, daughter,
parent, or next of kin of a covered service member undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or
therapy, who is otherwise in outpatient status, or is otherwise on the temporary disability retired list,
for a serious injury or illness.
406.2b Reasons for Leave
Eligible employees can take leave for any of the following reasons:


Qualifying Exigency - A qualifying exigency arising out of the fact that a son, daughter,
spouse or parent of the employee is on active duty (or has been notified of an impending
call or order to active duty) in the Armed Forces in a foreign country; or



Military Caregiver - To care for a covered service member with a serious injury or illness if
the employee is the spouse, son, daughter, parent, or next of kin (nearest blood relative)
of the covered service member.

406.2c Covered Service Member
A covered service member is one who is: (1) undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or
therapy, who is otherwise in outpatient status, or is otherwise on the temporary disability retired list,
for a serious injury or illness; or (2) a veteran who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or
therapy for a serious injury or illness and who was a member of the Armed Forces (including a
member of the National Guard or Reserves) at any time during the previous of 5 years preceding
the date on which the veteran undergoes that medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

45

The serious injury or illness is covered if it was incurred while in the line of duty (or the service
member had a pre-existing condition that was aggravated while in the line of duty) and renders the
service member medically unfit to perform his/her military duties. The University will rely on
authorized health care providers or designated officials in the Department of Defense to determine
whether the service member is deemed a covered service member.
406.2d Notice of Leave
To give notice to the University, the employee should report the need for leave to both the
employee’s supervisor and the Human Resources. A Request for Military Leave Form is available
at: http://www.gsu.edu/hr/31431.html.


Qualifying Exigency - When the need for leave is “foreseeable” because of a qualifying
exigency related to a family member’s active duty, the employee should provide notice as
soon as possible, regardless of how far in advance such leave is foreseeable. When an
employee becomes aware of a need for FMLA leave less than 30 days in advance, it
should be possible for the employee to provide notice of the need for leave either the
same day or the next business day. As soon as possible means as soon as the employee
can do so, taking into account all of the facts and circumstances in the individual case.



Military Caregiver – As with traditional FMLA, an employee must provide the University
with at least 30 days advance notice when requesting military caregiver leave that is
foreseeable. If the need for leave is not foreseeable, then notice must be given as soon
as possible.

406.2e Eligibility Notice/Rights and Responsibilities
As with traditional FMLA leave, employees who request military FMLA leave will be sent the
University’s Eligibility Notice and Notice of Rights and Responsibilities. A certification form for
Qualifying exigency leave or Military Caregiver leave, as applicable, will be included with this
correspondence.
406.2f Certification for Qualifying Exigency Military Leave
The first time an employee requests leave because of a qualifying exigency, the employee must
provide a copy of the covered military member’s active duty orders or other documentation issued
by the military. The documentation must indicate that the covered military service member is on
active duty or called to active duty status in a foreign country and the dates of active duty service.
The employee shall need to supply such documentation again only if requesting leave for: (1) the
same covered service member for a different active duty or call to active duty; or (2) a different
covered service member.
A Certification for Qualifying Exigency Leave Form is available from Human Resources and
includes a list of approved qualifying exigencies. A completed Certification form is required in order
for leave to be granted.
The University may contact an appropriate unit of the Department of Defense to request verification
of active duty/call to active duty status. Employee permission for such contact is not required.
The University may require confirmation of the employee’s relationship with the covered service
member at any time in this process.
In all instances in which certification is requested, it is the employee’s responsibility to provide the
University with complete and sufficient certification, and failure to do so may result in the delay or
denial of FMLA leave.
406.2g Certification for Military Caregiver Leave
Employees who request military caregiver leave to care for a covered service member with a
serious injury or illness are required to submit a Certification for Military Caregiver Leave form
completed by an authorized health care provider of the covered service member. Certification
forms are available from Human Resources. Except as stated below, a completed Certification is
required before leave can be granted. The University may require confirmation of the employee’s
relationship with the covered service member at any time in this process.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

46

In lieu of any certification, the University will accept Invitational Travel Orders (ITOs) or Invitational
Travel Authorizations (ITAs) issued to any family member to join an injured or ill service member at
his or her bedside, regardless of whether the employee is named in the order or authorization. An
ITO or ITA is sufficient certification for the duration of time specified in the ITO or ITA. During that
time period, an eligible employee may take leave to care for the covered service member in a
continuous block of time or on an intermittent basis.
The University may seek authentication and clarification of the ITO or ITA but will not seek a
second or third opinion or a re-certification during the period of time in which the employee’s leave
is supported by an ITO or ITA.
If an employee will need leave to care for a covered service member beyond the expiration date
specified in an ITO or ITA, the University will request that the employee have an authorized health
care provider complete a certification form for the additional time. Timelines designated under the
traditional FMLA policy will apply for return of such certifications.
In all instances in which certification is requested, it is the employee’s responsibility to provide the
University with complete and sufficient certification and failure to do so may result in the delay or
denial of FMLA leave.
The University may seek authentication and/or clarification of the Certification Form but will not
seek second and third opinions or re-certifications for military FMLA leave.
406.2h Duration of Military Family and Medical Leave

Qualifying Exigency - Eligible employees using qualifying exigency leave will be entitled to
a cumulative total of 12 workweeks of FMLA leave within a 12-month leave period and are
covered by the same policy provisions (as to duration, benefits, return to work, etc.) as
employees requesting traditional FMLA leave under the traditional FMLA leave policy.


Military Caregiver – Employees using military caregiver leave alone or in combination with
traditional FMLA or qualifying exigency leave may take up to 26 workweeks of leave
during any single 12-month period. The amount of traditional and/or qualifying exigency
leave combined is limited to a total of 12 workweeks; the difference may be taken as
military caregiver leave. The 26 workweeks of military caregiver leave run on a separate
FMLA year that commences with the first day leave is taken and can run forward until the
end of that 12-month period. Any combination of the FMLA leave may not exceed the
maximum limit of 26 workweeks in that single 12 month period. Unused military caregiver
leave is forfeited at the end of that 12-month period.

For military caregiver leave, a husband and wife who both work for the University would be limited
to a combined total of 26 workweeks for military caregiver leave alone. The same 26 workweek
limitation applies when in combination with any other 12 workweek FMLA leave, with the exception
of caring for a seriously ill child, which expands the traditional FMLA entitlement of 12 workweeks
to 24 for the mother and father combined (family members are generally limited to 12 workweeks
for care due to the birth, adoption, or placement of a child or the care of a qualifying relative during
the 12-month period).
In certain cases, leave may be taken on an intermittent basis or the employee may work a reduced
schedule. Intermittent leave must be necessary and should be scheduled to reasonably avoid
disruption to the University’s workplace.
407 Military Leave
407.1 Definition of Military Leave
Military duty, for the purpose of these regulations, includes any ordered military duty in the service of the
State of Georgia or the United States. This includes schools conducted by the armed forces of the United
States.
407.2 Duration of Military Leave
Regular benefit-eligible employees are entitled to up to 18 days of leave with pay while engaged in the
performance of military duty and while going to and from such duty during normal working hours. The
maximum length of military leave with pay is 18 work days (144 hours) in any one federal fiscal year

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

47

(beginning October 1) or continuous period. The maximum leave time without pay allowable cannot exceed
5 years. This may now be accessed in eTime.
407.3 Benefits during Military Leave
At the expiration of maximum paid military leave time, continued absence by the employee shall be
considered as military leave without pay. The employee may elect to exhaust accrued vacation leave hours
prior to going on an unpaid leave status. During the period of Military Leave without Pay, an employee may
retain health, dental, and life benefits under the same conditions that applied before the leave began. If an
employee’s share of insurance premiums cannot be deducted from his/her pay, the employee will be
required to pay his or her share of insurance premiums each month while on leave. Failure to pay the
employee share of the insurance premiums may result in loss of coverage.
407.4 Return from Military Leave
The employee must provide advance notification to the department and the Benefits Office of the return to
work date. Employees may be required to provide fitness-for-duty certification prior to being restored to
active status.
407.5 Military Physical Examination Leave
Any regular employee required by federal law to take a military physical examination shall be paid for any
time lost to take such examination.
408 Maternity Leave
Disability due to pregnancy is considered as any other disability and appropriate sick leave provisions of these
policies apply. See Sick and/or Family and Medical Leave for further information.
408.1 Worksite Lactation
As a family-friendly employer, Georgia State University provides a supportive environment that enables
breastfeeding employees to express their milk during business hours. The below outlines information
regarding a designated on-campus lactation room and reasonable break times to accommodate milk
expression. This information will be posted on the Georgia State University Human Resources’ website at:
http://www.gsu.edu/hr/44932.html. Please contact the Office of Employee Relations at (404) 413-3356 with
any questions regarding Worksite Lactation.
408.1a Lactation Rooms
Georgia State University has designated a private and sanitary location on campus so that lactating
mothers may express their milk during business hours. The designated lactation room is located in
Room 255A of the University Center. The lactation room provides an electrical outlet, comfortable
chair, and nearby access to hot running water and soap. Breastfeeding mothers are responsible for
keeping the general lactation room clean for the next user. If employees prefer and it is available,
they may also express their milk in their own private offices, or in other comfortable locations
agreed upon in consultation with the employee’s supervisor.
408.1b Reasonable Break Times
Lactating mothers shall be granted flexible and reasonable breaks, using their normal break
periods and meal times, to accommodate milk expression. Nursing mothers who wish to express
milk during the work period should keep supervisors informed of their needs so that appropriate
accommodations can be made to satisfy the needs of both the employee and the department.
Nursing mothers who feel they have been denied appropriate accommodations are encouraged to
contact Employee Relations at (404) 413-3356.
408.1c Time away from Work - Instructions for Supervisors
Supervisors should keep in mind that expressing breast milk may be a physical necessity for some
mothers. Thus, supervisors should make every reasonable accommodation to support the needs of
nursing mothers. Such accommodations should include permitting nursing mothers who need to
express breast milk to visit lactation room(s) during normal break times or meal times and
providing reasonable unpaid time or use of sick time if applicable. While a supervisor may require
the lactation break time, if possible, to run concurrently with break times already provided,
supervisors should be flexible in allowing nursing mothers to select appropriate times to utilize a
lactation room on campus or a private office.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

48

408.1d Distribution of Process
Information on Worksite Lactation shall be included in the Employee Handbook and posted on line
at the Georgia State University Human Resources website.
409 Educational Leave
The President or a designee may grant educational leave without pay to full-time employees who have at least one
year of service at the time of requesting leave. Educational leave may not exceed one year at a time and is to be
used for obtaining a degree or professional certification. Such approved leave allows the employee the right to elect
to continue his or her group insurance benefits at the same employee rate the individual paid through payroll
deduction. The employee will be required to pay his or her share of insurance premiums while on leave each month.
Failure to pay the employee share of the insurance premiums may result in loss of coverage.
410 Organ and Marrow donation Leave
Each employee who serves as organ donor for the purpose of transplantation shall receive a leave of absence, with
pay, of thirty (30) days. Each employee who serves as a bone marrow donor for the purpose of transplantation shall
receive a leave of absence, with pay of seven (7) days.
Leave taken under this provision shall not be charged against or deducted from an employee’s accrued vacation or
sick leave. Such leave shall be included as service in computing any retirement of pension benefits. This provision
shall apply only to an employee who actually donates an organ or marrow and who presents to the appropriate
supervisor a statement from licensed agency or hospital administrator that the employee is making an organ or
marrow donation.
411 Death in the Family
Benefits eligible employees who have a death in the immediate family may be allowed to use accrued sick leave for
absences related to the death. Any leave in excess of five days for a death in the employee’s immediate family must
be approved and charged to vacation. Validated documentation must be presented to the supervisor upon return to
work. The immediate family in this instance includes the employee’s spouse, partner, parents, children, siblings,
stepchildren, grandparents, grandchildren, foster parents and legal guardian and in-laws in the same categories.
412 Court Duty
Court duty leave with pay is only granted to regular employees for the purpose of serving on a jury or as a
subpoenaed witness. Such leave is granted upon presentation of official documentation from the appropriate court. A
subpoena or a certified letter from the clerk of court serves as official documentation as serving as a witness. A
receipt from the appropriate court stating the number of days served qualifies as documentation for serving on jury
duty.
Employees may retain juror or witness fees paid by the court. An employee appearing in court related to a personal
matter will not be granted leave with pay without the appropriate court subpoena. An employee serving as an expert
witness must take vacation time and it must comply with the “Outside Activity Policy” (See Section 101.9).
413 Voting
Employees are encouraged to exercise their constitutional right to vote in all federal, state, and local elections. If
election polls are not open at least two (2) hours before or two (2) hours after an employee's normally scheduled
work shift, sufficient leave time consisting of a two-hour block, will be granted to permit the employee to vote. An
employee must use vacation time when taking time off to vote during his/her regularly scheduled work shift. Time off
for voting should be coordinated with the employee's immediate supervisor.
414 Mandated Leave
Georgia State University at its discretion may mandate leave that shall be designated as vacation, furlough leave, or
leave without pay. The University shall make every effort to give prior notice before leave is mandated.
415 University Closing
In the event of inclement weather or any emergency that jeopardizes the safety of employees, the President or
designee of the University may declare leave with or without pay. In the case of inclement weather, the following
details procedures for advising faculty, staff, students, and the metro community when weather conditions require
closure or delays in the opening of the University. These procedures will apply to both weekday and weekend
activities. The communications protocols for closures or delayed openings of the University during periods of
inclement weather are described below:

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

49



If snow or ice falls during the night, the decision to close or delay opening will be communicated through four
media: television, radio, the voice mail of the Office of University Relations, and the Georgia State
University web page.



If snow or ice conditions develop during regular daytime working hours and a decision is made to cancel
classes and close offices, the University community will be notified via Electronic broadcast announcements
and also through television, radio, the voice mail of the Office of University Relations, and the Georgia State
University web page.

Listed below is more specific information about the media that will be used to communicate University closures and
delayed openings.
1) Television Stations
WXIA-TV (NBC), WSB-TV (ABC), WGCL-TV (CBS), WAGA-TV (FOX)
2) Radio Stations
Cox Radio Group (95.5 FM WSB, B98.5, KISS 104.1, 97.1 The River)
3) University Telephone Message Recording
Official word of the University’s operating status will be updated on the voice mail of the Office of University Relations
at (404) 413-3025.
4) Web Site Notification
University closings will also be posted on our web site at http://www.gsu.edu/. We will do our best to inform
employees as early as possible about the University’s operating status during periods of inclement weather.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

50

(SECTION 500)
WORKPLACE PRACTICES

501 Work Schedule
The normal work week for a full time regular classified employee consists of 40 hours per week. Employees may on
occasion, have to work more or less than forty hours per week. In these instances, every effort will be made to
provide as much advance notice as possible. All employees working in excess of 40 hours per week will be
compensated in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act. Work hours and days are determined by the needs of
the University and will be communicated to the employee by the supervisor. There may be instances when the needs
of the University dictate a change in schedule. This change will be communicated to the employee by the supervisor
with as much advance notice as possible.
The University reserves the right to change work schedules as necessary to meet changing University needs.
501.1 Attendance
Each employee, exempt and non-exempt, is expected to adhere to his/her scheduled hours. If the employee
is unable to report to work as scheduled for any reason, the employee should promptly notify his/her
supervisor. It is not sufficient to leave a message with a co-worker nor should the notification be made by a
friend or family member except under emergency situations. Such notification should be made as far in
advance as possible. Failure to give the appropriate notification may result in disciplinary action, up to and
including termination.
501.2 Personnel Action Form
It is the responsibility of the supervisor to ensure that documentation reflecting payroll action is received in
the Payroll, Benefits, & HRIS in a timely manner. The supervisor must complete the Electronic Personnel
Action Form (ePAF) or paper Personnel Action Form (PAF) relating to payroll action. The form must be
received in Payroll, Benefits, and HRIS no later than 4:30 pm on the tenth workday preceding the payday.
PAFs received after the deadline may require an adjustment to the following paycheck. Since the process is
electronic, departments are able to access the PAFs and monitor their status during the approval and data
entry processes.
501.3 Time Reporting
Provisions of the Fair Labor and Standards Act require that non-exempt employees record and report the
hours worked per pay period. The current official workweek for all non-exempt employees begins at 12:00
a.m. Saturday morning and ends at 11:59 p.m. Friday evening. Time entry into ADP or adjusted timesheets
must reflect hours worked for each work week of the pay period and should include all absences taken in the
pay period.
All time entry should happen in ADP. However, in the instance that a paper timesheet must be submitted
blank timesheets are located on the Department of Human Resources’ website under HR Forms.
Timesheets must be filled out completely by the employee and signed by the employee and the supervisor.
The supervisor is responsible for submitting the timesheets to Payroll and ensuring that the employee’s and
supervisor’s signatures are on the document.
Falsification or failure to report time may result in unpaid and/or disciplinary action including termination.
ALL TIME RECORDS MUST BE APPROVED BY A SUPERVISOR OR DESIGNEE AND THE
EMPLOYEE.
501.4 Exempt Employee Absence Reporting
It is the responsibility of the exempt employee to enter all time away from work in ADP. Time not entered
into ADP in a timely fashion must be submitted on Historical Edit Forms. The Historical Edit forms are
located on the Department of Human Resource website under HR Forms.
501.5 Breaks
Breaks are a privilege that may be granted by each individual supervisor and are not a right. The needs of
the job must be satisfied before breaks can be granted. If the work situation permits, the supervisor may
authorize breaks. Employees on break may leave the work area. In departments where is it necessary to
have someone on duty at all times, it is the employee’s responsibility to ensure that work assignments are
covered to the approval of the supervisor. Therefore, in some units, breaks are not possible.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

51

501.5a Lactation Breaks
Lactating mothers shall be granted flexible and reasonable breaks, using their normal break
periods and meal times, to accommodate milk expression. Nursing mothers who wish to express
milk during the work period should keep supervisors informed of their needs so appropriate
accommodations can be made to satisfy the needs of both the employee and the department. For
detailed information on the lactation process, please refer to Section 408.1 (Worksite Lactation
Process) of the handbook. Additional information can also be found on Georgia State University
Human Resources’ website at: http://www.gsu.edu/hr/44932.html. Nursing mothers who feel they
have been denied appropriate accommodations are encouraged to contact Employee Relations at
(404)413-3356.
Employees may not forgo breaks to accumulate extra time off in the future or to make up for
tardiness or previous absence. Breaks may not be skipped in order to leave early or come in late.
501.6 Flexible Scheduling
Flextime allows for flexible scheduling arrangements that permit variations in starting and departure times,
but does not alter the total number of hours worked in a workweek or workday and does not allow for
working away from the office location. Flextime can be used to improve coverage and extend service hours.
Flextime is a privilege and may be discontinued, temporarily suspended or altered, with or without notice, at
the sole discretion of the appropriate supervisor, Vice President or Dean when the work needs change or if
service is impaired. Each request for a flextime schedule will be decided on an individual basis by the
supervisor of the employee. All decisions should be consistent with Department practices.
501.7 Alternate Work Schedule
Georgia State University recognizes that alternative work schedules benefit the University, employees and
the environment. Alternative work schedules include, but are not limited to, compressed workweeks or flex
scheduling. Alternate work schedules are a privilege and may be discontinued, temporarily suspended or
altered, with or without notice, in the sole discretion of the appropriate supervisor, Vice President or Dean.
Alternative work schedules may not be suitable for all employees and/or positions. An alternative work
schedule will be decided by the supervisor, with the approval of the appropriate Vice President or Dean, and
will be consistent with University and department practices. Compressed work weeks are only available as
an option during the summer periods which begins the first Monday after spring commencement and ends
the last Friday of the summer session. In certain exceptions, alternative work schedules may be extended
beyond the summer period, with the approval of the supervisor and Vice President/Dean, to meet the needs
of the University (i.e. extended student service hours). Alternate work schedules are only available to those
employees who are outside of their six month probationary period, have received an overall rating of meets
expectations on the most recent performance evaluation, not under a Performance Improvement Plan, work
in positions identified as eligible for participation and have approval from department/unit/college leadership.
502 Employee Records
The Payroll and Employee Records Office, Department of Human Resources, maintains for each employee a
personnel file that contains vital employment information. To ensure that personnel records are up to date, it is the
employee’s responsibility to promptly notify Human Resources in writing of any changes in name, home address,
marital status, number of dependents, beneficiary changes, telephone number, and person to notify in case of
emergency. It is also important to notify Human Resources of scholastic achievements that may enhance your
opportunities for advancement.
502.1 Access to Employee Records
Access to employee records is subject to state statutes on personnel records. Georgia State University is a
public university and is therefore, subject to the Georgia Open Records Act, which means that employee
information can be made available upon request through the Office of Legal Affairs.
502.2 Disclosure of Information
Upon written request, the Records office of the Department of Human Resource will furnish an employee’s
dates of employment, title, or position to third parties. In instances where payroll information is requested
(e.g.: salary information for the purpose of obtaining a mortgage), the requesting party will be advised that
this information will only be made available with the written consent of the employee.
502.3 Updating Information
In order to respond to possible emergencies and to provide employees with important notices relating to
salaries, benefits, and other matters, it is important that the University have current and accurate records. A
form to correct the employee's central personnel record must then be prepared and forwarded to the

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

52

Records Office of the Department of Human Resources. Alternatively, an "on-line" update may be entered
through ADP.
Accordingly, it is the employee’s responsibility to report any change in status—name, address, telephone
number, marital status, number of dependents, etc.—to the Records Office of the Department of Human
Resources and to the business manager or designee responsible for the records.
503 Duty to Report Criminal Charges/Determinations
503.1 Criminal charges
An employee of Georgia State University who is charged with a crime (other than a minor traffic offense
and/or local ordinance violation) shall report having been charged to his or her supervisor within 3 days of
becoming aware of such charge. The employee shall report the crime(s) he/she has been charged with and
provide documentation of the charges upon request. Within 3 days of receiving notice from the employee,
the supervisor will contact the Office of Legal Affairs and Employee Relations so a determination can be
made as to what action, if any, is immediately warranted.
503.2 Criminal Determinations
Within 3 days of the employee receiving a determination of the criminal charges, he/she will notify his/her
supervisor and provide documentation of the disposition. Within 3 days of receiving notice from the
employee, the supervisor will contact the Office of Legal Affairs and Employee Relations, so a determination
can be made as to what action, if any, is warranted.
Failure to report under this policy may result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment.
504 Employee Health and Safety
The prevention of accidents and the promotion of safety are the responsibility of everyone in the University
community.
Everyone is encouraged to be alert to and report any unsafe practices and conditions that may present an imminent
danger to individuals or property. Employees should report these types of conditions immediately to their immediate
supervisor, designee or to the Office of Occupational Safety and Risk Management.
The Office of Research Integrity provides support to the University in all areas of environmental and chemical safety
including chemical and other hazardous waste removal and radiation safety. If there are any concerns with fire
safety, worker’s compensation, accident prevention and property and liability insurance, employees should contact
Arefeen Chowdhury at (404) 413-9545 in the Office of Occupational Safety and Risk Management for these services.
504.1 Georgia State University Police
The Georgia State University Police provide a variety of services to the University community including
assistance to stranded motorists, safety escorts, and crime prevention programs. Call boxes linked directly
to the University Police Department are located throughout the campus in the event of an emergency
situation. The Police phone number to contact in the event of an emergency is (404) 413-3333. To enhance
campus security, the Police suggest that employees program this number in cell phones for easy access.
504.2 Emergency Treatment
In the event of a serious or life threatening emergency, call 9-911 for immediate assistance (if dialing from a
University phone).
If the situation is not an emergency, the injured employee should report their injury to their supervisor, or
their supervisor’s designated alternative. Their supervisor is charged with correctly reporting injured
employee’s accidents. Information on accident / injury reporting may be found at:
http://www.gsu.edu/auxiliary/36853.html .
A Workers’ Compensation MCO Posted Panel of Physicians and an Employee Rights and Responsibility
Poster should be posted, together, in each department. The Workers’ Compensation MCO Posted Panel of
Physician provides basic information how to obtain an approved referral to medical care under the
provisions of the Workers’ Compensation program. The Employee Rights and Responsibility Poster outlines
both the injured employee’s rights and their responsibilities under the Georgia State Board of Workers’
Compensation.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

53

When an employee is injured at work, if they choose to be treated under the provisions of the Workers’
Compensation insurance, all care and all follow-up care must be from an approved medical provider, even
after an emergency room visit, if medical bills are to be paid by the Workers’ Compensation insurance
provider. Treatment will not be authorized for any other physician or facility not pre-approved by the
insurance carrier, the Department of Administrative Services (DOAS).
A Workers’ Compensation MCO Posted Panel of Physicians may be found at:
http://www.gsu.edu/images/AuxiliaryImages/Posted_Panel_Of_Physicians_MCO_-_English.pdf
and an Employee Rights and Responsibility Poster may be found at:
http://www.gsu.edu/images/AuxiliaryImages/WC_Employee_Bill_of_Rights.pdf.
The employee’s supervisor may not authorize any medical treatments for an injured employee. A supervisor
may also not send to, or choose for, an injured employee any doctor or treating facility. Only an injured
employee may choose their medical treatment, by arranging all appointments and treatments through the
Workers’ Compensation insurance referral service (listed on the MCO Posted Panel of Physicians). Failure
to report the accident promptly could result in failure to receive benefits.
504.3 Campus Safety and Security Fire and Emergency Services
Each Georgia State University building has fire evacuation plans posted in common areas. All employees
are encouraged to become familiar with the escape routes for all buildings and floors, the locations of fire
extinguishers, hoses and alarms. In the event of a fire or evacuation, every employee should follow the fire
safety evacuation route, vacate the premises and move to a safe area until the officials in charge declare the
premises safe to enter. Exits and areas around fire extinguishers must be kept clear at all times. Periodic fire
safety inspections and drills are held to test equipment and procedures.
Employees are strongly encouraged to become familiar with the emergency action procedures associated
with their work area and how Georgia State University prepares for, responds to and recovers from a major
emergency. A copy of the University Emergency Management Policy and Emergency Action Plan can be
obtained through the University Police Department website or request via email at eoc@gsu.edu.
For questions about fire safety or emergency procedures, contact the Office of Emergency Management at
3-0776 or eoc@gsu.edu. IN THE EVENT OF A MEDICAL EMERGENCY, CALL 9-911 FOR AN
AMBULANCE. THEN CALL 3-3333 TO REPORT TO THE GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY POLICE.
For all other emergencies, call the University Police at 3-3333.
504.4 Employee Right to Know
The Public Employee Hazardous Chemical Protection and the Right to Know Act of 1988 were passed to
help protect public employees from dangerous exposure to hazardous chemicals. In compliance with this
law, Georgia State University has established labeling, reporting and training procedures relating to the use
of hazardous materials. All University employees have access to Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS),
which outline specific information about hazardous chemical materials.
As part of its responsibility as your employer, Georgia State University has developed a written plan for
implementing the Hazard Communication Program. All new hires are provided with an overview of the major
elements of the Hazard Communication Standard and an understanding of the potential hazards of the
chemicals they handle and the procedures to be used to ensure personal safety.
Georgia State University requires the training of employees about hazardous chemicals, labeling of chemical
containers, and the management of chemical information sheets (Material Safety Data Sheets). The intent of
the training is to provide employees with the chemical health and safety information they need to help
protect themselves and to work safely with hazardous chemicals. Each department is responsible for
assuring that their employees are trained if they are covered by this regulation, that containers are labeled,
and an updated list of non-laboratory chemicals used in their work areas is maintained.
The manner in which Georgia State University is complying with each of these requirements is detailed in
the Hazard Communication Plan.
As an employee of the University, you must follow established procedures, attend a Hazard Communication
training session (in some cases just reading this manual suffices), read chemical labels and Material Safety
Data Sheets, and follow their instructions and warnings.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

54

For information, contact the University Right to Know Coordinator located in the Office of Safety and Risk
Management.
505 Use of University Services and Property
University owned and controlled facilities, systems, and equipment are state property and may not be used by
University employees for personal or commercial purposes or in a manner that interferes with the performance of
their University job duties.
Electronic mail, voice mail, fax machines and copiers should be used for official Georgia State University business
only. Employees should understand that electronic mail and voice mail messages are not secure and therefore
should not be assumed to be private.
No expectation of privacy exists in the use of any University owned or controlled facilities, systems, or equipment
issued or made available to University employees including, but not limited to, offices, phones, voicemail, computers,
email accounts, data storage devices, file cabinets or lockers. The University reserves the right to enter, inspect,
inventory, use, recall or transfer property it owns or controls at any time deemed appropriate, in the University’s sole
discretion.
505.1 Use of Georgia State Stationery
Georgia State University stationery is intended for University business and must not be used by staff
members for personal or non-University correspondence.
505.2 Use of Telephones
The use of all State of Georgia telephone services should be limited to official University business only.
Telephone calls should be handled in a prompt and courteous manner, and University telephone lines must
be kept clear for University business calls.
Using office phones for personal long distance calls is a violation of University policy, which is subject to
disciplinary action up to and including termination. Employees may not make personal long distance calls
with the intention of repaying the University at a later date.
505.3 Personal Activities
505.3a Mail and Packages
The University is not responsible for loss or damage to personal packages or mail addressed to
any of its employees at a Georgia State facility. In order to avoid a possible financial loss, it is
strongly recommended that such items be mailed or shipped to the employee's home address.
Employees may not use the Campus Mail services for personal mail. This service is staffed to
handle only official University correspondence; its use for other purposes slows down delivery of
official mail. While the Campus Mail Staff does not ordinarily inspect individual letters and packages
for conformance to this policy, they are required to call to the attention of proper authorities any
apparent violations
505.3b Visitors
It is expected that employees will limit their personal visitations during working hours.
505.3c Children in the Workplace
It is expected that employees will not bring their children to work during the employee’s scheduled
work hours. In addition, children may not be cared for in the workplace. Other arrangements must
be made. Employees bringing children to work may be asked to leave and be required to take
unpaid leave or use accrued leave.
505.3d Business Activities
Employees who supplement their earnings by the promotion or sale of products and services do so
entirely on their own initiative and without implied approval or endorsement by the University. All
such activity, including sampling, soliciting orders, and deliveries, must be conducted entirely
outside of working hours and entirely outside of University property.
505.3e Pets
Health, safety, and courtesy reasons preclude the presence of pets in the workplace, except
approved service animals.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

55

505.4 PantherCards
Employees are required to obtain a PantherCard within thirty (30) days of employment from the Auxiliary
and Support Services PantherCard Office.
The PantherCard is the official Georgia State University card that is used for identification purposes and for
access to many facilities on the main campus. It is a card used for photo identification and library materials
check out. The PantherCard is the property of Georgia State University and upon leaving the University
employee are expected to return the card to Auxiliary Support Services.
If the card is lost or stolen, employees must immediately contact the Auxiliary and Support Services
PantherCard Office during office hours Monday through Friday. After hours, lost or stolen cards should be
reported to the Georgia State University Police. The recipient of the card is responsible for all usage of the
card prior to proper notification to the Auxiliary and Support Services PantherCard Office or to the Georgia
State University Police. After the card has been reported to either of these locations, a new card can be
issued on the following business day. There is a replacement fee for lost, stolen or damaged cards; the fee
will increase for each subsequent replacement.
505.5 Recycling Programs on Campus
Georgia State University encourages recycling of all paper products, including cardboard, plain, color,
magazines, newspapers, phone books, books; drink containers including cans and plastic and glass bottles;
and wooden pallets. Offices are asked to separate their recycling into two bins, with paper in one and bottles
and cans in the other. In addition, there are several multi-compartment bins around campus that will accept
trash, paper and drink containers. To request one or more recycling bins, to find out about the recycling
pickup schedule in your building, to request that a bin be emptied or a wooden pallet taken away, contact
Building Services at (404) 413-0600. For additional information about campus recycling and sustainability,
please visit: http://www.gsu.edu/staffcouncil/green.html.
506 Workplace Ethics Policy
Georgia State University is committed to maintaining workplace practices that have the highest ethical and
professional standards of conduct. All employees are obligated to perform their duties in a manner that is consistent
with the statutes, regulations, and University policies governing employee conduct. To ensure the implementation of
the Ethics Policy, all University employees are provided with training and are required to successfully complete the
initial and ongoing training and certification as required by Georgia State University. For more information on the
Ethics Policy, please refer to Section 101.17 (Ethics Policy).

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

56

(SECTION 600)
STAFF DEVELOPMENT

601 Performance Reviews
Georgia State University has established a system of performance evaluations for all classified, exempt and nonexempt, employees. These evaluations are used for making decisions regarding transfer, promotion, demotion,
retention, supervisory assistance, employee training and development and for consideration in salary determination.
All classified employees are evaluated by the immediate supervisor or department head on an annual basis, no less
frequently than in twelve month intervals. At a minimum, the following elements are considered: job knowledge,
accuracy and quality, customer service, attendance and punctuality, productivity, supervision required, adaptability,
organizational skills, communication skills and interpersonal relations/teamwork. The supervisor or department head
is not restricted to the foregoing as criteria for performance evaluation.
Supervisors are strongly encouraged to provide employees in the six-month provisional period with an informal
written evaluation after one month, three months and five months of employment. Should the supervisor fail to
conduct these evaluations, it will be assumed that the work of the employee is satisfactory, unless there is other
written documentation to the contrary.
602 Training and Development Programs
The University recognizes that training and development programs improve individual and organizational
performance and help the University achieve its overall institutional goals. All Georgia State University employees,
including but not limited to managers, supervisors, and staff should work along with their supervisors to make plans to
enhance skills and prepare for continually evolving responsibilities in their positions.
Since professional development is part of all employees' performance expectations, supervisors should plan for and
allow release time from work for training programs determined to be mutually beneficial for employees and the
University. Such release time should be granted to employees in a fair and equitable manner, regardless of
experience, educational background, or job title.
Many work-related training programs are provided on campus by Employee Development and Wellness Services
(EDWS) and other campus departments. Training programs offered by EDWS are announced in training schedule
booklets are distributed to Department designees and posted on the EDWS web site. Employees may register for
courses online or by calling the office directly. EDWS can also assist departments with coordinating in-house
customized training opportunities to meet their specific needs.
The University Staff Council provides web links to Training and Growth opportunities on campus at
http://www.gsu.edu/staffcouncil/training_growth.html.
All training that will be attended during work hours must be approved by the supervisor before attending. The
supervisor must verify that the employee’s attendance will not adversely affect department services.
Employees may be required to attend training such as Right to Know, Ethics, or other training as mandated by the
University and/or the Board of Regents.
603 Auditing Courses at Georgia State (Non-Credit Courses)
603.1 Eligibility for Auditing Courses at Georgia State (Non-Credit Courses)
A full-time employee may audit classes without paying the usual tuition and fees. This benefit is contingent
upon approval by the course instructor. Employees who are students seeking a degree program are NOT
eligible to audit classes without paying applicable charges.
603.2 Approvals for Auditing Courses
In most circumstances, courses should be taken outside of normally scheduled working hours. However, if
the course is not offered at that time and the employee wishes to take the course during working hours, the
employee must have the approval of his or her supervisor. The supervisor must verify that the employee’s
attendance in class will not adversely affect department services. The employee will be expected to take
vacation or make up any time spent in class and away from the designated work area.
For more information, contact the One Stop Shop at (404) 413-2600.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

57

(SECTION 700)
INTERNAL COMPLAINT PROCESSES

701 Staff Grievance Procedure
The purpose of the Georgia State University Staff Grievance Procedure is to provide a fair and efficient process to
resolve employee grievances.
701.1 Availability of a Grievance Procedure
701.1a Eligibility
The Staff Grievance Procedure is available to any classified employee working at least .5 FTE
(full-time equivalency) who has completed the six month provisional employment period. The Staff
Grievance Procedure is not available to temporary employees, faculty, students or non-University
employees (consultants, contractors, etc.).
701.1b Grievance Issues
The Staff Grievance Procedure may be used by an eligible employee to bring a grievance about:

an action or decision that is inconsistent with a specific University rule, regulation
or policy;

a suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary action(s); or

an involuntary termination (involuntary terminations do not include resignation or
retirement).
701.1c Other Issues
This Grievance Procedure may not be used to bring a grievance about:

performance evaluations;

performance improvement/action/development plans;

being refused a promotion opportunity;

flexible work option decisions;

furloughs;

reassignment of job duties and responsibilities;

reductions in force;

salary and grade classification determinations;

organization of a department or allocation of its resources;

termination of grant funding;

non-renewal of a limited term position; or

voluntary separation agreements
Complaints regarding allegations of discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national
origin, sex, age, sexual orientation, veteran status, disability, or allegations of retaliation should be
filed with the Georgia State University Opportunity Development and Diversity Education Planning
Office (ODDEP). In the event that an eligible employee files a grievance while he/she has an open
ODDEP investigation, the eligible employee’s grievance will be placed on hold until the conclusion
of the ODDEP investigation and all deadlines will be modified accordingly.
If an employee wishes to file a grievance, they are to fill out a Grievance Request Form (GRF). They may
do so by contacting Employee Relations or attain the GRF online at:
http://www.gsu.edu/images/HR/Grievance_Request_Form_9.14.10.pdf
All staff of the University is encouraged to view the entire Staff Grievance Procedure on line at:
http://www.gsu.edu/hr/31971.html
Employees may contact Employee Relations at (404) 413-3356 or employeerelations@gsu.edu for questions
or clarification concerning the filing of a grievance or the grievance process.
702 Discrimination or Harassment Complaint Process
Georgia State University is committed to creating and maintaining a community in which students, faculty and staff
can work together in an atmosphere free of discrimination, harassment and/or retaliation. The University encourages
Complainants to avail themselves of counseling services prior to and during the pursuit of informal and formal
procedures. On campus providers of these services include but are not limited to the Office of the Ombudsperson,
FASA, Office of Disability Service, Dean of Student Services, and University Counseling Center.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

58

The Opportunity Development and Diversity Education Planning Office (ODDEP) serves as a resource for potential
complainants and provides an investigatory function for discrimination complaints. One of the responsibilities of
ODDEP is to uphold the federal and state laws that prohibit discrimination in education and employment. It is illegal
to discriminate against a person because of that person’s national origin, race, color, sex, religion, age, veteran status
or disability.
702.1 Informal Resolution Process
Employees are encouraged to participate in an informal resolution process. The informal resolution process
may be utilized by consulting with Faculty and Staff Assistance, Employee Relations, or the University’s
Ombudsperson as the situation dictates.
In the event that any of these processes are not successful, the employee may initiate a formal complaint
through the Opportunity Development and Diversity Education Planning Office (ODDEP) or by filing a
Grievance Request Form with the Office of Employee Relations.
702.2 Formal Complaint Process
To begin the formal complaint process, the employee must contact the Opportunity Development and
Diversity Education Planning Office (ODDEP). The initial intake interview serves the purpose of establishing
that the complainant is currently affiliated with Georgia State University and that the complaint involves an
illegal basis of discrimination, harassment and/or retaliation. If the alleged facts do not constitute a basis of
discrimination prohibited by law, informal resolution options or grievance procedures are still available to the
employee.
Employees are encouraged to notify ODDEP of claims of discrimination and /or harassment as soon as
possible. However, because of the statute of limitations on such claims and witness availability, a
discrimination complaint must be filed within 180 days of the occurrence of the alleged violation. In cases
where discrimination is continued and ongoing employee should contact ODDEP as soon as possible.
If an employee wishes to file a formal complaint, the employee must complete an Employee and Student
Complaint Questionnaire. The employee may do so by contacting the Opportunity Development and
Diversity Education Planning Office or attain the questionnaire on line at:
http://www.gsu.edu/oddep/30759.html.
After the Employee and Student Complaint Questionnaire has been returned to the Opportunity
Development and Diversity Education Planning Office.
An assessment will be made as to whether there is cause to believe that statutes, executive order and/or
policies as they relate to discrimination may have been violated.
Once a determination has been made, the employees who are directly involved and appropriate officials will
be contacted regarding the findings of the complaint.
For detailed information on the ODDEP formal complaint process go to:
http://www.gsu.edu/oddep/30759.html

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

59

(SECTION 800)
EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE AND CONDUCT

801 Performance Policy
Georgia State University supports a consistent, continuous and communicated performance management process.
As required by Board of Regents policy, a formal, written performance evaluation is to be completed at least once
every fiscal year. The performance evaluation must include an evaluation of the employee's job knowledge, accuracy
and quality, customer service, attendance and punctuality, productivity, supervision required, adaptability,
organizational skills, communication skills and interpersonal relations/teamwork. Merit-based compensation should
be based upon performance as measured by the performance evaluation instrument.
802 Performance Expectations
Supervisors are advised to provide employees with a job description, related performance expectations, and a copy
of the evaluation instrument within the first week of employment. Job specifications can be found on HR’s website:
http://www.gsu.edu/hr/31263.html#tocE . The job description should be reviewed with the employee to ensure that it
accurately reflects current responsibilities and expectations. The Georgia State University Performance Evaluation
Form must be used by the evaluator in evaluating his/her direct subordinates.
803 Performance Evaluations
The job performance of each Georgia State University staff member must be appraised:

During the provisional period (first six months of employment) for new University employees:

After one, three, and five months of employment

Once a year for Regular Classified Employees outside of their provisional period
Performance Evaluation Forms are available on the Human Resources website at: http://www.gsu.edu/hr/30439.html.
Completed evaluations, signed by two levels of supervision (immediate and secondary) and the employee, are to be
submitted to the Assistant Vice President of Human Resources between February 1 st and March 31st.
803.1 Interim Evaluation
Supervisors are encouraged to give continuous and ongoing feedback to employees as it relates to their
performance. Supervisors are also encouraged to conduct at least one interim performance evaluation
during the evaluation period. This evaluation does not have to be formal, but should provide feedback to
recognize and reinforce positive performance, to identify areas needing improvement, and to develop an
improvement plan, when necessary. This evaluation should be documented for the record.
The annual performance evaluation should not be the first time employees are made aware they are or are
not meeting expectations.
804 Conduct Guidelines
Each employee is responsible for their own behavior. Common sense, good judgment, cooperation, and appropriate
personal behavior are part of the essential responsibility of every employee at Georgia State University.
804.1 Examples of Inappropriate Conduct
Across Georgia State University, there are common themes for performance. Though jobs may vary across
the University, there are some common conducts that are unacceptable. The following are examples of
some inappropriate behavior:













Falsification of employment or other records, including timesheets
Working under the influence of alcohol or an illegal substance
Inappropriate handling or disclosure of confidential information or records
Submission of falsified claims under the University’s medical or other insurance plans
Excessive absenteeism or lateness
Sleeping on the job
Failure to maintain professional standards or conduct with clients and co-workers
Neglect of duty or failure or refusal to perform job-related duties and assignments
Illegal manufacture, possession, use, sale or distribution of drugs, or use of alcoholic
beverages on University premises
Refusal to cooperate with a Georgia State investigation
Larceny, misappropriation, or unauthorized possession or use of property belonging to
Georgia State University or any employee or visitor
Creating unsafe conditions or contributing to such conditions by act of omission

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

60







Misappropriation of departmental or organizational funds
Unauthorized possession, copying, or use of the University records to unauthorized
persons
Threatening, intimidating, harassing or coercing of another employee
Gambling on University premises or while engaged in University business
Violation of the University nondiscrimination or sexual harassment policy

The conduct listed above is not an exhaustive list of inappropriate conduct. In addition, employees
participating in such conduct may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination.
804.2 Progressive Discipline
The Progressive Discipline process is designed to be constructive and corrective to change employee
behavior in a positive manner and to promote employee success. It gives employees the information
necessary to understand what aspect of work performance, attendance and/or behavior is unacceptable,
identifies the improvements that are expected, and provides the opportunity for employees to demonstrate
the expected improvements. The goal is to improve performance, attendance, or behavior of employees and
to assist employees in taking ownership of their performance, attendance, or behavior.
It is the responsibility of the employee to adhere to the expectations outlined by the supervisor and to adhere
to the standards of conduct.
It is recommended that all employees be provided an opportunity to go through the progressive discipline
process; however, there are circumstances that warrant immediate termination. In addition, there is no
required number of instances that a supervisor must warn or reprimand an employee before termination is
warranted.
804.2a Progressive Discipline Steps
It is recommended that department management document all steps of the corrective discipline
process as they occur, as well as warnings of further corrective action if the unacceptable
performance and/or behavior is not corrected. Any disciplinary step may be omitted depending
upon the severity of the incident.
In each step, department management is advised to state the next step to be taken if the
performance does not improve. However, in cases of serious misconduct, the employee may be
immediately terminated, or suspended from the work force.
When an employee's performance or behavior is unsatisfactory, a progressive process is strongly
advised. The steps involved in the process may include verbal discussion, written warning,
Performance Improvement Plan (PIP), suspension without pay, and termination. Again, any
disciplinary step may be omitted depending upon the severity of the incident. It is recommended
that all disciplinary action(s) be discussed in private when appropriate and be shared with other
employees on a need to know basis.
804.2b Verbal Counseling
The initial action should be verbal counseling, whenever possible. The discussion should be firm
but fair and should ensure that the employee clearly understands the established standards and
expectations with respect to the unacceptable performance or behavior.
A written record of the date and content of such discussions should be maintained.
804.2c Written Disciplinary Action
Written disciplinary warnings follow the verbal counseling of an employee that does not result in the
needed improvement or if the initial situation indicates a need for stronger action. The written
warning outlines the undesired behavior, states expectations and lists consequences if issues
continue.
Employee Relations, Department of Human Resources, is available to assist departments and
management with the warning letter. Copies of the warning letter should be maintained in the
appropriate departmental file and also transmitted to HR Records to be placed in the official
employee file.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

61

804.2d Suspension
Suspension is a disciplinary action that results in unpaid time away from work. Suspension typically
follows other steps in the progressive discipline process that have not resulted in the improved
performance of the employee. However, there may be instances where suspension may be the
first step in the process. The length of the suspension should depend upon the facts of each case,
(e.g., type and severity of the behavior, previous work record of the employee, and previous
disciplinary actions).
The suspension should be clearly explained in a written disciplinary warning to the employee and
should indicate any possible consequences of further performance or behavior issues. Suspension
should not be used in instances where administrative leave is more appropriate such as during an
internal investigation.
804.2e Performance Improvement Plan
Performance Improvement Plans (PIP) are tools that can be used to assist the employee in
improving their performance. Managers and supervisors may implement a PIP as an attempt to
help the employee meet the expectations of the position. It is highly recommended that supervisors
and managers work with the Office of Employee Relations before administering a PIP and
throughout the entire process to ensure it is being documented and administered properly. A PIP
should focus mainly on the performance, the solutions, and how it will be monitored for
improvement.
It is important that the employee understands and takes accountability for his/her actions during the
PIP process and understands that failure to improve may result in disciplinary action up to and
including termination.
804.2f Dismissal Action
Dismissal is advised when, among other reasons, an employee has engaged in serious misconduct
or an employee has not corrected performance and/or behavior.
Prior to dismissing an employee, department management is strongly advised to review the
situation and related information with the Office of Employee Relations and supply appropriate
documentation.
It is advised, when possible, that the dismissal be communicated verbally and in writing. The
written letter of termination should include the reason for termination, effective date, rights to the
grievance process and applicable information regarding clearing the University. Department
leadership is strongly advised to request assistance from the Office of Employee Relations in
composing the letter of dismissal.
Former employees who are terminated for cause are generally not eligible for rehire. However,
former employees who were terminated for cause may request the Assistant Vice President of
Human Resources to review the case and determine eligibility for rehire six months from the
effective date of the termination. The Assistant Vice President’s decision will be rendered after a
review of the employee’s work records at the University and other information as deemed
appropriate.
804.3 Job Abandonment
When an employee does not report to work for three consecutive, scheduled workdays and does not
communicate with the department as to their whereabouts or intentions regarding the job, the department
may terminate the employee for job abandonment. Prior to taking such action, department leadership is
advised to make reasonable efforts to contact the employee to determine the employee's intentions
regarding the job. It is strongly recommended that the department send a registered letter (return receipt
requested) to the employee indicating that Georgia State University considers the employee to have
voluntarily resigned from employment due to job abandonment as of the last day the employee worked.
804.3a Termination Procedure for Job Abandonment
After it has been determined by the hiring manager that an employee has abandoned his/her
position (has not shown up and/or called into work for three consecutive scheduled workdays) the
hiring manager should move to terminate employment. The hiring manager should work with their
college or division Human Resource officer to conduct the following procedures (these procedures
should be followed within 24 hours of determining an employee has abandoned their job):

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

62






Contact Employee Relations to draft a termination letter to the employee and to discuss
other steps that need to be taken in the termination process (i.e. Clearance Form, return
of equipment, etc.)
E-mail the Manager of Card Programs and Support Services ((kmilton@gsu.edu) to
request the P-Card, Corporate Travel Card (American Express) and PIN for use of Fuel
Card, if applicable, be deactivated and no further charges be allowed
Contact IS&T to restrict access to Georgia State University Systems
Contact Key Control to determine if locks need to be changed or if additional keys are
needed for the department

804.4 Personal Appearance
Georgia State University is a varying environment where one person may be required to care for animals
and another may be required to meet with elected officials. Because of the varying degrees of performed
duties on campus it is difficult for the University to have one uniform dress code. However, Georgia State
University is a professional organization with a high level of visibility in the community. Our premises are
visited by state/elected officials, students, clients and guests on a daily basis. Discretion in style of dress and
behavior is essential to the efficient operation of the University. Employees are, therefore, required to dress
in appropriate attire and to behave in a professional, businesslike manner. Please use good judgment in
choice of work attire and remember to conduct yourself at all times in a way that best represents you and the
University.
804.5 Work Environment Appearance
Employees are required to keep their work environments clean and orderly. It is suggested that before
departing work, employees lock all files and cabinets and clear work materials from desk surfaces,
especially materials of a sensitive or confidential nature.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

63

(SECTION 900)
Corporate Credit Card Program

901 VISA Purchase Card (P-Card)
The Purchase Card (P-Card) is a VISA card issued for the purpose of quickly and efficiently purchasing and paying
for goods and services valued at $4,999 or less. However, no single items of equipment or furniture costing $3,000 or
more (those items which must be inventoried and decaled) shall be purchased with the P-Card. This tool can be
advantageous to the individual purchaser, the purchaser's department, the University, and the supplier. Benefits of
the P-Card include the ability to reduce petty cash purchases, check requests (express vouchers), and purchase
requests (requisitions) while maintaining an audit trail and accountability of expenditures for P-Card transactions.
P-Cards may be issued only to a regular classified employee of the University whose job duties require the use of
such a card. Cards are issued to individual employees only rather than to a specific department or division. Only one
(1) card may be issued to any employee.
901.1 Obtaining a VISA Purchase Card
Potential cardholders will be placed on the Purchasing Department’s implementation list and will be
contacted when scheduled to enter the program. In order to enter the program, several actions must take
place:

The department must request Human Resources to complete a criminal background and credit check
by completing a consent form for each employee seeking a P-card. Human Resources will notify the
Purchasing Department regarding the applicant's eligibility to receive a P-Card.


Upon notification from Human Resources that the required checks have been successfully completed, a
P-Card Application Form must be completed. Fill out the P-Card application at:
http://www2.gsu.edu/~wwwpch/pcardapplication.doc or



http://www2.gsu.edu/~wwwpch/pcardapplication.pdf and submit this form to the Purchasing
Department, once all necessary signatures have been secured.



The Approving Official and Cardholder must complete required training on the proper use of the card
prior to the actual cards being disseminated for use. The on-line training can be found at:
http://www2.gsu.edu/~wwwpch/pcardtraining/PCardOnlineTraining.pps. At the end of this tutorial is a
certification page for the employee to complete. When the “Submit” button is clicked, verification is sent
to Purchasing that the training has been completed.



All new cardholders and new Approving Officials must sign the P-Card Ethical Behavior Agreement and
submit this agreement along with the P-Card Application Form to the P-Card Administrators in the
Purchasing Department.



All of the forms and information can be found on the Business Services website at:
http://www2.gsu.edu/~wwwpch/forms.htm. Once all of these steps have been completed and the
P-Card Administrators have received all necessary paperwork, the employee’s P-Card request will be
submitted. Once the request has been submitted, the new card will arrive within 3-5 business days. The
P-Card Administrators will email the employee once the card arrives and is ready for pick up.

901.2 Policies and Procedures for Use of VISA Purchase Card
Detailed policies, procedures and downloadable forms are available at the link below:
http://www2.gsu.edu/~wwwpch/fordepartments.htm#pcard
901.3 VISA Purchase Card Legislation Passed During the 2007- 2008 General Assembly
State of Georgia House Bill (HB) 1113 was signed by Governor Perdue on May 14, 2008. The Bill specifies
rules, regulations, and requirements of the State Purchasing Card Program. HB 1113 also specifies travel
advance rules and prohibits fraudulent reimbursement requests. New civil and criminal penalties were
introduced for violations. Under HB 1113, the use of the P-Card for personal expenditures is strictly
prohibited. Cardholders who violate this rule must immediately report the personal use and reimburse the
funds to the University. Per the University Systems of Georgia requirement, the University is required to
report misuse to the Board of Regents who will then forward the information to the Attorney General’s Office.
This is required regardless of a cardholder’s intent to reimburse the University.
Please go to: http://www.legis.ga.gov/legis/2007_08/sum/hb1113.htm to read the bill in its entirety. Georgia
State University Purchasing Department contacts for Purchase Card issues are: P-Card Administrators,
(404) 413-3150.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

64

902 American Express Corporate Travel Card
Corporate travel cards are issued to those faculty and staff employees who request and qualify for such a card.
Eligibility for the corporate card is based on the employee's credit-worthiness. Employees can use the card for airline
tickets, rental cars, fuel costs, ground transportation (e.g. airport shuttles), lodging, and meals that are associated
with conducting business on behalf of the University. The employee receives reimbursement for expenses through
normal travel reimbursement procedures and makes payment directly to American Express. The State of Georgia
and Georgia State University do not incur any liability associated with the use of the card. Cardholders do not have to
pay the annual fee normally charged for an American Express Card. American Express will check the employee’s
credit history. Non-travel expenditures are prohibited. The corporate travel card balance must be paid in full each
month by the due date that appears on the monthly statement. Detailed policies and procedures may be found at:
http://www2.gsu.edu/~wwwpch/AmxProcedure.htm.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

65

(SECTION 1000)
ELECTRONIC DEVICE USAGE PROCEDURES – COMPUTERS AND CELL PHONES

1001 Computer Usage
Georgia State University equipment, including computer hardware and software, are valuable assets. They should be
used for official Georgia State University business only. Although every effort is made to secure the information of
each authorized user, messages and/or files stored on the computer or system network should not be considered to
be private and/or secure. Under the Georgia Open Records law, it is possible that information which is stored on a
computer system, including electronic mail, would be available for inspection by any member of the public. Further,
Georgia State University reserves the right to have access to any information stored on a University owned computer
or network. Under no circumstances may software be copied or installed on a Georgia State University computer if
such copying or installation would violate any copyright or licensing agreement. All system users are expected to
follow the guidelines outlined in the “Computer Ethics Policy” published by Information Systems and Technology
(http://www.gsu.edu/ist/info_sys_ethics.html). Any employee in violation of this policy may be subject to disciplinary
action, up to and including termination, as well as possible legal action. Sending blanket emails to the University is
prohibited. This policy includes, but is not limited to the following types of computers: desktops, laptops, palmtops,
notebooks, netbooks, and iPads. See Information System Use Policy (IS&T) for additional Information Systems and
Technology policies.
1002 Social Media
Georgia State University recognizes the advances in technology and the benefits of these advances: one advance
being Social Media. While the use of Social Media can be very beneficial to the promotion, marketing, and
advancement of Georgia State University, the abuse and/or misuse of this technology can be counterproductive and
damaging to the mission, vision, and image of the institution. As a result, it is important to communicate expectations
around how Social Media should be used at Georgia State University. The following are guidelines for Social Media
usage at Georgia State University. The absence or lack of explicit reference to a specific site does not limit the extent
of the application of these guidelines. Where no guidelines exist, employees should consult with their supervisor
and/or the office of Employee Relations if they are uncertain or have questions concerning appropriate use. Any
employee in violation may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
1002.1 Productivity
Social Media activities should not interfere with work commitments or negatively impact productivity. As
stated in the IS&T policies, University computers and work time are to be used for University related
business. Employees should engage in Social Media activity only if it is directly related to accomplishing
work goals.
1002.2 Unauthorized Use of Georgia State University’s Name, Logo, or Insignia
The Georgia State University logo is a registered trademark protected by Federal law. University logos,
services, and other trademarks may only be used on official University websites and pages. Such use shall
be in a way that brings value to the University and portrays Georgia State University in a positive light. Use
of the University name and marks must also comply with the University Identity Guide. Logos sized
appropriately for the web are available for download by request at the University Identity Guidelines link.
Any usage not following the visual identity guidelines must be immediately removed.
1002.2a Endorsements
Employees should not use the University name, logo, or insignia to endorse or promote any
product, opinion, cause, or political candidate. Personal opinions represented as institutionally
endorsed is strictly prohibited.
1002.3 Representation
Employees should not represent Georgia State University or speak on behalf of their college/unit/department
on Social Media, unless written approval is given by their immediate supervisor.
1002.4 Confidentiality and Personal Information
Employees should not post any material that would infringe on the intellectual property or privacy rights of
the University or others. This applies to confidential or proprietary information belonging to the University,
including personal information pertaining to students, employees, or alumni. Employees should adhere to all
applicable University privacy and confidentiality policies as well as State and Federal laws.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

66

1002.4a Social Media Referencing
Employees should not to reference or cite Georgia State University faculty, staff, students, donors,
etc. without their express consent.
1002.4b Attribution
Employees should respect copyright laws and reference or cite sources appropriately. Plagiarism
applies on-line as well. All posts shall comply with copyright, fair use, and all other applicable State
and Federal Laws.
1002.5 Recommendations for Posting as an Individual
Employees should not represent themselves as an agent of Georgia State University while communicating
on a personal blog, forum, or social networking site. Any Personal blogs or comments on Social Media outlet
that could be construed to reflect negatively on Georgia State University should have clear disclaimers that
the views expressed by the author are the author’s alone and do not represent the views of Georgia State
University.
1003 Cell Phone/Electronic Device Usage
These guidelines apply to any device that makes or receives phone calls, leaves messages, sends text messages,
surfs the Internet, downloads data, and allows for the reading of and responding to email.
1003.1 Use of Cell Phone/Electronic Device for University Business
Any employee who uses a cell phone/electronic device for University business should not use such cell
phone or electronic device while driving. This includes but is not limited to receiving or placing calls, text
messaging, surfing the Internet, receiving or responding to email, and checking for phone messages.
1003.2 Limitation of Cell Phone/Electronic Device
The use of all University cell phones/ electronic devices should be limited to official University business only.
Using University cell phones/ electronic devices for personal use is a violation of University policy and may
result in disciplinary action. While driving, if possible the employee should stop his/her vehicle in a safe
location so that he/she can safely use the cell phone/ electronic device. Employees may not use University
cell phones/ electronic devices for personal communications with the intention of repaying the University at a
later date.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

67

(SECTION 1100)
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES FOR EMPLOYEES

1101 General Information
Georgia State University believes that our most valuable resources are our employees. In an effort to promote the
general well-being of each employee, Georgia State University offers additional resources to assist employees with
some work-related or personal issues. These resources are available to all employees whether they be full-time,
part-time, or a temporary employee.
1102 Faculty and Staff Assistance (FASA)
Faculty and Staff Assistance (FASA) is an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) available at no cost to Georgia State
University faculty, staff, eligible dependents, and household members. FASA is a special benefit funded through the
Department of Human Resources offering confidential consultations, assessments, and short-term counseling for a
variety of issues ranging from work-related concerns to personal difficulties that affect everyday life. FASA will
provide assistance with exploring appropriate community resources, if an outside referral is needed for ongoing or
specialized services.
FASA offers training, Brown Bag workshops, and a variety of health and wellness resources and programs for the
university community coordinated through the Office of Employee Development and Wellness Services. For
additional information and assistance, call Faculty and Staff Assistance at (404) 413-3342.
1103 Ombudsperson
The Office of the Ombudsperson is a resource that provides confidential assistance to all employees. This office is a
separate department from Human Resources. The Office’s goal is to foster a cohesive sense of community by being
an advocate for fair and equitable treatment for faculty, staff, and students. Employees and students may use this
resource for assistance in resolving conflicts, disputes, or complaints informally and confidentially. For more
information, call the Office of the Ombudsperson at (404) 413-2510.
1104 Opportunity Development and Diversity Education Planning Office
The Opportunity Development and Diversity Education Planning Office (ODDEP) is an available resource for any
employees who have potential complaints involving allegations of discrimination, sexual harassment, or retaliation.
As a resource, ODDEP also offers a variety of training and service opportunities to include the following:

Diversity Education Training

Career Advancement Planning

Consulting and Compliance Training

Consultation for Managers, Supervisors and Staff Employees regarding diversity workplace issues
For more information or assistance, call the Opportunity Development and Diversity Education Planning Office at
(404) 413-2567.
1105 Employee Relations Division of the Human Resource Department
Employee Relations is committed to providing responsive, dependable and consistent advice that supports the rights
and responsibilities of all university employees. Employee Relations provides consulting services, workplace problem
resolution, and grievance assistance to employees and supervisors. Employee Relations works to influence
partnerships that have a positive impact on the workplace and the University community by using policies,
procedures, and practices as a foundation for recommendations. For additional information and assistance, call
Employee Relations at (404) 413-3356.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

68

GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Absenteeism – work time lost when employee does not come to work as scheduled.
Allocated Position – an established classified position funded through the budget process.
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Amendments Act– Federal law prohibiting discrimination against a
qualified individual with a disability; also known as ADAAA.
Applicant – someone who a) expresses an interest in a position, b) completes the required application process, and
c) meets the minimum hiring standards for the job, d) The individual at no point in the selection process prior to
receiving an offer of employment from the contractor, removes himself or herself from further consideration or
otherwise indicates that he or she is no longer interested in the position.
Base Hourly Rate – the hourly rate corresponding to the annual salary range assigned to an employee.
Break in Service -- A break in service occurs when an employee has more than a 30-calendar-day break in
employment within the University System of Georgia, State of Georgia Agency, and/or any affiliate of either.
Broadband Structure – salary band used for higher level positions.
Budgetary Unit – describes a department, center or an office that has a budget.
Classification – positions that have similar duties and responsibilities are assigned the same descriptive title and the
same requirements as to education, experience, knowledge and ability.
COBRA – Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act – Federal law that provides for continuation of group
health care benefits for former employees and their families.
Continuous Service – shall mean service commencing with the employee’s anniversary date and continuing until
broken by resignation or termination.
Copyright Act – Federal Law that defines the right or privilege of the author or proprietor to exclude others from
printing or otherwise duplicating, distributing or vending copies of his or her literary, artistic and other creative
expressions.
Cost-of-Living Adjustment (COLA) – pay adjustment given to employees regardless of their performance; usually
linked to inflation.
Defined Contribution Plan – plan in which Georgia State University and sometimes the employee make a payment
to the employee’s retirement account.
Demotion – as result of disciplinary action, a decrease in the duties and responsibilities assigned to an employee
and a downward change in the employee’s classification and salary range.
Disability Benefits – monthly benefits paid under the Social Security Act to workers and eligible dependents younger
than the Social Security retirement age if they have a disability.
DOAS – Department of Administrative Services
Domestic Partner – the partner of an eligible employee who shares a long term committed relationship of an
indefinite duration with the following characteristics: having an exclusive, mutual commitment similar to that of
marriage; financially responsible for each other’s well-being and debts to third parties. This means that you have
entered into a contractual commitment for that financial responsibility or have joint ownership of significant assets
(such as home, car, bank accounts) and joint liability for debts (such as mortgages and major credit cards); neither
partner is married to anyone else nor has another domestic partner; partners are not related by blood closer than
would bar marriage in the state of their residence.
FASA – Faculty and Staff Assistance - a Georgia State University sponsored program that delivers a variety of
health-related services, which are provided by a licensed professional or organization and provides the employee a
high degree of confidentiality.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

69

Employee Right-to-Know Law – Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) standard that requires the use of
labeling, Material Safety Data Sheets, training, written hazard communication programs to inform employees of
hazardous chemicals in the workplace.
Employment Date – the date an employee was employed by Georgia State University.
Exempt Employee – Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) requirement that such an employee not be paid overtime.
FLSA – Fair Labor Standards Act - regulates employee overtime status, overtime pay, minimum wage, record
keeping, and other administrative concerns and designates which jobs/positions are tracked and paid on an hourly
basis and those which are paid on a salary basis.
FMLA – Family Medical Leave Act - entitles employees to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave each rolling 12-month
period to care for a family member or because of a serious health condition of the employee.
403 (b) Plans – financial plan to contribute pretax dollars toward retirement savings allowed to employees of certain
tax-exempt organizations.
Full-Time Employee – employee shall perform job duties forty (40) hours per calendar week.
Garnishment of Wages – a creditor obtains a court order requiring an employer to attach an employee’s earnings in
order to pay back a debt.
Georgia Defined Contribution Plan – created by the 1992 Georgia Law, Act 996 and became effective on July 1,
1992; also known as GDCP. The administration and responsibility for the GDCP is under the Board of Trustees of the
Employees’ Retirement System (ERS). The purpose of this law was to provide a retirement system for temporary,
seasonal, and part-time employees of the State of Georgia who were not eligible for membership in the Employees’
Retirement System (ERS) or the Teachers Retirement System (TRS).
Grievance Procedure – provides a fair and efficient process to resolve employee grievances.
Group Term Life Insurance – insurance carried by employers for their employees that provides a lump-sum
payment to the employee’ beneficiaries.
GSU PPRTs – electronic applicant recruiting and tracking system. All applications for staff/classified positions are
submitted through this system.
HIPPA – Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act – This act made changes to improve health-care
coverage portability and accessibility.
Holiday – a specific day identified by Georgia State University within the calendar year as a day off work with pay.
Job Analysis – a systematic study of jobs to determine what activities and responsibilities they include, relative
importance and relationship with other jobs, qualifications necessary for performance of jobs, and conditions under
which work is performed.
Job Description – a summary of the most important features of a job, including minimum hiring standards, required
tasks, knowledge, skills, abilities, and responsibilities.
Job Posting – a public display showing current available positions so interested and qualified employees may apply.
Lateral Transfer – a movement from one position to another at the same pay grade.
Minimum Hiring Standards – minimum level of knowledge (through education or training), skills and abilities that
are required to perform the essential job functions assigned to a position
Optional Retirement Plan (ORP) – The Optional Retirement Plan (ORP) of the University System of Georgia is a
legislatively established retirement plan that was enacted in 1990. The ORP is a defined contribution plan qualified
under the applicable provisions of Code Section 401(a).
Overtime – time worked by a non-exempt employee above the normal forty (40) hour work week.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

70

Non-Exempt Employee – a job status established by the FLSA as an hourly waged employee assigned to work 40
hours per workweek; any hours worked over 40 hours must be paid overtime at a rate of time and a half.
Part-Time Employee – an employee who works less than 40 hours a week. Employees regularly scheduled to work
more than 20 hours a week are eligible for participation in most benefit programs
Pay Status – an employee is at work, absent on a paid holiday, absent on leave with pay or absent on authorized
compensatory time off.
Performance Evaluation – the process that measures the degree to which an employee accomplishes work
requirements.
Performance Management – the process that provides an opportunity for employees and supervisors to discuss
development goals and jointly create plans to achieve them.
Performance Standards – expectations of management translated into behaviors and results that employees can
deliver.
Preferred Qualifications – qualifications that are “ideal” for an applicant to have, but are not necessary to perform
the essential job functions (or duties assigned to a position)
Progressive Discipline – the process designed to be constructive and corrective and to promote employee success.
Promotion – an increase in the duties and responsibilities assigned to an employee and an upward change in his/her
current job classification and salary range.
Provisional Period – a period in which each new employee is required to serve the first six months of employment at
Georgia State University in a provisional status.
Reclassification – a change in the duties and responsibilities assigned to an employee and a change in his/her
current job classification.
Regular Employee – an employee of the University who is hired for continuous service.
Relative – relatives are defined as husbands and wives, parents and children, brothers, sisters, and any in-laws of
any of the foregoing.
Resignation – voluntary relinquishment of employment by an employee.
Rolling 12-Month Period – An employee’s entitlement to FMLA leave is determined by looking at the 12 months
prior to the time leave is requested. The employee is entitled to any balance of leave not taken during that 12-month
period.
Satisfactory Service – meets work, performance and conduct standards established by Georgia State University.
Service Date –The initial date of hire at Georgia State University or any institution/affiliate of the University System of
Georgia. The employee must have no more than a 30-calendar-day break in service between employments for the
service date to carry-forward.
Sexual Harassment – unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct
of a sexual nature.
Temporary Employee – an employee who is hired for a pre-established period, full-time or part-time, and is not
eligible for benefits.
Termination – end of employment, whether voluntary or for cause.
Transfer – the movement of an employee from one position to another within the University or University System of
Georgia.
Vesting – process by which retirements benefit becomes non-forfeitable. The time period to which an employee has
a right to the employer contributions in a retirement plan. Vesting determines the percentage of a retirement account

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

71

that may be paid out upon termination of employment, or upon retirement, and is usually determined by years of
eligible employment.
For the TRS defined-benefit plan, a member with at least ten years of creditable service has a vested right to a
benefit at age 60. If you have 10 or more years of creditable service and leave a TRS covered position you will be
entitled to a service retirement benefit upon attaining age 60 if you have not withdrawn your TRS contributions. If you
are vested and no longer contributing to TRS, it is your responsibility to apply for benefits at the time you become
eligible.
Workers’ Compensation – state insurance program paid for by employers; designed to protect workers in cases of
work-related injuries or diseases related to workers’ employment. This is a “No Fault” insurance.

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

72

INDEX

Direct Deposit ------------------------------------- 213.3
A
Accident Insurance -------------------------------- 305
Academic Variable ---------------------------- 102.3a
Administrative Leave ----------------------------- 405
Administrative Salary Adjustments ---------- 208
American with Disabilities Act Amendments
Act (ADAAA) ------------------------------------- 101.2a
Amorous Relationships --------------------- 101.16
Andrew Young School of Policy Studies------- ii
Appealing Denied Benefit Claims------------- 316
Attendance ----------------------------------------- 501.1
Auditing Courses ---------------------------------- 603
B
Background Check ---------------------------- 103.1a
BCat Classification System --------------------- 202
Benefits Eligibility---------------------------------- 302
Benefits Forms Completion ---------------- 103.2d
Benefits Information ------------------------------ 301
Board of Regents----------------------------------------i
Breaks------------------------------------------------ 501.5
Broadband Structure---------------------------- 203.1
Business Activities ---------------------------- 505.3d
C
Campus Safety and Security Fire and
Emergency Services ---------------------------- 504.3
Categories of Employment---------------------- 102
Cell Phone/Electronic Device Usage--------1003
Children in the Workplace ------------------ 505.3c
College of Arts and Sciences ---------------------- ii
College of Education ---------------------------------- ii
College of Health and Human Sciences -------- ii
College of Law ------------------------------------------ ii
Compensation --------------------------------------- 201
Completion of I-9 ------------------------------- 103.2a
Computer Usage----------------------------------- 1001
Conditions of Employment ------------------- 103.2
Conduct Guidelines ------------------------------- 804
Conflict of Interest and Committment ----- 101.9
Consultant/Independent Contractor ------ 102.2f
Continuation of Benefits at Termination --- 311
Court Duty -------------------------------------------- 412
Credit Check ------------------------------------- 103.1b
D
Dangerous Weapons -------------------------101.14a
Death in the Family -------------------------------- 411
Deductions ------------------------------------------- 211
Demotion -------------------------------------------- 206.5
Dental Insurance ----------------------------------- 304
Dependent Care Spending Account ------- 308.2
Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

Direct Deposit of Paycheck ----------------- 103.2b
Disability Insurance ------------------------------- 307
Disclosure of Information --------------------- 502.2
Discrimination or Harassment Complaint
Process ----------------------------------------------- 702
Discriminatory Harassment Policy --------- 101.4
Domestic Partner Benefits -------------------- 302.3
Donated Sick Leave Pool ---------------------- 402.6
Drug and Alcohol Policy ----------------------- 101.5
Drug-Related Disciplinary Actions ------- 101.5a
Drug Testing ------------------------------------- 103.1c
Duty to Report Criminal Charges ------------- 503
E
Educational Leave -------------------------------- 409
Emergency Treatment -------------------------- 504.2
Employee Health and Safety ------------------- 504
Employee Records--------------------------------- 502
Employee Right to Know ---------------------- 504.4
Employment Classification ------------------- 203.3
Employment in Multiple Position ----------- 205.4
Employment of Foreign Nationals -------- 102.4a
Employment of Minors ----------------------- 102.4d
Employment of Relatives -------------------- 102.4b
Employment of Retirees --------------------- 102.4c
Employment on a Project-------------------- 102.1d
Employment Opportunities Posting --------- 204
Ethics Policy--------------------------------------101.17
Equal Opportunity Statement ---------------- 101.1
Exempt --------------------------------------------- 203.3a
F
Faculty and Staff Assistance (FASA) ------- 1102
Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) ------------- 209
Family and Medical Leave (FMLA)------------ 406
Federal and State Withholding Forms -- 103.2c
Fiscal Variable ---------------------------------- 102.3b
Flexible Spending Accounts ------------------- 308
Formal Complaint Process ------------------- 702.2
Full-Time Employment ----------------------- 102.1a
G
Garnishments and Withholding --------------- 212
General Pay Plan --------------------------------- 203.2
Georgia Higher Education Savings Plan----312
Georgia State University Police ------------- 504.1
Governance -----------------------------------------------i
Gratuities Prohibited Receipt of Gifts --- 101.13
H
Health Insurance ----------------------------------- 303

73

Healthcare Spending Account --------------- 308.1
Hiring and Termination Guidelines ---------- 103
Holidays --------------------------------------------- 401.1
I
Identification Card ------------------------------- 104.1
Inappropriate Conduct ------------------------- 804.1
Informal Resolution Process ----------------- 702.1
Intellectual Property Policy ------------------- 101.6
Interim/Acting Appointment ------------------- 210
Internal Complaint Processes ----------------- 700
J
J. Mack Robinson College of Business--------- ii
Job Abandonment ------------------------------- 804.3
Job Analysis and Job Audit ------------------ 207.2
Job Evaluation Process -------------------------- 207
L
Lactation Breaks ------------------------------- 501.5a
Lactation Process -------------------------------- 408.1
Lateral Transfer ----------------------------------- 206.4
Life Insurance --------------------------------------- 306
Limited Term Employment ----------------- 102.1c
Loyalty Oath ------------------------------------- 103.2e
M
Mail and Packages ----------------------------- 505.3a
Maternity Leave ------------------------------------- 408
Merit Increases ------------------------------------ 206.1
Military Leave ---------------------------------------- 407
Minimum Hiring Standards --------------------- 205

Pay for Additional Duties ------------------------ 210
Pay Periods ------------------------------------------ 213
Pay Plan/Salary Structure ----------------------- 203
Paychecks ------------------------------------------ 213.2
Payroll Deductions ------------------------------ 211.1
Performance Evaluations------------------------ 803
Performance Expectations --------------------- 802
Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) --- 804.2e
Performance Policy------------------------------ 101.8
Performance Reviews ---------------------------- 601
Personal Appearance --------------------------- 804.4
Personal Leave-------------------------------------- 404
Personal Activities ------------------------------- 505.3
Personnel Action Form (PAF) ---------------- 501.2
Pets ------------------------------------------------- 505.3e
Physician's Statement ------------------------- 402.4
Policy Philosophy ---------------------------------- 101
Political Activities ------------------------------ 101.10
Position Review Form (PRF) ----------------- 207.1
Possession of Dangerous Weapons ---- 101.14
Pre-Employment Screening ------------------ 103.1
Professional Liability Insurance -------------- 314
Progressive Discipline ------------------------- 804.2
Promotion------------------------------------------- 206.2
Provisional Period --------------------------------- 105
Q
Qualifying Events -------------------------------- 310.1
Quick Facts about Georgia State ------------------i
R

New Hire Job--------------------------------------- 205.1
Non-Discrimination Policy Statement ----- 101.4
Non-Exempt -------------------------------------- 203.3b

Reclassification ----------------------------------- 207.2
Recycling Programs on Campus ----------- 505.5
Reduced Hours and Shift Modifications ----106
Reductions in Force (RIF) --------------------- 107.3
Rehire after Termination ----------------------- 107.4
Report of Absence ------------------------------- 213.4
Reporting Absences Due to Illness -------- 402.3
Resignation ---------------------------------------- 107.5
Retirement ------------------------------------------ 107.6
Retirement Plans ----------------------------------- 315
Return to Work Certification------------------ 402.5

O

S

Occassional Employee ----------------------- 102.2e
Optional Retirement Plan (ORP) ------------ 315.3
Orientation-------------------------------------------- 104
Outside Agencies ------------------------------ 102.2g
Outside Employment---------------------------- 101.9
Overtime Pay -------------------------------------- 209.1

Seasonal Employee --------------------------- 102.2d
Section 125 Plan ------------------------------------ 310
Sexual Harassment ------------------------------ 101.3
Sexual Identity ---------------------------------- 101.3c
Sick Leave with Pay ------------------------------- 402
Sick Leave without Pay ------------------------ 402.7
Skill Proficiency Demonstrations --------- 103.1d
Smoking Policy --------------------------------- 101.15
Social Media-----------------------------------------1002
Social Security ----------------------------------- 315.1
Special Employment Situations ------------- 102.4
Staff Council ----------------------------------------------i
Staff Development --------------------------------- 600

N

P
PantherCards -------------------------------------- 505.4
Panther Temps ---------------------------------- 102.2b
Part-Time Employment ----------------------- 102.1b
Pay Adjustments ----------------------------------- 206
Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

74

Staff Grievance Procedure ---------------------- 701
State Security Questionnaire --------------- 103.2f
Stipend----------------------------------------------- 206.3
Student Government Association (SGA) --------i
T
Teachers Retirement System of Georgia 315.2
Temporary Employment ---------------------- 102.2
Temporary Non-Student --------------------- 102.2a
Temporary Student ---------------------------- 102.2c
Termination Guidelines -------------------------- 107
Time-Off Benefits----------------------------------- 401
Timesheets ----------------------------------------- 213.1
Training and Development Programs ------- 602
Transcripts --------------------------------------- 103.2g
Transfer---------------------------------------------- 205.3
Transfer of Benefits ----------------------------- 310.2
Transportation & Parking Spending Account
---------------------------------------------------------- 308.3
Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) ----------- 313
U
University Closing --------------------------------- 415
University Police --------------------------------- 504.1
University Senate ---------------------------------------i
University Statutes -------------------------------------i
Use of Campus Mail --------------------------- 505.3a
Use of Telephones ------------------------------- 505.2
Use of University Services and Property -- 505
Use of Georgia State Stationery ------------ 505.1
V
Vacation --------------------------------------------- 401.2
Variable Employment --------------------------- 102.3
Veterans of the Vietnam Era ------------------ 101.2
VISA Purchase Card (P-Card) ----------------- 901
Visitors--------------------------------------------- 505.3b
Voluntary Supplemental Retirement Accounts
---------------------------------------------------------- 315.4
Voting -------------------------------------------------- 413
W
Work Schedules ------------------------------------ 501
Work Environment Appearance ------------- 804.5
Workers’ Compensation ------------------------- 403
Workplace Ethics Policy--------------------------506
Workplace Violence ------------------------- 101.14b

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised October 2013

75

PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK

Georgia State University Classified Employee Handbook
Revised March 2013

