姝 Academy of Management Executive, 2003, Vol. 17, No. 3

........................................................................................................................................................................

The three-dimensional people
strategy: Putting human
resources policies into action
Lynda Gratton and Catherine Truss
Executive Overview

Everyone knows that good people management enhances corporate performance. Not
so obvious is that successful people strategies are three-dimensional, each dimension
requiring an equal amount of attention. Based on our ten-year study within seven
different organizations, we propose a three-dimensional model that executives can use to
determine the current state of their people strategies along the three dimensions, using a
short questionnaire to aid in the diagnosis. Armed with this information, executives will
then be able to address any apparent shortcomings along the three dimensions. A key
factor to emerge is that the emphasis needs to be as much on making it happen in the
day-to-day life of the organization as on developing good people strategies in the
first place.

........................................................................................................................................................................
• 48% thought people’s work goals were clearly
defined
• 36% agreed that people received the training
they needed to do their jobs well

When we talk about people strategy, we mean a
strategy, with its underpinning policies and processes, that an organization develops and implements for managing its people to optimal effect.
Why is it that, despite their best efforts, organizations so often fail to develop and implement successful people strategies? We have just completed
a ten-year study in seven large organizations: BT
(a UK telecom company); Chelsea and Westminster
NHS Trust (a public hospital); Citibank (a global
bank); Glaxo (a global pharmaceutical company);
HP (a computer company); Kraft Foods (a food company), and Lloyds-TSB (a UK national bank). The
results from the sample of 4,500 employees we surveyed are not encouraging:

These discouragingly low percentages are the average responses for the total employee sample
across three times studies (1994, 1997, and 2000).
We did find that the people strategies of some
companies were significantly stronger at some
times than others. We shall later describe these
results and how they were achieved. However, the
average results do make depressing reading, and
we have no reason to believe that better results
would be obtained from other firms. If anything,
these findings are likely to be more positive than
most, since these organizations were keen participants in our study. Part of the problem is that most
executives are unwilling to ask the difficult questions posed in our surveys, and so they never find
out how successful their people strategy really is.
Our study of the development and implementation of people strategies has spanned seven different organizations and lasted the course of an entire decade.1 During that time, we have witnessed
line executives and their HR colleagues grappling
with many of the complex situations that face all
corporations at some time in their existence—

• 15% believed senior management was wellinformed about what employees think and do
• 34% did not have a great deal of trust in management
• 20% agreed that their HR department had a clear
strategy guiding its activities
• 35% thought the appraisal system enabled an
accurate assessment of people’s strengths and
weaknesses
• 34% felt their HR department was competent at
its job
74

2003

Gratton and Truss

mergers, takeovers, corporate crises, large-scale
redundancy programs, and significant product and
service market changes. We have seen how firms
have gone about leveraging corporate success, despite the odds, through creative and innovative
people-management strategies. We have also
borne witness to the many mistakes, frustrations,
and traumas inevitably experienced by these executives and their organizations over the same
period. It is from this unique study that we draw
our examples, cases, and lessons.
In this article we introduce a three-dimensional
model of people strategy. It is based on a vertical
alignment dimension between people strategy and
business goals; a horizontal alignment dimension
between individual HR policy areas; and, finally,
an action or implementation dimension to represent the degree to which the people strategy is put
into effect through the day-to-day experiences of
employees and the behavior of line managers. Using detailed case studies, we illustrate the possible variety in people strategies, highlight the ways
in which companies achieved strength along each
dimension, and demonstrate the dramatic differences between the roles, competencies, and aspirations of the different HR functions. A key message is that the bridging from business goals to
employee performance requires not only policies
but also a determination to act, as seen through
actual practices.

The bridging from business goals to
employee performance requires not only
policies but also a determination to act,
as seen through actual practices.
The Three Dimensions of a People Strategy
Should every company adopt a similar people
strategy and simply aim to establish best practice
in each of the HR policy areas? Over the last decade, there have been attempts to describe people
strategy as an internally coherent set of HR policies and practices. This endeavor has proven to be
both difficult and elusive. As one might expect,
there appears to be no one single “ideal type” of
people strategy with a set of HR policies and practices that can be adopted off the shelf by organizations seeking to manage their people more strategically.2
Vertical Alignment
The reality is that an appropriate people strategy must vary according to organizational circum-

75

stances.3 The key circumstances are business
goals and strategies. Our argument is that, in order to play a strategic role in the organization, the
HR policies and practices that make up an organization’s people strategy should reflect, reinforce,
and support the organization’s business aims and
objectives.4 A strong linkage is needed between
the overall vision of the organization that is held in
the minds of the senior executives and the aims,
objectives, and underlying philosophy of the organization’s approach to managing people. This
linkage will ensure that HR interventions can become a creator, and not an inhibitor, of sustained
competitive advantage.5 This link between people
strategy and business-unit strategy we term vertical alignment.
We have chosen to refer to alignment and not fit;
the distinction is fine, but significant. Fit implies a
relationship between two discrete entities; alignment suggests a much more fluid dynamic that
allows for variation and flexibility. We are not
advocating a mechanistic “matching” exercise between business strategic objectives and people
strategies; often, such matching is simply not feasible and, in any case, will act as a constraint.6
Instead, the process is evolving, based on an understanding of what the business’s goals are, their
people implications, and the translation of these
into an overarching people strategy that can be
used as a basis for detailed HR policies.

Horizontal Alignment
Vertical integration is a crucial dimension of a
people strategy. But it is not sufficient. The second
dimension is horizontal alignment.7 The first dimension, vertical alignment, is concerned with the
link between the corporate and business strategy
as a whole and the firm’s people-management
strategy. The second dimension operates at the
level of individual HR policy areas. The aim here is
the achievement of a coherent and consistent approach to managing people that permeates the
entire activities of the HR function and other organizational functional areas, and we are talking
here at the policy level, not the practice level. This
distinction is important, because we treat putting
people strategies into action as a separate dimension. Achieving a high degree of horizontal alignment implies that an organization has embraced
the value of developing and articulating clear HR
policies that consistently relate to one another. At
a more fundamental level, the firm is able to communicate consistent and reinforcing messages to
employees.

76

Academy of Management Executive

Although at first sight vertical and horizontal
alignment may appear to go hand in hand, our
research has shown that this is not necessarily the
case.8 Firms that achieve high levels of vertical
alignment may not exhibit strong horizontal alignment, and vice versa. This is because the two
dimensions operate at different levels. Vertical
alignment is concerned with whether or not the
overarching people strategy pursued or implicit in
an organization’s actions supports the organization’s strategic direction. Horizontal alignment, on
the other hand, is concerned with the degree of
internal coherence and consistency in the firm’s
stated HR policies.
These first two dimensions are depicted in Figure 1. The upper-left quadrant represents an organization whose HR policies are, though inconsistent with each other, still aligned with the firm’s
business goals and strategies. In the lower-left
quadrant, HR policies are neither coherent/consistent nor aligned with business goals/strategies.
For the firm in the lower-right quadrant, HR policies are internally coherent/consistent but not
aligned with the firm’s business goals. The ideal
situation— consistent and coherent HR policies
aligned with business goals and strategies—is
depicted in the upper-right quadrant. Now let us
see what happens to these as yet theoretical or
paper concepts when they are put, or not put, into
action.

August

The Action Dimension
The third dimension is action or implementation.
Much writing about HRM at the strategic level has
tended to assume that the vertical and horizontal
dimensions are sufficient. The mere existence of
HR policies and a people strategy is believed to be
sufficient to ensure action. The question of what
actually happens once the strategy statement has
been written or the policy document signed off
has received scant attention.9 Yet, as our research
has shown, translating HR policies into action
would appear to be absolutely fundamental to the
question of whether an organization is delivering
in the area of people management. For this reason,
we separate out action as the third dimension of
people strategy.10
This action dimension has two separate but
closely interrelated aspects. The first concerns the
experiences by employees of HR policies. For example, the policy on appraisal may state that employees have four performance feedback sessions
with their manager every year and that they are
appraised on five different competencies. If this is,
indeed, the experience of employees, then policy
has been turned into action. If, on the other hand,
employees are rarely party to performance feedback and if, when they are, the manager concentrates on only one criterion, then the organization
has failed to put policy into action. The second
aspect of action is subtler and focuses on the be-

FIGURE 1
The Two-Dimensional Model of People Strategy

2003

Gratton and Truss

haviors and values of the managers as they are
implementing policy. In their attitudes, conversations, and body language, managers send out very
clear messages about their attitude toward and
support of policy.11
The Three-Dimensional Model of People Strategy
Figure 2 adds the action/inaction dimension to Figure 1. Our research has shown that there is much
variety among companies in this three-dimensional model of people strategy. We found that at
any point in time a company has its unique dimensional signature in terms of where it stands on the
three dimensions:
Vertical Alignment: the alignment between the
business goals and the people strategy.
Horizontal Alignment: the internal alignment between the set of HR policies making up the people
strategy.
Action: the degree to which HR policies are enacted or put into practice, as judged by employee
experience and management behavior and values.
Our research also shows that organizations
move about within the three-dimensional space.
As our examples demonstrate, external events can
occur and internal decisions can be taken that
create new scenarios and shift the people strategy
into a new dimension.
At the front of the three-dimensional cube shown

77

in Figure 2 are the four variations of the twodimension model in which HR policies—in all their
forms—are achieved. However, at the back of the
cube are four corresponding variations of people
strategy characterized by a total lack of action. We
have termed these “mere tactics speak,” “mere process speak,” “mere strategy speak,” and “mere
rhetoric.” We have found that executives benefit
significantly from gaining a thorough understanding of these eight people-strategy variants and the
continuums along which they vary. Often, executives are aware that their current people strategy
has weaknesses as well as strengths, but they are
unable to pinpoint the underlying reasons. Knowing their relative position in the cube enables them
to identify precisely the source of the problem and
take appropriate action.
We first turn to the non-action variations of people strategy. HR policies may (or may not) be internally consistent and may (or may not) be aligned
with business strategies, but nobody does anything about it.
1. Mere Tactics Speak
Weak vertical alignment
Weak horizontal alignment
Weak action
At its worst, this variation occurs when the organization has no discernible people strategy and,

FIGURE 2
The Three-Dimensional Model of People Strategy

78

Academy of Management Executive

therefore, there is no relationship (or only a very
tenuous one) between people strategy and business unit objectives. Moreover, there is little discernible relationship between the various HR policies themselves, and in some cases, policies in
one area may act to undermine those in another.
This situation would hold, for instance, in an organization which evaluates employees on their deployment of a particular skill set in their work but
then fails to provide them with the opportunity to
acquire these skills. In such a situation, productive
action is almost impossible. This type of people
strategy is most often found in small organizations
with no dedicated HR function or where HR is in an
embryonic state, viewed as someone’s part-time
responsibility.
Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in 1994
In the 1993–94 study of the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, the situation was “mere tactics
speak.” The incoming HR director was faced with a
scenario where she had a workforce of over 2,000
staff but no statement or shared understanding of
the people strategy. Only 27 per cent of employees
thought the HR department had a clear overall
strategy guiding its activities. There were few formalized HR policies, and no systematic attempts
had been made to link them to each other or to the
hospital’s goals. For example, only 26 per cent
agreed that people’s work goals were clearly defined, and only 36 per cent agreed that people
received the training they needed to do their jobs
well. As a result, the hospital was failing to recruit
and retain the individuals it needed at all levels,
morale and attitudes towards the HR department
were negative and, crucially, patient care needs
were not being met in some areas. Only 23 per cent
of staff surveyed agreed that the hospital inspired
the very best in job performance from them. However, as we shall see, by the time of the 2000 study,
this new HR director had significantly strengthened both the second dimension, the horizontal
alignment of people policies, and, more significantly, had put them into action.
2. Mere Process Speak
Weak vertical alignment
Strong horizontal alignment
Weak action
We saw this variation in firms where the HR
function has a strong, integrated set of HR policy
goals that are disconnected from the overall objectives of the business. Additionally, these welldescribed policies are inadequately put into effect.

August

This situation can occur when there is a strong
disconnect between the senior HR team and the
business managers or where the senior HR team
has weak strategic or business skills but high levels of process expertise. As a consequence, HR
policies are developed in a sophisticated manner
in isolation from the business imperatives. This
expertise then fails to be translated into action,
most often because of lack of line support for HR
initiatives which are seen to be unrelated to business goals.

Citibank in 1997
In the 1997 study, Citibank was pursuing a strategy
of organic growth through building strong relationships with key clients, a move away from its strategy in the early 1990s of a focus on products. The
HR function in 1997 was undergoing a period of
transformation: from administrative support to creating stronger horizontal alignment across its policy areas. A key plank in this change was the
Talent Inventory, a new process with 10 key performance indicators to aid in employee selection,
leadership, development, and succession planning. On the face of it, the Talent Inventory represented a significant step toward achieving
horizontal alignment within HR.
However, we discovered that while the policy
and instruments were well developed, the Talent
Inventory was not being systematically used by
line managers. Only 29 per cent of employees
thought the appraisal system enabled the company to gain an accurate understanding of people’s strengths and weaknesses. By the time of the
2000 study, the Talent Inventory had failed to gain
traction in the company. It may have been the right
tool, but those managers who had to make it work
didn’t think so. A sound and potentially beneficial
process stayed at the level of “talk.”

3. Mere Strategy Speak
Strong vertical alignment
Weak horizontal alignment
Weak action
We observed this combination when the people
strategy is clearly articulated but is not translated
into a coherent set of HR policies nor implemented
by line managers. The senior HR team may be very
close to the business and have high-level strategic
skills, but for whatever reason they are not able to
translate these business objectives into HR policies. For them, people strategy remains “mere
strategy speak.”

2003

Gratton and Truss

Glaxo, 1997–2000

79

Strong vertical alignment
Strong horizontal alignment
Weak action
Here, there is a strongly articulated people strategy that is linked into the business strategy and
also demonstrates strong internal HR policy linkages, but the whole is not put into action in the
day-to-day behavior of managers nor reflected in
the experiences of employees. The HR team may
be highly skilled in policy development but either
may have weak implementation capability or may
have senior line management who fail to support
their activities. The people strategy looks good on
paper but is nothing more than a paper reality.

a series of extensive training and development
programs was developed, including a Leadership
Program, Total Quality Management, and “Involving Everyone.” Finally, the Payphones People fiveyear plan was designed which included a staff
attitude survey and a sophisticated performance
management system. Each of these separate policies had been designed to achieve vertical alignment by linking into the business goals and horizontal alignment by linking to each other.
However, by the time of the 1997 study, the implementation problems were apparent. The sheer
number and complexity of initiatives and policies
had overwhelmed line managers and, as a consequence, the impact of each individual initiative
had been lost. People were more confused than
motivated. Perhaps more crucially, the costcontainment strategy pursued by the corporate
center meant that annual redundancy targets were
set, targeting between 17–20 per cent of managerial-level jobs. This redundancy program was supported by yet another program, termed Release.
Clearly, the ethos of running a large redundancy
program was at odds with the other, value-driven
initiatives. We found that, as a consequence, the
inability to put the values program into action had
irreparably damaged the psychological contract
between individual employees and the organization. As a consequence, cynicism about the gap
between rhetoric and reality grew. By 1997, only 10
per cent of the employees we surveyed agreed that
management cared about the needs and morale of
employees. The gap between the strong rhetoric of
the values program and the reality of weak actiontaking had created suspicion and mistrust in the
minds of employees.
Later in the article we explore the means by
which these inert or “shadow” people strategies
can move into the action dimension. We now turn
to the four variations of the action dimension.

BT in 1994

5. Tactics Driven

We observed this “mere rhetoric” clearly in the
people-management strategies at BT Payphones in
1994. The strategies were geared toward achieving
significant cultural change in order to enhance
customer focus and individual performance in an
organization previously characterized by a “jobs
for life” mindset. Faced with severe competition
and the threat of product substitution through the
mass expansion of mobile telephone, the HR function aggressively pursued a number of interrelated
initiatives. First, a change program reinforced the
new set of values which was backed up by a Corporate Scorecard for measuring performance. Next,

Weak vertical alignment
Weak horizontal alignment
Strong action
This combination characterizes the traditional
“administrative” HR function that focuses on the
implementation of individual HR policies with limited relationship to the overall aims and objectives
of the business or to each other. We found this
variation associated with HR teams who were not
regarded as a core business function but rather as
“clerks of works” administering the support function, often for a set of business goals which is no
longer appropriate.

We saw a number of companies migrate to this
space in the early phases of a merger. Glaxo Pharmaceuticals was a case in point. During the 1997
study, the company experienced a major internal
restructuring through the merger with Wellcome.
The focus of the HR team was on partnering with
the senior management team to manage the
merger and on integrating one or two of the HR
practices with the business goals. But this effort
took time and, for a period of years, although the
policies were aligned with the new business goals,
the practices were far behind. As one member of
the HR team put it, “We’ve come to a situation
where none of our standard ways of doing things
work any more, because they have rusted due to
lack of use or because they don’t reflect the new
organization.” The strategic intent was there, but
without HR policies focused action was impossible. It
would take focus and resilience for the company to
realign itself over the coming years to become driven
by people strategies and HR policies.
4. Mere Rhetoric

80

Academy of Management Executive

Lloyds Bank in 1994
In the 1994 study, Lloyds Bank was the UK’s most
profitable clearing bank, pursuing an aggressive
and very successful strategy of growth through
acquisition. Massive changes in business goals
during that era saw the automation of banking
jobs combined with a renewed emphasis on selling. Like other HR functions in the banking sector
at that time, many of the HR team had come from
line management banking roles. As a consequence, the function historically had diligently
followed the protocols and policies of the bank,
focusing on day-to-day administration of personnel activities.
However, they were woefully ill-prepared to
meet the significant structural changes that were
occurring in their sector at that time. Employees,
worn down by “change fatigue” and concerned
about their jobs, failed to perceive any underpinning rationale to the changes. The traditional policies and practices of lifetime employment and
stability which had so successfully supported the
bank’s relationship with its staff began to fall
apart, and the incumbent HR team had neither the
skill nor the experience to create policies and practices more fitting to the competitive environment of
the bank. As one frustrated senior manager commented at that time, “Trust levels are devastated;
we have betrayed them.” By the time of the 1997
study, much had changed. The HR team had been
significantly professionalized and by 2000 was
working as a key part of the strategic team of the
business.

August

phase was to examine in detail the HR policies and
practices within the hospital and to ensure that
they were mutually reinforcing. Key to this effort
was developing an integrated people-strategy
statement built around an “Employee Pledge.”
This Pledge was developed in consultation with
the hospital employees and consisted of a set of
“promises” that the hospital undertook to honor in
the treatment of its staff. It included such matters
as providing an Employee Assistance Program,
providing staff with accessible information on all
aspects of the hospital and its strategy, and helping to support staff in balancing home–work commitments. However, throughout this time, vertical alignment remained weak, hampered in part by the
complexity of the hospital’s business goals and the
conflicting interests of the many stakeholders it
served. Without a unifying goal, it was difficult for
the team to establish strong vertical integration, and
throughout the study they remained Process Driven.

7. Strategy Driven
Strong vertical alignment
Weak horizontal alignment
Strong action
Here, we observed that the enactment of the
business goals is primarily a line management
responsibility. As a consequence, there is a strong
vertical driver, often enacted through the performance-management processes. However, some of
the subtleties of reinforcing HR practices are lost
through weak horizontal alignment.

6. Process Driven

HP in 1994

Weak vertical alignment
Strong horizontal alignment
Strong action
This combination occurs in organizations where
the HR team has weak business or strategic skills
but excellent HR process skills, coupled with the
capability to translate these skills into practice.
We found this to be a natural evolution from the
Tactics Driven combination.

In the 1994 study, HP in the UK operated with an
extremely low-key HR department. At the corporate
level, the strategy for managing people was
strongly articulated in the visionary statement, the
HP Way, whose ownership lay very much within
the line management of the organization. In this
way, the overarching people-strategy objectives
were closely embedded within the strategic direction pursued by the corporation. In the UK, the
actual HR department was perceived to be relatively peripheral in the management of people,
focusing more on implementation issues than
strategy. However, this failure to draw on HR professional expertise had implications. First, the focus on the HP Way occasionally meant that some
elements of the people strategy peripheral to it
failed to be developed. Second, the HR team did
not always pick up on best practice in other companies. Finally, the HR team sometimes failed to

Chelsea and Westminster Hospital 1997–2000
At the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, as the
1990s progressed, the new HR director, working
alongside the chief executive, began to effect some
major changes. Her No. 1 priority was to establish
the credibility of the department by improving the
delivery of platform services, moving the hospital
from mere tactics speak to tactics driven. The next

2003

Gratton and Truss

configure the corporate initiatives to align with the
specific nature of the changing UK context.
8. Strategy and Process Driven
Strong vertical alignment
Strong horizontal alignment
Strong action
In many senses, this represents the “ideal type”
of people strategy: coherent HR policies aligned to
business goals and strategies, the whole implemented effectively. Our study showed this ideal to
be both difficult to achieve and hard to sustain.
Kraft Foods, 1994 –2000
In Kraft Foods, we observed that over the period of
study, the company achieved alignment and
moved into action. In the early years of the decade,
Kraft Foods went through a period of aggressive
growth through acquisition. The HR team supported this initiative by developing an extremely
efficient process for assimilating and integrating
the HR systems of the acquired companies. As a
consequence, the acquisition phase was dealt with
rapidly, and new companies quickly became integrated into the parent firm. The firm’s second strategic thrust of continuous improvement was supported by a coherent and highly embedded set of
HR policies. These included recruiting and selecting people according to a clear set of criteria, providing targeted training and development, and offering line managers incentives to implement HR
policy. At the same time, there was a strong performance-management process.
By the mid-1990s, the company experienced
changed economic conditions, increased competition in their core brands, and a lack of potential
takeover targets. In response to these developments, the business strategy changed to one of
growth through innovation. This re-direction required a major cultural change, which was led by
the HR team. A new vision and values statement
was introduced and cascaded through the organization. Over a period of two years, the performance-management system was refined to align
with the new values of creativity and risk taking.
Programs were put in place to develop new leadership skills to support these values. Finally, recognizing that workforce diversity was becoming
increasingly important to innovation, the HR team
instituted location and time flexibility and work–
life balance programs.12
Kraft’s capacity to create a Strategy and Process
Driven people strategy was reflected in extremely
high levels of corporate performance in compari-

81

son with their peer group of companies in the food
sector throughout the period of the study. We later
return to examine the foundations of their success
in more detail.
Our research has revealed many variations of
people strategy which we have described along
three dimensions. Knowing where your company is
along each of these three dimensions enables you
to understand the challenges you face. It also highlights those dimensions on which you should be
focusing your attention.
The Appendix contains a short questionnaire
listing the kinds of questions that executives can
use to determine where the organization currently
stands on each of the three dimensions. A scoring
plan and guidance notes are also included. In the
following section, we explore how certain companies strengthened their people strategy along each
of the three dimensions.
Achieving Strong Vertical Alignment
Get Quick Wins
Faced with the need to strengthen vertical alignment, the most successful HR executives decided on
a few key areas where they could quickly demonstrate a contribution and where the positive benefits
of change would be readily visible to significant line
managers. In establishing what interventions would
be capable of delivering a short-term “quick win,”
they had a sophisticated understanding of which
people processes would have a quick impact on the
delivery of the business goal.13 Lloyds TSB in 1997
had created a professional HR team keen to establish a couple of quick wins by responding to the
strategic proposition of building an innovative product offering. Within a couple of months, they had
recruited executives from FMCG (fast-moving consumer goods) companies to realign what was the
marketing function of a traditional bank around the
skills demonstrated within an FMCG context. They
were also able to kick-start the “innovation” business goal fairly quickly by rapidly designing and
implementing short-term training programs which
communicated the new business goals, key concepts, and their new behaviors to a large number of
employees.
Gain Reputational Effectiveness
The temptation for many of the HR functions in our
study was that, when faced with organizational
turbulence, they focused their resources on their
own needs. As a consequence, they failed to gain
real traction in these difficult times. We heard HR

82

Academy of Management Executive

executives say, “We would do so much more if only
we had more resources” or “We can’t be strategic;
we don’t have time.“ However, the way that the
most successful HR departments in our study secured the resources they needed was by meeting
the business-goal expectations of their linemanagement colleagues (vertical alignment). By
doing so they were creating “reputational effectiveness.”14 As a counter example, in another organization the HR function failed over a long
period of time to achieve any reputational effectiveness. When we asked one line manager what
he thought the HR department did, his comment
was, “I think they do some administration and
sometimes get things wrong.” Needless to say, this
particular HR department saw a steady dilution of
its resource base over the 10-year period.
Build a Business-Focused HR team

August

tress“ view of the world. This was in stark contrast
with those HR groups who were willing to extend
their horizons, to look up—at what was happening
at the top of the organization—and out—to see
what was happening in their industry, their profession, their neighborhood, and the world.15 We are
thinking particularly here of the HR executives at
Kraft Foods, who took the most active part in our
Leading Edge workshops held over the course of
the ten years. They attended more diligently than
representatives from any of the other organizations, often with a large, international team. They
contributed enthusiastically to the discussions and
co-production of knowledge that was at the heart
of our endeavor. They were willing to invest considerable time in engaging in an open and frank
dialog with their peers from other organizations
and with the research team, and to learning without a particular end-game in mind.

In those organizations where vertical alignment
was weak, inevitably the HR team was configured
in a manner that precluded them from working
closely with the line. In some cases, the whole HR
team was physically distant from the business
units and, as a consequence, rarely interacted with
them. Where vertical alignment was strong, this
strength was echoed in the team’s configuration. In
Kraft Foods, the HR staff were assigned to the business units to work alongside line managers as
they made and implemented strategic decisions.
The same was true at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital. While the decision to co-locate the
HR and line executives had symbolic value, it was
also often accompanied by cross-functional career
development. As a director at the Chelsea and
Westminster remarked, “We have benefited enormously as a directorate by having people seconded from the HR department to come and work
with us and work with us only.” Only by sitting
alongside line executives can HR practitioners
take part in day-to-day decision-making about the
running of business units. As a consequence, HR
managers are able to alter their mindset and view
people strategies from a line perspective. An additional benefit of working alongside line managers
is that HR policy implementation can also be enhanced.

Achieving Strong Horizontal Alignment

Look Up and Out

Foster Creative Dialog

The tendency in those organizations where we observed weak vertical alignment was for the HR
executives and managers to focus inward on themselves: the HR department, their processes and
policies. There was often a myopic, almost “for-

The conversations that enable the continual, mutual
adjustments that are crucial to horizontal alignment
are an important feature of the most successful companies we studied. It was through these conversations that the HR teams and the business executives

Get the Balance Right
Getting the balance right is crucial to horizontal
integration. In the 1994 study of Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, the ad hoc arrangements inherited by the incoming HR director meant that few
clearly articulated HR policies were in place. Consequently, critical success factors such as the recruitment and retention of key staff fell down into
the “black holes” within the overall people strategy. Only when she specifically focused on horizontal alignment did the source of these problems
became apparent so they could be addressed.
Getting the balance right can also work in the
opposite way. As we saw earlier, at BT Payphones
the plethora of initiatives, programs, and activities
they had developed under the banner of people
strategy foundered because of their sheer complexity. This was compounded by the starkly conflicting messages being sent out by the enormous
redundancy program, on the one hand, and the
value change program on the other. The edifice of
the people strategy crumbled because it was constructed on weak foundations. Attempting too
many initiatives simultaneously also meant that it
was impossible to track their relationships and
implementation.

2003

Gratton and Truss

were able to design, plan, and make decisions. We
found that these companies fostered a context for
productive talk by creating time and space for conversations and by legitimizing big, broad questions.16
In some companies, we saw both space and time
fragmentation within the HR function. The experts in
each of the functional processes remained isolated;
for example, the pay experts rarely talked with the
career or the performance-management experts.17 In
those companies with strong horizontal alignment,
the HR team worked closely together, even if they
were geographically dispersed. When they did meet,
it was not simply to reiterate known facts but rather
to explore big, broad questions. The same was true of
the relationships and conversations between the line
and HR functions. A fine balance must be created
between HR functioning as a cohesive team and yet
operating as a business partner. In Kraft Foods, the
balance was achieved by assigning HR staff to the
business units. This enabled them to work alongside
line managers as they made and implemented strategic decisions. At the same time, the HR team was
kept together through regular meetings, sharing of
best-practice initiatives, and e-communication. HR
team members were appraised and rewarded for
their achievements in support of the business and for
their contributions to the HR team.
Think Systemically
One of the challenges of horizontal integration is the
sheer complexity of representing the various HR interventions, their potential relationships, and intended and unintended consequences. As a result,
the people-strategy document, if it exists at all, does
so as a simple, linear description of interventions.
Not so at Kraft Foods, where the HR team worked
with the line managers to create a more complete
picture of what the organization would look like if it
had the business goal of Innovation as a key business driver. Together, they created a systems map of
the practices and processes and, more importantly,
the relationships between the two. They were also
able to model the intended and unintended consequences of the behaviors and values which these
practices and processes would reinforce. This visual
picture of the horizontal alignment of the policies
and practices provided crucial insights for the management teams. For example, they began to understand that if they wanted teams to be innovative,
then it would not simply be sufficient to reinforce
innovative behavior with reward. They would have
to do more to encourage innovation through the way
in which they created and structured teams, in the
way they encouraged personal autonomy and risk

83

taking, and in the coaching and support they gave to
managers.18
Achieving Strength in Taking Action
Build a Complete Picture of the Organization’s
Human Resources
In those companies that excelled in putting coherent HR policies into action, we observed the HR
teams working to collect and review data with
executives at three levels of description:
• a review of all HR documentation and communication of the organization’s strategic objectives to measure the degree of alignment between the stated HR objectives (of the people
strategy) and the business goals and needs
• measuring the enactment of the people practices
• measuring and appraising the behavior and
values of managers
The methods involved collecting data from employee surveys, focus groups, and interviews, and
data from appraisal and exit interviews. In our
study, HP was particularly adept at data collection
and review. Their complete picture of reality was
built through consulting multiple stakeholders. For
example, they made active use of peer assessment
when teams from another business came to assess
and comment upon the design and execution of HR
policies and practices. This enabled the team to
rapidly build a picture of where action was taking
place—and where it was failing.
Take Bold Actions
We found that firms with action-oriented people
strategies were willing to take bold, and sometimes unpopular, actions to demonstrate to the organization the behaviors they wanted to support.
One example was Citibank in the 1994 study. Up
until that time, the goals of the business had been
firmly focused on maximizing the financial engine
of the company. This focus on value creation and
profitability had led to the rise of “lone star” executives who generated the most wealth and, consequently, won the biggest bonuses and the most
rapid promotions. As the business goals changed
in the direction of “serving a billion customers,”
the relationships between country teams and business lines became more important. The “lone
stars” could not cross-sell in the way that the new
business required. The HR team created a policy of
cross-appraisal and 360-degree feedback, designed to measure the capability and motivation of
managers to build relationships within their own
teams and colleagues, across functions, and with

84

Academy of Management Executive

other business lines. However, this goal of integration remained at the level of “rhetoric” for some
time. Managers continued to behave as “lone
stars,” running roughshod across their team members and colleagues. Not until it became known
that one of these “lone stars,” who had indeed
exceeded his financial target, had received only
half of his anticipated bonus did people begin to
take the creation of horizontal relationships more
seriously. This “bold action” resulted in the “lone
star” executive choosing to leave Citibank. But at
the same time, it sent out a clear message that the
business goal of building relationships would not
simply remain at the level of rhetoric.
Keep the Best
In the most successful firms we observed, there
was a clear focus on the importance of continuity of
people and process to ensure that action was sustained over time. At Kraft Foods, for example, the
basic structure of the key performance-management
practices remained intact throughout the time of our
study. Within this time, the focus of the process
changed (with a greater emphasis on the behaviors
and values which reinforce innovation), but the structure of the process remained rock solid.

In the most successful firms we observed,
there was a clear focus on the
importance of continuity of people and
process to ensure that action was
sustained over time.
In the same way, continuity of people appeared
to be a crucial factor. Throughout this ten-year
study, we were able to track the membership of the
HR teams. We saw clearly that changes in team
membership could have an impact on both alignment and willingness to take action. On occasions,
this change was positive. For example, at Chelsea
and Westminster, the arrival of a strategic-thinking HR director to a team that had previously been
administrative and tactical had a very positive
impact on action orientation. Often, though, the
impact of breaks in continuity, either through people changing or the new people coming in with a
completely different perspective, had negative implications. At Kraft Foods, over the study period,
there were only two HR directors. The first moved
into a broader European role within Kraft Foods
and was succeeded by his deputy, who had many
years’ experience in Kraft’s HR function. This continuity ensured that the basic threads of the policies

August

remained intact, while the shifting business goals
could be reflected through subtle changes.
Focus on Doing
In those firms most successful at achieving a
strong degree of action-taking, we observed a
clear ability to translate policies and strategies
into definite action plans. While many of the companies in our study were adept at managing business processes, few were equally adept at managing people processes. Our study revealed this lack
of planning. We observed HR teams developing a
plethora of unrelated people-process projects with
limited integration. We observed projects begun
and then not completed, unsophisticated tracking
processes, and ambiguity around budgets and
timescales. Of the companies we examined, Kraft
Foods and HP had developed and implemented the
most sophisticated project-management practices.
At HP, the people strategy was part of the whole
business-strategy process, and from this came a
number of priorities in the people-strategy area.
These priorities were then treated to the same
project-management practices as any major
project. Project plans were created, outcomes
agreed upon, and timelines discussed. Perhaps the
most impressive aspect of their people strategy
was the “HR War Room.” This was a single room in
which all the people-imperative projects were
shown visually in detail with three illuminating
colors. The color green signified a project which
was on track; orange showed it was beginning to
get off track; and red highlighted those projects
which were in danger of not reaching their goals.
Within a minute of entering the room, any manager was aware of the action-taking associated
with the people strategy at HP.
Building and Delivering Excellent People
Strategies
Delivering business strategy through people was
key to the long-term performance of all seven companies we studied over the last decade. At the
heart of this delivery is the competence and will to
build vertical alignment, to craft horizontal alignment, and to move from rhetoric to the reality of
action. This is never easy, particularly if organizational shocks such as downsizing and mergers
rock the company’s very foundation. And yet, we
observed that it is possible to withstand these
shocks and to create and embed people strategies
that remain meaningful both to managers and to
employees. The challenge for the HR department
is to relentlessly learn how to achieve excellence
in all three dimensions of people strategy.

2003

Gratton and Truss

85

APPENDIX
The Three Dimensions of People Strategy
This short questionnaire is designed to help you to plot your people strategy in relation to the three dimensions.
For each question, please provide your own assessment of your organization on the scale:
1 ⫽ strongly disagree
2 ⫽ disagree
3 ⫽ neutral
4 ⫽ agree
5 ⫽ strongly agree
Score:
Section 1: Vertial Alignment
1. The senior HR director/manager is a full and equal member of the main board/strategic decision-making group. OR HR issues are
actively represented on the main board/decision-making group. . . .
2. The senior HR director/manager (or equivalent) actively helps to develop the strategic objectives of the business. . . .
3. There is a clear statement of people strategy and how it supports the corporate strategy, either as a separate statement or contained
within the general corporate strategy statement. . . .
4. Senior line managers are actively involved in developing strategic people objectives. . . .
5. Strategic people objectives are regularly reviewed to ensure their continuing relevance to strategic business objectives. . . .
Total for Section 1:
Section 2: Horizontal Alignment
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

The people-strategy statement clearly demonstrates how policies in each individual HRM area support the overall people strategy . . .
HR policies in each individual HRM area are always developed with reference to other HRM policies within the organization. . . .
The HRM team works closely together in developing HRM policies. . . .
HRM policies are regularly reviewed to ensure their continuing relevance to the overall people strategy. . . .
When new HRM policies are developed, every effort is made to ensure that they are mutually supportive. . . .

Total for Section 2:
Section 3: Action
1. If an outsider were to ask your senior line managers/directors how the people strategy supported the overall strategic objectives
of the business, they would know the answer. . . .
2. Think of the major current business strategic objective for your organization. Do your people strategy and policies actively work
to support it? . . .
3. Line managers in your organization are assessed or appraised against targets relating to the implementation of people strategy
and policies. . . .
4. Line managers are provided with the training they need to implement people strategy and policies. . . .
5. Line mangers know what their individual role is in implementing people strategy and policies. . . .
6. The effective implementation of people strategy and policies influences either the career progression or rewards of line managers. . . .
7. If an outsider were to ask your employees whether the organization was recruiting people with the most appropriate skills and
abilities to help the organization meet its objectives, they would agree. . . .
8. If an outsider were to ask your employees whether they had the training and development they needed, they would agree. . . .
9. If an outsider were to ask your employees whether their appraisals provided an accurate assessment of their strengths and
weaknesses, they would agree. . . .
10. If an outsider were to ask your employees whether their reward package was fair compared with that of others in the organization,
they would agree. . . .
11. If an outsider were to ask your employees whether the organization delivers on its promises in the area of people management,
they would say ‘yes.’ . . .
12. If an outsider were to ask your employees whether the way they are managed encourages them to help the organization deliver
its strategic objectives, they would say ‘yes.’ . . .
Total for Section 3:
Analysis
Your responses
Section 1
This section tests the strength of vertical alignment. If you achieved a score of 19 or over, then you have a strong level of alignment.
Any scores below 19 indicate a weak level of alignment.
Section 2
This section tests the strength of horizontal alignment. If you achieved a score of 19 or over, then you have a strong level of
alignment. Any scores below 19 indicate a weak level of alignment.
Section 3
This section tests whether or not your people strategy is put into action within your organization. A score of 40 or more indicates
strong action. Any scores below 40 indicate weak action.
Scores:
Section 1

Section 2

Section 3

Result

Vertical
Below 19
Below 19
Below 19
Below 19
Above 19
Above 19
Above 19
Above 19

Horizontal
Below 19
Below 19
Above 19
Above 19
Below 19
Below 19
Above 19
Above 19

Action
Below 40
Above 40
Below 40
Above 40
Below 40
Above 40
Below 40
Above 40

Mere Tactics Speak
Tactics Driven
Mere Process Speak
Process Driven
Mere Strategy Speak
Strategy Driven
Mere Rhetoric
Strategy and Process Driven

86

Academy of Management Executive

Acknowledgments
We would like to thank our colleagues on the Leading Edge
Research Consortium project, in particular Professor Veronica
Hope-Hailey, Dr. Philip Stiles, and Dr. Joanna Zaleska. We
would also like to thank the corporate members of the consortium for their generous sponsorship of this research and the
anonymous reviewers and the editors of this journal for their
helpful comments on earlier drafts of this article.

Endnotes
1
In each of the seven cases, we used a questionnaire, surveying the same business unit on three occasions: 1994 (1764
respondents); 1997 (1592 respondents); 2000 (1248 respondents).
We also interviewed 20 –35 employees in each firm and ran
focus groups with the HR function.
2
Becker, B., & Gerhart B. 1996. The impact of human resource
management on organizational performance: Progress and
prospects. Academy of Management Journal, 39(4): 779 – 801.
3
Baron, J. N., & Kreps, D. M. 1999. Strategic human resources.
New York: Wiley.
4
See, for example, Ulrich, D. 1998. A new mandate for human
resources. Harvard Business Review, 76(1): 124–134. Where we are
extending this argument, however, is in the notion that people
strategies have three separate, but interrelated, dimensions.
5
This perspective has been referred to as the “fit” approach,
which has been contrasted with the ‘’best practices” approach
described above. These various theoretical frameworks on strategic HRM have been reviewed in Delery, J. E., & Doty, D. H. 1996.
Modes of theorizing in strategic human resource management:
Tests of universalistic, contingency and configurational perspectives. Academy of Management Journal, 39(4): 802– 835.
6
See Wright, P., & Snell, S. 1998. Toward a unifying framework
for exploring fit and flexibility in strategic human resource management. Academy of Management Review, 23(4): 756–772.
7
Baird & Meshoulam have provided a classic exposition of
these two dimensions of alignment in strategic HRM. See Baird,
L., & Meshoulam, I. 1988. Managing two fits of strategic human
resources management. Academy of Management Review,
13(1): 116 –128.
8
The findings from the 1994 and 1997 studies are described in
Gratton, L., et al. 1999. Strategic human resource management:
Corporate rhetoric and human reality. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.

Lynda Gratton is associate professor of organisational behaviour at London Business School.
Between 1990 and 2000 she
directed The Leading Edge
Research Consortium. She currently directs the school’s executive program, “Human Resource Strategy in Transforming
Organisations.” Contact: lgratton@ london.edu.

August

9
For example, in Huselid’s influential work exploring linkages between HRM and organizational performance, the focus
is very much on stated HR policy. Data were collected from one
single informant in each organization, most often an HR representative, and few items in his questionnaire tapped into the
reality experienced by employees. See Huselid, M. A. 1995. The
impact of human resource management practices on turnover,
productivity and corporate financial performance. Academy of
Management Journal, 38(3): 635–72.
10
This point is debated further in Gratton, et al., A decade of
transformation at the Leading Edge (to be published in 2003)
and in Truss, C. 2001. Complexities and controversies in linking
HRM with organizational outcomes. Journal of Management
Studies, 38(8): 1121–1150.
11
The literature of process fairness has explored this in great
detail. For a useful overview, see Greenberg, J., & Cropanzano,
R. (Eds.). 2001. Advances in organizational justice. Stanford, CA:
Stanford University Press.
12
The case of Kraft Foods is discussed in more depth in
Gratton, L., et al., A decade of transformation, op. cit.
13
We have described these timelines of enactment in more
detail in Gratton, L., et al. 1999. Linking individual performance
to business strategy: The People Process Model. Human Resource Management, 38(1): 17–31.
14
Tsui, A. 1984. A multiple constituency framework of managerial reputational effectiveness. In Hunt, J., et al. Leadership.
New York: Pergamon.
15
Amabile, T. M. 1998. How to kill creativity. Harvard Business Review, 76(5): 76 – 87, highlights the importance of allowing
people to have a large ‘’network of wanderings,” or intellectual
space in which to explore possibilities and solve problems.
16
The role of conversation as a tool of mutual adaptation is
described in Gratton, L., & Ghoshal, S. 2002. Improving the
quality of conversations. Organizational Dynamics, 31(3): 209 –
223.
17
Abrahamson, E. 2000. Change without pain, Harvard Business Review, July–August: 75–79, describes similar examples of
companies unwilling to share information across internal
boundaries, with negative consequences for performance.
18
The visualization of horizontal alignment has been described by Lynda Gratton in Gratton, L. 2000. Living strategy:
Putting people at the heart of corporate purpose. London: FT
Prentice Hall.

Catherine Truss is deputy head of the School of Human Resource Management at Kingston Business School, UK, where
she is also director of the research unit, SHaPe-Strategic Human
Resource Management and People Research Unit. She has
worked with Professor Gratton on the Leading Edge Research
Consortium Project since 1992. Contact: k.truss@kingston.ac.uk.

