A Plain English
Handbook
How to create clear
SEC disclosure documents

By the Office of Investor Education and Assistance
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
450 5th Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20549
August 1998

This handbook shows how you can use well-established techniques
for writing in plain English to create clearer and more informative
disclosure documents. We are publishing this handbook only for
your general information. Of course, when drafting a document for
filing with the SEC, you must make sure it meets all legal requirements.

Acknowledgments
This handbook reflects the work, ideas, and generosity of many
individuals and organizations at the SEC and in the private sector.
At the SEC, staff in the Divisions of Corporation Finance and
Investment Management, the Offices of Public Affairs and General
Counsel, and the Chairman’s Office provided insightful comments.
In particular, Commissioner Isaac C. Hunt Jr., Nick Balamaci, Barry
Barbash, Gregg Corso, Brian Lane, Diane Sanger, Jennifer Scardino,
Michael Schlein, Heidi Stam, and Tony Vertuno offered invaluable
advice and guidance.
Corporate officials and lawyers enthusiastically helped us to breathe
life into our plain English initiatives and this handbook. The Society
of Corporate Secretaries, the American Bar Association, and The Bond
Market Association invited us to conduct workshops where we tested
much of the information in the handbook. Kathleen Gibson, Peggy
Foran, Susan Wolf, Bruce Bennett, Jim McKenzie, Jeff Klauder,
Fred Green, Mark Howard, Pierre de Saint Phalle, Richard M. Phillips,
and Alan J. Davis contributed mightily to our efforts.
Special thanks to Warren Buffett for his support and preface, to Ken
Morris of Lightbulb Press, and to the talented staff at Siegel & Gale. I
am especially grateful to the staff of my office for giving me the time
and support I needed to work on the handbook.

a p lain english hand b ook

Nancy M. Smith
Director, Office of Investor
Education and Assistance

Three people poured their hearts and minds into this handbook from
the start: Ann Wallace, from the Division of Corporation Finance;
Carolyn Miller, formerly of Siegel & Gale and now with the SEC; and
William Lutz, author and Professor of English at Rutgers University.
All of the credit and none of the blame goes to them.
And finally, many thanks to Chairman Arthur Levitt, who made it
all possible by putting plain English at the top of his agenda so that
investors might better understand their investments. •

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Table of Contents

Preface

by Warren E. Buffett

1


Introduction

by Arthur Levitt, Chairman
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

3


Chapter 1

What Is a “Plain English” Document?

5


Chapter 2

Getting Started

7


Chapter 3

Knowing Your Audience

9


Chapter 4

Knowing the Information You Need to Disclose

11


Chapter 5

Reorganizing the Document

15


Chapter 6

Writing in Plain English

17


Chapter 7

Designing the Document

37


Chapter 8

Time-Saving Tips

55


Chapter 9

Using Readability Formulas and Style Checkers

57


Chapter 10

Evaluating the Document

59


Chapter 11

Reading List

61


Chapter 12

Keeping in Touch with Us

63


Appendix A

Plain English at a Glance
The SEC’s Plain English Rules—an Excerpt

65

66


Appendix B

Plain English Examples
“Before” and “After” Filings with Notes

69

70


a p lain english hand b ook

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

by Warren E. Buffett

Preface
This handbook, and Chairman Levitt’s whole drive to encourage “plain
English” in disclosure documents, are good news for me. For more than
forty years, I’ve studied the documents that public companies file. Too
often, I’ve been unable to decipher just what is being said or, worse yet,
had to conclude that nothing was being said. If corporate lawyers and
their clients follow the advice in this handbook, my life is going to
become much easier.
There are several possible explanations as to why I and others some­
times stumble over an accounting note or indenture description. Maybe
we simply don’t have the technical knowledge to grasp what the writer
wishes to convey. Or perhaps the writer doesn’t understand what he or
she is talking about. In some cases, moreover, I suspect that a less-than­
scrupulous issuer doesn’t want us to understand a subject it feels legally
obligated to touch upon.
Perhaps the most common problem, however, is that a well-intentioned
and informed writer simply fails to get the message across to an
intelligent, interested reader. In that case, stilted jargon and complex
constructions are usually the villains.
This handbook tells you how to free yourself of those impediments to
effective communication. Write as this handbook instructs you and you
will be amazed at how much smarter your readers will think you have
become.

a p lain english hand b ook

1

One unoriginal but useful tip: Write with a specific person in mind.
When writing Berkshire Hathaway’s annual report, I pretend that I’m
talking to my sisters. I have no trouble picturing them: Though highly
intelligent, they are not experts in accounting or finance. They will
understand plain English, but jargon may puzzle them. My goal is
simply to give them the information I would wish them to supply me
if our positions were reversed. To succeed, I don’t need to be
Shakespeare; I must, though, have a sincere desire to inform.
No siblings to write to? Borrow mine: Just begin with “Dear Doris
and Bertie.” •

2

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

by Arthur Levitt
Chairman, U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission

Introduction
Investors need to read and understand disclosure documents to
benefit fully from the protections offered by our federal securities
laws. Because many investors are neither lawyers, accountants, nor
investment bankers, we need to start writing disclosure documents
in a language investors can understand: plain English.
The shift to plain English requires a new style of thinking and writing,
whether you work at a company, a law firm, or the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. We must question whether the documents we
are used to writing highlight the important information investors need
to make informed decisions. The legalese and jargon of the past must
give way to everyday words that communicate complex information
clearly.
The good news is that more and more companies and lawyers are
using plain English and filing documents with the SEC that others
can study, use, and improve upon. With the SEC’s plain English rules
in place, every prospectus will have its cover page, summary, and risk
factors in plain English.
The benefits of plain English abound. Investors will be more likely to
understand what they are buying and to make informed judgments
about whether they should hold or sell their investments. Brokers and
investment advisers can make better recommendations to their clients
if they can read and understand these documents quickly and easily.

a p lain english hand b ook

3

Companies that communicate successfully with their investors form
stronger relationships with them. These companies save the costs of
explaining legalese and dealing with confused and sometimes angry
investors. Lawyers reviewing plain English documents catch and correct
mistakes more easily. Many companies have switched to plain English
because it’s a good business decision. They see the value of communi­
cating with their investors rather than sending them impenetrable
documents. And as we depend more and more on the Internet and
electronic delivery of documents, plain English versions will be easier
to read electronically than legalese.
The SEC’s staff has created this handbook to help speed and smooth
the transition to plain English. It includes proven tips from those in
the private sector who have already created plain English disclosure
documents. This handbook reflects their substantial contributions and
those of highly regarded experts in the field who were our consultants
on this project, Dr. William Lutz at Rutgers University and the firm of
Siegel & Gale in New York City.
But I hasten to add that the SEC has not cornered the market on plain
English advice. Our rules and communications need as strong a dose
of plain English as any disclosure document. This handbook gives you
some ideas on what has worked for others, but use whatever works
for you.
No matter what route you take to plain English, we want you to produce
documents that fulfill the promise of our securities laws. I urge you
—in long and short documents, in prospectuses and shareholder
reports—to speak to investors in words they can understand. Tell
them plainly what they need to know to make intelligent investment
decisions. •

4

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

1
What Is a “Plain
English” Document?
We’ll start by dispelling a common misconception about plain English
writing. It does not mean deleting complex information to make the
document easier to understand. For investors to make informed
decisions, disclosure documents must impart complex information.
Using plain English assures the orderly and clear presentation of
complex information so that investors have the best possible chance
of understanding it.
Plain English means analyzing and deciding what information
investors need to make informed decisions, before words, sentences,
or paragraphs are considered. A plain English document uses words
economically and at a level the audience can understand. Its sentence
structure is tight. Its tone is welcoming and direct. Its design is visually
appealing. A plain English document is easy to read and looks like it’s
meant to be read.

a p lain english hand b ook

5

This handbook’s purpose
This handbook gives you practical tips on how to create plain English
documents. All of these were born of experience. They come from
experts and those who have already written or rewritten their docu­
ments in plain English.
As with all the advice in this handbook, feel free to tailor these tips to
your schedule, your document, and your budget. Not all of the tips will
apply to everyone or to every document. Pick and choose the ones that
make sense for you.
Some of our tips cover very basic mechanical issues, like how to photo­
copy your working draft. We’ve included them because they were
learned the hard way and have saved people time, money, and aggrava­
tion. You’ll see them listed in Chapter 8, titled “Time-Saving Tips.”
This handbook is by no means the last word on plain English. We
expect to change it and add more tips as we learn more about writing
securities documents in plain English. So please keep notes on your
experiences and copies of your original and rewritten language. We
want to hear from you and include your tips and rewrites in the next
edition.
Finally, we encourage you to give this handbook out freely. It is not
copyrighted, so you can photocopy it without fear of penalty. •

6

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

2

Getting Started
Assemble the team or move ahead on your own
As with a lot of things in life, it’s the preparation that often determines
the success or failure of an effort to write documents in plain English.
Many of you routinely select a team to think and talk about how to write
a document from scratch or rewrite an existing document. Or you may
do it on your own. In that case, rest assured that one person can do it
alone.
The list below describes the types of people who have participated in
successful plain English teams. We’re not suggesting that you need to select
everyone listed. Some will not apply to your company or your situation.
The people you select, and the point at which you involve them in your
plain English project, will depend on your document, your schedule,
and your budget.
• A team leader who has the authority to make decisions that keep
the project moving forward and bring it to a successful conclusion.
(More than one plain English project has faltered because the team
leader has not had this level of authority.) The team leader may be
a company’s or an underwriter’s lawyer.
• A lead writer who ensures the document uses a logical structure and
simple, clear language. If more than one person is drafting sections of
the document, the lead writer makes sure the final draft has a consis­
tent tone and the individual parts form a coherent whole.
• Lawyers for the company or the underwriter who know what informa­
tion must be included and why.

a p lain english hand b ook

7

• An investor relations expert who knows firsthand the financial sophis­
tication of your investors. Investor relations people know which ques­
tions investors typically ask and where past disclosure documents have
failed to make information clear.
• A compliance officer who can lend guidance to the writer and who
knows, along with your lawyers, what information must be included.
• A production and operations person who understands the mechanics
and costs of printing and mailing your document, so that your
improved document doesn’t get ahead of your in-house capabilities or
budget.
• A marketing person who may have market survey research or polls on
your investors. Also, the marketing department is usually attuned to
the terminology that your investors can readily understand.
• An information designer who is a graphic designer trained to work
closely with the writers and to think about how to present complex
information visually.

Select documents
You may want to consider these issues as you start writing in plain
English:
• How long is the document?
• Will you write all of it, or only sections of it, in plain English?
• How much time do you have before you need to file your document?
You will also want to gather and distribute other documents that your
company has written for investors. It’s likely that your company has
already used plain English in its glossy annual reports and other com­
munications prepared especially for investors. These documents may
save you time by showing you the type of language your company is
already comfortable using. •

8

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

3

Knowing Your Audience

Knowing your audience is the most important step in assuring that
your document is understandable to your current or prospective
investors. To write understandable documents, you need to gauge the
financial sophistication of your investors.
Through polls and other market survey research tools, some companies
know the demographics of their investors well. Other companies rely on
their investor relations staff or their underwriters to describe who has
bought, or is likely to buy, their securities.
Using whatever information is available, you can create a profile
of your investors or prospective investors based on the following
questions:
• What are their demographics—age, income, level of education, and
job experience?
• How familiar are they with investments and financial terminology?
• What investment concepts can you safely assume they understand?
• How will they read the document for the first time? Will they read it
straight through or skip around to the sections that interest them?
• Will they read your document and your competitors’ side by side?
• How will they use the document while they own the security?
What information will they be looking for later, and is it easy to find?

a p lain english hand b ook

9

Your investors or prospective investors may include individuals and
institutions with varying degrees of financial sophistication. While your
audience will include analysts and other industry experts, you may want
to keep in mind that your least sophisticated investors have the greatest
need for a disclosure document they can understand. Some companies
have faced the differing needs of their investors and other audiences
by making basic educational information visually distinctive from the
rest of the text so that sophisticated investors can easily recognize and
scan it.
Once you’ve drawn a profile of your investors, keep it constantly in
mind. Some writers keep a photo of a typical investor to make sure they
don’t lose sight of their readers.
“One must consider also
the audience...the reader
is the judge.”

After analyzing who your investors are, you can turn to the document
you want to write or rewrite. •

Aristotle
Rhetoric

10

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

4
Knowing the
Information You Need
to Disclose
The steps outlined in this section have been used successfully by
others who have written disclosure documents in plain English. As we
said earlier, feel free to tailor these steps to your own schedule and
team. This is one approach if you are rewriting an existing document,
but others may work equally well.

Read and outline the current document
Read the entire document once without making any notes or comments
on the text. This should give you a general understanding of the
information covered in the document and make your next read more
productive.
When you read it the second time, make notes on what information
is covered and any questions you have. Your notes will also help you to
assess if information flows through your document in a logical order.
As you read, consider the following:
• Will the investors understand the language?
• Does the document highlight information that is important to
investors?
• Is any important information missing?
• Does the document include information that is not legally required
and will not help investors make informed decisions?

a p lain english hand b ook

11

For time-saving tips on how to
outline and reorganize your
document, read Chapter 8 on
page 55.

Meet to resolve questions
Meet with the authors of the original document or others who under­
stand it and any members of the team who can help to answer the
questions you wrote in the margins. Besides the obvious reason for
the meeting, another more important goal is
to question the need for everything that appears in the document.
“Because it’s always been there” is not reason enough to keep it in your
draft. Since much of the language in these documents is recycled from
older (or another company’s) documents, often no one knows who
initially wrote it or why it is needed now. If you’ve done your legal
research and no one knows why the information is important or
required, consider taking it out.

“Writers must therefore
constantly ask:
What am I trying to say?
Surprisingly often they
don’t know. They must
look at what they have
written and ask:
Have I said it?”
William Zinsser
On Writing Well

Eliminate redundant information
Question the need for repeating any information. Reading the same
material two or three times can bore and even trouble readers. Most
readers skip over paragraphs if they think they’ve read them before.
If you cut down on repetitious paragraphs or sentences, you’ll not only
earn the gratitude of your reader, you’ll reduce printing and mailing
costs.

Discuss the cover page and the summary
A cover page should be an introduction, an inviting entryway into your
document, giving investors some key facts about your offering, but not
telling everything all at once. If it looks dense and overgrown with
thorny details, no one will want to pick it up and start reading. If it
looks like a legal document written by lawyers and for lawyers, many
investors will not even attempt to read it.
To create an inviting cover page, you’ll need to strip away much of what
is conventionally placed there, but which is not required.

12

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

As you review your cover page, question why each item of information
is there. It may be important, but does it have to be on the cover page?
You usually have a substantial document following the cover page—let
some of those other pages carry the information load in logical order.
What would be helpful for investors to see on this page? Look through
your investors’ eyes and you’ll make better decisions about where to
place information.
The same goes for the summary. A summary should orient the reader,
highlighting the most important points that are presented in greater
detail in the prospectus. Many summaries now seem as long as the
document itself and consist merely of paragraphs copied straight from
the body of the document.

Use defined terms sparingly
Although customary, introducing defined terms on the cover page and
in the summary discourages many readers from getting beyond the first
pages. Overwhelmed with memorizing a new and unnatural vocabulary,
and bothered by constantly having to flip back and hunt for the first
time a defined term’s definition appears, many an investor will not stick
with the document. One plain English expert has advised, don’t let a
shortcut for the writer become a roadblock for the reader. •

a p lain english hand b ook

13

14

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

5

Reorganizing the
Document
A few principles of good organization apply universally.
First, present the big picture before the details. Prospectuses routinely
start with a detailed description of the securities. You may read pages
before you find out what the company produces, or why it is merging or
spinning off a subsidiary. It’s hard to absorb the details if you don’t
know why they are being given to you. Imagine trying to put together a
complicated jigsaw puzzle without first seeing the picture of the com­
pleted puzzle. An individual piece of information means more to your
readers if they know how it fits into the big picture.
Second, use descriptive headers and subheaders to break your
document up into manageable sections. Prospectuses impart a lot of
information. If you present the information in bite-sized pieces, it’s
easier to digest. Make sure your headings tell the reader what the
upcoming sections will cover. Headings like “general” or “background”
aren’t especially helpful.
Third, always group related information together. This helps you
identify and eliminate repetitious information.

a p lain english hand b ook

15

Fourth, your audience’s degree of investment expertise will affect how
you organize the document. If you are writing for financially unsophis­
ticated investors, your document’s overall organization may take an
educational approach. You may need to explain industry terms or
concepts where they first appear.
Fifth, review your document by taking a good look at the flow of infor­
mation from beginning to end. Start making decisions on how the con­
tent should be moved around into a new and logical order based on:
• the audience profile
• the notes you made in the margins
• the decisions you’ve made on your cover page and summary
• the information you’ve learned in answering your questions
Once you have finished physically reorganizing the document, you may
want to write an outline of your new organization. Your outline can
later become your table of contents.
You’re now ready to start rewriting your document in plain English.
And, speaking of writing… •

16

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

6
Writing in
Plain English
We thought it would be helpful to list the most common problems
we’ve encountered with disclosure documents.
Common problems

• Long sentences
• Passive voice
• Weak verbs
• Superfluous words
• Legal and financial jargon
• Numerous defined terms
• Abstract words
• Unnecessary details
• Unreadable design and layout
In the following pages we offer some ways to fix these problems.

a p lain english hand b ook

17

For example, here’s a common sentence found in prospectuses:
NO PERSON HAS BEEN AUTHORIZED TO GIVE ANY
INFORMATION OR MAKE ANY REPRESENTATION OTHER
THAN THOSE CONTAINED OR INCORPORATED BY REFER­
ENCE IN THIS JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS,
AND, IF GIVEN OR MADE, SUCH INFORMATION OR REPRE­
SENTATION MUST NOT BE RELIED UPON AS HAVING BEEN
AUTHORIZED.
Here’s one possible plain English rewrite:
You should rely only on the information contained in this document
or that we have referred you to. We have not authorized anyone to
provide you with information that is different.
We’ve listed just some of the
many books on how to write
clearly in Chapter 11. We urge
you to consult them, too.

The plain English rewrite uses everyday words, short sentences, active
voice, regular print, and personal pronouns that speak directly to the
reader.
Do you think the rewrite captures the meaning of the original? Would
you write it differently?

“Straightforward
sentences sound unim­
pressive to many writers,
and officialese, creating
tin ears, perpetuates
itself.”

Throughout this chapter, you’ll find “before” examples from disclosure
documents with plain English “after” examples to illustrate specific
principles of plain English. Since some of the “before” examples con­
tain ambiguities that can be successfully resolved only by studying their
context in a particular document, we did not attempt to provide rewrites
to cover every interpretation. We encourage you to write your own plain
English versions to fit your views and your needs. We don’t want to
create a new generation of plain English “boilerplate.”
Although the principles that follow may sound deceptively simple, if
you use them, your writing will improve dramatically.

Claire Kehrwald Cook
Line by Line

18

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Use the active voice with strong verbs

The plodding verbosity of most disclosure documents makes readers
yearn for clear words and short sentences. The quickest fix lies in using
the active voice with strong verbs. Strong verbs are guaranteed to liven
up and tighten any sentence, virtually causing information to spring
from the page. When you start to rewrite or edit your work, highlighting
all the verbs can help. You may be surprised by the number of weak
verbs, especially forms of “to be” or “to have” that you’ll find.
The time you spend searching for a precise and strong verb is time well
spent. When a verb carries more meaning, you can dispense with many
of the words used to bolster weak verbs.
Weak verbs keep frequent company with two more grammatical
undesirables: passive voice and hidden verbs. In tandem, they add
unnecessary length and confusion to a sentence.

“A rambling, unwieldy sentence
generally hangs from an
inert…vague, actionless verb.”
Claire Kehrwald Cook
Line by Line

The active and passive voices
If you need it, here’s a quick refresher on the active and passive voice.
active

The investor buys the stock.
In the active voice, the subject of the sentence, the investor, performs
the action, buying the stock.
passive

The stock is bought by the investor.
In the passive voice the subject, the stock, is acted upon. The person or
the thing doing the action is introduced with “by.” But sometimes, the
person or thing doing the action is deleted, leading to...
passive with agent deleted

The stock is bought.
You don’t know who bought the stock. You’ll find many examples of the
“passive with agent deleted” in disclosure documents.
Readers understand sentences in the active voice more quickly and
easily because it follows how we think and process information. Many
times the passive voice forces readers to take extra mental steps as they
convert the passive into the active.

a p lain english hand b ook

19

To recognize the passive voice, ask yourself:
Does the sentence use a form of the verb “to be” with:
• another verb in the past tense; and
• a prepositional phrase beginning with “by”?
“When you make all the
verbs active, other economies
suggest themselves.”
Claire Kehrwald Cook
Line by Line

Remember that it’s harder to recognize the passive voice when the
object (the phrase introduced with “by”) is left out. When you rewrite
the sentence in the active voice, use a strong verb. These examples show
how strong verbs and the active voice transform sentences, making
them shorter and easier to understand.
before

The foregoing Fee Table is intended to assist investors in under­
standing the costs and expenses that a shareholder in the Fund will
bear directly or indirectly.
The before example uses the passive with agent deleted. We don’t know
who “intended” to assist investors. Note how long it took to get to the
meat of the sentence—the costs and expenses. Dispensing with the
filler words “...to assist investors in understanding...” moves the reader
more quickly to the important points.
after

This table describes the fees and expenses that you may pay if you
buy and hold shares of the fund.
Here’s another example:
before

The proxies solicited hereby for the Heartland Meeting may be
revoked, subject to the procedures described herein, at any time
up to and including the date of the Heartland Meeting.
after

You may revoke your proxy and reclaim your right to vote up to
and including the day of the meeting by following the directions
on page 10.
The plain English version tells you who may revoke a proxy and where
to find the information on how to do it. It replaces the abstract “subject
to the procedures described herein” with concrete, everyday words, “by
following the directions on page 10.” It’s not enough merely to translate
existing texts—the key is to add useful information.

20

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Don’t ban the passive voice, use it sparingly
As with all the advice in this handbook, we are presenting guidelines,
not hard and fast rules you must always follow. The passive voice may
make sense when the person or thing performing the action is of
secondary importance to another subject that should play the starring
role in sentence. Use the passive voice only when you have a very good
reason for doing so. When in doubt, choose the active voice.

Find hidden verbs
Does the sentence use any form of the verbs “to be,” “to have,” or
another weak verb, with a noun that could be turned into a strong verb?
In these sentences, the strong verb lies hidden in a nominalization,
a noun derived from a verb that usually ends in -tion. Find the noun
and try to make it the main verb of the sentence. As you change nouns
to verbs, your writing becomes more vigorous and less abstract.
before

after

We made an application…

We applied…

We made a determination…

We determined…

We will make a distribution…

We will distribute…

before

We will provide appropriate information to shareholders
concerning…
after

We will inform shareholders about…
before

We will have no stock ownership of the company.
after

We will not own the company’s stock.
before

There is the possibility of prior Board approval of these
investments.
after

The Board might approve these investments in advance.

a p lain english hand b ook

21

Try personal pronouns

“Thanks to the existence of
pronouns, we are spared a
soporific redundancy in
literature, speech, and songs.”
Karen Elizabeth Gordon
The Transitive Vampire

No matter how sophisticated your audience is, if you use personal pro­
nouns the clarity of your writing will dramatically improve. Here’s why.
First, personal pronouns aid your reader’s comprehension because they
clarify what applies to your reader and what applies to you.
Second, they allow you to “speak” directly to your reader, creating an
appealing tone that will keep your reader reading.
Third, they help you to avoid abstractions and to use more concrete and
everyday language.
Fourth, they keep your sentences short.
Fifth, first- and second-person pronouns aren’t gender-specific, allowing
you to avoid the “he or she” dilemma. The pronouns to use are firstperson plural (we, us, our/ours) and second-person singular (you,
your/yours).
Observe the difference between these two examples:
before

This Summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified
in its entirety by the more detailed information contained in the
Proxy Statement and the Appendices hereto, all of which should
be carefully reviewed.
after

Because this is a summary, it does not contain all the information
that may be important to you. You should read the entire proxy
statement and its appendices carefully before you decide how
to vote.

22

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Bring abstractions down to earth
Abstractions abound in the financial industry. What pictures form in
your mind when you read these phrases: mutual fund, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average, zero coupon bond, call option, or foreign currency
trading? Most people don’t have an image in their minds when they
hear abstract words like these. And yet, it’s far easier to comprehend
a concept or a situation when your mind can form images.
In a study conducted at Carnegie-Mellon University, a cognitive psychol­
ogist and an English professor discovered that readers faced with com­
plex written information frequently resorted to creating “scenarios” in
an effort to understand the text. That is, they often made an abstract
concept understandable by using it in a hypothetical situation in which
people performed actions.
You can make complex information more understandable by giving
your readers an example using one investor. This technique explains
why “question and answer” formats often succeed when a narrative,
abstract discussion fails.
Here is an example of how this principle can be used to explain an
abstract concept—call options:
For example, you can buy an option from Mr. Smith that gives you
the right to buy 100 shares of stock X from him at $25.00 per share
anytime between now and six weeks from now. You believe stock
X’s purchase price will go up between now and then. He believes it
will stay the same or go down. If you exercise this option before it
expires, Mr. Smith must sell you 100 shares of stock X at $25.00
per share, even if the purchase price has gone up. Either way,
whether you exercise your option or not, he keeps the money you
paid him for the option.
Although it is impossible to eliminate all abstractions from writing,
always use a more concrete term when you can.

a p lain english hand b ook

23

“Use concrete terms and your
readers will have a clearer idea
of your meaning. You enhance
your words when you allow
readers to visualize what
you say.”
Bryan A. Garner
The Elements of Legal Style

Read this list of progressively less abstract terms and consider how you
might make abstract concepts you write about more concrete:
Asset ➡ Investment ➡ Security ➡ Equity ➡ Stock ➡
➡ Common stock ➡ One share of IBM common stock
The following examples show how you can replace abstract terms with
more concrete ones and increase your reader’s comprehension:
before

Sandyhill Basic Value Fund, Inc. (the “Fund”) seeks capital apprecia­
tion and, secondarily, income by investing in securities, primarily
equities, that management of the Fund believes are undervalued
and therefore represent basic investment value.

“Language that is more
concrete and specific creates
pictures in the mind of [your]
listener, pictures that should
come as close as possible to
the pictures in your mind.”

after

At the Sandyhill Basic Value Fund, we will strive to increase the
value of your shares (capital appreciation) and, to a lesser extent, to
provide income (dividends). We will invest primarily in undervalued
stocks, meaning those selling for low prices given the financial
strength of the companies.

William Lutz
The New Doublespeak:
Why No One Knows What
Anyone’s Saying Anymore

before

No consideration or surrender of Beco Stock will be required of
shareholders of Beco in return for the shares of Unis Common
Stock issued pursuant to the Distribution.
after

You will not have to turn in your shares of Beco stock or pay
any money to receive your shares of Unis common stock from
the spin-off.

24

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Omit superfluous words
Words are superfluous when they can be replaced with fewer words that
mean the same thing. Sometimes you can use a simpler word for these
phrases:
superfluous

simpler

in order to
in the event that
subsequent to
prior to
despite the fact that
because of the fact that
in light of
owing to the fact that

to
if
after
before
although
because, since
because, since
because, since

Another source of superfluous words is “shotgunning”: letting loose
a blast of words hoping at least one conveys your intended meaning.
The simplest solution here is to replace your laundry list of adjectives
with a single word or phrase that adequately expresses your intended
meaning.

Thomas Jefferson

For an expanded explanation
of “shotgunning,” see
Richard Wydick’s Plain English
for Lawyers.

Omitting superfluous words is one of the easiest ways to improve your
disclosure document because it doesn’t require you to revise sentence
structure.
before

The following summary is intended only to highlight certain infor­
mation contained elsewhere in this Prospectus.
after

This summary highlights some information from this Prospectus.
before

Machine Industries and Great Tools, Inc. are each subject to the
information requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and in accordance therewith
file reports, proxy statements and other information with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”).
after

We file annual, quarterly, and special reports, proxy statements, and
other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC).

a p lain english hand b ook

“…the most valuable of all
talent, that of never using
two words where one will do.”

25

before

Drakecorp has filed with the Internal Revenue Service a tax ruling
request concerning, among other things, the tax consequences of
the Distribution to the United States holders of Drakecorp Stock.
It is expected that the Distribution of Beco Common Stock to the
shareholders of Drakecorp will be tax-free to such shareholders for
federal income tax purposes, except to the extent that cash is
received for fractional share interests.
after

While we expect that this transaction will be tax free for U.S.
shareholders at the federal level (except for any cash paid for
fractional shares), we have asked the Internal Revenue Service
to rule that it is.
“Vigorous writing is concise.
A sentence should contain
no unnecessary words...for
the same reason that a drawing
should have no unnecessary
lines and a machine no
unnecessary parts.”
Strunk and White
The Elements of Style

26

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Write in the “positive”

Positive sentences are shorter and easier to understand than their
negative counterparts. For example:
before

Persons other than the primary beneficiary may not receive
these dividends.
after

Only the primary beneficiary may receive these dividends.
Also, your sentences will be shorter and easier to understand if you
replace a negative phrase with a single word that means the same thing.
For example:
negative compound

single word

not able
not accept
not certain
not unlike
does not have
does not include
not many
not often
not the same
not … unless
not … except
not … until

unable
reject
uncertain
similar, alike
lacks
excludes, omits
few
rarely
different
only if
only if
only when

a p lain english hand b ook

27

Use short sentences
“There’s not much to be said
about the period except that
most writers don’t reach it
soon enough.”
William Zinsser
On Writing Well

No one likes to read a sentence that’s two pages long. And yet, lengthy,
information-packed sentences choke many prospectuses today. To
complicate matters further, these sentences are filled with jargon and
legalese. The longer and more complex a sentence, the harder it is for
readers to understand any single portion of it.
before

The following description encompasses all the material terms
and provisions of the Notes offered hereby and supplements, and
to the extent inconsistent therewith replaces, the description of
the general terms and provisions of the Debt Securities (as defined
in the accompanying Prospectus) set forth under the heading
“Description of Debt Securities” in the Prospectus, to which
description reference is hereby made. The following description
will apply to each Note unless otherwise specified in the applicable
Pricing Supplement.
If you really want to root out the problem with this paragraph, you need
to think of the deeper reasons why it doesn’t work. If you look beyond
the language used, you’ll find that it presents complex information
without first providing a context for the reader.
The rewrites that follow show two ways to provide the context, with
and without tabulation.
after

We provide information to you about our notes in three separate
documents that progressively provide more detail: 1) the prospectus,
2) the prospectus supplement, and 3) the pricing supplement. Since
the terms of speciﬁc notes may differ from the general information
we have provided, in all cases rely on information in the pricing
supplement over different information in the prospectus and the
prospectus supplement; and rely on this prospectus supplement
over different information in the prospectus.

28

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

or

We provide information to you about our notes in three separate
documents that progressively provide more detail:
1 The Prospectus
General information that may or may not apply to each note.

2 The Prospectus Supplement
More speciﬁc than the prospectus, and to the extent information differs from
the prospectus, rely on the different information in this document.

3 The Pricing Supplement
Provides ﬁnal details about a speciﬁc note including its price. To the extent
information differs from the prospectus or the prospectus supplement, rely
on the different information in this document.

Information-packed sentences leave most investors scratching their
heads. So many of these sentences have become “boilerplate” that
writers cut and paste them into new documents without thinking about
how they can be improved. Since these sentences can be a little intimi­
dating, we thought we’d tackle another one:
before

The Drake Capital Corporation (the “Company”) may offer from
time to time its Global Medium-Term Notes, Series A, Due from
9 months to 60 Years From Date of Issue, which are issuable in
one or more series (the “Notes”), in the United States in an aggre­
gate principal amount of up to U.S. $6,428,598,500, or the equiva­
lent thereof in other currencies, including composite currencies
such as the European Currency Unit (the “ECU”) (provided that,
with respect to Original Issue Discount Notes (as defined under
“Description of Notes—Original Issue Discount Notes”), the initial
offering price of such Notes shall be used in calculating the aggre­
gate principal amount of Notes offered hereunder).
after

The Drake Capital Corporation may offer at various times up to
U.S. $6,428,598,500 worth of Global Medium-term notes. These
notes will mature from 9 months to 60 years after the date they are
purchased. We will offer these notes in series, starting with Series
A, and in U.S., foreign, and composite currencies, like the
European Currency Unit. If we offer original issue discount notes,
we will use their initial offering prices to calculate when we reach
$6,428,598,500.

a p lain english hand b ook

29

“A subject may have so many
qualifications that readers
forget what it is before they
find out what it does.”
Claire Kehrwald Cook
Line by Line

As you can see, one long sentence became four shorter sentences. The
paragraph moves from the general to the specific, contains short, com­
mon words, and is written in the active voice. You only need to read the
paragraph once to understand it.

Replace jargon and legalese with short, common words
Ruthlessly eliminate jargon and legalese. Instead, use short, common
words to get your points across. In those instances where there is no
plain English alternative, explain what the term means when you first
use it.
If you have been in the financial or legal industry for awhile, it may
be hard to spot jargon and legalese in your writing. Consider asking
someone outside the industry to check your work for incomprehensible
words.

“Clearness is secured by
using the words…that are
current and ordinary.”
Aristotle
Rhetoric

Last, don’t create new jargon that’s unique to your document in the
form of acronyms or other words. It’s asking too much of your readers
to memorize a new vocabulary while they are trying to understand
complicated concepts. This holds true for individual and institutional
investors. Note the following, which is the first sentence on the cover
page of an exchange offer:
NLR Insured Mortgage Association, Inc., a Delaware corporation
(“NLR MAE”), which is an actively managed, infinite life, New York
Stock Exchange-listed real estate investment trust (“REIT”), and
PAL Liquidating REIT, Inc., a newly formed, finite life, self-liquidat­
ing Delaware corporation which intends to qualify as a REIT (“PAL
Liquidating REIT”), hereby jointly offer, upon the terms and subject
to the conditions set forth herein and in the related Letters of
Transmittal (collectively, the “Offer”), to exchange (i) shares of NLR
MAE’s Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (“NLR MAE
Shares”), or, at the option of Unitholders, shares of PAL Liquidating
REIT’s Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (“PAL Liquidating
REIT Shares”), and (ii) the right to receive cash payable 60 days
after closing on the first of any Acquisitions (as defined below) but
in no event later than 270 days (nine months) following consumma­
tion of the Offer (the “Deferred Cash Payment”), for all outstanding
Limited Partnership Interests and Depository Units of Limited
Partnership Interest (collectively, “Units”) in each of PAL Insured
Mortgage Investors, a California limited partnership (“PAL 84”),
PAL Insured Mortgage Investors - Series 85, A California Limited
Partnership, a California limited partnership (“PAL 85”), and PAL
Insured Mortgage Investors L.P. - Series 86, a Delaware limited
partnership (“PAL 86”). See “THE OFFER.”
30

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

This sentence suffers from many shortcomings. It’s long and laden
with defined terms and other data that mask the fundamental informa­
tion: the two companies are offering to exchange their stock for the
investors’ limited partnership holdings. Some of the information, such
as par value and places of incorporation, can be moved to another part
of the document. Much of the language modifies the subjects and the
objects: this language, too, can be moved to a separate sentence or
another section of the prospectus.
This example shows the hazards of creating unfamiliar acronyms. They
provide false economies, especially when they are introduced on the
cover page and in the first pages of the prospectus. They may save
a few words, but they may also frustrate and force the reader to take
more time and effort to understand the document. Where acronyms,
such as REIT, are widely understood to the investing public, they can
safely be used without creating confusion.
Occasionally, it’s necessary to assign a shorter word to a long proper
noun and use this word throughout the rest of the document. In these
rare instances, try to choose a word that has an intuitive, logical
relationship to the one it’s replacing. This reduces the number of new
words or phrases the reader needs to memorize to understand the
document.

Choose the simpler synonym
Surround complex ideas with short, common words. For example,
use end instead of terminate, explain rather than elucidate, and use
instead of utilize. When a shorter, simpler synonym exists, use it.

a p lain english hand b ook

31

“Lawyerisms are words like
aforementioned, whereas, res
gestae, and hereinafter. They
give writing a legal smell, but
they carry little or no legal
substance.”
Richard C. Wydick
Plain English for Lawyers

Keep the subject, verb, and object close together
Short, simple sentences enhance the effectiveness of short, common
words. We’ve covered a number of guidelines for writing shorter
sentences, but there are a few more you can use to streamline your
writing further.
To be clear, sentences must have a sound structure. Here are a few ways
to ensure yours do.
Modifiers are words or
phrases that describe or limit
the subject, verb, or object.

The natural word order of English speakers is subject-verb-object. Your
sentences will be clearer if you follow this order as closely as possible.
In disclosure documents, this order is frequently interrupted by
modifiers. For example:
before

Holders of the Class A and Class B-1 certificates will be entitled
to receive on each Payment Date, to the extent monies are available
therefor (but not more than the Class A Certificate Balance or
Class B-1 Certificate Balance then outstanding), a distribution.
after

Class A and Class B-1 certificate holders will receive a distribution
on each payment date if cash is available on those dates for their
class.
before

The following description of the particular terms of the Notes
offered hereby (referred to in the accompanying Prospectus as
the “Debt Securities”) supplements, and to the extent inconsistent
therewith replaces, the description of the general terms and provi­
sions of the Debt Securities set forth in the Prospectus, to which
description reference is hereby made.
after

This document describes the terms of these notes in greater detail
than our prospectus, and may provide information that differs from
our prospectus. If the information does differ from our prospectus,
please rely on the information in this document.

32

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Write using “if-then” conditionals
Conditional statements are very common in disclosure documents—
although they are rarely written that way. When we rewrote the last
example as a conditional, we followed the natural English word order
very closely. That’s why the sentence is easier to read.
Here are four rules of thumb to help you write conditional statements
effectively:
• One “if,” one “then”	 When there is only one if and one then, starting
with the if may spare some of your readers from having to read the
rest of the sentence. In these cases, the if clause defines who or what
the “then” clause applies to.
If you invested in Class A shares, then…
• One “if,” multiple “thens”	 When there is only one if and more than
one then, start with the if and tabulate the thens.
• Multiple “ifs,” one “then”	 When there is only one then and more than
one if, start with the then and tabulate the ifs.
• Multiples “ifs” and “thens”	 When there is more than one if and more
than one then, you’ll probably need to break it down into more than
one sentence, taking care to specify which ifs apply to which thens.
If the information is still unclear, consider presenting the information
in a table.

a p lain english hand b ook

33

Keep your sentence structure parallel
A long sentence often fails without a parallel structure. Parallelism
simply means ensuring a list or series of items is presented using
parallel parts of speech, such as nouns or verbs. Note the quotation in
the margin.
“Parallelism reinforces
grammatically equal elements,
contributes to ease in reading,
and provides clarity and
rhythm.”

In this section, we’ve shown each parallel structure we’ve used in bold.
Here’s an example from a mutual fund prospectus that lacks parallel
structure:

Horner/Webb/Miller
Harbrace College Handbook

before

If you want to buy shares in Fund X by mail, fill out and sign
the Account Application form, making your check payable to “The
X Fund,” and put your social security or taxpayer identification
number on your check.
after

If you want to buy shares in Fund X by mail, fill out and sign
the Account Application form, make your check payable to “The
X Fund,” and put your social security or taxpayer identification
number on your check.
Here is a more subtle example from another mutual fund prospectus:
before

We invest the Fund’s assets in short-term money market securities
to provide you with liquidity, protection of your investment, and
high current income.
This sentence is unparallel because its series is made up of two nouns
and an adjective before the third noun. It’s also awkward because the
verb provide is too closely paired with the nominalization protection.
One logical revision to the original sentence is to change the noun
series to a verb series.
after

We invest in short-term money market securities to provide you
with liquidity, to protect your investment, and to generate high
current income.
All writers, regardless of their degree of expertise, occasionally write
unparallel sentences. The best way to rid your document of them is to
read through it once solely to find these mistakes. Reading your docu­
ment aloud can make unparallel constructions easier to spot.

34

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Steer clear of “respectively”
How easy is it to read the following sentence once and understand what
it means?
before

“Many shortcuts are selfdefeating; they waste the
reader’s time instead of
conserving it.”

The Senior Notes and the guarantee (the “Guarantee”) of the
Senior Notes by Island Holdings will constitute unsecured senior
obligations of the Issuer and Island Holdings, respectively.

Strunk and White
The Elements of Style

after

The senior notes are an unsecured senior obligation of the issuer,
while the guarantee of the senior notes is an unsecured senior
obligation of Island Holdings.
Whenever you use “respectively,” you force your reader to go back and
match up what belongs to what. You may be saving words by using
“respectively,” but your reader has to use more time and read your
words twice to understand what you’ve written. •

a p lain english hand b ook

35

36

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

7
Designing
the Document
A plain English document reflects thoughtful design choices. The
right design choices make a document easier to read and its informa­
tion easier to understand. The wrong design choices can make even a
well-written document fail to communicate.
Some documents suffer because no one knew how basic design deci­
sions, like typeface selection, dramatically determine whether or not a
document is easy to read. Other documents suffer because expensive
design features give them artistic appeal, but at the cost of obscuring
the text. In a plain English document, design serves the goal of commu­
nicating the information as clearly as possible.

a p lain english hand b ook

37

Beginning the design process
Check with your in-house printing or graphics department—your
company may have already dealt with design issues in other documents
or may have skilled designers who can help you with your document. If
your company or underwriter has a style manual, it typically will define
a required “look” that specifies typefaces and layouts.
Since some standards or guidelines in your style manual may have been
adopted when plain English was not a concern, review them to ensure
they contribute to good design and ease of reading.
If you are using a designer, keep the following in mind:
• Good design requires clear communication between the writer and
the designer. Keep the lines of communication open and flowing.
• Take the time to explain the nuances of your document to your
designer.
• Don’t move into the design phase until your text is final. Once the
document is put into page layout software, or once it is at the printer,
making text changes can be tedious and expensive.
If you don’t have a design professional, fear not. You can apply many
of the simple concepts discussed in this chapter to produce a readable,
visually appealing document.
While the field of design extends broadly, this chapter covers five basic
design elements and how they contribute to creating a plain English
document:
• hierarchy or distinguishing levels of information
• typography
• layout
• graphics
• color

38

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Hierarchy

Much like an outline, a document’s hierarchy shows how you’ve orga­
nized the information and helps the reader to understand the relation­
ship between different levels of information.
A typical hierarchy in the prospectus might include:
• the document title
• section headings (first level)
• subsection headings (second level)
• paragraph headings (third level)
• general text (fourth level)
Designers use different typefaces in the headings to distinguish these
levels for the reader. As a rule of thumb, there should be no more than
six levels in the document, excluding the document’s title.
You can signal a new level by varying the same typeface or by using
a different typeface. Here’s a demonstration of how we’ve used different
typefaces to distinguish levels in this handbook:

Section headings 

Subsection headings 

General text
Example headings

a p lain english hand b ook

39

Typography
Although it may seem like a minor decision, your typeface selection
will be one of the elements that most strongly defines the design and
readability of your document.

Kinds of typefaces
Typefaces come in two varieties: serif and sans serif.

“Serif type is more readable
and is best for text; sans serif
type is more legible and is best
used for headlines.”
Robin Williams
The Mac Is Not a Typewriter

serif

sans serif

N

N

All serif typefaces have small lines at the beginning or ending strokes
of each letter. Virtually all newspapers and many magazines use some
form of serif type for their general text because serif fonts are easier to
read than sans serif. This handbook uses a serif typeface called Scala
for general text. Other popular serif typefaces are: Caslon, Century
Schoolbook, Garamond, and Times. Here are some examples:
serif

This is an example of Scala.
This is an example of Caslon.
This is an example of Century Schoolbook.
This is an example of Garamond.
This is an example of Times.
Sans serif typefaces lack those small connective lines. The type used for
most headings throughout this document is a sans serif typeface, Scala
Sans. Franklin Gothic, Frutiger, Helvetica, and Univers are examples of
sans serif typefaces.
sans serif

This is an example of Franklin Gothic.
This is an example of Frutiger.
This is an example of Helvetica.
This is an example of Univers.
Generally, serif typefaces are easier to read in documents like this than
sans serif because the small connective lines of serif help to lead your
eye more quickly and smoothly over text. It is best to use sans serif
typefaces in small quantities—for emphasis or headings, but not for
general text. Both serifs and sans serifs work well for headings.

40

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Selecting the right typeface
When choosing a typeface, think carefully about where the typeface
will appear in the document. For example, will it be general text, or will
it apply to information that needs to be highlighted? Will it introduce
a section?
Some typefaces are harder to read than others and were never intended
for text. Typefaces like Bodoni Poster or other bold, italic, or condensed
typefaces were designed for headlines or for large display type. These
examples show how difficult it is to read text in these typefaces.
Bodoni Poster

Justified text was the style for many years—we
grew up on it. But there has been a great deal of
research on readability (how easy something is to
read) and it shows that those disruptive, inconsis­
tent gaps between the words inhibit the flow of
reading. Besides, they look dumb. Keep your eyes
open as you look at professionally-printed work...
and you’ll find there’s a very strong trend now to
align type on the left and leave the right ragged.
Robin Williams, The Mac Is Not a Typewriter
Franklin Gothic Condensed

Justified text was the style for many years—we grew up on it.
But there has been a great deal of research on readability (how easy
something is to read) and it shows that those disruptive, inconsistent
gaps between the words inhibit the flow of reading. Besides, they look
dumb. Keep your eyes open as you look at professionally-printed
work...and you’ll find there’s a very strong trend now to align type on
the left and leave the right ragged.
Robin Williams, The Mac Is Not a Typewriter
You can mix different typefaces, but do so with discretion; not all type­
faces work well together. Mixing a serif and sans serif, as we have done
in this handbook, can look good and create a clear contrast between
your levels. Mixing two serif or two sans serif typefaces can look like a
mistake. As a general rule, do not use more than two typefaces in any
document, not including the bold or italic versions of a typeface.

a p lain english hand b ook

41

Type measurement
All typefaces are measured in points (pts). But don’t assume that differ­
ent typefaces in the same point size are of equal size. For example, here
are four typefaces set in 11pt:
This is an example in 11pt. Franklin Gothic
This is an example in 11pt. Century Schoolbook
This is an example in 11pt. Garamond
This is an example in 11pt. Helvetica
This is an example in 11pt. Times

Choose a legible type size
A point size that is too small is difficult for everyone to read.

A point size that is

too large is also hard to read. Generally, type in 10pt–12pt
is most common. But as you can see from the examples above, some
typefaces in 11pt will strain some readers. If you have special concerns
about legibility, especially for an elderly audience, you should consider
using 12pt or larger.

42

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Emphasizing text
It’s common in disclosure documents to see blocks of text in bold and
uppercase letters. The capitalization and bold type attempt to catch the
reader’s attention. Unfortunately, those capitals make the text difficult
to read. All uppercase sentences usually bring the reader to a standstill
because the shapes of words disappear, causing the reader to slow down
and study each letter. Ironically, readers tend to skip sentences written
in all uppercase.
To highlight information and maintain readability, use a different size
or weight of your typeface. Try using extra white space, bold type,
shading, rules, boxes, or sidebars in the margins to make information
stand out. In this handbook we use dotted rules to highlight the exam­
ples. Whatever method you choose to highlight information, use it
consistently throughout your document so your readers can recognize
how you flag important information.
before

THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION HAS
NOT APPROVED OR DISAPPROVED THESE SECURITIES
OR DETERMINED IF THIS PROSPECTUS IS TRUTHFUL OR
COMPLETE. ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE CONTRARY
IS A CRIMINAL OFFENSE.
after

The Securities and Exchange Commission has not approved or
disapproved these securities or determined if this prospectus is truthful
or complete. Any representation to the contrary is a criminal offense.
after

The Securities and Exchange Commission has not approved
or disapproved these securities or determined if this prospectus
is truthful or complete. Any representation to the contrary is a
criminal offense.

a p lain english hand b ook

43

“...words consisting of only
capital letters present the
most difficult reading—
because of their equal height,
equal volume, and, with most,
their equal width.”
Josef Albers
Interaction of Color

Layout
“…when everything
(background, structure,
content) is emphasized,
nothing is emphasized;
the design will often be
noisy, cluttered, and
informationally flat.”
Edward Tufte
Visual Explanations

Designers think carefully about white space, column width, linespacing,
and paragraph length. These design elements determine whether read­
ing is easy or becomes too much of a physical or mental chore.

Use white space effectively
Generous use of white space on the page enhances readability, helps
to emphasize important points, and lightens the overall look of the
document. White space especially affects the readers of disclosure
documents because these documents usually feature dense blocks of
impenetrable text.
You should fight the impulse to fill up the entire page with text or
graphics. A wide left or right margin can make the document easier
to read. The use of white space between sections or subsections helps
readers recognize which information is related.

Use left justified, ragged right text
Research shows that the easiest text to read is left justified, ragged right
text. That is, the text is aligned, or flush, on the left with a loose, or
ragged, right edge. The text in this handbook is set left justified, ragged
right.
Fully justified text means both the right and left edges are flush, or
even. When you fully justify text, the spacing between words fluctuates
from line to line, causing the eye to stop and constantly readjust to the
variable spacing on each line. Currently, most disclosure documents
are fully justified. This, coupled with a severe shortage of white space,
makes these documents visually unappealing and difficult to read.
Be especially wary of centering text, or using text to form a shape or
design. Uneven margins may make a visual impact, but they make
reading extremely difficult.

44

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

recommended: left justified, ragged right

Justified text was the style for many years—we grew up on it.
But there has been a great deal of research on readability (how easy
something is to read) and it shows that those disruptive, inconsis­
tent gaps between the words inhibit the flow of reading. Besides,
they look dumb. Keep your eyes open as you look at professionallyprinted work...and you’ll find there’s a very strong trend now to
align type on the left and leave the right ragged.
not recommended: fully justified text

Justified text was the style for many years—we grew up on it. But
there has been a great deal of research on readability (how easy some­
thing is to read) and it shows that those disruptive, inconsistent gaps
between the words inhibit the flow of reading. Besides, they look
dumb. Keep your eyes open as you look at professionally-printed
work...and you’ll find there’s a very strong trend now to align type on
the
left
and
leave
the
right
ragged.
not recommended: centered text

Justified text was the style for many years—we grew up on it.

But there has been a great deal of research on readability 

(how easy something is to read) and it shows that those

disruptive, inconsistent gaps between the words 

inhibit the flow of reading. Besides, they look dumb. 

Keep your eyes open as you look at professionally-printed 

work...and you’ll find there’s a very strong trend now to align type

on the left and leave the right ragged.


a p lain english hand b ook

45

Use linespacing to lighten the page
Linespacing, or “leading” (rhymes with sledding), refers to the amount
of space between lines of text. Leading controls the density and read­
ability of the text. Just as type is measured in points, so is leading.
A type description of 12/16 means that 12pt type has been set with 4pts
of additional leading between the lines. Generous leading can give
a long paragraph a lighter, “airier” feeling and make it easier to read.
Avoid setting type without any additional leading (such as 10/10 or
12/12), sometimes referred to as being “set solid.” Typically, you should
allow at least 2pts of leading between lines of type. You may want to
add more leading, depending on the “airiness” you would like the
document to have. In this document, for ease of reading, the general
text has been set at 11/16, and most examples have been set at 10/12.
Review the following examples to see how leading affects readability.
11/11

Justified text was the style for many years—we grew up on it.
But there has been a great deal of research on readability (how easy
something is to read) and it shows that those disruptive, inconsis­
tent gaps between the words inhibit the flow of reading. Besides,
they look dumb. Keep your eyes open as you look at professionallyprinted work...and you’ll find there’s a very strong trend now to
align type on the left and leave the right ragged.
11/13

Justified text was the style for many years—we grew up on it.
But there has been a great deal of research on readability (how easy
something is to read) and it shows that those disruptive, inconsis­
tent gaps between the words inhibit the flow of reading. Besides,
they look dumb. Keep your eyes open as you look at professionallyprinted work...and you’ll find there’s a very strong trend now to
align type on the left and leave the right ragged.
11/15

Justified text was the style for many years—we grew up on it.
But there has been a great deal of research on readability (how easy
something is to read) and it shows that those disruptive, inconsis­
tent gaps between the words inhibit the flow of reading. Besides,
they look dumb. Keep your eyes open as you look at professionallyprinted work...and you’ll find there’s a very strong trend now to
align type on the left and leave the right ragged.

46

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Keep lines to a reasonable length
A comfortable line length for most readers is 32 to 64 characters. Any

longer than that, and your readers will lose their place when they read

from line to line. A safe rule to follow is: the smaller the type size, the

shorter the line length. This is why when you pick up any newspaper,

magazine, or large book, you’ll rarely see text that goes from one side of

the page clear to the other, as you do in disclosure documents.

Columns also help your readers to move quickly and easily through

large amounts of text. An average column width can vary from 25–40

characters. Remember to use ample white space between columns, too. 

don’t

Justified text was the style for many years—we grew up on it. But there has been a great deal of research
on readability (how easy something is to read) and it shows that those disruptive, inconsistent gaps between
the words inhibit the flow of reading. Besides, they look dumb. Keep your eyes open as you look at profes­
sionally-printed work...and you’ll find there’s a very strong trend now to align type on the left and leave the
right ragged.
do

Justified text was the style for many years—we grew up on it. 

But there has been a great deal of research on readability (how easy

something is to read) and it shows that those disruptive, inconsis­
tent gaps between the words inhibit the flow of reading. Besides,

they look dumb. Keep your eyes open as you look at professionally-

printed work...and you’ll find there’s a very strong trend now to

align type on the left and leave the right ragged. 

do

Justified text was the style for many
years—we grew up on it. But there has
been a great deal of research on readability (how easy something is to read)
and it shows that those disruptive,
inconsistent gaps between the words
inhibit the flow of reading.

Besides, they look dumb. Keep your
eyes open as you look at professionallyprinted work...and you’ll find there’s a
very strong trend now to align type on
the left and leave the right ragged.

a p lain english hand b ook

47

Keep paragraph length relatively short
To reduce dense text, keep paragraphs as short as possible. Even though
paragraph length is determined by content, here are some design tips
that can help to lighten a long paragraph.
Sidebars, like this one, are a
handy way to convey informa­
tion that might muddy the
general text. Try to keep your
sidebars to “snippets” of infor­
mation.

Use bullets to list information wherever possible. This makes informa­
tion easier to absorb in one quick glance, as the following illustrates:
before

The funds invest mainly in the stocks of U.S. and foreign compa­
nies that are showing improved earnings and that sell at low prices
relative to their cash flows or growth rates. The Fund also invests
in debt, both investment grade and junk bonds, and U.S Treasury
securities.
after

We invest the fund’s assets in:
• stocks of U.S. and foreign companies that
– show improved earnings, and
– sell at low prices relative to their cash flows or growth rates;
• debt, both investment grade and junk bonds; and
• U.S. Treasuries.

Use tables to increase clarity
Use tables to increase clarity and cut down text. Tables often convey
information more quickly and clearly than text. The information in this
table is more easily grasped in a table than in narrative form:
before

Our investment advisory agreements cover the Growth Fund,
International Fund, Muni Fund, Bond Fund, and the Money Market
Fund. The effective date for agreements for the Growth Fund and
the International Fund is June 1, 1993, and for the Muni Fund,
Bond Fund and Money Market Fund, June 1, 1994.
after

Our Investment Advisory Agreement covers these funds:
Investment Advisory Agreement
effective date

48

Fund name

June 1, 1993

Growth Fund
International Fund

June 1, 1994

Muni Fund
Bond Fund
Money Market Fund

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Graphics
Graphics often illuminate information more clearly and quickly than
text. This section introduces some basic guidelines about using graph­
ics in your document. To learn more, books and articles cover the topic
in rich and rewarding detail. The best known work, The Visual Display
of Quantitative Information, by Edward R. Tufte, provides practical advice
on creating graphics. In the introduction of his book, he writes about
the importance and value of graphics:
At their best, graphics are instruments for reasoning about quantita­
tive information. Often the most effective way to describe, explore,
and summarize a set of numbers—even a very large set—is to
look at pictures of those numbers. Furthermore, of all methods for
analyzing and communicating statistical information, well-designed
data graphics are usually the simplest and at the same time the
most powerful.
On page 51 of his book, Tufte formulates a number of basic principles
to follow in creating excellent graphics. Among them are these:
Graphical excellence is that which gives to the viewer the greatest
number of ideas in the shortest time with the least ink in the smallest
space.
And graphical excellence requires telling the truth about data.
A few experts have studied the use of graphics in securities documents,
isolating the areas presenting the most problems. We can boil down
their advice to these guidelines.

a p lain english hand b ook

49

Keep the design simple
Keep the design of any graphic as simple as possible. Pare away any
non-essential design elements so the data stands out. Think of it this
way: as much of the ink as possible in a graphic should deal with a
data point and not decoration. Some of the worst mistakes occur when
design elements interfere with the clear presentation of information,
such as needless 3-D effects, drop shadows, patterns, and excessive grid
lines. Don’t let a design element turn into what Tufte calls “chartjunk.”
These examples show how a 3-D bar graph provides initial visual
appeal, but is harder to read and understand than a straightforward
presentation of the same information. The multiple lines of the 3-D
bars confuse some readers because the front of the bars appear to have
a lower value than the back of the bars.
before
1997 Quarterly Sales Revenue in millions
$60
$50
$40
$30
$20
$10
$0
1st Qu

arter

2nd Q

uarter

3rd Qu

arter

4th Q

uarter

after
1997 Quarterly Sales Revenue in millions
$60
$50
$40
$30

$49

$45
$36

$32

$20
$10
$0
1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter

50

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Check proportions of visuals
Generally, you should avoid graphics that start at a non-zero baseline,
because they distort differences by destroying correct proportions.
Compare these two bar charts to see how the non-zero baseline can
mislead the reader as to the magnitude of change from quarter to
quarter.
before

after

1997 Quarterly Sales Revenue
in millions

1997 Quarterly Sales Revenue
in millions

$55

$60

$50

$50

$49

$45

$45

$40

$40
$30

$35

Alan J. Davis
Graphical Information:
Where to Draw the Line

$49

$45
$36

“Extensive studies of annual
reports of major corporations
in the United States and
the United Kingdom have
shown that about 25 percent
of the graphs they contain
are distorted substantially.”

$32

$20

$36
$30

$10

$32

$25

$0

Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

Draw graphics to scale
Any graphic should be proportionately correct or drawn to scale. 

For example, if you are showing an increase in oil production through 

a series of oil barrels in ever-increasing sizes, make sure a barrel 

isn’t represented as 50% bigger when production only went up 25%

that year.


Be consistent when grouping graphics
If you group graphics side-by-side, avoid changing your scale from one
graphic to another, as in the examples above. Also, lining up three
graphics that present data in billions, millions, then dollars can mislead
the reader.

a p lain english hand b ook

51

Don’t reverse time
In graphics showing information over time, time should flow forward,
not backward. In these examples, even though the first graphic is
clearly labeled, it gives a false visual impression that earnings are going
down over time rather than up.
before

after

Annual Sales Revenue
in millions

Annual Sales Revenue
in millions

$200

$200

$150

$162

$100

$162

$150

$100

$123
$87

$50

$50

$123
$87

$0

$0

1997

1996

1995

1995


1996

1997

Organize data to hasten insights
Choose an organization that helps the reader grasp information and
comparisons quickly. For instance, if you have a list of foreign stock
markets showing their returns in one year, list them in descending
order by the magnitude of their returns instead of in alphabetical order.

52

before


after


1994 Foreign Markets
Total Returns in U.S. dollars

1994 Foreign Markets
Total Returns in U.S. dollars

Argentina
Brazil
Greece
Hong Kong
Indonesia
Malaysia
Mexico
Philippines
Singapore
Turkey

Brazil
Singapore
Greece
Philippines
Malaysia
Argentina
Indonesia
Hong Kong
Mexico
Turkey

–23.6 %

+64.3

+ 0.6

–28.9

–26.3

–20.2

– 39.7

– 10.1

+ 5.8

– 50.5


a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

+64.3 %

+ 5.8

+ 0.6

– 10.1

–20.2

–23.6

–26.3

–28.9

– 39.7

– 50.5


Integrate text with graphics
A graphic and its text should be together. You don’t want to break your
reader’s concentration by separating the two, forcing your reader on a
detour to another page in search of the graphic that goes with the text.

Think twice about pie charts
According to Tufte, “...the only worse design than a pie chart is several
of them....” Pie charts can be useful in illustrating parts of a whole, but
not when you divide the pie into more than 5 or 6 slices. Most readers
find it difficult to draw accurate comparisons between pie slices or
between multiple pie charts because the slices form irregular shapes.
Showing the same information in a table can often be clearer.

Don’t forget your typography
When choosing a typeface for text such as axis labels, consider
using a sans serif typeface if the type is small and the text is short in
length. If you want to insert a note or explanation directly on the graph­
ic, use a serif font if the text is long. Continue to use upper and lower­
case type for increased legibility. The guidelines for good typography we
discussed earlier still apply when creating graphics.

Trust your eye
Finally, one guideline rises above all others in importance and rests
squarely with you. Cultivate an appreciation of graphics and then trust
your eye. If a graphic seems unclear or unhelpful to you, no matter
how many “guidelines” it follows, it probably is.
Graphics communicate numbers and concepts visually. You turn to
graphics when they stimulate a deeper or quicker understanding and
appreciation of a situation than words alone. To create a good graphic,
you must study the design critically and assess whether it conveys
information honestly, accurately, and efficiently.

a p lain english hand b ook

53

Color
Black is a color
The majority of your documents will be produced in black and white.
When designing these documents, it’s easy to forget that you are using
a color: black. Since black is such a powerful color, balancing it on the
page can be a tightrope act: too little emphasis can grey-out the page,
too much can blacken it.
If you are using only black, your use of type is usually the way you
balance the page’s color. Some typefaces are heavier or lighter than
others, and most type families are available in varying weights. For
example:
heavy: Times Extra Bold
less heavy: Times Bold
lighter: Times Semi Bold
lighter still: Times Regular
heavy: Univers Black
less heavy: Univers Bold
lighter: Univers Regular
lighter still: Univers Light
Choosing the proper combinations of type weights will help to make
your document look more inviting.
Some additional ways to introduce visual appeal to a one-color docu­
ment are through:
•
•
•
•

shading
graphics
rules or lines
colored paper stocks

Again, your use of these elements should not overwhelm or distract
from the legibility of your text. •

54

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

8

Time-Saving Tips
Following are some tips that have saved time for those who routinely
rewrite documents in plain English:
Photocopy the document, single sided, on 11" x 17" paper (ledger paper)
to 120% of its original size. This gives you room to make notes in the
margins and helps to save your eyesight. Keep your original document
handy. You’ll use it again later.
Read through the ledger-sized copy and take notes. In the margin of
each paragraph, jot down the main and supporting points. (We suggest
using a pencil unless you’re one of those people who does crossword
puzzles in ink.) If you can’t find these points too easily, it may mean the
paragraph is a hodgepodge of unrelated topics.
This stage of the process can be “space-consuming.” In your workspace
or in a conference room, tape or tack the pages of your document to the
wall. If it’s too long, you may want to spread out just your outline and
summary.
Then, thinking of your investors, physically move the pages into the
order that makes the most sense. If only parts of pages need to be
moved, cut them out and move just the parts. Remember to group like
information together.

a p lain english hand b ook 55

When you start to reorder your document by moving pages or parts of
pages, write on the page or section:
•	 where it appeared in the original document (the page number and
paragraph, if applicable); and
•	 a number or letter to indicate its place in the new draft.
It’s a good idea to keep the notes and questions you wrote in the mar­
gins distinct from your cross-reference marks by writing them in a dif­
ferent color. Use colored pencils, since it’s likely you’ll move sections
around more than once.
Once you have finished physically reorganizing the document, you may
want to outline the new organization. On a separate piece of paper,
write the names for the new sections you created. Under each section
name, write down its major elements. This is the outline of your
plain English draft and, with some revisions, will become your table
of contents.
Keep in mind that the most effective outlines are more like sketches—
just detailed enough to set priorities and create logical relationships.
Next to each entry on your outline, be sure to note where this informa­
tion appeared in the original document. This is very important. Crossreferencing accurately now may save you hours of backtracking later.
Tape your reordered sections on blank pieces of ledger size paper and
photocopy them. This will be the master document from which you’ll
rewrite. As you rewrite, each time you complete a sentence or
paragraph, draw a line through it in pencil. This way you’ll be sure to
account for all the original content in your rewrite. •

56

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

9

Using Readability
Formulas
and Style Checkers
Readability formulas determine how difficult a piece of writing is to
read. However, you should be aware of a major flaw in every readability
formula.
No formula takes into account the content of the document being
evaluated. In other words, no formula can tell you if you have conveyed
the information clearly. For the most part, they count the numbers of
syllables and words in a sentence and the number of sentences in the
sample. Of course, if you applied a readability formula to a traditional
disclosure document, it would fail miserably. But keep in mind that by
some formulas’ calculations, Einstein’s theory of relativity reads at a
5th grade level.
Some computerized style checkers analyze your grammar and identify
the passive voice. They may suggest ways to make your writing more
“readable.” Take their suggestions as just that—suggestions. The final
test of whether any piece of writing meets its goal of communicating
information comes when humans read it. •

a p lain english hand b ook

57

58

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

10

Evaluating the
Document
You can evaluate your document by testing it with a focus group.
Experts call this “audience-centered” testing because it focuses on the
interaction between a particular document and a representative sample
of its readers. While the results are reliable, focus groups require time
and money.
Focus group testing tends to work better with shorter documents or
portions of longer ones. You can also test the portions of your docu­
ment that you plan to use repeatedly. At the very least, you’ll have help­
ful feedback on the sections that investors are most likely to read and
on the language that appears most frequently in your disclosure docu­
ments. Based on the test results, you can isolate the parts that cause
the most confusion and fix them.
If you don’t have the budget to test your document formally through
focus groups, improvise. Ask individuals in your office who most
closely resemble your investors to read your draft document and listen
closely to their reactions. Ask others who have some distance from
the project to read it. A fresh pair of eyes often picks up the “obvious”
problems that those who have worked with the document miss. •

a p lain english hand b ook

59

60

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

11

Reading List
If you want more information on how to write in plain English,
we’ve listed just a few of the many resources available, including those
from the SEC. You may want to visit your local library to review these
books or a broader selection. Goldstein and Lieberman’s book, The
Lawyer’s Guide to Writing Well, includes a comprehensive list of books
about legal writing. We are not endorsing any of these books, but have
included them as a resource for your convenience.
Claire Kehrwald Cook, Line by Line
(Houghton Mifflin, 1985).
Alan J. Davis, Graphs and Doublespeak, Quarterly Review of Doublespeak,
Volume XVIII, Number 4, July 1992.
Bryan A. Garner, The Elements of Legal Style
(Oxford University Press, 1991).
_______, A Dictionary of Modern Legal Usage
(Oxford University Press, 2nd ed., 1995).
Tom Goldstein and Jethro K. Lieberman, The Lawyer’s Guide
to Writing Well
(University of California Press, 1989).
Karen Elizabeth Gordon, The Transitive Vampire: A Handbook
of Grammar for the Innocent, the Eager, and the Doomed
(Times Books, 1984).
_______, The New Well-Tempered Sentence, A Punctuation Handbook
for the Innocent, the Eager, and the Doomed
(Ticknor & Fields, 1993).
a p lain english hand b ook

61

William Lutz, The New Doublespeak: Why No One Knows
What Anyone’s Saying Anymore
(HarperCollins, 1996).
David Mellinkoff, Legal Writing: Sense & Nonsense
(West Publishing Company, 1982).
William Strunk, Jr., and E.B. White, Elements of Style
(Macmillan, 3rd rev. ed., 1981).
Edward R. Tufte, The Visual Display of Quantitative Information
(Graphics Press, 1983).
Robin Williams, The Mac Is Not a Typewriter
(Peachpit Press, 1990).
Richard C. Wydick, Plain English for Lawyers
(Carolina Academic Press, 2nd ed., 1985).
William Zinsser, On Writing Well
(Harper & Row, 4th ed., 1988).

SEC publications
Before & After Plain English Examples and Sample Analyses
(SEC Division of Corporation Finance, April 4, 1998).
Plain English Pilot Program: Selected Plain English Samples
(SEC Division of Corporation Finance, January 28, 1998).

Securities Act Release No. 33-7380, Plain English Disclosure, 

proposing release, (January 14, 1997) 62 FR 3512 (January 21, 1997).

Securities Act Release No. 33-7497, Plain English Disclosure, 

adopting release, (January 28, 1998) 63 FR 6370 (February 6, 1998).

62

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

•


12
Keeping in Touch
with Us
We hope that this handbook will prove useful to you in drafting and
creating plain English documents. Although we have drawn the sugges­
tions in the handbook from those who have written plain English
documents and from experts in the field, we realize that much more
will be learned along the way that can benefit all of us.
We would appreciate receiving your suggestions on how we can
improve this handbook. We would also like to collect as many examples
of “befores” and their plain English “afters” as possible, as well as any
tips that helped you save time and energy.
Please forward your suggestions and “before” and “after” examples to:
Nancy M. Smith
Director
Office of Investor Education and Assistance
SEC
450 5th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20549 •

a p lain english hand b ook

63

64

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Plain English at a Glance

Appendix A

Plain English means creating
a document that is

You create a plain English
document by

•	 visually inviting,

•	 knowing your readers, and

•	 logically organized, and

•	 presenting information your
readers need in an order
they’ll understand.

•	 understandable on the first
reading.

Summary of the plain English rules

Rule 421(b)


Rule 421(d)


Entire Prospectus

Cover and Back Pages, Summary,
and Risk Factors

Clear, concise, and
understandable
•	 short sentences whenever
possible

Use plain English principles in
the organization, language, and
design of documents

•	 bullet lists whenever possible

Substantially use:

•	 descriptive headers and subheaders

•	 short sentences

•	 avoid relying on glossaries and
defined terms
•	 avoid legal and highly
technical business terms

•	 definite, concrete, everyday
words
•	 active voice
•	 tables and bullet lists

Note

•	 no legal jargon, highly
technical business terms

Avoid:

•	 no multiple negatives

•	 legalistic, overly complex pre­
sentations

Entire Prospectus—Design

•	 vague boilerplate
•	 excerpts from legal documents
•	 repetition

In designing the entire
prospectus:
•	 may use pictures, logos,
charts, graphs, or other design
elements
•	 encouraged to use tables,
schedules, charts, and graphics
for financial data

This is a summary, so please read
the entire rule to make sure you
comply with every aspect of it.

•	 must draw graphs and charts
to scale
•	 cannot use misleading design
and information

a p lain english hand b ook

65

§230.421
Presentation of information in prospectuses
• • • • •
(b) You must present the information in a prospectus in a clear, concise
and understandable manner. You must prepare the prospectus
using the following standards:
( ) Present information in clear, concise sections, paragraphs, and
sentences. Whenever possible, use short, explanatory sentences
and bullet lists;
(2) Use descriptive headings and subheadings;
(3) Avoid frequent reliance on glossaries or defined terms as the
primary means of explaining information in the prospectus.
Define terms in a glossary or other section of the document
only if the meaning is unclear from the context. Use a glossary
only if it facilitates understanding of the disclosure; and
(4) Avoid legal and highly technical business terminology.

Note to §230.421(b):
In drafting the disclosure to comply with this section, you should avoid
the following:
.

Legalistic or overly complex presentations that make the substance
of the disclosure difficult to understand;

2.	 Vague “boilerplate” explanations that are imprecise and readily
subject to different interpretations;
3.	 Complex information copied directly from legal documents without
any clear and concise explanation of the provision(s); and
4.	 Disclosure repeated in different sections of the document that
increases the size of the document but does not enhance the quality
of the information.

66	

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

• • • • •
(d) ( ) To enhance the readability of the prospectus, you must

use plain English principles in the organization, language, and
design of the front and back cover pages, the summary, and the
risk factors section.
(2) You must draft the language in these sections so that at a mini­
mum it substantially complies with each of the following plain
English writing principles:
(i) Short sentences;
(ii) Definite, concrete, everyday words;
(iii) Active voice;
(iv) Tabular presentation or bullet lists for complex material,
whenever possible;
(v) No legal jargon or highly technical business terms; and
(vi) No multiple negatives.
(3) In designing these sections or other sections of the prospectus,
you may include pictures, logos, charts, graphs, or other design
elements so long as the design is not misleading and the
required information is clear. You are encouraged to use tables,
schedules, charts and graphic illustrations of the results of
operations, balance sheet, or other financial data that present
the data in an understandable manner. Any presentation must
be consistent with the financial statements and non-financial
information in the prospectus. You must draw the graphs
and charts to scale. Any information you provide must not be
misleading.

Instruction to §230.421
You should read Securities Act Release No. 33-7497 (January 28, 1998)
for information on plain English principles. •

a p lain english hand b ook

67

68

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Appendix B

Plain English Examples
This appendix contains “before” and “after” examples from participants
in the Division of Corporation Finance’s plain English pilot. The
Division’s staff added marginal notes to show how aspects of the plain
English rules apply to specific documents.
These annotated examples are excerpted from the booklet, Before & After
Plain English Examples and Sample Analyses, prepared by the Division
of Corporation Finance. Although we revised the presentation and
wording of the marginal notes in this appendix, the filings remain
identical to those from the booklet. To get a complete copy of the book­
let, please call the SEC’s public reference room at (202) 942-8090.
Differences between the proposed and final amendments to Item 501

When the issuers prepared these documents, they relied on staff
interpretations for filings in the plain English pilot and the proposed
amendments to Item 501.
The following information was not required under Item 501 as
proposed, but this information is required under Item 501 as adopted:
• the market(s) and the trading symbol;
• the underwriter’s over-allotment or similar option, if applicable;
• a prominent cross-reference to the risk factors section including the
page number;
• the following on a total and per share basis, if applicable:
– the price to the public;
– the underwriter’s discounts and commissions; and
– the net proceeds the issuer and selling shareholders receive.
Examples for illustration purposes only

We are providing these examples and marginal notes only to illustrate
the principles of plain English. We have not made any determination as
to whether the filings are accurate or complete. You are responsible for
the substance in your plain English filings. To understand the plain
English rules fully, you must read the proposing and adopting releases:
• the proposing release—Release no. 33-7380; and
• the adopting release—Release no. 33-7497.
Both releases are available from the SEC’s Public Reference Room and
our web site at www.sec.gov.

a p lain english hand b ook

69

We collected many filings
from the Division’s plain
English pilot in one book.
You can get a photocopy of
this 756-page book, Plain
English Pilot Program: Selected
Plain English Samples, from
the SEC’s Public Reference
Room or a printed copy from
Bowne Publishing in New
York City. (The SEC does not
endorse Bowne, nor do we
have a business relationship
with them.)

Before

MBNA cover page, core prospectus

Note: When MBNA filed this disclosure document, they relied on the SEC
rules that were in effect at that time.

Fully-justified text and lengthy
paragraphs give page a dense,
block-like appearance.
Abstract terms and legal jargon
prevalent
A lot of passive voice, adding to
sentence length
Eliminate defined terms from
the cover page.
Long sentence–60+ words
Why capitalize these common
terms?

Long sentence–50+ words
Many long sentences–
40+ words
Centered text and all capital
letters are hard to read.
Legends are in legalese.
Legalistic tone–does Item 501
require all this information?
All information is presented the
same way: What does this
page focus my attention on?
Sans serif font is hard to read.
Text runs in long lines across
the page.

70

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

MBNA cover page, core prospectus

After


Ample white space surrounds
key information and makes
page visually inviting.
Page layout highlights cross
reference to risk factors.
Clear sentences are in active
voice with concrete, everyday
language.
No lengthy, block-like
paragraphs
Information presented in three
main categories:
• the trust
• the certificates
• the certificateholders
No defined terms
Common terms, like classes,
are not capitalized.
Long sentences are put into
bullet lists.
Left justified text and shorter
line lengths are easy to read.
Serif typeface is easier to read
than sans serif.
Legends in plain English and
lowercase are easier to read
than all capital letters.

a p lain english hand b ook

71

Before

Premium Cigars International, cover page


Fully justified text creates a
dense, block-like appearance.

Eliminate defined terms from
cover page.
Is no par value helpful
information for investors?
Key information, such as price
per share, is not distinguished
from general text.
Cross reference draws readers’
attention away from key
information.
All capital letters are hard
to read.
Legend is in legalese.
Some legalese is used, like
set forth and when, as and if
delivered.
Offering table, references to
footnotes, and paragraph
following the table are legalistic.
Legalistic tone–does Item 501
require all this information?

72

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Premium Cigars International, cover page

After


Only key information on page
Offering information is clear
and easy to read.
Ample white space is visually
inviting and highlights key
information.
Key information, like price per
share, is highlighted.
Left justified text eliminates
block-like appearance.
Two-column format is easier to
read than text running across
page.
Design and layout highlight
market and trading symbols.
Short sentences use concrete,
everyday terms.
Language is free from legalese,
technical language, and
unnecessary cross references.
Personal pronouns, while not
required, enhance readability.
Legend is in plain English.

a p lain english hand b ook

73

Before

General Motors Corporation, summary 


Legalese and technical terms,
like pursuant to the terms
and conditions set forth, and
effected largely pursuant to
transactions, etc.
Cross reference to definition
disrupts flow of information;
meanings of terms in summary
must be clear from context.
Terms like certain and
appropriate are vague, not
concrete.
Passive voice–who is
completing these transactions?

Parenthetical phrases are
legalistic and disrupt flow of
information.

Little “i”s are legalistic; bulleted
list would be easier to read.
Organization of information
driven by mechanics of
transactions rather than by
information shareholders need
to make a decision.
Transactions’ effect on share­
holders not discussed until
column two.
Is detail about GM amending
its certificate of incorporation
necessary for the summary?

74

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

General Motors Corporation, summary

After


Information organized from
shareholders’ perspectives–
how transactions affect them
addressed first.
Active voice helps shareholders
follow the steps involved in the
transaction more easily.
Summary is free of defined terms.
Concrete, everyday language
replaces legalese like pursuant
to the terms and conditions
set forth and effected largely
pursuant to transactions, etc.
Numbers are more readerfriendly than little “i”s.
Easy to read two-column format
with left justified margins.
Personal pronouns, although
not required, help engage
shareholders’ attention.

a p lain english hand b ook

75

Before

Baltimore Gas & Electric Company

Section from body of prospectus


Paragraphs are lengthy and
block-like.
Subheadings are helpful,
but more would be better.
Defined below? Where is below?
Cross reference not helpful.
Long sentence–85+ words

Many defined terms with
definitions elsewhere.
Can you make meanings clear
from context?

Long sentence–90+ words

Lists embedded in text;
complex presentation

76

a pl a i n en g l i s h h and b ook

Baltimore Gas & Electric Company

After


Section from body of prospectus

Paragraphs are short and
readable.
Short sentences–longest
sentence is 36 words.
Two-column format and
left justified text, while not
required, help make summary
more reader-friendly.

More subheadings break up
dense text and help readers
navigate their way through
information easily.
Defined terms are minimized,
with meanings of terms clear
from context.
Bullet lists help investors read
and understand this information
more quickly and easily.

a p lain english hand b ook

77

