Human Resources Policy Pack
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
POLICY DOCUMENTS
2009

THE DEPARTMENT’S VISION

Safer roads and communities towards a better life for all.

THE DEPARTMENT’S MISSION

To provide safety through effective co-ordination of crime prevention initiatives, provincial
police oversight, traffic management and road safety towards a more secure environment.

THE DEPARTMENT’S VALUES AND STANDARDS

The mission and vision statement are guided by the following principles:






Teamwork
Integrity
Commitment
Client oriented
Accountability

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 2 of 183

NORTHWEST PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES
CONTENTS
Preamble………………………………………………………………………………....................………………... 4
(1) Employment Equity Policy …………………………………………………………........…………….......5-20
(2) Policy on Sexual Harassment in the Workplace……………………………………....................21-55
(3) HIV and AIDS Policy………………………………………………………………………………..............56-69
(4) Recruitment Policy….……………………………………………………………………………................70-80
(5) Performance Management Policy……………………………………………………..……..............81-102
(6) Skills Development Policy..............…………………………………………………………...........103-114
(7) Retention/Exit Strategy………………………………………………………………..……….............115-126
(8) Incapacity Leave and Ill Health Policy………………………………………….…………............127-137
(9) Anti-substance Abuse and Drug Abuse Policy……………………………………………..........138-145
(10) Smoking Policy………….……………………………………………………………….....................146-153
(11) Funeral and Bereavement Policy………………………………………………….....................154-161
(12) Sports and Recreation…………………………………………………….................................162-173
(13) Abscondment…………………………………………………………………………….....................174-182

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 3 of 183

PREAMBLE
On behalf of the Department of Public Safety, it‘s a pleasure to release the Department‘s
comprehensive Human Resources Policy Package (Volume 1).
The policies are informed by constitutional principles regarding the public service, particularly the
provisions of Chapter 10 of the Constitution. The policies are further informed by relevant
international standards and the national legal framework that regulates the public service.
In addition to seeking to create a workplace environment that advances the principles of Batho
Pele, the policies are underpinned by a commitment to transforming the public service in line with
the ideals of a developmental state, the pursuit of service excellence and responsiveness to the
needs of all our diverse people. The policies also seek to give effect to government‘s commitment
to investment in people and affirming diversity, including gender and cultural diversity, while
progressively eliminating the systemic inequalities that were inherited from the past.
The policies also seek to reinforce a caring and affirming workplace where people with HIV,
disability and other challenges are embraced and their potential fully harnessed. The policies
further seek to inculcate a culture of human rights and health wellness consciousness awareness,
which includes dealing effectively and compassionately with challenges relating to HIV and AIDS,
disability, illness and sub stance abuse.
The policies ultimately seek to enhance the Department‘s ability to attract, develop, advance and
retain suitably qualified women and men from diverse sections of society and motivating them to
deliver a people focused service that contributes to the province‘s and the country‘s developmental
needs.
All employees are encouraged to familiarise themselves with and to promote compliance with these
policies.

------------------------------------------------MR OB MONGALE
Head of Department
Date: -------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------MR H YAWA
MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
Date: -----------------------------------

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 4 of 183

EMLOYMENT EQUITY POLICY

“Preventing Discrimination and
Promoting Equality in the Workplace”

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 5 of 183

NORTHWEST PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY
POLICY NO:
NAME OF POLICY:
EFFECTIVE ON:
DATE OF REVIEW:

HR2009/001
EMPLOYMENT EQUITY
…………………………….
April 2012
CONTENTS

Contents

Page

Preamble
1.
Abbreviations and Definitions....……………………….......................……

7-8

2.

Purpose and Objectives ………………………......................……………….

8-9

3.

Principles …………………………………………………………………................

9-10

4.

Legislative Framework....……………………………………………................

10

5.

Scope of Application...........................…………………………………………

10

6.

Policy Statement.........................………………………………………………..

10

7.

Prevention and Elimination of Unfair discrimination.......................….

11-13

8.

Affirmative Action Planning & Implementation.....................…………..

13-14

9.

Application of Employment Equity in all Employment
Resources Practices and Processes…...............................................

14-17

10.

Structures Responsibilities and Obligations ………………….…………......

17-18

11.

Dispute Resolution ………………………..……………………………………...….

18-19

12.

Monitoring, Evaluation and Review ………………………………………….....

19

13.

Related Policies ……………………………………………………………………......

19

14.

Commencement of the Policy ………………………..………………………......

20

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 6 of 183

PREAMBLE
The Constitution guarantees everyone equity as a fundamental right.
The right to equality includes the full and equal enjoyment of all rights and freedoms without
discrimination, and incorporates the possibility of remedial measures that seek to protect and
advance persons or groups of persons that have been disadvantaged by unfair discrimination.
Since the onset of democracy, legislative and other measures have been implemented with a view
to eradicating systemic and structural inequalities in society, including inequalities in public service
employment, with a focus on race, gender and disability based disparities.
Despite such measures, which include the Employment Equity Act, the White Paper on
Transforming the Public Service, the White Paper on Affirmative Action in the Public Service and
compliance action taken in pursuit of these policies, systemic inequalities and discrimination
continue to bedevil aspects of public sector employment.
Inequality in employment not only undermines enjoyment of the right to equality for those
excluded from employment opportunities, it also hampers service excellence and responsive service
delivery by entrenching structural inefficiencies in the use of available human resources.
The Department of Public Safety in the North West Provincial Government (―the Department‖)
accordingly adopts this policy as a framework for:


A review and renewal of its employment equity programme with a view to accelerating
progress towards the realization of a discrimination free workplace where no one is denied
opportunity for reasons other than ability; and



Transforming the Department into an employer of choice where women, men and people
with disabilities from diverse racial and other backgrounds enjoy equal chances to serve
the nation and are equitably represented in all structures and at all levels.

1. ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
AIDS:
DCP:
EAP:
EEP:
HDIs:
HIV:
ILO:
LRO:
SADC:
WSP:

Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome.
Disciplinary Code and Procedures for the Public Service.
Employee Assistance Programme.
Employment Equity Plan.
Historically Disadvantaged Individuals.
Human Immunodeficiency Virus.
International Labour Organization.
Labour Relations Office.
Southern African Development Community.
Workplace Skills Plan.

Affirmative Action:

Systematic employment measures that seek to redress systemic
inequalities experienced by black people, women and persons with
disabilities in employment opportunities and include preferential
treatment of suitably qualified black people, women and persons
with disabilities, in regard to recruitment, skills development,
advancement, selection and retention.

Black People:

Refers to African, Coloured and Indian men and women.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 7 of 183

Department:

Department of Public Safety, North West.

Disability:

A physical or mental impairment which is long-term or recurring;
and which substantially limits a person‘s prospect of advancement
in employment.

Employment Equity:

The achievement of equal opportunities in the workplace through
the elimination of unfair discrimination and the implementation of
remedial measures aimed at eradicating existing inequalities and
advancing black people, women and persons with disabilities,
collectively referred to, in the Employment Equity Act, as
Designated Groups.

Employment Equity Plan:

A plan drawn in compliance with the Employment Equity Act as a
framework for proactive elimination of unfair discrimination and
implementation of affirmative measures to advance black people,
women and persons with disabilities in response to barriers
identified through an Employment Equity Audit and to ensure their
equitable representation.

Historically Disadvantaged
Individuals:
In this context this Historically Disadvantaged Individuals refers to
black people, women and persons with disabilities in recognition of
their historical subjection to systematic institutionalized unfair
discrimination.
Reasonable
Accommodation:

Unfair Discrimination:

One or more measures involving adjustments in employment
terms, conditions and the environment, including work design and
facilities, effected with a view to accommodating the needs of
people with disabilities, pregnant employees, employees with
family responsibilities and other employees needing such, without
undue hardship to the employer.
Occurs when an employee is unfairly accorded less favourable
treatment with regard to employment opportunities or benefits on
the basis of one or more grounds that are prohibited by law. Unfair
discrimination may be direct (specific to a ground) or indirect
(discriminatory impact by disproportionately disadvantaging
persons identified by a prohibited ground).

2. PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
2.1 The purpose of this policy is to guide managers and employees in the Department in the
implementation of measures aimed at giving effect to the right to equality as entrenched in the
Constitution and legislation by:
(a) Eliminating all forms of unfair discrimination in employment practices; and
(b) Implementing affirmative measures that seek to proactively equalize employment
opportunities for black people, women and persons with disabilities as a means of
eliminating their systematic unfair discrimination and inequality due to historical injustices.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 8 of 183

2.2 The policy objectives include:
(a) Prohibiting and eliminating all forms of unfair discrimination in employment within the
Department;
(b) Prohibiting , preventing and eliminating sexual harassment;
(c) Recommitting the Department to the implementation of affirmative action and elaborating
the Department‘s holistic approach to affirmative action;
(d) Ensure accountability for the elimination of discrimination and implementation of
affirmative action;
(e) Providing for internal redress for violations of rights relating to non-discrimination,
harassment and other equality elements; and
(f) Providing a framework for:
i.

Identifying and eliminating persisting forms of discrimination and inequality in the
Department as a work place;
ii. Reviewing current affirmative action measures with a view to implementing a
comprehensive affirmative action programme that goes beyond numbers and
accelerates the realisation of employment equity goals in the Department;
iii. Aligning skills development measures with employment equity objectives;
iv. Enhancing departmental compliance with national and international obligations on the
promotion of workplace equality and decent work; and
v. Ensuring that all managers and personnel involved in human resources practices that
have an impact on workplace equality are held accountable for their action.
3. PRINCIPLES
The principles that underpin this policy and which should inform its implementation, include the
following:
3.1. The right to equality, which incorporates employment equity or equality in the workplace, is a
fundamental human right that is guaranteed in international law, the Constitution, national
legislation and the provincial policy framework;
3.2 The social consequences of previously legalised historical injustices underpin entrenched
systemic structural inequalities that continue to disadvantage black people, women and people
with disabilities in employment, skills acquisition and other areas of life;
3.3 Giving meaning to the right to equality requires the elimination of unfair discrimination and
remedial measures (affirmative action) that seek to advance those that continue to be
systematically disadvantaged, as a means of equalising opportunities;
3.4 Affirmative action or remedial measures as envisaged in international instruments, the
Constitution and equality laws such as the Employment Equity Act, include but transcend the
preferential treatment of suitably qualified black people, women and persons with disabilities,
in employment practices such as recruitment, development and promotion;
3.5 If properly implemented, employment equity, which refers to a combination of nondiscrimination and affirmative action, should affirm, enhance effective and responsive service
delivery;
3.6 Proper implementation of employment equity necessitates, among others, understanding skills
development as a critical part of affirmative action and that a symbiotic link should be
maintained between skills development planning and employment equity measures;

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 9 of 183

3.7 The experiences of women, people with disabilities and people affected by HIV/AIDS need to
be factored into employment equity planning, implementation and enforcement; and
3.8 No act of unfair discrimination, sexual harassment or any violation of this policy or applicable
equality laws should be treated with impunity.
4. LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK
4.1 International laws/standards that influence and regulate equality and human dignity in the
workplace include the following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination(CERD);
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women(CEDAW);
UN Convention for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD);
ILO Code of Practice on HIV/AIDS and the World of Work (2001); and
ILO Convention 111(Discrimination), Convention 156 (Workers with Family; and
Responsibilities), and Convention 183 (Maternity Protection).

4.2 South African laws and policy frameworks that underpin employment equity include the
following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)
(m)
(n)
(o)

The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa;
Employment Equity Act, 1998;
Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000;
Public Service Act, 1994;
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1997;
Public Service Regulations, 2001;
PSCBC Resolutions I and 2;
White Paper on Transforming the Public Service;
White Paper on Affirmative Action in the Public Service;
Code of Good Practice on Integrating Employment Equity into Human Resources Practices
and Policies, 2005;
Code of Good Practice: Key Aspects on the Employment of People with Disabilities, 2002;
Code of Good Practice on Key Aspects of HIV/AIDS and Employment;
Amended Code of Good Practice on the Handling of Sexual Harassment Cases in the
Workplace, 2005;
North West Government Employment Equity Policy( Policy No NWPG10) ; and
North West Government Integrated Provincial Gender Strategy.

5. SCOPE OF APPLICATION
5.1 This policy is applicable to all employees and prospective employees of the Department,
subject to the proviso that employees that are excluded from the Labour Relations Act and the
Employment Equity Act may, after exhausting internal remedies, take their cases to the
Equality Court.
5.2 Rights relating to affirmative action only apply to black people, women and people with
disabilities whereas rights relating to unfair discrimination apply to all employees.
6. POLICY STATEMENT
6.1 The Department commits itself to the realization of employment equity goals as envisaged in
the Employment Equity Act and the achievement of substantive compliance with all equality
laws and policies relating to work place equality;
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 10 of 183

6.2 All employees of the Department have a right to equality, which includes freedom from unfair
discrimination and sexual harassment, and incorporates the responsibility of the Department to
implement affirmative action measures aimed at advancing Historically Disadvantaged
Individuals (HDIs) in order to equalise all employment opportunities;
6.3 All managers and human resources personnel have a duty, proportionate to their power, to
eliminate unfair discrimination and to implement affirmative measures to eliminate unfair
discrimination, advance HDIs and achieve a workplace that reflects the human diversity in the
North West Province and broader society;
6.4 The duty referred to in paragraph 6.3 above includes preferential measures in employment
practices such as recruitment and selection, acting appointments, training and development,
promotion and retention strategies targeting suitably qualified black people, women and people
with disabilities;
6.5 All employment decisions in the Department, including decisions relating to recruitment and
selection, job assignments, development, promotion and retention shall, forth with, be
subjected to an employment equity compliance test, based on the provisions of this policy and
relevant laws;
6.6 Memoranda dealing with appointments shall always indicate the employment equity
implications of an appointment and if employment equity will be undermined by such an
appointment, justify such an appointment and outline future remedial measures;
6.7 All structures responsible for making employment related decisions such as recruitment,
development and promotion shall have equitable representation of groups designated by the
Employment Equity Act as beneficiaries of affirmative measures (Designated Groups);
6.8 Departmental Employment Equity Plans and Reports, as envisaged in the Employment Equity
Act, shall always be up to date and displayed as prescribed;
6.9 Consultation and cooperation with employee representatives is a fundamental pillar of this
policy. The Workplace Forum will be the main avenue for such consultation and cooperation;
and
6.10 The Workplace Forum membership and participation in decision-making should reflect
equitable representation of all Designated Groups.
7. PREVENTION AND ELIMINATION OF UNFAIR DISCRIMINATION
7.1 Duty to Eliminate Unfair Discrimination
Every manager must take steps to promote equal opportunity in the workplace by eliminating
unfair discrimination in any employment policy or practice within their sphere of authority.
7.2 Prohibition of Unfair Discrimination
(a) All forms of unfair discrimination, whether direct or indirect, are prohibited and it is the
responsibility of all employees to inform themselves about and refrain from perpetrating
unfair discrimination.
(b) Prohibited grounds of unfair discrimination, include one or more of the following:
i.
ii.
iii.

Race;
Gender;
Sex;
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 11 of 183

iv.
v.
vi.
vii.
viii.
ix.
x.
xi.
xii.
xiii.
xiv.
xv.
xvi.
xvii.
xviii.
xix.

Pregnancy;
Marital status;
Family responsibility;
Ethnic or social origin;
Colour;
Sexual orientation;
Age;
Disability;
Religion;
HIV status;
Conscience;
Belief;
Political opinion;
Culture;
Language, and
Birth.

(c) In line with the Department‘s conviction that no individual should be denied any
employment opportunity for reasons other than ability, unfair discrimination on the basis of
other human qualities that may not be in the above list (extracted from the Employment
Equity Act) is also prohibited.
7.3 Preferential Treatment
Preferential treatment of HDIs in employment, within the boundaries of the Employment Equity
Act and the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, shall not
constitute unfair discrimination.
7.4 Inherent Requirement of a Job
Employment practices that distinguish, exclude, or prefer any person on the basis of an
inherent requirement of a job are permissible provided there is a demonstrable relationship
between the requirement in question and job performance and also that affirmative action
objectives are not undermined.
7.5 Prohibition of Unauthorized Medical Testing
Medical testing is prohibited unless authorized by and conducted in accordance with the
provisions of section 7 of the Employment Equity Act and the provisions of the Departmental
policy on HIV/AIDS.
7.6 Prohibition of Sexual and Other Forms of Harassment
(a) All employees of the Department are required to:
i.
ii.
iii.

Refrain from sexual harassment of fellow employees and members of
the public;
Report acts of sexual harassment; and
Familiarise themselves with the sexual harassment policy of the Department.

(b) All employees of the Department are required to:
i.
ii.

Refrain from racial harassment, disability harassment, harassment based on
HIV status and any other form of harassment;
Report acts of harassment; and
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 12 of 183

iii.

Undergo sensitisation training on non-discrimination, racism, disability, HIV/AIDS
and gender equality.

8. AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLANNING & IMPLEMENTATION
8.1 Responsibilities
(a) The MEC and the HOD have overall responsibility for achieving employment equity in the
Department and for ensuring employment equity compliance throughout;
(b) The HOD must appoint an Employment Equity Officer at SMS level, and with adequate
authority and reporting to the HOD, to facilitate employment equity implementation;
(c) It is the responsibility of each SMS level manager to conduct a workplace analysis or audit
and to prepare and implement an Employment Equity Plan (EEP) for his or her component;
(d) Each component‘s Employment Equity Plan (EEP) shall be disseminated to all employees in
that component and the Department‘s Employment Equity Plan (EEP) shall be displayed as
prescribed in the Employment Equity Act;
(e) The Human Resources Manager and the Employment Equity Officer in consultation with the
line managers shall compile a Workplace Profile and a departmental EEP in response to all
barriers identified in a departmental Employment Equity Audit;
(f) The Department‘s EEP, including targets, shall be revised annually in response to
employment shifts and to address barriers identified through a regular analysis of all
employment practices;
(g) The HOD shall sign the EEP and ensure that each manager is held accountable for
employment equity delivery, through the individual and Departmental performance
management processes; and
(h) Employment Equity Reports shall be prepared quarterly and annually by each SMS
manager, feeding to quarterly and annual reports to be prepared by the Employment
Equity Officer.
8.2 Policy and Practice Analysis
(a) Managers should develop holistic and realistic EEPs that respond to each barrier or form of
unfair discrimination identified in a comprehensive audit and analysis of all employment
practices to identify existing and potential barriers to the achievement of equality in
employment opportunities and benefits, particularly for HDIs; and
(b) The outcomes of the audit should be communicated to all employees.
8.3 Developing or Updating a Workforce Profile and Numerical Targets
(a) A Workforce Profile, indicating the extent of representation for each Designated Group,
shall be regularly developed and/or updated for the Department and each unit, in the
prescribed format;
(b) The Workforce Profile for each unit and the Department shall be displayed for all to see;
and
(c) Numerical Targets for each unit and the Department shall be displayed for all to see, and
should be integrated in organisational performance review mechanisms.
8.4 Consultation
(a) The Department‘s EEP and those of constituent units must be products of an inclusive
consultative process that involves employee representatives under the auspices of the
Workplace Forums.
(b) In addition to the consultation of Trade Unions, measures will be put in place to ensure
that the views of non-unionised employees are also taken into consideration.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 13 of 183

(c) Final decisions regarding employment equity planning remain a management prerogative
and responsibility.
9. APPLICATION OF EMPLOYMENT EQUITY IN ALL HUMAN RESOURCES EMPLOYMENT
PRACTICES AND PROCESSES
9.1 General Statement
(a) All employment practices and human resources processes should promote an affirming
non-discriminatory environment that fosters respect for the dignity of all while ensuring
that each employee‘s potential is fully realised in the interests of service excellence.
(b) All employment practices and human resources processes shall be regularly aligned with
employment equity requirements and objectives.
(c) The alignment will be facilitated by periodic audits and reviews aimed at identifying and
eliminating barriers that undermine equal enjoyment of workplace opportunities by women,
black people, people with disabilities, people living with HIV and any other group.
(d) Human resources research and data management shall be adapted to support regular
monitoring of all aspects of employment equity.
9.2 Human Resources Planning
(a) All human resources planning processes and plans shall be aligned to and contribute to the
achievement of employment equity goals and objectives.
(b) Human resources planning shall include succession planning and a retention strategy to
ensure that there is always a pool of suitably qualified HDIs from which senior and scarce
skills appointments that promote equality may be made.
(c) Succession planning does not mean reserving or promising a job to any person.
9.3 Recruitment, Advertising and Selection
(a) Recruitment
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.

The determination of employment requirements for any job should be reviewed to
identify and eliminate unintended unfair discrimination.
Requirements that unfairly and unnecessarily perpetuate historical imbalances by
disproportionately excluding HDIs, should be avoided.
There should always be a demonstrable relationship between job requirements,
including qualifications and years of experience, and outputs expected from the job.
Affirmative action requirements regarding a post shall be established before advertising
and taken into account in advertising strategies.

(b) Advertising
i.

The core functions or essential requirements of each job should be identified and, to
the extent possible, included in the advert to facilitate fair selection.
ii. Posts shall be advertised as widely as possible with special measures implemented to
attract as many suitably qualified persons from the Designated Groups, particularly the
least represented in that category of posts, as possible.
iii. It is the joint responsibility of the Director: Human Resources and each SMS manager
on whose structure an advertised post sits, to ensure that as many suitably qualified
persons from Designated Groups apply.
iv. Every job advert shall indicate the Department‘s position on affirmative action and non
discrimination and to the extent possible, indicate whether preferential treatment will
be given to candidates from one or more of the Designated Groups that are suitably
qualified as envisaged in the Public Service Act.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 14 of 183

(c) Selection
i.
ii.

iii.
iv.
v.

All Selection Committees or Panels shall comprise at least 40% of either gender and to
the extent possible, be inclusive with regard to race and disability.
Where necessary, appropriately qualified and/or ranked HDIs from other government
departments or civil society will be co-opted to ensure that Selection Committees or
Panels are representative.
Panellists shall be provided with the Departmental and relevant unit‘s employment
equity profile and plan prior to the short listing and interview processes.
Standard guidelines for integrating affirmative action considerations in selection
processes shall be prepared and integrated in the training of all managers; and
Where representiveness is an issue, the interview and selection should focus on
identifying suitably qualified persons and not necessarily the best qualified person.

9.4 Appointment and Appointment Processes
(a) Where a person other than a candidate who will promote equitable representation of HDIs
is recommended for appointment, written reasons should be included and an indication of
what was done to recruit suitably qualified HDIs and an undertaking to correct the
situation, should be included.
(b) The appointing officer may choose not to fill the post if the equitable representation of one
or more of the Designated Groups will be severely undermined.
(c) It is the responsibility of the HOD to ensure that all appointments promote equitable
representation of all Designated Groups, particularly in compliance with public service
affirmative action targets.
(d) Appointment on the basis of potential shall be accompanied by a skills development plan
which shall be implemented immediately after appointment.
(e) An induction is an important practice for HDIs entering through lateral entry or appointed
on the basis of potential and should accordingly always be implemented.
(f) A probation period of an HDI appointed on the basis of potential shall be linked to a skills
development plan that is informed by the selection process.
9.5 Job Classification and Grading
All forms of unfair discrimination, whether direct or indirect, shall be identified and removed
from all job classifications and grading.
9.6 Remuneration, Employment Benefits and Terms/Conditions of Employment
All forms of unfair discrimination, whether direct or indirect, shall be identified and removed
from all remuneration, employment benefits and conditions of employment.
9.7 Job Assignments
(a) All forms of unfair discrimination, whether direct or indirect, shall be identified and
removed from job assignment practices.
(b) Acting appointments will be executed in a manner that promotes the advancement of HDIs
and their equitable representation at all levels of authority.
9.8 The Working Environment and Facilities
(a) The Department shall do everything possible to create an affirming work environment for
all employees that is free from harassment and unfair discrimination.
(b) All managers are required to identify unfair discrimination in the work environment within
their authority and progressively eliminate such within the context of an EEP.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 15 of 183

(c) Creating an affirming and non-discriminatory environment incorporates implementing
measures that seek to provide reasonable accommodation to address gender, disability,
HIV and other differences.
(d) The Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) should get involved as early as possible in
performance deficiencies that seem to emanate from HIV/AIDS, disability or family
problems.
9.9 Training and Development
(a) Unfair discrimination, whether direct or indirect, in training and development is prohibited.
(b) All training and development policies and practices, particularly skills development
measures as envisaged in the Skills Development Act, shall be regularly audited to identify
and eliminate unfair discrimination.
(c) Training and development measures constitute an important part of affirmative action and
shall accordingly be aligned to employment equity, particularly affirmative action objectives
as outlined in the Training and Development Policy.
(d) Accelerated development and preferential treatment of persons from Designated Groups
forms part of employment equity and is to be reflected in the Employment Equity Plan,
including targets and in the Workplace Skills Plan (WSP).
9.10

Performance Management

(a) A clear job description is an important measure for ensuring openness and eliminating real
or perceived unfair discrimination in performance management and should accordingly
always be implemented immediately upon appointment.
(b) Proportional responsibility for the achievement of employment equity objectives and targets
will be reflected in the job descriptions and performance contracts of the HOD, Human
Resources Director, Employment Equity Officer and all SMS Managers
9.11

Promotion

(a) Promotion is an integral part of employment equity and ensuring employment equity in
promotions is as much a requirement as ensuring equitable representation of designated
groups at all levels.
(b) Developmental and other measures shall be implemented to ensure that suitably qualified
members of designated groups are not trapped in ‗dead end‘ jobs or the ‗proverbial glass
ceiling‘.
9.12

Transfer

(a) Voluntary, including cross transfers that facilitate the objectives of employment equity,
shall be encouraged.
(b) Where a person from a Designated Group is transferred, the replacement must be from the
same or lesser represented Designated Group.
9.13

Demotion
Demotion of HDIs shall be sanctioned by the HOD after satisfying himself or herself that
there was no unfair discrimination in the circumstances that led to such demotion.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 16 of 183

9.14

Reasonable Accommodation for People with Disabilities, Workers with Family
Responsibilities and Others

(a) Reasonable accommodation, which includes adaptation of working spaces
and facilities, shall be provided to people with disabilities as specified in the Code of Good
Practice on Disability and in response to sufficient disclosure; and
(b) Reasonable accommodation to respond to gender needs as guided by the ILO
Conventions, Provincial Gender Policy and best practices in the public service, shall be an
integral part of employment conditions in the Department.
9.15

Discipline, Grievance and Dispute Resolution
All disciplinary and grievance procedures shall be reviewed regularly to identify and
eliminate unfair discrimination, whether direct or indirect, and to ensure that processes
facilitate swift, effective and responsive resolution of employment equity disputes.

9.16

Termination of Employment

(a) Employment termination trends shall be reviewed regularly to ensure that
HDIs are not disproportionately terminated and to identify and address possible unfair
discrimination and improve retention, particularly of Designated Groups.
(b) Every termination of a person from a Designated Group shall be replaced by that
designated Group or a less represented Designated Group.
(c) Every designated Group resignation must involve a voluntary exit interview that should
include an ascertainment of main reasons for the termination of each member of that
group. Mechanisms for execution are to be outlined in a separate policy.
10. STRUCTURES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS
10.1

General Principles

(a) The consultation principles that are stipulated in the Employment Equity Act shall be
complied with at all times.
(b) Gender, disability, HIV/AIDS and other equality or human rights issues relating to equality
in the workplace are to be mainstreamed in the implementation of this policy even though
such issues may be elaborated in separate instruments and coordinated by different
structures.
(c) Persons or structures responsible for the coordination of gender and other programmes
referred to in 10.1(b) above, should be represented in employment equity structures and
decision-making processes.
(d) It is the responsibility of all managers to ensure that all aspects of employment equity are
implemented and complied with within, the context of their responsibility.
(e) All managers and employees shall be educated on employment equity and on valuing and
managing diversity.
10.2

HOD
The HOD bears ultimate responsibility for employment equity compliance, including the
achievement of a representative workforce.

10.3

Employment Equity Officer and Employment Equity Committee

(a) The HOD shall designate or appoint an SMS manager who participates in all employment
decision-making structures as an Employment Equity Officer, as prescribed in the
Employment Equity Act (EEA).
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 17 of 183

(b) The Employment Equity Officer shall advise on and monitor the implementation of
employment equity and shall be granted sufficient authority to discharge his/her
responsibility effectively.
(c) A broadly representative Employment Equity Committee, which is a subcommittee of the
Workplace Forum and chaired by the Employment Equity Officer, shall be established to
advise on and monitor the implementation of employment equity.
11. DISPUTE RESOLUTION
11.1

General Statement

(a) Employment equity cases relating to sexual harassment and HIV/AIDS will be dealt with in
accordance with procedures stipulated in the Sexual Harassment and the HIV/AIDS
policies.
(b) All employment equity disputes will be dealt with expeditiously and with due regard to
fairness (procedural and substantive) and human dignity.
11.2

Disciplinary Action

(a) The Department reserves the right to take disciplinary action, in accordance with the
Labour Relations Act 1998 (as amended) and Resolution 2 of 1999 as amended by
Resolution 1 of 2003, against any person who violates any provision of this policy
(b) The procedure to be followed in dealing with employment equity violations will be as
stipulated in Resolution 1 of 2003 (Disciplinary Code and Procedures for the Public
Service(DCP)).
(c) Sanctions may range from requiring an apology, being ordered to undergo appropriate
training, losing merit points, warnings to sanctions such as suspension, demotion and
dismissal for gross violations.
11.3

Grievance Procedure

(a) Informal Grievance Procedure
i.

An employee who feels discriminated unfairly or has some other employment equity
grievance may approach his or her manager/supervisor for a resolution.
ii. If not satisfied with the outcome, the employee may approach a higher authority or the
HOD.
iii Disputes arising from the interpretation and implementation of this policy shall
generally be dealt with by a mediator appointed by the HOD with the consent of the
parties. If the mediation fails, then the HOD shall further attempt to mediate in his/her
capacity.
iv Should all attempts at mediation fail, an employee may seek recourse in external
avenues, having followed the procedure outlined in (b) below.
(b) Formal Grievance Procedure
i.

If the manager/supervisor‘s response is unsatisfactory, the grievance may be escalated
to the Labour Relations Office (Rule F.1) to facilitate the resolution of grievances in
the department on the prescribed form. (Rule F.2) within 90 days (Rule D.3) from
which the employee became aware of the official act or omission which adversely
affects him or her.
ii. The Labour Relations Office(LRO) must acknowledge receipt on the prescribed form.
iii. The LRO must liaise with the relevant structures of authority in the Department to
attempt to resolve the grievance (Rule F.3).
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 18 of 183

iv. The LRO must inform the aggrieved employee about the status and the progress made
towards the resolution of the grievance (Rule F.5).
v. If the grievance is resolved to the satisfaction of the aggrieved employee, the
confirmation thereof will be reduced to writing by the LRO on the prescribed form.
vi. If the grievance cannot be resolved the HOD must inform the aggrieved employee
accordingly (Rule F.7).
vii. If the aggrieved employee is still dissatisfied after being supplied with the outcome he
or she must inform the executing authority within 10 days.
viii. the executing authority must in terms of section 35(1) of the Public Service Act of 1994
forward the grievance and any relevant documentation to the Public Service
Commission for a recommendation within 5 days of being informed by the aggrieved
employee (Rule F.9 (a) and (b) ).
ix. If however the grievance constitutes an alleged unfair labour practice as defined in the
Labour Relations Act, the employee may inform the executing authority in writing that
he or she wishes to utilise the dispute resolution mechanism provided for in the
constitution of the General Public Service Sectoral Bargaining Council and the Public
Service Commission should therefore not consider the grievance (RuleF.10).
x. On receipt of the Commission‘s recommendations the executing authority must within
5 days inform the employee and the Commission of his or her decision in writing (Rule
G.2).
xi Appropriate disputes may be taken to the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and
Arbitration (CCMA) or the Equality Court, after exhausting internal procedures.
12.

MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REVIEW

12.1 The Employment Equity Officer shall, with the assistance of the Workplace Forum and the
Employment Equity Committee, monitor, evaluate and advise on the implementation of the
Employment Equity Policy.
12.2 All performance agreements of managers shall contain applicable employment equity
obligations and failure to comply shall attract possible disciplinary action and/or a reduction
in the performance bonus.
12.3 The Employment Equity Officer, who is directly accountable to the HOD, shall cooperate with
all equality officers, including the Gender Focal Point, Disability Officer or Focal Point and the
HIV/AIDS Coordinator.
12.4 A monthly Employment Equity Report shall be prepared by each SMS manager for their unit
and integrated in their performance review.
12.5 A departmental Employment Equity Report that is signed by the HOD shall be prepared
quarterly and annually by the Employment Equity Officer with the help of the Human
Resources Director. Such report is to be summarised in the annual report and submitted to
the Department of Labour, as prescribed.
12.6 The policy shall be reviewed after every five years in the light of legal, policy and behavioral
changes, and appropriate adjustments and amendments shall be ratified and communicated
accordingly.
13.

RELATED POLICIES

13.1 Effective implementation of this policy requires that it be read together with departmental
policies on HIV/AIDS, Training and Development, Sexual Harassment, and other Human
Resources policies.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 19 of 183

13.2 Other policies to be given consideration include departmental policies on Gender, Disability
and Older Persons.
14.

COMMENCEMENT OF THE POLICY

This policy shall be implemented by the Department with effect from the date of approval and
signature by the HOD.

APPROVED

______________________
OB MONGALE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT

___________________
Date:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 20 of 183

Sexual Harassment Policy

“Preventing and Managing Sexual
Harassment in the Workplace”

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 21 of 183

NORTHWEST PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY
POLICY NO:
NAME OF POLICY:
EFFECTIVE ON:
DATE OF REVIEW:

HR2009/002
SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY
..……………………………………..
April 2012
CONTENTS

Content

Page

Preamble
1.
Abbreviations and Definitions …………………………………………………...............

24-25

2.

Purpose and Objectives ……………………………………………………….…………… ...

25

3.

Principles …………………………………………………………….................................

26

4.

Legislative framework ………………………………………………………………………....

26-27

5.

Scope of Application ……………………………………………………………………….......

27

6.

Policy Statement …………………………………………………………………………….......

27

7.

Prevention Activities ……………………………………………………………..................

27

8.

Confidentiality …………………………………………………………………...................

27

9.

Abuse of Policy …………………………………………………………………...................

27

10.

Individual Responsibility ………………………………………………………………….......

28

11.

Meaning and Forms of Sexual Harassment ………………………………….............

28-29

12.

Sexual Harassment Committee ……………………………………………............. ....

29-30

13.

Required Documentation ………………………………………………….......................

30

14.

Retaliation ………………………………………………………………………......................

30

15.

Withdrawal of Complaints ……………………………………………………..…………......

30-31

16.

Decision to Lay Criminal Charges or Institute Civil Proceedings……………….....

31

17.

Dispute Resolution ………………………………………………………………………..….....

31-35

18.

Monitoring, Evaluation and Review ……………………………………………………......

35

19.

Related Policies ……………………………………………………………………………….. .....

35

20.

Commencement of the Policy……………………………………………………………….....

36

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 22 of 183

21.

Annexure A: Sexual Harassment Complaint Form ………………………………........

37-42

22.

Annexure B: Sexual Harassment Complaint Withdrawal Form ……………..........

43-46

23.

Annexure C: Sexual Harassment Policy Disciplinary Procedure Guidelines.......

47-55

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 23 of 183

PREAMBLE
The Department of Public Safety (the Department) views sexual harassment as a violation of the
constitutional founding principles and rights to dignity and equality of the person subjected to it
and-

BELIEVES that the attainment of substantive equality in the Department can only be achieved if

the rights of both women and men are promoted and protected equally and that no one is
subjected to sexual harassment.

RECOGNISES that the harm caused by sexual harassment is often extreme, including humiliation,
loss of dignity, psychological (and sometimes physical) injury, and damage to professional
reputation and career and that sexual harassment impedes the promotion of the victims.

ACKNOWLEDGES that sexual harassment is rife within its ranks; and Sexual harassment
complaints have not always been given the appropriate weight they deserved.

COMMITS itself to implement measures to eradicate sexual harassment and ensure a safe
environment that protects and promotes the human dignity of all employees and clients through
the implementation of this policy which seeks to:








Eradicate sexual harassment of others in the Department through the implementation of
this policy;
Provide accessible enforcement mechanisms that take into account the sensitive nature of
sexual harassment;
Create an environment that is not intimidating, humiliating, hostile or offensive to anyone
regardless of the gender or sexual orientation and that will ensure that no one is subjected
to sexual harassment;
Provide a clear definition of sexual harassment and credible grievance procedures for
victims that seek to treat each case on its merit;
Ensure that victims of sexual harassment who report it are not further victimised by the
alleged perpetrator or the committee that will be handling the grievance procedure;
Provide for victims‘ recourse and support; and
Facilitate training of all the Department‘s employees on Sexual Harassment.

1. ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
BPA:
CCMA:
CEDAW:
CERD:
EEA:
ILO:
LRA:
NEDLAC:
SADC:
Complainant:

Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action.
Commission of Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration.
Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination
Against Women.
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination.
Employment Equity Act.
International Labour Organisation.
Labour Relations Act.
National Economic, Development and Labour Council.
Southern African Development Community.
Refers to the person alleging that conduct constituting sexual
harassment as defined in this policy has occurred. The person may
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 24 of 183

or may not be the victim and may not necessarily be an employee
of the Department.
Department:

Department of Public Safety, North West.

Employee:

An employee includes all employees of the Department employed
in terms of the Public Service Act of 1994, the Basic Conditions of
Employment Act of 1998, as amended and includes contract
workers, interns, volunteers and prospective employees.

Mediation:

Mediation is an informal and confidential process where parties can
participate in a search for a fair and workable solution.

Perpetrator:

refers to the person who is alleged to have perpetrated sexual
conduct.

Respondent:

refers to the person against whom the sexual harassment
complaint has been logged and who is responding to the
allegation.

Victim:

refers to the person against whom an act or acts of sexual
harassment as defined in the policy have allegedly been
perpetrated.

2. PURPOSE, OBJECTIVES AND INTERPRETATION
2.1 The purpose of this Sexual Harassment Policy is to:
(a)
(b)
(c)

(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)

Eliminate all forms of sexual harassment in the Department;
Provide appropriate procedures to deal with sexual harassment and to prevent its
occurrence or recurrence;
Introduce principles and procedures that will lead to the creation of a workplace that is
free of sexual harassment, where the employer and the employees, supervisors and
subordinates respect each other's integrity, dignity, privacy and right to equity in the
workplace;
Enable the Department to take prompt and effective action to deal with complaints of
sexual harassment;
Ensure that all people involved in complaints, including the complainant, the alleged
perpetrator and witnesses, are treated fairly, with respect to their dignity and privacy,
Prescribe timelines for all actions taken to ensure a swift resolution process, and
Determine the appropriate recourse for the victim if the alleged perpetrator is
subsequently found guilty.

2.2 Interpretation
This policy must be interpreted:
(a) in accordance with the constitution;
(b) so as to give primary effect to its purpose and objects;
(c) taking into account any relevant Code of Good Practice issued in terms of the EEA or any
other employment law; and

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 25 of 183

(d) in compliance with international law obligations of the Republic, in particular those
contained in the ILO Convention No 111 concerning Discrimination in respect of
Employment and Occupation.
3. PRINCIPLES
The Department will create and maintain a working environment in which the dignity of
employees is respected. The Department will create and maintain a workplace climate in which
victims of sexual harassment will not feel that their grievances are ignored or trivialised, or fear
reprisals. In order to achieve these ends, the following guidelines will be implemented:
3.1 Managers or supervisors and employees are required to refrain from committing acts of sexual
harassment, whether verbal or written, non-verbal, physical, visual or whatever form.
3.2 The Department will ensure that all understand that they have a role to play in contributing
towards creating and maintaining a work environment in which sexual harassment is
unacceptable and that their standards of conduct should not cause offence and should
discourage unacceptable behaviour on the part of others.
3.3 The Department will ensure that persons such as customers, suppliers, job applicants and
others, who have dealings with the Department, are not subjected to sexual harassment by the
managers or supervisors and employees of the Department.
3.4 Managers or supervisors are required to take appropriate action in accordance with this policy,
when instances of sexual harassment which occur within the workplace or in the course of
employment are brought to their attention.
3.5 Equality and justice, including administrative justice, will be upheld at all times.
3.6 The rights of victims and accused persons will be balanced as provided for in the Victim‘s
Charter.
4. LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK
4.1 International Human Rights Instruments
The key human rights instruments which have implications for sexual harassment include the
following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)

Vienna Declaration on Human Rights,
Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW);
Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination (CERD);
The International Labour Organisation Conventions and their Recommendations;
Beijing Platform for Action (BPA);
The Protocol to the African Charter on Human and People‘s Rights on the Rights of
Women in Africa;
The Solemn Declaration on Gender Equality in Africa (2000); and
Gender and Development (1997): A Declaration by Heads of States or Government of the
Southern African Development Community (SADC); and its Addendum: The SADC
Prevention and Elimination of Violence Against Women and Children.

4.2 South African Law and Policy

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 26 of 183

The South African legal and policy frameworks that regulate the handling of sexual harassment
include the following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)

The Constitution of South Africa;
Employment Equity Act, 1998;
Labour Relations Act, 1995;
Protected Disclosures Act;
Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000;
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, 2000;
Public Service Act, 1994 (as amended)
Public Service Code of Conduct;
Amended Code of Good Practice on the Handling Sexual Harassment Cases in the
workplace, 2005;
National Gender Policy Framework;
North West Provincial Sexual Harassment Policy; and
North West Integrated Provincial Gender Strategy.

5. SCOPE OF APPLICATION
5.1 This policy applies to all employees of the Department.
5.2 The victims that may lodge a complaint on the basis of this policy transcend employees
include contractors and members of the public.

and

6. POLICY STATEMENT
The Department bears the responsibility to prevent sexual harassment and commits itself to
maintain an atmosphere of mutual respect, and to provide a safe and secure working
environment that is conducive to promoting productivity. Accordingly, the kind of conduct
characterised as sexual harassment will not be tolerated.
7. PREVENTION ACTIVITIES
The Department will use all possible avenues, including group training and individual training,
development programmes, newsletters, meetings, individual counselling sessions and other
internal and external communications to educate management and all other persons covered
under this policy about the scope and meaning of sexual harassment, the means of preventing
inappropriate behaviour, and appropriate action to be taken when sexual harassment occurs.
8. CONFIDENTIALITY
The Department realises the importance and sensitivity of confidentiality in handling complaints
and hearings of sexual harassment. The Department will respect the privacy and confidentiality
of any person reporting or accused of sexual harassment to the fullest extent possible.
Sexual harassment complaints must be kept strictly confidential to protect the parties
concerned, to minimize the risk of victimisation and to ensure a fair process in any subsequent
actions that may arise as a result of such a complaint. All written sexual harassment complaint
forms (Annexure A), statements by witnesses, reports and findings will be handled with
extreme confidentiality and no person shall have access to these documents during the course
of an investigation, except members of the Sexual Harassment Committee, the Labour
Relations Office and participants in the resolution process. Such documents will be classified as
"confidential" and will be handled as such according to existing Department‘s procedures.
Any person who fails to comply with the contents of this paragraph will be subjected to
disciplinary action.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 27 of 183

9. ABUSE OF POLICY
Lack of corroborating evidence should not discourage complainants from seeking relief through
this policy. Complaints found to have been dishonest, vexatious or made in wilful disregard of
the truth, however, will subject the complainant to disciplinary action.
10. INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY
It is the responsibility of every person covered under this policy to conduct himself or herself in
a manner that contributes to an environment free of sexual harassment.
Although the Department acknowledges the different cultures, religions and frames of
reference of persons covered under this policy, it will not tolerate the justification of sexual
harassment on these grounds.
11. MEANING AND FORMS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
11.1 For purposes of this policy(a) Sexual harassment is the unwanted conduct of a sexual nature;
(b) Sexual attention constitutes sexual harassment ifi. the unwanted behaviour is persistent or serious and demeans, humiliates or creates
a hostile or intimidating environment or is calculated to induce submission by actual
or threatened adverse consequences;
ii. the perpetrator knew or should have known that the behaviour is regarded as
unacceptable;
(c) Sexual harassment may include unwelcome physical, verbal or written, non-verbal,
physical or visual conduct;
(d) Sexual harassment is not limited to situations where an unequal power relationship exists
between the parties involved; and
(e) Sexual harassment can be committed by and against a male person or female person.
11.2 Physical conduct of a sexual nature includes, but is not limited to all unwanted physical
contact, ranging from touching to sexual assault and rape, and includes a strip search by or
in the presence of the opposite sex.
11.3 Verbal forms of sexual harassment include, but are not limited to, unwelcome innuendoes,
suggestions and hints, sexual advances, comments with sexual overtones, sex-related jokes
or insults or unwelcome graphic comments about a person's body made in their presence or
to them, unwelcome and inappropriate enquiries about a person's sex life, and unwelcome
whistling at a person or group of persons.
11.4 Non-verbal forms of sexual harassment includes but are not limited to unwelcome gestures,
indecent exposure, and the unwelcome display of sexually explicit pictures and objects.
11.5 Quid pro quo harassment occurs where an employer, supervisor, member of management or
co-employee undertakes or attempts to influence or influences the process of employment,
promotion, training, discipline, dismissal, salary increments or other benefits of an employee
or job applicant in exchange for sexual favours.
11.6 Sexual favouritism, which also constitutes sexual harassment for purposes of this policy,
exists where a person who is in a position of authority rewards only those who respond to his
or her sexual advances, while other deserving employees who do not submit to sexual
advances are denied promotions, merit rating or salary increases.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 28 of 183

11.7 Protection against acts of sexual harassment extends to incidents occurring in or away from
the workplace, during or outside of the usual working hours; provided that these are acts
committed within the course of employment, or may have an adverse effect on the
workplace.

11.8 The mutual attraction between two persons does not constitute sexual harassment, as this is
a private matter between them. However, all employees of the Department are encouraged
to act with a very high level of integrity when it comes to relationships of this nature. Such a
relationship can lead to sexual harassment allegations if it later becomes unwelcome by
either party.
12. SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMMITTEE
12.1 Establishment and Composition
(a) The Department is to establish a Sexual Harassment Committee, comprising:
i.

one member from the Labour Relations Office (LRO) designated by the Head of the
Unit;
ii. one member from the Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) Unit designated by the
Head of the Unit;
iii one member from the Legal Services Unit designated by the Head of the Unit; and
iv. one ad hoc member designated by the Office of the Head of the Department every
twelve (12) months (it can also be a representative from the union or NGO);
(b) The members mentioned in paragraph 12.1(a) supra must be representative in terms of
the demographic composition of the Republic of South Africa and must include a female
composition of no less than 50%.
(c) The Sexual Harassment Committee does not in any way replace the Labour Relations
Office and does not take the functions of the Labour Relations Office.
12.2 Duties and Functions of Committee
(a)

The Committee must:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.
vii.
viii.
ix.
x.

properly disseminate this policy throughout the Department;
offer group training to all branches regarding sexual harassment and
all matters connected thereto;
attend to any enquiries of sexual harassment;
provide sexual harassment complaint forms to any complainant
covered under this policy;
receive the sexual harassment complaints and forms;
refer all complaints to the LRO; (advise all parties
involved on the services rendered by the Employee Assistance
Programme Unit);
mediate between the two parties if called to mediate by the Labour Relations
Office;
initiate and arrange special events within the Department; to highlight
issues around sexual harassment;
compile a comprehensive report on its activities on a quarterly and
on an annual basis to the Head of the Department;
monitor trends of sexual harassment within the Department; and
advise senior management on preventative measure; and
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 29 of 183

xi. The Labour Relations Officer and the Presiding Officer of a disciplinary hearing can
not dismiss a person found guilty, they only recommend to the Head of the
Department who will exercise his discretion.
(b)

All members of the Committee shall be trained on and be conversant with the Sexual
Harassment Policy and Complaints Procedure.

12.3 Duties and Functions of the Labour Relations Office
(a) The LRO must:
i. receive the sexual harassment complaints and forms from the complainant,
supervisors or Sexual Harassment Committee;
ii. receive and record resolutions from informal dispute resolution/mediation for
enforcement purposes if a necessary;
iii. inform the alleged harasser in writing of the formal charge(s) against him or her;
iv. designate officials to investigate the allegations and to preside over the disciplinary
action; and
v. submit findings of the investigation to the Head of the Department and advice on the
best approach.
13.

REQUIRED DOCUMENTATION

13.1 Whether or not there is ultimately a finding of sexual harassment, the Sexual Harassment
Committee must make a record of the incident, including:
(a) the names of the parties involved;
(b) any documents submitted or signed by the complainant, witnesses or person accused of
sexual harassment concerning the nature of the alleged incident(s); and
(c) any documents submitted or signed by the alleged harasser concerning his or her
response to the allegations, and the resolution of the complaint.
13.2

All criminal convictions arising from an incident of sexual harassment as set out in this policy
must also be captured on a database.

14. RETALIATION
14.1

All reasonable action should be taken to ensure that no party, those testifying on behalf of
another party or supporting any party, suffers retaliation or victimisation as a result of their
involvement in the process.

14.2

Any attempt by any person covered under this policy to penalise, retaliate or victimise in
any way against a person lodging a complaint of sexual harassment or against those
testifying on behalf of the complainant, is prohibited and should be treated as a separate
subject to the investigation.

14.3

Any person involved in these procedures who considers that he or she has been victimised
or penalised in connection with a complaint may complain to the Sexual Harassment
Committee.

15. WITHDRAWAL OF A COMPLAINT
15.1

The complainant has a right to withdraw the complaint or terminate the intervention
undertaken by the Department; however, if the complainant decides to terminate the
intervention or withdraws the complaint, this action will not necessarily preclude an
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 30 of 183

investigation by the Department if there is a reason to believe that the withdrawal was not
voluntary.
15.2 Should a complainant decide to withdraw the complaint, ‗Annexure B’ should be completed
and submitted to the Sexual Harassment Committee which will file it with the LRO.
16. DECISION TO LAY CRIMINAL CHARGES OR INSTITUTE CIVIL PROCEEDINGS
No person who seeks relief in terms of this policy is prohibited from also laying criminal charges
or instituting civil proceedings. The outcome of the criminal and civil proceedings will not affect
the labour relations process. The Sexual Harassment Committee must advise complainants of
their remedies in this regard.
17. DISPUTE RESOLUTION
17.1 Informal and Formal Resolution of Complaints
(a) Informal resolution of complaint
This process may only be followed in instances where the complainant has specifically
expressed his or her willingness and desire to participate in such an informal process. The
following procedure is applicable:
The LRO will meet separately with the complainant and the alleged harasser within five
(5) working days of the determination that this process should be followed. During
these consultations possible violations will be discussed as well as a possible process of
mediation to establish satisfactory conditions for further interactions between the
parties as well as a re-education process for both parties concerned.
ii. No unilateral disciplinary action will be taken during this process.
iii. This process may not be followed in instances where the alleged incident(s) of sexual
harassment could also constitute a crime.
i.

(b) Mediation
i.

A Complainant may choose to resolve his or her complaint through mediation.
Mediation requires the consent of both parties and suspends the complaint
procedure for up to thirty (30) working days, which can be extended, at the
discretion of the LRO in consultation with the Sexual Harassment Committee, upon
consent of both parties.

ii.

By mutual agreement, the two parties may elect to have their concerns mediated
by the Sexual Harassment Committee or any person or institution of their choice.
Parties may agree to a resolution that is oral or embodied in a written agreement.
The final resolution is confidential; however, the parties may elect to file a written
agreement with the Labour Relations Office or Sexual Harassment Committee
should enforcement be necessary. Because mediation is a fully voluntary process,
formal disciplinary action cannot be imposed against the accused. Once both
parties reach an informal agreement, it is final and not appealable.

iii.

The mediator or either party may at any time, prior to the expiration of thirty (30)
working days, declare that attempts at mediation have failed. Upon such notice,
the LRO may proceed to an investigation.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 31 of 183

(c) Formal resolution of the complaint
Where a decision has been made to follow a formal procedure, the following process is
applicable:
i.

ii.
iii.

iv.

v.

vi.
vii.

viii.
ix.

The parties must, where possible and until such time as the matter has been finalised,
be accommodated in such a manner that they work apart in order to reduce tension,
unpleasantness, intimidation or victimisation.
In appropriate circumstances, consideration must be given to the possible suspension
of the alleged harasser.
The LRO must designate officials to investigate the allegations and preside over the
disciplinary action. Both the presiding officer and the designated investigator may not
have previous knowledge of the case and may not have been previously acquainted to
either party.
The LRO must inform the alleged harasser in writing of the formal charge(s) against
him or her. This must be done not later than five (5) working days before the
disciplinary trial.
Both parties may adduce written or oral evidence, call witnesses to testify on their
behalf, cross-examine the other party involved and address the presiding officer on the
merits of the case.
The presiding officer must decide on a balance of probabilities whether sexual
harassment had, in fact, occurred.
The Presiding Officer may, if the alleged harasser (alleged perpetrator) is found guilty,
before sentencing, take into consideration all extenuating, aggravating or mitigating
factors to the case and may order that the guilty party must:
(aa) formally apologise;
(bb) be transferred to another Unit or Division or Office;
(cc) be reprimanded and that such decision be placed in the guilty
party's personnel file;
(dd) not be promoted and that the promotion be delayed for a fixed
period;
(ee) be demoted;
(ff) be suspended without pay for a period not exceeding three (3)
months;
(gg) be referred for professional rehabilitative counselling; or
(hh) be dismissed with immediate effect.
All proceedings must be recorded.
During all proceedings in terms of this policy, both parties may be accompanied and
supported by one person each. The support person(s) will be allowed to emotionally
support the relevant party and to be present at all times but will not be allowed to
actively participate in the proceedings in any way.

17.2. Grievance and Disciplinary Procedures
(a)

Grievance Procedure.
i.

All persons covered under this policy are strongly urged to lodge a complaint in
regard to any grievance of sexual harassment that they may have. In order to
facilitate and assist any complainant who may wish to lodge a complaint, guidelines
are set out below that complainants are required to follow so that all complaints
can be documented, investigated and resolved as soon as possible.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 32 of 183

ii.

Any person covered under this policy who feels that he or she has been sexually
harassed should complete a Sexual Harassment Complaint Form (See Annexure A
hereto) within a reasonable1 time of the occurrence of the conduct which gave rise
to the complaint, and submit it to:
(aa)
(bb)
(cc)

the Sexual Harassment Committee, or
any of his or her supervisors; or
the Labour Relations Office in the Department.

iii. Any supervisor or member of the Sexual Harassment Committee who receives a
sexual harassment complaint:
(aa)
must refer the complaint and submit the complaint form to the LRO within
twenty-four (24) hours of receipt of such complaint;
(bb) is not allowed to conduct investigations, consult with either of the parties,
consult with witnesses, make copies of the complaint form or deal with the
complaint in any manner apart from merely referring it;
(cc) may not discuss the complaint with anybody except the LRO;
(dd) may immediately, even before submitting such a complaint to the LRO, refer
the complainant to the EAP Unit, provided that this is done in consultation
with the complainant and only if the complainant consents to such a referral;
and
(ee) must treat the complaint with strict confidence and with respect for their
dignity and privacy.
iv. Any supervisor or manager or LRO or member of the Sexual Harassment
Committee who fails to comply with any of the conditions as set out in paragraph
17.1 (c) above shall be disciplined.
v. The Sexual Harassment Committee must respond to the complainant within
twenty- four (24) hours and must refer the matter to the Labour Relations Office
within twenty-four (24) hours upon receipt of such complaint.
vi. The Labour Relations Office must inform the person against whom such a
complaint has been lodged, of the complaint against him or her, within three (3)
working days upon receipt of such complaint. The person accused of sexual
harassment must be given an opportunity to respond to the allegations in writing
within three (3) working days upon being informed of the complaint. If such a
person fails to respond to the allegations within the prescribed period, the Labour
Relations Office may assume that such a person waives his or her right to respond
to the allegations. It is the duty of the LRO to inform such a person of the support
and counselling services rendered by the EAP Unit, and such that services are
available to him or her.
(b)

Harassment by non-employees
i.

ii.

The Department will endeavour to protect employees, to the extent possible, from
harassment by non-employees such as customers, vendors, staff from other
government departments and other parties who have workplace contact with
persons covered under this policy and who are not themselves covered under this
policy. The Department shall refer the employees to outside relevant institutions
for assistance.
Any person covered under this policy who feels that he or she has been sexually

1

Section 60(1) of the Employment Equity Act, No 55 of 1998 provides that the alleged conduct must be
reported immediately; In Ntsabo v Real Security CC 2004 [1 BLLR 59 (LC)] the Constitutional court held
that what constitutes reasonable time will differ from case to case depending on the circumstances of those
cases.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 33 of 183

harassed by a non-employee, should bring it to the attention of the Sexual
Harassment Committee or supervisor or LRO within a reasonable time of such
incident having occurred.
iii. A member of the Sexual Harassment Committee must thereafter meet with such a
complainant within three (3) working days upon receipt of such a complaint, to
consult, advice and refer the complainant to the LRO. During such consultation, the
Sexual Harassment Committee must also inform the complainant of the supporting
and counselling services rendered by the EAP Unit.
iv. The Sexual Harassment Committee must compile a report of such a complaint
within five (5) working days of having met with the complainant. Such a complaint,
as well as the report, must be filed in the Sexual Harassment Committee's filing
system.
v.

(c)

The Sexual Harassment Committee must continue to assist such a
complainant and must monitor the complaint until his or her external
complaint has been finalised.

Investigation of complaints
i.
ii.

The purpose of an investigation is to establish whether there is sufficient evidence
to conclude that the violation in this policy that has been alleged by the
complainant has indeed occurred.
The LRO (in conjunction with any such person or persons who might be appointed
by the LRO to assist them in conducting the investigation) must investigate the
complaint as follows:

(aa) Any investigation must be conducted in a confidential manner.
(bb) The LRO will not assume consent or mutuality in any case.
(cc) The LRO will not disregard any complaint on the basis that the complainant
is too sensitive.
(dd) The LRO may make inquiries from people other than the complainant and
the alleged harasser to obtain a full understanding of the facts.
(ee) Any person being interviewed during an investigation is expected to be
cooperative, honest and forthcoming. A breach of these expectations by such
a person being interviewed may result in disciplinary action taken against
him or her.
iii. During an investigation the LRO must take into account:
(aa) the circumstances under which the incident(s) of sexual harassment
allegedly occurred;
(bb) the nature of the offensive conduct;
(cc) the context in which the alleged incident(s) occurred;
(dd) the frequency of the offensive conduct;
(ee) the severity of the conduct; and
(ff) the physical, psychological, emotional and financial impact that the alleged
conduct has had on the complainant.
iv.

The LRO must:
(aa) make every effort to keep the complainant informed on the status of the
investigation;
(bb) document all interviews held during such an investigation; and
(cc) endeavour to finalize such an investigation within ten (10) working days
upon receipt of the complaint.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 34 of 183

vi.

The Department may investigate suspected sexual harassment situations even
when individual complaints are not made, provided that good reason exists for
the Department to believe that:
(aa) an environment of harassment exists or may arise; or
(bb) any other provision of this Policy is being violated.

(d) Decisions relating to complaint
The LRO must decide whether formal disciplinary action should be taken or not. In making
this decision cognisance must be taken of the desired outcome of the complaint as
indicated by the complainant in his or her Sexual Harassment Complaint Form. However,
the LRO is not bound by any such indication but will use its discretion.
(e) Dismissing the complaint
Such a decision will not be taken lightly and only in instances where there is no sufficient
evidence of sexual harassment. Such a decision must be taken in conjunction with the
Head of the Department.
(f) Reporting of complaints
The LRO must compile a report of any complaint of sexual harassment and its results
within five (5) working days of finalization of the complaint. This report will be filed in the
Sexual Harassment Committee's filing system. The outcome of the complaint, including any
possible sanctions, will be sent to the Human Resource Unit to be placed in the guilty
party's personnel file.
17.3 Dissatisfaction with the outcome of the investigation
Should the complainant be dissatisfied with the outcome of the reported sexual harassment
grievance, he/she may, within thirty (30) days of the outcome being made known to him or
her, refer the matter to the Bargaining Council in accordance with the provisions of the
Labour Relations Act.
17.4 Appeal
The person accused of sexual harassment may appeal the disposition of the matter according
to existing departmental procedures. This includes the right of appeal against a finding of guilt
and/or on the harshness of the penalty imposed.
18. MONITORING AND EVALUATION, AND REVIEW
The Sexual Harassment Committee must monitor and evaluate the implementation of this
policy and submit quarterly and annual reports to the Head of the Department and facilitate its
review after a period of five years from its commencement date.
19. RELATED POLICIES
The policy on sexual harassment must be read with the Employment Equity Policy, the Code of
Good Practice on Handling Sexual harassment Cases and the Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Care,
Management and Treatment Plan for South Africa
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 35 of 183

20. COMMENCEMENT OF THE POLICY
This policy shall be implemented by the Department with effect from the date of approval and
signature by the HOD.
APPROVED

___________________________
OB MONGALE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT

___________________
Date:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 36 of 183

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 37 of 183

ANNEXURE A: SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMPLAINT FORM
(This complaint form must be in the form of a sworn affidavit)
Complaint number: ____________________
PERSONAL DETAILS
COMPLAINANT
SURNAME
FULL NAMES

:
:

ID NUMBER

________________________________________
________________________________________

:

________________________________________

PERSAL NUMBER:

________________________________________

TITLE

________________________________________

:

UNIT / DIVISION

:

________________________________________

OFFICE

:

________________________________________

SUPERVISOR

:

________________________________________

CONTACT NUMBERS:

_____________________________________ (W)
_____________________________________ (C)

E-MAIL ADDRESS

:

________________________________________

PERSON AGAINST WHOM COMPLAINT IS LODGED
SURNAME
FULL NAMES
ID NUMBER

:
:

________________________________________
________________________________________

:

________________________________________

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 38 of 183

PERSAL NUMBER:

________________________________________

TITLE

________________________________________

:

UNIT / DIVISION
OFFICE
SUPERVISOR

:

________________________________________

:

________________________________________

:

________________________________________

CONTACT NUMBERS:

_____________________________________ (W)
_____________________________________ (C)

E-MAIL ADDRESS

:

________________________________________

PLEASE GIVE A FULL, COMPREHENSIVE AND DETAILED ACCOUNT OF THE INCIDENT(S) OF
SEXUAL HARASSMENT. IF POSSIBLE, PLEASE STATE DATES, PLACES, TIMES, ETC.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 39 of 183

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 40 of 183

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 41 of 183

PLEASE LIST THE NAMES AND CONTACT DETAILS OF ANY WITNESSES WHO MIGHT BE ABLE TO
CORROBORATE YOUR ALLEGATIONS:
WITNESS NAME

:

___________________________________

CONTACT NUMBER

:

___________________________________

WITNESS NAME

:

___________________________________

CONTACT NUMBER

:

___________________________________

WITNESS NAME

:

___________________________________

CONTACT NUMBER

:

___________________________________

WITNESS NAME

:

___________________________________

CONTACT NUMBER

:

___________________________________

WHAT ARE YOUR IMMEDIATE NEEDS? FOR INSTANCE, COULD YOU BENEFIT FROM BEING
GRANTED SPECIAL LEAVE OR BEING TEMPORARILY SHIFTED TO ANOTHER DIVISION?

WOULD YOU LIKE THE LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICE TO ATTEMPT AN INFORMAL RESOLUTION
PROCESS (MEDIATION) OR WOULD YOU PREFER A FORMAL RESOLUTION PROCESS?

WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE ASSISTED BY THE EMPLOYEE WELLNESS PROGRAMME UNIT?

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 42 of 183

IS THERE ANY OTHER RELEVANT INFORMATION THAT YOU WOULD LIKE TO BRING TO THE
ATTENTION OF THE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMMITTEE? IF SO, PLEASE GIVE DETAILS.

DECLARATION
Do you know and understand the contents of the above declaration?
Answer:___________________________________
Do you have any objection to taking the prescribed oath?
Answer:___________________________________
Do you consider the prescribed oath to be binding on your conscience?
Answer:____________________________________
I certify that the above questions were put to me and that the answers, as reflected above, were
written down in my presence.
___________________________________
SIGNATURE OF DEPONENT
I certify that the deponent has acknowledged that he/she knows and understands the contents of
this statement which was sworn to/affirmed before me and the deponent's signature was appended
thereon in my presence.
___________________________________________________
COMMISSIONER OF OATHS
Full first names and surname: ___________________________
Designation (Rank):
_________________________________
EX OFFICIO
Business Address:
(Street Address)

__________________________________

DATE:

__________________________________

PLACE:

__________________________________

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 43 of 183

ANNEXURE B: SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMPLAINT WITHDRAWAL FORM
(This complaint withdrawal form must be in the form of a sworn affidavit)
Complaint number: ____________________
PERSONAL DETAILS
COMPLAINANT
SURNAME

:

________________________________________

FULL NAMES

:

________________________________________

ID NUMBER

:

________________________________________

PERSAL NUMBER:

________________________________________

TITLE

________________________________________

:

UNIT / DIVISION:

________________________________________

OFFICE

:

________________________________________

SUPERVISOR

:

________________________________________

CONTACT NUMBERS:

_____________________________________ (W)
_____________________________________ (C)

E-MAIL ADDRESS:

________________________________________

PERSON AGAINST WHOM COMPLAINT WAS LODGED
SURNAME:

________________________________________

FULL NAMES:

________________________________________

ID NUMBER:

________________________________________
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 44 of 183

PERSAL NUMBER:

________________________________________

TITLE:

________________________________________

UNIT / DIVISION:

________________________________________

OFFICE:

________________________________________

SUPERVISOR:
CONTACT NUMBERS:

________________________________________
_____________________________________ (W)
_____________________________________ (C)

E-MAIL ADDRESS:

________________________________________

PLEASE GIVE FULL AND COMPREHENSIVE REASONS FOR WITHDRAWING THE COMPLAINT OF
SEXUAL HARASSMENT.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 45 of 183

WHAT ARE YOUR IMMEDIATE NEEDS? FOR INSTANCE, COULD YOU BENEFIT FROM BEING
GRANTED SPECIAL LEAVE OR BEING TEMPORARILY SHIFTED TO ANOTHER DIVISION?

WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE ASSISTED BY THE EMPLOYEE WELLNESS PROGRAMME UNIT?

IS THERE ANY OTHER RELEVANT INFORMATION THAT YOU WOULD LIKE TO BRING TO THE
ATTENTION OF THE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMMITTEE? IF SO, PLEASE GIVE DETAILS.

DECLARATION
Do you know and understand the contents of the above declaration?
Answer:___________________________________
Do you have any objection to taking the prescribed oath?
Answer:___________________________________
Do you consider the prescribed oath to be binding on your conscience?
Answer:____________________________________
I certify that the above questions were put to me and that the answers, as reflected above, were
written down in my presence.
___________________________________
SIGNATURE OF DEPONENT

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 46 of 183

I certify that the deponent has acknowledged that he/she knows and understands the contents of
this statement which was sworn to/affirmed before me and the deponent's signature was appended
thereon in my presence.
___________________________________________________
COMMISSIONER OF OATHS
Full first names and surname: ___________________________
Designation (Rank):

_________________________________

EX OFFICIO
Business Address:

__________________________________

(Street Address)

__________________________________

DATE:

__________________________________

PLACE:

_________________________________________

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 47 of 183

ANNEXURE C: SEXUAL HARASSMENT DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE GUIDELINES
1.

DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES

1.1

Procedural steps to be followed:
1.1.1
1.1.2

1.2

Informal disciplinary action or enquiry
1.2.1
1.2.2
1.2.3

1.2.4

1.2.5
1.2.6
1.2.7

1.3

Managers or supervisors or LRO should make the alleged perpetrator aware of the
alleged sexual harassment complaint i.e. on one on one basis.
After the alleged perpetrator is made aware of the complaint he/she will be
afforded a chance to state his or her side of the story.

For less serious sexual harassment conduct, progressive discipline should be invoked.
Progressive discipline would include warnings and counselling.
Where the seriousness of the complaint warrants corrective counselling, the manager
of the alleged perpetrator or the LRO must:
a) Bring the complaint to the alleged perpetrator‘s attention;
b) Determine the reasons for the misconduct and afford the alleged perpetrator an
opportunity to respond to the allegations;
c) Seek to get agreement from both parties on how to remedy the conduct; and
d) Take steps to implement the agreed course of action.
The issuing of the warnings as part of progressive discipline could take place in a
meeting between the manager or LRO or Sexual Harassment Committee and the
alleged perpetrator and his or her representative (if he/she so wishes to exercise the
right to representation).
Written warnings should be in terms of annexure as contained in the PSCBC
resolution 1 of 2003.
The warning must be kept in the alleged perpetrator‘s personal file and remains valid
for a period of six months.
The Employee Relations Officer or Sexual Harassment Committee should record such
a meeting.

A guideline for the handling of sexual harassment complaints is as follows:

STEPS:
WHAT
SHOULD BE
DONE?
Corrective
counselling

IN TERMS OF
WHICH
PRESCRIPTS?
Par. 5.1 of the
disciplinary
code and
procedures

WHO IS
RESPONSIBLE?

Manager/ Labour
Relations Officer

HOW SHOULD IT BE DONE?







Manager/LRO should bring the complaint to the alleged
perpetrator‘s attention verbally/in writing;
Determine reasons for the conduct that led to the
sexual harassment complaint verbally/in writing;
Give the alleged perpetrator an opportunity to respond
verbally/in writing
Seek to get an agreement on how to remedy conduct
from both parties– manager/LRO prerogative
Take steps to implement agreed/decided course of
action – manager/LRO prerogative
Services of the Employee Assistance Program may be
utilized

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 48 of 183

Verbal warning

Par. 5.2 of
disciplinary
code and
procedures

Manager/ Labour
Relations Officer







Written
warning

Par. 5.3 of the
disciplinary
code and
procedures

Manager/ Labour
Relations Officer













Final Written
warning

Par 5.4 of
disciplinary
code and
procedures

Manager/ Labour
Relations Officer










Manager/LRO should bring the complaint to the alleged
perpetrator‘s attention verbally/in writing;
Determine reasons for the conduct that led to the
sexual harassment complaint verbally/in writing;
Give the alleged perpetrator an opportunity to respond
verbally/in writing
Manager/LRO give a verbal warning and inform the
perpetrator that further misconduct such as this may
result in more serious disciplinary action
Manager/LRO to note verbal warning in the presence of
the perpetrator
The perpetrator to acknowledge warning
Manager/LRO should bring the complaint to the alleged
perpetrator‘s attention verbally/in writing; [see roneo –
1. Rules of Administrative Justice (RAJ)]
Give alleged perpetrator an opportunity to respond in
writhing within three (3) working days from the date of
receipt of the complaint
Annexure B of the disciplinary code to be used for
written warning
Manager/LRO must give written warning to the
perpetrator who must acknowledge receipt of it/if
perpetrator fails to acknowledge receipt, it must be
given to him/her in the presence of another employee
(rank higher than that of employee) or a member of
the Sexual Harassment Committee
Written warning must be filed on the perpetrator‘s
personal file
Written warning is valid for 6 months
At expiry of 6 months, the written warning must be
removed and destroyed by manager/LRO
If during the 6 months, the perpetrator makes himself
guilty on a same or related offence, the written
warning may be taken into account in deciding on the
appropriate sanction
If the perpetrator wishes to appeal, he/she may appeal
according to the Department‘s appeal procedures
Manager/LRO should bring the complaint to the alleged
perpetrator‘s attention verbally/in writing; (see roneo –
1.RAJ)
Annexure C to be used for final written warning
Manager/LRO must give final written warning to the
perpetrator who must acknowledge receipt on it/if the
perpetrator fails to acknowledge receipt, it must be
given to him/her in the presence of another employee
(rank higher than that of employee) or a member of
the Sexual Harassment Committee
Final written warning must be filed on the perpetrator‘s
personal file
Final written warning is valid for 6 months
At expiry of 6 months, the final written warning must
be removed and destroyed by manager
If during the 6 months, the perpetrator makes
himself/herself guilty on a same or related offence, the

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 49 of 183


1.4

final written warning may be taken into account in
deciding on appropriate sanction
If perpetrator wishes to appeal, he/she may appeal
according to the Department‘s appeal procedures

Formal disciplinary action or enquiry
1.4.1

for more serious sexual harassment complaints:
a)

Formal disciplinary action or enquiry should be invoked for more serious
sexual harassment conduct.
When applying formal disciplinary enquiry the Labour Relations Officer
should apply the following steps:

b)
(i)
(ii)

The matter be investigated in order to establish whether there are
grounds to warrant a charge of misconduct;
Should investigations reveal that there are grounds to lay a charge/s of
misconduct, the Labour Relations Officer should facilitate a disciplinary
enquiry in terms of section 7.1 and 7.3 of the PSCBC resolution 1 of
2003 which inter alia provides that:
(aa)

c)
d)
e)

The employee must be given a notice of at least five (5)
working days before the date of the hearing.
(bb)
A description of allegations of alleged sexual harassment
complaint and main evidence, on which the employer will
rely on, must be attached to the notice of enquiry.
(cc)
The alleged perpetrator must sign receipt of the notice. If
the alleged perpetrator refuses to sign the receipt of the
notice, it must be given to the alleged perpetrator in the
presence of fellow employees (rank higher than that of
employee) or a member of the Sexual Harassment
Committee who shall sign in confirmation that the notice
was conveyed to the employee.
Where Prima Facie evidence exists, the manager could proceed with
disciplinary hearing in terms of section 7.3 of the Disciplinary Code.
Upon the manager receiving the outcome of the disciplinary hearing he/she
should inform the employee.
The manager could advice the employee on their rights to appeal in terms of
the Disciplinary Code and Procedure.

2. SUSPENSIONS
2.1

Precautionary suspension can be affected where:

(a) An alleged perpetrator is alleged to have committed a serious misconduct.
(b)
It is believed that the alleged perpetrator‘s presence at the workplace might jeopardize any
investigation into the alleged sexual harassment conduct.
(c)
The well-being or safety of the complainant or witnesses.
(d)
(e)

The manager or LRO must meet with the alleged perpetrator to bring the allegation his or
her attention and make him/her aware of the resolution to suspend him or her pending the
investigation process and all the reasons that informed the decision.
It should be conveyed to the alleged perpetrator that the suspension does not constitute a
judgment and that it is in full pay.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 50 of 183

(f)
(g)

2.2
(a)

All this information must also be contained in a letter that will be given to the alleged
perpetrator after the meeting, by the manager or LRO.
A disciplinary hearing of an alleged perpetrator so suspended or transferred must be held
within thirty (30) or sixty (60) days, depending on the complexity of the matter and the
length of the investigation, from the suspension, where after the chair of the hearing must
then decide on any further postponement.
Suspension as a sanction
Suspension without pay may be pronounced as a sanction after a formal hearing was held
in terms of the PSCBC resolution 2 of 1999, as amended.
i.
ii.

2.3

The manager or LRO must inform the perpetrator of the sanction
pronounced by the Presiding officer; and
The manager or LRO must inform the perpetrator of his/her rights to
appeal against the decision

Paragraph 7 of the Disciplinary Code

STEPS: WHAT
SHOULD BE
DONE?
Appoint
Representative
(Investigation
Officer) to
conduct a
preliminary
investigation
where no prima
facie case exist
Appoint
Representatives
(Investigation
Officer and Chair
Presiding
Officer)

IN TERMS OF
WHICH
PRESCRIPTS?
Par. 6 of
disciplinary
code and
procedures

WHO IS
RESPONSIBLE?

HOW SHOULD IT BE DONE?

Labour Relations
Officer

Par. 6 of
disciplinary
code and
procedures

Labour Relations
Officer

Description of
the alleged
sexual
harassment
conduct/charges
(if necessary)

Par. 7.1 of
disciplinary
code and
procedures

Labour Relations
Officer

 The Labour Relations Officer must
prepare a letter to appoint
Investigation Officer
 Roneo 3ioprelim may be used
 Chair of hearing must be higher in
grade than representative who will
be the investigation officer
 Representative must be equal/higher
in grade than the alleged perpetrator
 The Labour Relations Officer must
prepare appointment letters to
Investigating Officer and Presiding
Officer
 Annexure F and G may be used
 Chair of hearing must be higher in
grade than representative
(Investigation Officer)
 Representative(Investigation Officer)
must be equal/higher in grade than
the alleged perpetrator
 Detailed description of charges to be
drawn up by Labour Relations Officer
or by the Representative (which ever
is applicable)
 The Labour Relations Officer must
see to it that machines/equipment is
available for the hearing

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 51 of 183

Prepare notice of
hearing

Par. 7.1 of
disciplinary
code and
procedures

Representative
(Investigation
Officer) to
prepare and sign
notice

Employer and
employee
charged with
misconduct may
agree that
disciplinary
hearing will be
chaired by an
arbitrator from
the relevant
sectoral
bargaining
council
appointed by the
council
Conducting a
disciplinary
hearing

Par. 7.3.c of
disciplinary
code and
procedures

Labour Relations
Officer

Par. 7.3 of
disciplinary
code and
procedures

Chair (Presiding
Officer) and
Representative
(Investigation
Officer)

 Annexure D to be used for notice
 Representative to give notice to
employee in presence of witness at
least five (5) working days before
the date f hearing
 The alleged perpetrator must sign
receipt on the notice/if he/she
refuses to sign receipt, it must be
given to him/her in the presence of
another employee (rank higher than
that of employee) or a member of
the Sexual Harassment Committee
 Representative (Investigation
Officer) must see to it that hearing
takes place within ten (10) working
days after notice has been delivered
to employee
 Representative (Investigation
Officer) to give copy of charges and
notice to the Chair of the hearing
and the Labour Relations Officer
 Labour Relations Officer must obtain
mutual consent from both the
employer and employee charged
 All provisions applicable to
disciplinary hearings in terms of the
disciplinary code and procedures will
apply for purposes of these hearings
 Employer will be responsible for the
costs of the arbitrator






The alleged perpetrator may be
represented in the hearing by
fellow employee or Representative
of a recognized trade union
An interpreter may be present at
hearing (if necessary)
Neither employer nor the alleged
perpetrator may be represented by
legal practitioner unless the
alleged perpetrator is a legal
practitioner or the representative
or the employer is a legal
practitioner and the direct
supervisor of the employee
charged with misconduct OR if the
disciplinary hearing is conducted
into paragraph 7.3.c

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 52 of 183

















A person who is a member of a
recognized trade union and who is
admitted to practice as an
advocate or attorney, may not
represent an employee
The Chair (Presiding Officer) will
give his findings and reasons at
the end of the hearing or he/she
may postpone it in order to give
his/her findings and reasons
Before the Chair decides on a
sanction, he/she must give the
alleged perpetrator an opportunity
to present mitigating factors
The Chair will communicate final
outcome and sanction within five
(5) working days after the haring
to the Labour Relations Officer in
writing
In the case of dismissal the Chair
can only make a recommendation,
and it is therefore recommended
that the Presiding Officer, on
appointment be advised that, in
the case of a recommendation of
dismissal, a comprehensive report
which contains the following
information should be submitted:
♦ A summary of the proceedings;
♦ A summary of the evidence and
comprehensive reasons for a
finding of guilty;
♦ Mitigating and aggravating
circumstances which includes:
-The personal circumstances of
the official who is found guilty;
-The feelings of the
community;
♦ Equal and fair treatment;
♦ Protection of the interests of
the state and employer;
♦ Reasons for recommending a
sanction of dismissal.
After the decision of the Head of
the Department is received the
perpetrator must be informed
thereof, and if applicable, be made
aware of his/her right to appeal in
terms of paragraph 8 of the
Disciplinary Code and Procedures.
The Chair must inform the
perpetrator of his/her right to
appeal in terms of par. 8 of the
disciplinary code and procedures
The Labour Relations Officer/Head

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 53 of 183

Appeal against
the finding or
sanction

Par. 8 of the
disciplinary
code and
procedures

The employee
found guilty of a
sexual
harassment
conduct










of the Department must execute
decision of Chair
The employee found guilty must
within five (5) working days of
receiving notice of the final outcome
of the hearing submit the appeal to
the executing authority by
completing the necessary appeal
forms
The executing authority should
forward such an appeal to the
appeals authority according to the
Department‘s appeal procedures
The Labour Relations Officer shall
immediately implement the decision
of the appeals authority
Where the appeals authority decides
to reduce the sanction or confirm the
outcome of the disciplinary
proceedings, sanctions will be
implemented by the Labour Relations
Officer/Manager from current date
The appeals authority to finalize
appeals within 30 days, failing which,
in cases where an employee is on
precautionary suspension, he/se
must resume duties immediately and
await outcome of appeal while on
duty

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 54 of 183

ENQUIRIES

Date……………………….

To: NAME OF OFFICIAL ……………………………………………………………………...
RE: CHARGE OF ALLEGED SEXUAL HARASSMENT CONDUCT
NAME OF OFFICIAL …………..…………………………….…… employed by the Department of
Public Safety and stationed at ……………………………………………………………. (PLACE WHERE
EMPLOYEE IS WORKING) and therefore being an employee of the Public Service of the Republic of
South Africa are Hereby charged with a sexual harassment conduct in terms of the Department of
Public Safety Sexual Harassment Policy and the Public Service Co-ordination Bargaining Council
Resolution 1 of 2003, which is the Public Service Disciplinary code herein and after referred to as
the Disciplinary Code.
Allegation 1:
That you are guilty of a sexual harassment conduct in terms of the Department of Public Safety
Sexual Harassment Policy and the disciplinary Code which inter alia provides that an employee will
be guilty of misconduct if he/she ―STATE THE CHARGE‖ in that on
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
(DETAILS OF THE CHARGE)
Allegation 2:
That you are guilty of misconduct in terms of the Disciplinary Code which inter alia provides that an
employee will be guilty of misconduct if he/she ―STATE THE CHARGE‖ in that on
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
(DETAILS OF THE CHARGE)
_________________________________
DIRCTOR: KEY ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT

________________________
DATE:

_________________________________
RECEIVED BY:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 55 of 183

Enquiries

Date

Attention:…………………………………………………………………….
RE: APPOINTMENT AS AN INVESTIGATING OFFICER/EMPLOYER REPRESENTATIVE
You are hereby appointed to investigate allegations of a sexual harassment conduct against
……………..………………. (NAME) ……………………………(OCCUPATION) stationed at ……………………….,
and to act as the employer representative, in terms of the Disciplinary Code and procedure
(Resolution 1 of 2003). Terms of reference are as follows:
Allegation:
You are appointed as employer representative to investigate allegations of a sexual harassment
conduct and any other matter that may come into your attention during your investigation and to
determine whether there are sufficient grounds to lay a charge(s) of misconduct against the officer.
You are therefore authorized to:
1. Enter all buildings and offices occupied by the department or administration in which the officer
works.
2. Inspect all relevant official documentation, which are to be found in the buildings and offices.
3. Take possession of such books, documents and objects relating to the case.
4. Interrogate any officer or employee whom in your opinion may have information at disposal
relating to the case.
5. Designate if you deem it necessary, any officer employed in this department whom in your
opinion has the necessary experience to assist you with the investigation.
After conclusion of the investigation you are requested to submit a written report with
recommendations, within 30 calendar days from the day of the investigation, to the Labour
Relations Officer, indicating whether or not in your opinion, the officer must be charged with
misconduct. If you indicate that a charge of misconduct is appropriate, it would be appreciated if
you could indicate what contents of charges should be and which officers/Officials may be used as
witnesses, if any, during the possible disciplinary hearing. You are also requested to represent the
employer should the need for a formal hearing arise.
You are requested to familiarize yourself with the provisions of the PSCBC Resolution no: 1 of 2003
(Disciplinary Code and Procedure).
Your co-operation will be highly appreciated.
Thanking you in advance
________________________________
DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICE

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 56 of 183

HIV AND AIDS POLICY

“Managing HIV/AIDS in the
Workplace”

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 57 of 183

NORTHWEST PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY
POLICY NO:
NAME OF POLICY:
EFFECTIVE ON:
DATE OF REVIEW:

HR2009/003
MANAGING HIV AND AIDS IN THE WORKPLACE
…………………………
APRIL 2012
CONTENTS

Contents

Page

Preamble
1. Abbreviations and Definitions …………………………………………………...............

58-59

2. Purpose and Objectives …………………………………………………………...............

60

3. Principles …………………………………………………………………………….................

60

4. Legislative Framework ………………………………………………………….................

61

5. Scope of Application …………………………………………………............................

61

6. Policy Statement ………………………………………………………............................

61-62

7. Human Resources Practices and Processes ……………………………..................

62-63

8. Counselling and Wellness Management ……………………………………...............

63

9. Information Sharing and Promotion of HIV and
AIDS Awareness ……………………………………………………………………...............

64

10. Confidentiality and Disclosure …………………………………………………...............

64

11. Controlled Testing for Impact Management ………………………………...............

64-65

12. Responsibilities and Obligations ……………………………………………................

65-66

13. Managing HIV/AIDS in the Workplace …………………………………....................

66-67

14. Dispute Resolution …………………………………………………………………...............

67-69

15. Monitoring Evaluation and Review ……………………………………………...............

69

16. Related Policies …………. …………………………………………………………................

69

17. Commencement of the Policy...…………………………………………………...............

69

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 58 of 183

PREAMBLE
The Department of Public Safety in the North West Provincial Government (the Department), in line
with its constitutional and legal obligations:

RECOGNISES the human rights and dignity of each individual, as enshrined in the South African
Constitution;

ALIGNS itself with government‘s international and national commitments on combating HIV and
AIDS while caring for employees that are affected;

ACKNOWLEDGES the seriousness of the HIV and AIDS epidemic and that if not managed, it can
have a devastating impact on the workplace and broader society;

BELIEVES that it has a responsibility as a state entity and as an employer to manage and
minimise the impact of HIV/AIDS among its employees and served communities with a view to
protecting human rights, preventing a further spread of HIV and AIDS ensuring that its impact on
human potential and productivity is minimised;

FURTHER BELIEVES that there is a compelling need for protecting the human rights of and
taking care of all affected employees by enforcing values, norms and principles that will engender a
better understanding of HIV and AIDS and effective management thereof in the workplace;

IS CONVINCED that a people‘s contract against HIV/AIDS is the most sound on the basis of
collective action against the scourge of HIV/AIDS;

PLEDGES to do everything in its power to contribute to the prevention of HIV/AIDS and

minimising its impact on employees of the Department and to the extent, possible, communities
served by the Department;

COMMITS itself to providing resources, guidance and monitoring support to a departmental HIV/
AIDS programme;

COMMITS itself to the creation of a supportive non-discriminatory working environment that
eliminates stereotyping and enables affected employees to perform their duties and develop to
their full potential;

CALLS UPON all infected and affected by HIV/ AIDS to break the silence; and
CALLS UPON all employees to join hands and take part in all HIV/AIDS related programmes and
to commit to non-discrimination, prevention and a stigma free environment.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 59 of 183

1. ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
AIDS:
CCMA:
EAP:
EEP:
HIV:
HOD:
ILO:
LRO:
MTSF:
PILIR:
SADC:
STI’s:
WSP:

Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome.
Council for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration.
Employee Assistance Programme.
Employment Equity Plan.
Human Immunodeficiency Virus.
Head of Department.
International Labour Organization.
Labour Relations Office.
Medium Term Strategic Framework.
Procedure on Incapacity Leave and Ill Health Retirement
Southern African Development Community.
Sexually Transmitted Infections.
Workplace Skills Plan.

Department:

Department of Public Safety, North West.

Employee:

An employee includes all employees of the Department
employed in terms of the Public Service Act of 1994, the
Basic Conditions of Employment Act of 1998, as amended
and includes contract workers, interns, volunteers and
prospective employees.

HIV Testing:

Any form of testing designed to identify the HIV/AIDS status
of a person, including blood tests, saliva tests or medical
questionnaires.

Unfair Discrimination:

Unfair discrimination in employment occurs when an employee is
unfairly accorded less favourable treatment with regard to
employment opportunities or benefits on the basis of one or more
grounds that are prohibited by law. HIV status (real or perceived)
is an example of such prohibited ground. Unfair discrimination may
be direct (specific) or indirect (discriminatory impact).

Wellness Programme:

A programme designed to promote the physical, psycho-social and
mental health as well as the well-being of employees and includes
components such as counselling support groups, nutritional
supplements, provision of treatment for opportunistic infections,
provision of antiretroviral therapy and other therapy that will be
available.

Informed Consent:

Means that the individual has been provided with
information, understands it, and based on this he or she has
agreed to undertake an HIV test. It implies that the individual
understands what the test is, why it is necessary, the
benefits and the risks thereof, or alternatively any social
implications of the outcome thereof.

Surveillance:

Means the conduct of anonymous HIV testing to gather
information to inform a workplace HIV/AIDS response
provided that such testing complies with ethical
legal principles and facilitates a workplace impact
assessment.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 60 of 183

2. PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
2.1.

The purpose of this policy is to provide guidance on managing departmental responses to
HIV/AIDS in a manner that complies with the Constitution and applicable laws, eliminates
unfair discrimination and enables the harnessing of each person‘s full potential.

2.2

The objectives include to:
(a) Clarify and balance employee rights and responsibilities with regard to the
management of HIV/AIDS;
(b) Prohibit and prevent unfair discrimination on the ground of HIV/AIDS in the workplace
environment;
(c) Promote a better understanding of the risk and dynamics of HIV/AIDS in the workplace
and entrench attitudes and behaviour that are proactive and responsible;
(d) Promote consistency in dealing with the issues of HIV and AIDS and HIV/AIDS
education in the workplace;
(e) Support affected employees and enhance the health of employees that are HIV
positive;
(f) Provide for treatment, care and support for employees;
(g) Maximise workplace stability and minimise the impact of HIV/AIDS in the Department
as a workplace;
(h) Elaborate a departmental programme for the prevention and management of HIV/
AIDS while empowering those that are affected and infected to cope effectively and
maintain optimal productivity;
(i) Reduce fear, over reaction and stigmatisation among employees;
(j) Promote openness while maintaining the confidentiality, dignity, and rights of
employees who are infected and affected by HIV/AIDS;
(k) Provide mechanisms for regulating and managing grievances that may arise due to
unfair discrimination based on HIV/AIDS;
(l) Regulate dismissals in appropriate circumstance; and
(m) Implement and comply with the provisions of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy.

3. PRINCIPLES
The principles that underpin this policy and which should inform its implementation, include
the following:
3.1 The protection of the human rights and dignity of people living with HIV/AIDS is essential to
the prevention and control of HIV/AIDS;
3.2 The creation of a supportive environment can contribute to HIV/AIDS prevention and contain
the impact, which includes enabling those that are infected and affected to remain productive
for longer periods;
3.3 HIV/AIDS status should not constitute a reason for denial of any employment opportunity;
3.4 Confidentiality on HIV/AIDS shall be maintained at all times;
3.5 Consultation and inclusiveness are to be maintained at all times to ensure that all
stakeholders, including unions play an active role in the prevention and management of HIV/
AIDS; and
3.6 HIV/AIDS impacts disproportionately on women and this should be factored into the
Department‘s HIV/AIDS programme.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 61 of 183

4. LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK
4.1 The principles that govern the management of HIV/AIDS emanate from
international and national laws, policies and codes of good practice.
4.2 International standards that influence and regulate HIV/AIDS management include the
following:
The ILO Code of Practice on HIV/AIDS and the World of Work (2001);
The SADC Code of Good Practice on HIV/AIDS and Employment(1997); and
HIV and AIDS and Human Rights International Guidelines (United Nations 1998)

(a)
(b)
(c)

4.3 South African laws and policy frameworks that underpin the policy
include the following:
The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa;
Employment Equity Act,1998;
Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000;
Public Service Act, 1994;
Labour Relations Act, 1995;
Occupational Health & Safety Act, 1993;
Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, 1993;
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1997;
Public Service Regulations, 2001;
National Policy Health Act, 1990
PSCBC Resolution 1 of 2007
PSCBC Resolution 8 of 2001 and other relevant PSCBC Resolutions;
National HIV/AIDS Strategy , 2000-2005
HIV/AIDS and STI strategic Plan for South Africa , 2007-2011;
Code of Good Practice on Key Aspects of HIV/AIDS and Employment; and
Technical Assistance Guidelines on Key Aspects of HIV/AIDS and
Employment.

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)
(m)
(n)
(o)
(p)

5. SCOPE OF APPLICATION
This policy is applicable to all the employees of the department.
6. POLICY STATEMENT
6.1 The Department values all its employees and believes that all employees, including
those that are infected or affected by HIV/AIDS can remain productive and contribute to
effective service delivery if supported, treated with dignity and managed effectively.
6.2 Accordingly:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

Unfair discrimination on the ground of HIV/AIDS is prohibited;
Pre-employment testing for HIV/AIDS is prohibited except where such is an inherent
requirement of the job and sanctioned by law;
All employees and prospective employees have a right to confidentiality with regard to
HIV/AIDS status;
Openness about HIV/AIDS status shall be encouraged but disclosure of one‘s HIV/
AIDS status shall be a voluntary decision for each infected person;
Breach of confidentiality through the disclosure of another‘s HIV/AIDS status without
their consent shall be subject to disciplinary action, which may culminate in dismissal;
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 62 of 183

(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
7.

HIV/AIDS infected and affected persons have the right to equality as well as fair and
consistent treatment with regard to recruitment, selection, development, promotion,
retention and other employment practices;
It is the responsibility of every employee to comply with this policy;
All managers have a responsibility to create an affirming non-discriminatory
environment and to ensure policy implementation and compliance within their area of
responsibility;
The procedures outlined in this policy and ancillary documents will be followed to deal
with absenteeism, dismissals and other disciplinary or grievance matters arising from
HIV/AIDS; and
The Department‘s EAP programmes shall be adjusted with a view to improving
responsiveness to HIV/AIDS related wellness challenges.

HUMAN RESOURCES PRACTICES AND PROCESSES

7.1 General Statement
(a)
(b)

7.2

All human resources processes and practices should promote an affirming nondiscriminatory environment that fosters respect for the dignity of all while ensuring the
maximum productivity of each employee regardless of HIV/AIDS status.
This will be done through a regular review of all human resources practices and
processes to eliminate existing or potential direct and indirect discrimination on the
ground of HIV/AIDS.
Recruitment and Selection

(a)
(b)
(c)

A prospective employee will not be required to disclose his or her HIV/AIDS status,
except in accordance with the provisions of section 7(2) of the Employment Equity Act.
There shall be no pre-employment HIV/AIDS testing in respect of a prospective
employee except in accordance with section 7(2) of the Employment Equity Act.
Permanent and contract employees are not obliged to disclose their HIV/AIDS status;

7.3 Creating an Affirming and Non-discriminatory Environment
(a)
(b)

(c)

7.4

The HIV/AIDS status of an employee shall not be used to discriminate
against the employee with regard to promotion, training and development;
The HIV/AIDS status of an employee shall not be used to discriminate against the
employee or exclude him or her from participating in any departmental activities, except
where participation has been contra-indicated by a suitably qualified health practitioner
or authority; and
Refusal by other employees to work with an employee who is HIV positive or any
isolation of such person, shall be regarded as unfair discrimination, which act shall be
subject to disciplinary proceedings and may be punishable in terms of the code of good
practice or code of conduct in the Public Service and HIV/AIDS Workplace Policy.
Retention and Reasonable Accommodation

(a)
(b)

(c)

No employee shall be unfairly dismissed or have his or her employment terminated
based solely on his or her HIV/AIDS status;
Employment terms and conditions shall be adjusted or suitable alternative employment
sought for an employee who is incapacitated to perform his or her normal duties due
to chronic conditions related to HIV/AIDS, and has voluntarily disclosed to the
employer;
Relevant policy decisions will be applied, such as restructuring of a job or a reduction
of responsibilities that may be necessitated by chronic illness;
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 63 of 183

(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)

7.5
(a)
(b)

Facilities shall be adapted to enhance accessibility, ensure support and create a
conducive work environment;
Termination of service due to ill-health for HIV/AIDS ailments shall be applied in
accordance with applicable legislative prescripts when and where necessary;
HIV positive status shall not be used by the department as a selection
criteria for termination of employment; and
It is the responsibility of each employee who requires reasonable accommodation on
account of his or her HIV and AIDS status to confidentially disclose such status and
needs to his/her superiors.
Leave of Absence
Subject to public service regulations regarding incapacity leave, existing
leave of absence policy and procedures shall apply to all employees without
discrimination.
Management may grant leave of absence, time off or reduce the working hours of an
employee infected or affected by HIV/AIDS, subject to consistent application of leave
rights and privileges.

7.6 Record Management
(a)
(b)
(c)

Information on the HIV/AIDS status of an employee shall not be kept on
any record of the Department (Except the confidential EAP referral and
counselling file).
All records of a grievance procedure emanating from a breach of rights will be
integrated in the existing grievance procedures. Such records will be kept
confidentially; and
The grievance proceedings will be held in private i.e. (secluded hearing) so declared by
the HOD at the request of the affected and infected person(s) to ensure the utmost
confidentiality of the complainant during the proceedings.

8. COUNSELING AND WELLNESS MANAGEMENT
8.1 The Department will integrate procedures and resources for responding to HIV/AIDS related
challenges in its EAP.
8.2 The Department shall arrange and provide for professional counselling and appropriate
referrals to other professional institutions when the need arises, to assist employees to
function and perform effectively.
8.3 The Department shall establish appropriate facilities for counselling persons infected and
affected by HIV/AIDS. This includes referral for nutritional supplements and treatment for
infected persons, subject to available resources.
8.4 Pre-testing counselling for employees will be offered on a voluntary basis.
8.5 Access to appropriate counselling services will be offered to infected and affected employees.
8.6 Appropriate support will be given to persons living with HIV/AIDS; and
8.7 The Department shall establish and maintain an accessible counselling and employee wellness
management centre for all employees.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 64 of 183

9. INFORMATION SHARING AND PROMOTION OF HIV/AIDS AWARENESS
9.1 Information Sharing
(a) Information on the prevention of the spread of HIV/AIDS will be provided to employees;
(b) The information will include the creation of a help desk in the districts and the Department
shall use all forms of communication available, to inform all about appropriate steps to take
when confronted with any problem that may require nearby care centres and whoever that
can provide help including EAP programmes; and
(c) The information dissemination responsibility will be principally shouldered by the EAP.
9.2 Promoting HIV/AIDS Awareness
The Department will:
(a) Participate in the promotion of HIV/AIDS awareness and sexually
transmitted
Infections(STIs) amongst employees and their nearest communities;
(b) Ensure a better understanding of HIV/AIDS in the workplace through information,
education (gender, WSP, and other sensitivity programmes) and communication;
(c) Explore the best ways of minimising the socio-economic and developmental impact of HIV/
AIDS on employees and their next of kin;
(d) Establish educational and awareness programmes that deals comprehensively with health
and safety;
(e) Establish and maintain an active Integrated Employee Health Wellness Committee, which
must distribute promotional materials such as condoms, information leaflets, etc at all
times for all HIV/AIDS programmes;
(f) Continue to support research on how best the health and safety of employees can be
improved;
(g) Liaise with relevant institutions within the public service and beyond, including
professionals, to access relevant information, support and resources; and
(h) Promote the practice of occupational safety and hygiene in the workplace for the protection
of all employees and customers and prevention of diseases.
10.

CONFIDENTIALITY AND DISCLOSURE

10.1 All persons living with HIV/AIDS have the legal right to privacy. An employee is therefore not
legally required to disclose his or her HIV status to their employer or other employees.
10.2 Where an employee chooses to voluntarily disclose his or her HIV/AIDS status to the
employer or to other employees, this information may not be disclosed to others without the
employee‘s express written consent. Where written consent is not possible, steps must be
taken to confirm that the employee wishes to disclose his or her status; and
10.3 All the testing should be conducted in accordance with the Department of
Health‘s National Policy on Testing for HIV, issued in terms of National Policy Health Act.
11. CONTROLLED TESTING FOR IMPACT MANAGEMENT
11.1 HIV/AIDS Testing Conditions
(a)
(b)

The HOD shall ensure that no employee is required to take an HIV/ AIDS test contrary
to the Constitution of the country and the employment laws respectively; and
Where informed consent is obtained for testing, (subject to relevant law) pre-and post
counselling should be provided and confidentiality maintained.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 65 of 183

11.2

Unlinked Anonymous Testing and Data Management
(a)
(b)

Unlinked anonymous testing for surveillance purposes is permissible subject to
informed consent of participants with no personal identification and coding of
specimens; and
It is the responsibility of those collecting specimens to protect participants from
unauthorised disclosure.

12. RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS
12. 1. Head of Department (HOD)
In terms of the Public Service Regulations, 2001 (Part VI E), Minimum Standards on HIV/
AIDS contain mandatory guidelines for Heads of Department on minimum requirements for
managing HIV/AIDS within government. The following principles are to be upheld by Heads
of Departments:
(a)

The working environment takes account of the personal circumstances
of employees living with HIV/AIDS;

(b)

Steps are taken to identify and reduce the risk of HIV transmission in
the working environment;
Steps are taken to manage occupational exposure to HIV/AIDS;
Measures are taken to prohibit unfair discrimination and promote nondiscrimination on the basis of HIV status or AIDS;
Compulsory HIV/AIDS testing of a public servant is prohibited;
Voluntary counselling and testing for HIV is encouraged;
The confidentiality of HIV status is maintained;
Health promotion programmes are to be introduced to deal with prevention, care and
acceptance of HIV/AIDS; and
Support for HIV/AIDS policies and programmes is established through
allocating responsibilities, human and financial resources, structures and
communication strategies.

(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)

12.2

All Managers
All managers have the responsibility to provide support to employees that are affected or
infected by HIV/AIDS, prevent unfair discrimination on the ground of HIV/AIDS status, and
to implement measures to minimise the impact of HIV/AIDS on productivity and service
delivery.

12.3. Employee Assistance Programme (EAP)
(a)

(b)

(c)

The EAP practitioner will assist in monitoring of voluntary counselling, general
support of HIV/AIDS related matters at the workplace and promotion of wellness.
EAP is there to facilitate counselling and promote wellness programmes and
support committees in a work setting.
External professionals, internal trainers or lecturers and other colleagues will assist
in facilitating all HIV/AIDS training programmes and other interventions on HIV/
AIDS matters at the workplace.
The EAP practitioner shall perform the function of HIV/AIDS Coordinator as
stipulated in the DPSA guidelines.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 66 of 183

12.4 Role of Trade Unions
(a) The PSCBC Resolution 8 of 2001, contains a Statement of Intent on an HIV and AIDS
policy and training framework, within which the employer and public service employees
who are members of various Trade Unions, that are parties to the signed resolution,
are to support and mobilise social partners to implement and enforce HIV and AIDS
policies and programmes at the workplace.
(b) Envisaged programme elements include:
i. Promotion of programmes on awareness/prevention of HIV/AIDS at the workplace;
ii. Assisting with awareness of HIV/AIDS policy at the workplace; and
iii. Assist in wellness programmes and training for HIV/AIDS infected and affected
members.
12.5

External Social Partners
(a) It is imperative to join in partnership with key non-governmental agencies, private
sector, religious groups and professionals in order to share information and expertise
on HIV/ AIDS, regarding the unfair discrimination and stigmatisation intended to defeat
the spread of HIV/AIDS. The Department will rely on the joint forces as employers,
youth women and men, as business people, religious organisations, as parents, teacher
student‘s workers, unemployed, sports organizations, Universities, trade unions, Health
professionals and other members of different sectors; and
(b) The Department will endeavour to uphold the spirit of partnership on a continuous
basis to strive for a better and healthy workplace.

13. MANAGING HIV/AIDS IN THE WORKPLACE
13.1 Strategic Overview
The Department is convinced that effective management of HIV/AIDS in
the workplace requires an integrated strategy that incorporates the following
elements:(a) An understanding and assessment of the impact of HIV/AIDS in the work place;
(b) Long and short term measures that deal with and reduce this impact including;
i. An HIV/AIDS policy for the workplace;
ii. A prevention programme, treatment, care ; and
iv. A management strategy to deal with the direct and indirect costs of
HIV/AIDS.
13.2 Budgetary Implications
The Department commits itself to avail a percentage of its overall budget for HIV/AIDS
management programmes, and this will be adjusted annually or according to MTSF to ensure
a workplace that is responsive to its HIV/AIDS challenges.
13.3 Impact and Action
(a)

The Impact and Action Reports released since 2000, identified areas of
shortcomings and the possible improvement in Departmental HIV/AIDS education
programmes. These include a condom distribution strategy, records of distributed
condoms, and targeting groups.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 67 of 183

(b)

In pursuit of the above, the Department commits itself to:i.

ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
14.

Establish an HIV/AIDS Committee together with a Help Desk which will
be responsible for all aspects of the workplace response through an
appointed focal person;
Collect and analyse data to inform the integrated human resource
strategic planning;
Regularly apply monitoring systems for compliance with labour and other
relevant forms of legislation;
Demonstrate leadership and management commitment for the workplace
HIV/AIDS response; and
Develop, manage and evaluate HIV/AIDS prevention and awareness
programmes and events

DISPUTE RESOLUTION

14.1

General Statement
(a)

(b)
(c)

14.2

HIV/AIDS disputes whether of a grievance or disciplinary nature will be handled
with utmost confidentiality, compassion, and professionalism within the framework
of dispute resolution mechanism as outlined in the Labour Relations Act, Public
Service Act and Public Service Resolutions.
All HIV/AIDS disputes will be dealt with expeditiously and with due regard to
fairness (procedural and substantive) and human dignity.
Any HIV/AIDS related grievance will be attended to respectively and
confidentially, in the shortest possible time and in accordance with the timeframes
stipulated in 14.3 below.

Disciplinary Action
(a) The Department reserves the right to take disciplinary action, in accordance with the
Labour Relations Act (as amended) and Resolution 2 of 1999 as amended by
Resolution 1 of 2003, against any person who violates any provision of this policy.
(b) The procedure to be followed in dealing with HIV/AIDS violations will be guided by
Resolution 1 of 2003 (Disciplinary Code and Procedures for the Public Service (DCP)).
(c) Sanctions may range from requiring an apology, being ordered to undergo appropriate
training, losing merit points and warnings to sanctions such as suspension, demotion
and dismissal for gross violations.
(d) Disciplinary action against a person affected or infected by HIV/AIDS will follow
normal procedures as outlined in resolution 1 of 2003.
(e) If the matter turns out to be an incapacity situation, schedule 8 of the Labour
Relations Act and the Incapacity procedures set out in the Incapacity and Ill-health
policy and PILLAR, will apply.

14.3 Grievance Procedures
(a) Informal Resolution by Manager or Immediate Supervisor
i.
ii.

An employee who feels that his or her rights relating to HIV/AIDS have been
violated may approach his or her manager or immediate supervisor for a resolution
If the employee is not satisfied with the outcome, she may report the matter to the
next level of authority or the HOD.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 68 of 183

(b) Mediation
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.

(c)

Formal Grievance Procedure.
i.

ii.
iii.

iv.

v.
iv.
vi.

(d)

As a general principle, any dispute arising from the interpretation and
implementation of this policy shall be dealt with by a mediator appointed by the
HOD with the consent of the parties.
If the mediation fails, then the HOD shall further attempt to mediate in his/her
capacity.
Should all attempts at mediation fail, an employee may approach the relevant
Bargaining Council or the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration.
Mediation requires the consent of both parties and suspends the complaint
procedure for up to thirty (30) working days, which can be extended, at the
discretion of the LRO with the consent of all parties.

Any employee who has a grievance relating to HIV/AIDS (which could not be resolved
informally) should file a grievance with their manager or immediate supervisor or the
LRO within a reasonable time of the occurrence of the conduct which gave rise to the
complaint;
A manager or supervisor who receives complaint must refer the complaint and submit
the complaint form to the LRO within twenty-four (24) hours of receipt of such
complaint;
The manager or supervisor is not allowed to conduct investigations, consult with either
of the parties, consult with witnesses, make copies of the complaint form or deal with
the complaint in any manner apart from merely referring it and may not discuss the
complaint with anybody except the LRO and the HOD;
The manager or supervisor may immediately, even before submitting such a complaint
to the LRO, refer the complainant to the EAP Unit, provided that this is done in
consultation with the complainant and only if the complainant consents to such a
referral;
The manager must treat the complaint with strict confidence and with respect for their
dignity and privacy;
Any Manager or supervisor or LRO who fails to comply with any of the conditions as set
out in paragraph (i)-(iv) above shall be disciplined;
The LRO must inform the person against whom such a complaint has been lodged, of
the complaint against him or her, within three (3) working days upon receipt of such
complaint. The person accused of an HIV/AIDS violation must be given an opportunity
to respond to the allegations in writing within three (3) working days upon being
informed of the complaint. If such a person fails to respond to the allegations within
the prescribed period, the LRO may assume that such a person waives his or her right
to respond to the allegations.

Investigation of Complaints
i.
ii.

An investigation to establish whether there is sufficient evidence to conclude that the
violation of this policy has taken place, must ensue under the offices of the LRO and
with the sanction of the HOD.
The LRO (in conjunction with any such person or persons who might be appointed by
the LRO expeditiously and with due regard to fairness, administrative justice and
confidentiality.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 69 of 183

(e)

Decisions relating to complaint
i.
ii.

(f)

The LRO must recommend appropriate recourse, which may include directing that
disciplinary action be taken. In making this decision cognisance must be taken
of the report of the investigation officer.
The LRO may decide, with the concurrence of the HOD, to dismiss the complaint or
may recommend recourse or formal disciplinary action.

Reporting of complaints
The LRO must compile a report of any complaint involving HIV/AIDS and its results within
five (5) working days of finalization of the complaint. The outcome of the complaint,
including any possible recourse and sanctions, should be placed in relevant personnel files.

(g)

Dissatisfaction with the outcome of the investigation
If the complainant is dissatisfied with the outcome of the handling of his or her grievance
she may, within thirty (30) days of the outcome being made known to him or her, refer
the matter to the Bargaining Council or the Equality Court depending on their employee
status as envisaged in the Labour Relations Act.

15

MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REVIEW

15.1

An Integrated Employee Health and Wellness Committee will monitor, evaluate and advise
on the implementation of the HIV/AIDS policy;

15.2

The Integrated Employee Health and Wellness Committee will be coordinated by an HIV/
AIDS Coordinator who is directly accountable to the Human Resources head and shall
comprise all key departmental stakeholders, including organised labour;

15.3

The HIV/AIDS Coordinator will be a member of the Committee; and

15.4

The policy shall be reviewed after every five years in the light of legal, policy and
behavioural changes, and appropriate adjustments/amendments shall be ratified and
communicated accordingly.

16. RELATED POLICIES
Effective implementation of this policy requires that it be read together with the Employment Equity
Policy, Recruitment Policy, Performance Management Policy, Ill Health and Incapacity Policy and
other Human Resources policies.
17. COMMENCEMENT OF THE POLICY
This policy shall be implemented by the Department with effect from the date of approval and
signature by the HOD.
______________________
OB MONGALE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT

_______________
Date:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 70 of 183

RECRUITMENT

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 71 of 183

NORTHWEST PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY
POLICY NO:
NAME OF POLICY:
EFFECTIVE ON:
DATE OF REVIEW:

HR2009/004
RECRUITMENT
…………………..
APRIL 2012
CONTENTS

Contents

Page

Preamble

72

1.

Abbreviations and Definitions ………………………………………...............

72

2.

Purpose and Objectives …………….…………………………………..............

72-73

3.

Principles ………………….………………………………………………..............

73

4.

Legislative Framework ….. …………………………………………….............

73

5.

Scope of Application ………………....………………………………….............

73

6.

Policy Statement ………………………………………………………….............

73

7.

Recruitment and Selection Practices ………………………………..............

74-75

8.

Short Listing and Interviews …………………………………………..............

75-78

9.

Background and Reference Checks ………………………………….............

78

10.

Medical, Psychological and Psychometric Evaluation …………..............

78

11.

Competency Assessment ……………………………………………................

78

12.

Unsuccessful Candidate ……………………………………………..…............

78

13.

Retention Documentation ………………………………………………...........

79

14.

Responsibilities and Obligations …………..………………………...............

79

15.

Dispute Resolution ………………………………………………………............

79-80

16.

Monitoring, Evaluation and Review …………………………………............

80

17.

Related Policies ……………………………………………………………...........

80

18.

Commencement of the Policy …………………………………………............

80

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 72 of 183

PREAMBLE
The Department of Public Safety (―the Department‖) recognises that identifying and recruiting
suitably qualified individuals representing the diversity of the provincial and South African
population is essential for cost effective and responsive service delivery.
1. ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
HOD:
MMS:
NIA:
SMS:

Head of Department.
Middle Management Service.
National Intelligence Agency.
Senior Management Service.

Department:

Department of Public Safety,

North West.

Employee:

An employee includes all employees of the Department
employed in terms of the Public Service Act of 1994, the
Basic Conditions of Employment Act of 1998, as amended
and includes contract workers, interns, volunteers and
prospective employees.

Internal Advertisement:

When a job is advertised within the Department and the
Public Service Sector.

External Advertisement:

When the job is advertised in the newspaper for the
Public‘s response.

Recruitment Agency:

Agency that is doing recruitment on behalf of the
Department.
People who conduct interviews.

Interviewing Panel:
2. PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES

2.1 The purpose of this policy is to ensure:
(a) Attraction and appointment of suitably qualified applicants or employees to vacant posts
within a reasonable time frame;
(b) The achievement of a representative department through the recruitment and selection of
suitably qualified applicants or employees in terms of the department‘s Employment Equity
Policy, Employment Equity Plan and applicable legislation;
(c) Consistency in the recruitment practice throughout the organisation;
(d) Compliance with employment equity law and other applicable laws and regulations;
(e) Delivery on the mandate of the department; and
(f) Improved retention rates.
2.1 The objectives of the Department with respect to recruitment are to:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

Strive to comply with the vision, mission and strategic intent of the department;
Attract, retain and develop quality employees;
Ensure a fair and transparent recruitment and selection practices;
Recruit the right people with the right competencies;
Establish a blend of skills that enhances the skills level of the department;
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 73 of 183

(f)

Ensure that the Department at all times has sufficiently qualified personnel to fulfil its
staffing requirements;
(g) Comply with the principles and targets as set out in the department‘s Employment Equity
Policy, as amended from time to time; and
(h) Comply with any law or prescript/guidelines governing or impacting on recruitment and
selection including the Constitution.
3. PRINCIPLES
3.1 Employment practices shall ensure employment equity, fairness, efficiency and the
achievement of a representative Department.
3.2 Affirmative action shall be used to speed up the creation of a representative and equitable
public service and to give practical support to those who have been previously disadvantaged
by unfair discrimination to enable them to fulfil their maximum potential.
3.3 Employment practices should maximise flexibility, minimise administrative burdens on both the
Department, employee and generally prevent waste and inefficiency.
4. LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5

Employment Equity Act,1998;
Public Service Act ,1994;
Public Service Regulations, 1999;
The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa; and
Code of Good Practice on the Integration of Employment Equity into Human Resource Policies
and Practices.

5. SCOPE OF APPLICATION
This policy is applicable to all the employees of the department.
6. POLICY STATEMENT
6.1 The Department is committed to utilise recruitment and selection practices that are based on
merit, equity, objectivity, fairness and the need to redress the imbalances of the past so as to
achieve a Department that is broadly representative.
6.2 The recruitment process should reflect the department‘s employment equity values and goals.
6.3 All phases of the recruitment process will support the recruitment of suitably qualified men
and women from diverse racial and other backgrounds with a view to giving them an
opportunity to serve all the people of the province and ultimately, South Africa, with
excellence and responsiveness.
6.4 Considerations of affirmative action will inform the entire recruitment process.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 74 of 183

7. RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION PRACTICES
7.1 Need for Recruitment
(a) All internal and external recruitment initiatives shall be co-ordinated and managed
exclusively by the Human Resources Manager within the Department, in consultation with
the line manager where the vacancy occurs. He or she will work under the guidance and
monitoring of the Head of the Department.
(b) The relevant line manager must inform the Human Resources Manager as soon as a
vacancy arises in his or her Directorate or when a new position is created.
(c) The line manager, in consultation with the Human Resources Manager, must compile the
job description in respect of the vacant or new position, paying particular attention to the
following areas:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.

Main purpose of the position;
Principal responsibilities;
Academic and technical qualifications required;
Core competencies; and
Work experience required.

(d) The line manager must submit written request together with the job description and
specifications of the position to be filled to the Human Resource Manager.
(e) A request to fill and advertise a post must specify the following information and be
accompanied by:
i. A draft advertisement;
ii. A job description;
iii. The details of the post including the job title, the component in which the post is
located, the number of the component and the number of the post;
iv. Reasons why the post became vacant, when the post was vacated;
v. Where the post is to be advertised;
vi. The closing date for applications; and
vii. Recommendations from the Employment Equity Manager or his or her designee
regarding Employment Equity targets;
(f)

The submission must be approved in writing, by the executing authority or his/her duly
authorised delegate.
(g) In the case of senior appointments, being levels 11 to 15 the written approval of the
Member of the Executive Committee is required.
7.2 Internal Recruitment
(a) The information contained in the job description will be used to compile a job
advertisement.
(b) The Department will advertise all vacancies or newly created positions internally, and/or
externally, in the notice boards of all divisions or sections and / or on the intranet and/or
by way of e-mail, for a period of at least 4 (four) weeks, unless internal advertising is not
appropriate in the circumstances due to operational requirements.
(c) All applications must be directed to the Human Resources Manager.
(d) The provisions of 7.2 (b) will not be considered where specialist skills, expertise and/or
experience are required for the position and such skills or expertise are not present
internally.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 75 of 183

(e) The department retains a discretion, depending on each vacancy, to advertise
internally first or, concurrently, internally and externally. Such discretion is to be
exercised taking into consideration the stated objectives of the Department‘s
Recruitment Policy.
7.3

External Recruitment
(a) In the absence of suitable internal applicants in the department and Public Service, the
department will invite applications from outside the Public Sector;
(b) This process could be conducted concurrently with the internal recruitment process,
depending on the probability of finding a suitable candidate from with the Department.

7.4

Media Advertising
(a) The Human Resources Manager, in conjunction with the relevant Line Manager, will
agree on the requirements of the position and will compile the advertisement to be
submitted to publications that will be accessible to all the relevant population groups,
especially persons historically disadvantaged;
(b) The advertisement should not exclude any groups, on the basis set out in the
Employment Equity Act, from making application for the position;
(c) Employees that are on maternity leave should be informed of positions advertised in
the workplace (excluding the ones advertised externally) by respective Line Managers;
(d) The advertisement should state that the department is committed to the principles
contained in its Employment Equity Plan and that preference will be given to
candidates who enhance its employment equity status and affirmative action;
(e) Advertisement for posts shall not be for more than a month;
(f) If operational needs change, the department can vary the advertisement provided
reasonable notice is given in respect of a revised advertised position and/or any
existing applicants are timeously notified;
(g) The advertisement must specifically state that applications will not be acknowledged
and should an applicant not receive an invitation to attend an interview within three
months from closing date, such applicant is to assume that his or her application was
unsuccessful;
(h) In the event that a post is to be re-advertised, the ―new‖ advertisement must clearly
state that it is a re-advertisement and that applicants who applied previously are at
liberty to re-apply.

7.5

Recruitment Agencies
(a) Recruitment Agencies may be used in respect of certain job categories;
(b) The use of any recruitment agencies must be approved in writing by the Head of the
Department and the terms of the appointment of such agencies shall be set out in
writing, including the recruitment fee and related terms;
(c) The department reserves its rights to use more than one recruitment agency or to
change recruitment agencies from time to time;
(d) If permission is given for the use of recruitment agencies, the recruitment agency/ies
must be provided with detailed job profiles timeously;
(e) The department should make the recruitment agency/ies aware of its employment
equity policy.

7.6 Head hunting
Headhunting will not be encouraged except in exceptional circumstances.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 76 of 183

8. SHORT LISTING AND INTERVIEWS
8.1 Appointing a Selection Committee
(a) The appropriate delegated authority shall appoint a Selection Committee, recommended by
the manager heading the section in question, to consider applications and make
recommendations on appointment to posts;
(b) The Selection Committee must consist of at least three but no more than five members
who are departmental employees of a grading equal to or higher than the grading of the
post to be filled and the Selection Committee which labour will form part of may in certain
circumstances include suitable persons from outside the public service;
(c) The composition of the Selection Committee should be balanced in terms of gender, race
and to the extent possible, disability;
(d) The Selection Committee must be also inclusive with regard to the technical aspects of the
job and must include at least one member who has knowledge of the key performance
areas of the post;
(e) The Chairperson must be the Head of the Directorate or the Head of Section of the
component in which the post is located and must be at least one grading higher than the
post to be filled;
(f) Employees of a grading which is lower than the grading of the post to be filled may provide
secretarial or advisory services during selection process, but shall not form part of the
selection committee;
(g) The selection committee shall make recommendations on the suitability of a candidate
after considering only:
i.

Information based on valid methods, criteria or instruments for selection that are free
from any bias or discrimination;
ii. Training, skills, competence and knowledge necessary to meet the inherent
requirements of the post;
iii. The need of the department for developing human resources;
iv. The representativeness of the component where the post is located; and
v. The department‘s affirmative action programme.
(h) In making the selection, preference will be given to persons from Designated Groups, as
set out in the Employment Equity Act;
(i) An officer serving in the same occupational class as that in which the advertised post falls
and in respect of whom the non-compliance with a prescribed educational qualification has
already been condoned, must be regarded as having complied with such prescribed
qualification; Provided that where compliance with formal qualifications has been
prescribed for further career progression to certain higher post levels, serving officers,
except those who were exempted from such requirements must first obtain the relevant
qualifying requirement in order to be considered for such post;
(j) The application, together with the accompanying documentation of each applicant specified
in the schedule of sifted applicants, must be considered and scored against the short-listing
criteria during the short-listing process;
(k) The department may exercise its discretion not to make any appointment at all;
(l) No right accrues to a person merely because he or she may be a candidate for a particular
post. A right only becomes established when the formal process has been concluded, the
transfer, promotion or appointment has been approved and the person has been informed
in writing of his or her successful application or candidature.
(m) No expectation, promises and communication must be created and directed to the
candidate at any intermediate phase of the process to fill a post and until the formal
written approval of the executing authority (or his delegate) has been given.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 77 of 183

8.2

Preparing for Selection Interviews
(a) The Department should provide training and guidance to the Selection Committee on:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.

interviewing skills;
the measuring system;
employment equity and affirmative action; and
matters relating to diversity, including skills for recognizing different dimensions of
merit.

(b) Short-listed applicants must be invited verbally and in writing to attend an interview at
least seven working days before the date of the interviews and the letter must specify
all the relevant information regarding the interviews, such as the date, venue and time.
(c) All administrative arrangements for the interviews must be done simultaneously so as
to avoid delays on the date of the interviews.
(d) No applicant shall be appointed permanently unless he or she:
i. is a South African Citizen (unless an exemption has been obtained)
ii. is of good character, and
iii. in so far as his or her condition of health is concerned, complies with such
requirements as may be prescribed.
8.3

Interviewing Applicants
(a) The Selection Committee must meet prior to the commencement of the interview to
amongst other things:
i.

set the interview questions which must be based on the key performance areas of
the job and the key actions associated with them, including competencies and
skills, as specified in the advertisement and require applicants to give examples
that demonstrate, amongst other things, appropriate competencies, skills,
knowledge and training;
ii. compile the model answers for the questions;
iii. decide on a standard point system for scoring each applicant‘s reply to each set of
questions.
(b) Each member of the Selection Committee should briefly indicate on his or her scoring
sheet the reason for each score given regarding an applicant‘s reply.
(c)
The Chairperson must determine the average of all the total scores and announce
the highest scoring applicant to the Selection Committee.
(d) The scoring should integrate points awarded on account of race, gender and disability
to promote equitable representation of Designated Groups.
8.4

Recommending Suitable Applicant
(a) When offering a job, the Department should ensure that a realistic job preview is
provided to ensure that both the applicant and the Department‘s expectations are
congruent. This is to facilitate the retention of employees from designated groups by
effectively managing expectations before the applicant accepts a position, i.e. it must
be clear to the applicant what the expectations are, lines of authority and specific
responsibilities.
(b) After discussing the scores of the applicants, the Selection Committee must
recommend the highest scoring applicant for appointment to the post.
(c) Where no applicant is found to be suitable the Selection Committee may recommend
that the post be re-advertised.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 78 of 183

(d) The Selection Committee must provide written reasons as to why the recommended
applicant was found to be suitable for the post and why other applicants were found to
be unsuitable and these must be recorded in the minutes of the Selection Committee.
9. BACKGROUND AND REFERENCE CHECKS
9.1 Prior to any offer of employment being made, whether written or verbal, reference checks in
respect of previous work history and educational qualifications must be carried out on the
selected candidate.
9.2 Reference checks should not be conducted in a manner that unfairly discriminates.
The same type of reference checks must be conducted on all short-listed applicants.
9.3 Preliminary vetting by NIA should be done prior to an offer of employment being made.
9.4 Preliminary vetting should include criminal record, credit and citizenship checks.
10. MEDICAL, PSYCHOLOGICAL AND PSYCHOMETRIX EVALUATION
10.1 The department will use, should medical testing and/or psychological evaluation (including
psychometric testing) be necessary, comply with the requirements of the Employment Equity
Act or any other legislation regulating medical and psychological evaluation.
10.2 Evaluation should include rather than exclude individuals with potential and those suitably
qualified.
10.3 Where necessary competency tests may be used as part of the interview process, provided
that they:
(a)
(b)

are not arbitrary; and
do not unfairly discriminate against any applicant

11. COMPETENCY ASSESSMENTS
11.1 All appointments at MMS and SMS levels should, in addition to an interview, be backed by
a competency assessment, conducted by an agency accredited by the Department of Public
Service and Administration.
11.2 The recommendation to appoint should be based on the interview and the competency
assessment results.
12. UNSUCCESSFUL CANDIDATE
12.1

Where possible, all unsuccessful applicants must be informed in writing that they have
been unsuccessful.

12.2

Where unsuccessful applicants were referred by a recruitment agency, the recruitment
agency must be informed in writing within six weeks that the candidate has been
unsuccessful. No direct communication is to take place between the applicant and the
Department, which includes any of its employees including the Human Resources Manager.

12.3

In respect of unsolicited applications for employment with the Department, all
documentation submitted shall be returned to the applicant, with a letter advising that
applications should only be made in response to advertised positions.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 79 of 183

13. RETENTION OF DOCUMENTATION
13.1

All documentation submitted by an applicant for employment, including documentation
generated during the selection and recruitment process must be kept for all successful and
unsuccessful candidates for at least 1 (one) year following the completion of the
recruitment process;

13.2

Such documentation shall include the application for employment, all internal and external
advertisements, correspondence with recruitment agencies, the results of any tests
conducted and minutes of any interviews held;

13.3

The department may keep data on its recruitment process to inform its employment equity
strategy and for monitoring changes in attitudes and actions of managers. This information
could include:
(a)
(b)

(c)

the demographic details of applicants who apply, those who are short listed,
interviewed and those who are made offers;
the demographic details of applicants in relation to short listing, interviewing and
job offers made in each Directorate to establish which sections within the
workplace are advancing the employment equity profile of the Department; and
the names of the Selection Committee members.

13.4

This documentation is strictly confidential and will be kept by the Human Resources
Directorate.

14.

RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS

14.1

Chairperson of the Selection Committee
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

14.2

Chairs the interview process;
Ensures that all members of the Selection Committee are made aware and abide
by the Public Service Code of Conduct and relevant Departmental policy and
procedures;
Advise the members of the committee and other employees involved in the
selection process of the confidentiality of the process;
Ensures that order is maintained throughout the process; and
Must ensure that the panel is given copies of and appropriately apprised of the
Employment Equity Profile and Employment Equity Plan of the Department and the
section in question before the commencement of the interview.

The Selection Committee
(a) Ensure that they adhere to the Code of Conduct for the Public Service and the
departmental policy on Recruitment and Selection.
(b) Ensure that the recruitment and selection process is procedurally fair and transparent
and is free from discrimination and bias.
(c) Ensure that all criteria utilized during the short-listing and interviewing process are
in line with the advertisement and the inherent requirements of the post.

15.

DISPUTE RESOLUTION

15.1 Each grievance will be attended in the shortest possible time and in accordance with the
stipulated time frames of the current dispute resolution mechanisms;

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 80 of 183

15.2 Any dispute arising from the interpretation and implementation of this policy shall be dealt
with by a mediator appointed by the HOD with the consent of the parties. If the mediation
fails, then the HOD shall further attempt to mediate in his or her capacity; and
15.3 Should all attempts at mediation fail, an employee may seek recourse in external avenues.
16.

MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REVIEW
The department‘s Human Resources Sub-Directorate is responsible for communicating the
provisions of this document within the department. All managers and supervisors are
responsible for the implementation thereof.

17.

RELATED POLICIES
Effective implementation of this policy requires that it be read together with the Employment
Equity Policy and Code of Good Practice on Integration of Employment Equity into Human
Resources Policies and Practices.

18.

COMMENCEMENT OF THE POLICY

This policy shall be implemented by the Department with effect from the date of approval and
signature by the HOD.
APPROVED

______________________
OB MONGALE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT

_______________
Date:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 81 of 183

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 82 of 183

NORTHWEST PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY
POLICY NO:
NAME OF POLICY:
EFFECTIVE ON:
DATE OF REVIEW:

HR2009/005
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY
……………………..
APRIL 2012
CONTENTS

Contents

Page

Preamble
1.
Abbreviations and Definitions ………………………………………………… ..............

83-85

2.

Purpose and Objectives..………………………………………………………................

85

3.

Principles…………………………………………………………………………….................

85

4.

Legislative Framework………………………………………………………..…...............

85-86

5.

Scope of application………………………………………………………….….................

86

6.

Policy Statement………………………………………………………………….................

86

7.

Policy provisions………………………………………………………………….................

86-94

8.

Institutional Mandate- Roles and Responsibilities……………………..................

94-96

9.

General Guidelines……………………………………………………………….................

96-99

10.

Dispute Resolution ………………………………………………………………................

99

11.

Monitoring, Evaluation and Review ………………………………………..….............

99

12.

Related Policies ……………………………………………………………………................

99

13.

Commencement of the Policy …………………………………………………...............

100

Table A: Rating Reward Scale table (level 1-10)………………………………….................

101

Table B: Rating Reward Scale table (level 11-12) ………………………………................

102

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 83 of 183

PREAMBLE
The realm is that the Public Service is faced with challenges to improve service delivery standards.
In order to ensure that employees are accountable for the achievement of strategic objectives of
the Department of Public Safety, a Performance Management and Development System was
deemed necessary in line with the requirements of PART VIII of the Public Service Regulations,
2001 (as amended). Through this, the department should be able to align daily activities
undertaken by employees in line with strategic objectives and thus, work towards the institutional
mandate.
The system also enables both the employees and their supervisors to plan work and clarify
performance expectations well in advance and agree on how these will be measured. Performance
shall then be monitored and evaluated in order to provide constructive feedback on performance
achievements by employees. Performance recognition will also be given while at the same time
addressing inadequate levels of performance. This policy shall then provide a framework to guide
supervisors and employees within the department in terms of performance management and
development issues highlighted above.
1. ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
CMC:
DPSA:
GAF:
KPA:
KRA:
MC:
MEC:
PAAP:
PDP:
PI:
PMDS:
SMS:

Core Management Criteria.
Department of Public Service and Administration.
Generic Assessment Factors.
Key Performance Area.
Key Performance Area.
Moderating Committee.
Member of the Executive Council.
Performance Assistance Panel.
Performance Development Plan.
Performance indicators.
Performance Management Development System.
Senior Management Service.

Annual assessment:

Refers to all performance assessment reviews
conducted, calculated to an average rating and reflected in
percentage.

Approving Authority:

An official with the delegated authority to approve reward
related payments.

Annual performance percentage:

A percentage as calculated on the assessment calculator
illustrating the overall annual performance.

Competencies:

Refers to skills, knowledge and attributes required to
perform areas attached to the job.

Core management criteria:

These are competencies for SMS members as defined by
Chapter 4 of the SMS handbook.

Department:

Department of Public Safety, North West.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 84 of 183

Direct supervision:

This refers to the jobholder having a direct reporting line
to a supervisor.

Employees:

The term employee is as defined by the Public Service Act
of 1994 and the Basic Conditions of Employment Act of
1998, as amended.

Generic assessment factors:

These are elements and standards of competencies taking
into consideration skills, knowledge and attributes for
levels 1-12 as prescribed by the DPSA.

Indirect supervision:

This refers to the jobholder having an indirect reporting
line to a supervisor.

Job purpose:

Describes the overall focus of the job as it relates to the
vision and mission of the department. Job purpose is the
overall accountability that the jobholder has in relation to
his/her position.

Key Performance Area:

Key Performance Area is an area of a job that is critical to
making an effective contribution to the overall goal which
must be achieved and to ensure that the goal is fully
accomplished.

Moderating Committee:

A committee consisting of a minimum of 3 members that
will review final annual assessments.

Overall annual rating:

The value of the contribution of an employee displayed by
means of a rating of 1-5 on each key performance area.

Pay progression:

Pay progression is an upward movement of a salary notch
in a salary range.

Performance agreement:

The performance agreement is a formal documented
agreement signed by both the supervisor and an employee
detailing an employee‘s performance deliverables and
developmental areas for a given performance cycle.

Performance Assessment
Instrument:

Relevant forms to be completed by all employees in
assessments.

Performance Bonus:

A performance bonus is a once of cash amount.

Performance Indicators:

Performance indicators measure the results of the
achieved key performance area.

Performance Management Cycle:

A performance management cycle refers to a 12 month
period that runs from 1 April to 31 March concurrently with
the financial year.

Performance measure:

Describes the performance indicator in terms of time-lines,
cost quality or quantity.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 85 of 183

Performance Reward:

A form of recognition by means of a performance bonus or
pay progression.

Personal Development Plan:

A plan that identifies developmental areas for an employee
and indicates how these will be addressed for purposes of
enhancing performance.

Remuneration budget:

The total component budget reflecting all personnel
expenditure.

Supervisor:

An official responsible for the management of performance
of employee/s reporting directly or indirectly to him/her.

2. PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
The Performance Management and Development System (hereafter referred to as the PMD
System) in the department is intended to deal with performance management issues in a
consultative, supportive and non-discriminatory manner in order to achieve strategic objectives
of the department and enhance service delivery requirements.
3. PRINCIPLES
3.1 Performance management process shall be linked to the Department of Public Safety vision,
mission and values, as well as the overall strategic objectives thereof, in order to progressively
improve service delivery.
3.2 The emphasis on performance management should be an integrated approach towards
planning individual work well in advance and how it will be managed. Both the employee and
his/ her supervisor shall participate in formulating and deciding on performance expectations
in order to enhance mutual ownership.
3.3 Performance management system shall be developmental to enhance excellent performance
and also allow effective response to poor performance through Personal Development Plans.
3.4 Performance management should encourage open and on-going communication through
performance feedback.
3.5 Performance shall be monitored and evaluated in a transparent manner where both the
supervisor and employee are actively involved in the process to maintain fair administrative
justice.
3.6 The Labour Relations Act, 1995 (Act No. 66 of 1995) and relevant PSCBC collective
agreements shall be used as a basis for dealing with poor performance as a last resort. A
Workplan shall not be used as basis for dismissing employees but could serve as evidence in
this regard.
3.7 Performance management and development process in the department should be simple to
understand and administer.
4. LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK
The following main legislative framework shall be applicable to this policy:
4.1 Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 2002 (as amended);
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 86 of 183

4.2 Batho Pele White Paper on Transforming Public Service Delivery;
4.3 Labour Relations Act, 1998 (as amended);
4.4 Public Service Act, 1994 (Proclamation No. 103 of 1994)(as amended);
4.5 Public Service Regulations, 2001 (as amended);
4.6 Skills Development Act, 1998;
4.7

White Paper on Human Resource Management in the Public Service;

4.8

White Paper on Public Service Training and Development;

4.9

White Paper on Transformation in the Public Service;

4.10 The Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, (Act No.4 of 2000)
4.11 Public Finance Management Act, 1999 (Act No. 1 of 1999);
4.12 Relevant PBCBC and GPSSBC Collective Agreements; and
4.13 Other mandatory requirements from the Department of Public Service and Administration as
well as Provincial and internal departmental policies, guidelines and directives relevant and
complementary to this policy shall be applicable.
5. SCOPE OF APPLICATION
5.1 This policy shall be applicable to all employees on levels 1-10 as well as MMS Members (levels
11-12), appointed in terms of the provisions of the Public Service Act 1994, as amended.
5.2 This policy shall be used to manage employee‘s performance, development, probation,
monitoring and evaluation (appraisal) as well as the allocation of rewards and other measures
that may be prescribed by DPSA from time to time.
6. POLICY STATEMENT
The Department of Public Safety commit itself to implement a performance management and
development system that will translate the departmental strategy into individual performance
agreements enabling the promotion of organisational efficiency.
7. POLICY PROVISIONS
7.1 The objectives of the PMD System/policy.
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.

To provide a tool for evaluating performance fairly and objectively.
To provide a framework for compiling Workplans, Generic Assessment Factors (GAFs) and
Personal Development Plans.
To provide guidelines on monitoring and evaluating performance of employees based on
a mutually agreed Workplan(s)/ Agreements.
To provide guidelines on dealing with poor or under-performance of employees by
identifying , managing and promoting the jobholders development needs
To provide guidelines on the management and allocation of rewards for sustained above
average performance.
To ensure that jobholders know and understand what is expected of them
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 87 of 183

vii.
viii.

To create an environment that promotes performance and a learning driven culture.
To allow measures for corrective placement and career planning of employees.

7.2 Performance Planning and Workplans.
(a) All employees (newly appointed or promoted) shall enter into performance contract that
includes, performance agreements (Annexure A), signed Annual Workplans (Annexure ‗B‘)
as well as Personal Development Plans (Annexure ‗C‘) within one (1) month after
assumption of duty.
(b) Existing employees shall have entered into performance agreements and signed
Workplans on or before the 15th April of each performance cycle starting from 01 April to
31 March of the following year.
(c) The Workplans shall be reviewed constantly in line with business priorities of the
department or circumstances such as operational requirements, new assignments,
transfers and promotions.
(d) The following main elements shall form part of the Workplan:
Strategic Objective
Key Result Areas
Key Activities.
Weights.
Performance Measures indicating:
(aa)
Target Date(s).
(bb)
Quality and Quantity
vi. Appraisal review period
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.

(e) The process of performance planning should be prioritised as it enables both the
supervisor and the employee to clarify performance expectations well in advance and
avoid any possible future misunderstandings. This involves performance standard setting,
performance outputs/objectives determined by both the supervisor and the employee.
These must be linked with departmental strategic goals;
(f) The criteria upon which the performance of an employee is assessed consist of Key Result
Areas (KRAs) and the Generic Assessment Factors (GAFs). Each employee must be
assessed against both areas. KRAs covering the main areas of work will account for 70%
of the final assessment, while the GAFs make up the other 30% of the assessment score;
(g) Each and every employee with supervisory responsibilities, a standard Key Result Area
(KRA) addressing ―People Development and Management‖ aspects shall be compulsory
and must be included in the Workplan. The KRA must have a weight of at least 10%;
(h) The aforesaid KRA should at least cover the following activities:
i. Employee orientation and staff relations.
ii. Performance management aspects.
iii. Knowledge management and career planning.
7.3 Profiling of Generic Assessment Factors (GAF)
(a) Generic Assessment Factors shall be used for purposes of matching job requirements
outlined in the Workplan and current skills levels for planning development actions;
(b) They are also useful in identifying similarities between job family groups to determine
future capabilities for career planning purposes;
(c) The Generic Assessment Factors shall be linked to Key Result Area in a Workplan;
(d) The GAF shall comprise of the following elements:
i.

Knowledge – the ‗know how‘ of how a key activity or objective should be
accomplished.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 88 of 183

Skills – the abilities to be demonstrated or applied in carrying out an activity or
objective.
iii. Attributes – the personality behaviours applicable to enable an employee to
successfully accomplish an activity or objective.
ii.

(e) GAFs are used to calculate 30% of the assessment score for employees on salary level 112. From this list, the supervisor and employee must agree on at least five out of fifteen
GAFs (Annexure ‗D‘) that are deemed to be most important for effective performance in
that particular job
7.4 Performance Development Plans (PDP’s).
(a) The aim of PDP‘s is to create opportunities and support employees to improve their
current skills level and contribute towards their professional career growth.
(b) A PDP shall be used for addressing priority development needs of employees to enhance
current skills level as well as a tool to address poor performance.
(c) Employees should take personal responsibility for their own development with their
supervisors playing a support role.
(d) A PDP shall be linked to Key Result Areas and GAF as outlined in an employee‘s Workplan
and job description respectively. Employees who attended training courses through a PDP
should be assessed on the affected KRAs to determine performance improvement as a
result of such development actions.
(e) Development actions shall be undertaken bearing in mind the financial viability and the
principles of fairness to all employees.
(f) However, financial constraints should be countered through on-the-job training by
supervisors or a colleague assigned as a mentor (whichever is applicable). The
Directorate: Human Resource Management can also be approached for appropriate
interventions.
7.5 Performance Progress Reviews and Appraisals.
(a) Bi-annual progress reviews.
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.
vii.

The first mandatory half-yearly performance progress review shall take place in
September during each performance cycle.
The next reviews shall be done at the end of March, coinciding with the final
performance appraisal process.
Six monthly performance progress reviews shall be used to monitor performance
and provide feedback on achievements according to agreed individual Workplans or
Business Plans relevant to each component.
It is compulsory to conduct all two progress reviews. Employees, who join the
department or get promoted / transferred before the end of the six months period
or in the middle, shall be expected to align their review periods accordingly.
It is also important for those employees being transferred or promoted within the
department to finalise their reviews before assuming new responsibilities
elsewhere.
Quarterly progress reviews shall be used to monitor and evaluate performance
progress of probationers in order to address their needs, e.g. development,
resources, correct placement (where possible), etc.
Both the employee and his/ her supervisor shall share the responsibility for
initiating progress review discussions on performance. Any obstacles towards
achieving agreed objectives must be identified and remedial actions agreed upon.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 89 of 183

(b) Annual performance appraisals/ assessments.
i.
ii.

iii.
iv.

v.
vi.

vii.

Annual appraisals shall be based on the overall performance achievements during a
particular performance cycle (i.e. a twelve month period from 1 April to 31 March).
Those employees who were transferred horizontally to a post within the same
family group or occupational class (within the department), shall be assessed
having combined the two periods served in each post during a specific performance
cycle. Inputs from the previous supervisor(s) and the current supervisor shall be
considered for performance appraisal purposes.
Employees who did not complete a full cycle (i.e. twelve months period) must also
finalize their annual performance appraisals regardless of whether there are
rewards involved or not.
All appraisals for employees on levels 1-12 must be finalised before any senior
manager‘s performance appraisal can be considered to be valid. In other words,
they should be used to inform the performance of the senior managers and
components they are accountable for.
Annual appraisals shall be used as a basis for providing feedback on the job done
whether there are monetary rewards involved or not.
Employees who were on an approved leave of absence (i.e. sick, or maternity)
during a particular performance cycle shall not be disadvantaged during appraisals
as a result of their absence. Where an employee has been absent for a prolonged
period of time such as maternity leave, long study leave, incapacity leave longer
than 30 days, the supervisor and the employee must have a discussion for mutual
agreement on the ability to execute a meaningful performance review for that
period. If it is not possible, it must be indicated in writing in the remarks columns
on the half yearly review form following that period. A period of at least 9 (nine)
months‘ actual performance must be considered for a recommendation on the
allocation of a performance reward except for employees on maternity leave where
a required completed period must be 8 (eight) months.
In the event of resignation or death, payment of recommended rewards will only
be considered where the employee had completed a full performance cycle, that is
from April to March of a particular financial year and the performance results are
known.

(c) Rating scale.
i.
A five (5) point scale shall be used for rating individual performance.
ii.
The descriptions of each scale from one (1) to (5) are as follows:
RATING
1
2
3
4
5

DESCRIPTION
Unacceptable performance
Performance not fully effective
Performance fully effective
Performance significantly above Expectations
Outstanding Performance

iii. It is important to note that any rating scores allocated for 4s and 5s requires
evidence of performance achievements or outcomes.
iv. The guidelines for each rating(s) are attached as Table 1 and 2.
(aa)
(bb)

Each KRA must be assessed on the extent to which the specified
standards have been met and outputs achieved.
An indicative rating on the five-point scale must be provided for each
KRA.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 90 of 183

(cc)
(dd)
v.

This rating must be multiplied by the weighting given to the KRA during
the contracting process, to provide a score.
The rating calculator can be used to add the scores and calculate a final
KRA score, based on the 70% weighting allocated to the KRAs.

Assessment of the GAFs
(aa)

Each GAF must be assessed according to the extent to which the
specified standards have been met.
(bb) An indicative rating on the five-point scale must be provided for each
GAF.
(cc) This rating must be multiplied by the weighting given to each GAF
during the contracting process, to provide a score.
(dd) The rating calculator may then be used to add the scores and calculate a
final GAF score, based on the 30% weighting allocated to the GAFs.
vi.

Overall rating
(aa)

An overall score, in accordance with the assessment rating is provided
as a summary of the outcome of the performance review for KRAs and
GAFs.
(bb) The assessment rating calculator may then be used to provide a final
score based on adding the scores achieved for the KRAs and the GAFs.
7.6 Allocation of Performance Rewards.
(a) The Head of Department shall have the discretion to determine the allocation criteria for
performance rewards to employees who are eligible to qualify for the granting thereof.
This shall be informed by availability of financial resources and other mandatory
requirements from time to time.
(b) The allocation of rewards shall be done in order to recognise the value added by
employees in contribution towards the achievement of business priorities of their
components and strategic goals of the department.
(c) The emphasis shall be on service delivery requirements and not individual entitlement to
rewards. In other words, the allocation of rewards is not a right but a way of recognising
performance rendered in return for the value added towards achieving agreed objectives/
outputs.
(d) Performance bonuses shall be considered if the employee has completed a period of at
least twelve months in a notch and has rendered a sustained or consistent above average
performance during the period under review.
(e) Notches in terms of pay progression shall also be considered if the employee has
completed a period of at least twelve months and has rendered consistent acceptable
level of performance during the period under review (i.e. a minimum overall performance
rating score of 100% must be achieved).
(f) The allocation of rewards shall only be implemented after the following requirements
have been fulfilled:
i.
ii.
iii.

The Performance Appraisal discussion between the employee and the supervisor
should have taken place. Please remember that the higher level supervisors can
never be excluded from this process.
The annual performance appraisal of individual employees‘ must contribute towards
the achievements of business priorities and strategic goals of their components or
districts.
The relevant Heads of Components must have officially recommended appraisal
results by the various Moderating Committees.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 91 of 183

(g) The recommendations shall serve as the basis for the Head of Department or MEC to
make a final decision on the implementation of performance related rewards.
(h) The appraisal results must be received not later than 01 June of a specific year after the
annual appraisal period.
(i) Although the employer has the right to manage the performance of ―Interns‖ while they
are placed within the department, the possible benefits provided for in this policy are not
extended to ―Interns‖.
7.7 Performance Moderating Committee
(a) Mandatory requirements.
i.

ii.
iii.

iv.

The Head of Department shall ensure that supporting mechanisms exist for the
moderation of appraisal results. Thus, Chief Directorates and Districts shall be
accountable for the establishment of functional Moderating Committees.
The Committee shall then make recommendations on the findings of the moderation
process to the relevant delegated authority in order to make a final decision.
All principles of the policy shall have been complied with before cases could be
referred at this level. The criteria applicable during appraisals should be used
accordingly.
Any dissatisfaction arising as a result of the outcome of the Moderating Committee
shall be referred to the Appeals Committee through the PMDS Unit.

(b) Composition of the Committee
i.
ii.

iii.
iv.
v.

Chairperson must be the delegated officer who must be at least one level above
employees being considered for appraisal and appointed by the HOD or delegated
Authority.
Panel members: A minimum of two officials, appointed by the HOD or delegated
authority, who are at least one level/ rank higher than the employee being assessed,
e.g. Directors or equivalent ranks for purposes of assessing Deputy Directors or
posts of equal grading. These can similarly be cascaded depending on the levels of
employees being considered by the Committee.
Reporting officer: normally, a direct or immediate supervisor of the employee.
Secretariat: PMDS Unit.
HR representative: Advisory capacity/ role.

(c) Roles and Responsibilities
i.

Chairperson.
(aa)

The chairperson shall have the right to request any further information from
reporting officers or employees should there be a need to substantiate
performance rating scores in order to make an informed decision.
(bb) The chairperson shall ensure that individual performance achievements
correlate and support the objectives of the Directorate‘s Business or Strategic
Plan, thereby linking the process with improvement of service delivery.
(cc) Ensure that adequate records are kept in line with decisions taken in order to
enable supervisors to provide constructive feedback to their subordinates.
(dd) The Chairperson must outline the appeals procedure/process to the reporting
officer

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 92 of 183

ii.

Panel Members.
(aa)

Ensure consistent and objective appraisal process takes place with regard to
cases presented to the committee. Membership to the panel shall be informed
by the level of functional expertise relevant to cases considered before the
Committee.
(bb) Advice the Chairperson on any aspects of performance appraisals which do not
add value towards achievement of component‘s business priorities or
departmental strategic objectives and service delivery requirements.
(cc) Move for the adoption of the decision by the committee.
iii.

Reporting Officer.
(aa)

Report on the key achievements by their respective employees which formed
the basis for performance rating scores allocated in relation to agreed
performance standards or measuring criteria.
(bb) Ensure that the performance rating scores allocated are aligned to the
component‘s business priorities and the impact of performance, thereof add
value towards the achievement of strategic objectives.
(cc) Ensure that the employee is provided with feedback on the outcome of the
committee's decision pending approval by the delegated authority.
(dd) Shall ensure that the following documents are provided at least a week in
advance before any appraisal could be considered (i.e. a signed Workplan with
two progress reviews completed).
(ee) Must obtain additional information from their respective employee in order to
substantiate their achievements in relation to rating scores allocated.
iv.

Secretariat.
(aa)

Co-ordinate meetings and other documents necessary for the sitting of the
Moderating Committee.
(bb) Record proceedings and decisions taken by the Committee and compile
reports or minutes thereof.
(cc) Ensure that the chairperson has signed the minutes of the proceedings.
(dd) Safe keeping of records and prepare submission to the relevant delegated
authority for approval of the recommendations by the committee.
v.

HR Representative.
(aa) Observe proceedings and render technical advice to the committee.
(bb) Monitor the correct application of the principles of performance management.

vi.

Line Managers/ District Deputy Directors
(aa) Ensure that the granting of performance rewards is done within the budget
limitations as prescribed by DPSA and departmental directives. Proper financial
planning should have been done in consultation with HR prior to any
Moderating Committee meetings.
(bb) Shall ensure that the following documents are provided at least a week in
advance before appraisal could be considered (i.e. signed workplan with two
progress reviews completed).
(cc) Must obtain additional information from their respective employees in order to
substantiate their achievements in relation to rating scores allocated.

vii. Union Representatives
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 93 of 183

(bb) Shall assist employees in the case of an appeal, which must be lodged within
thirty (30) working days
(cc) To serve as an observer during Moderation process and to raise concerns to
the chairperson (in the absence of the reporting officer) on any shortcomings
relating to the appraisal.
7.8

Performance assessment appeal panel
(a) The Performance Assessment Appeal Panel (PAAP) is established by the Head of
Department to manage disagreement over ratings that the Moderating Committee
identified as discrepancies in the assessment report or dissatisfaction that may arise as
result of the decision of the moderating committee.
(b) The Panel must be constituted in such a manner that expertise of the different line
function including labour relations is included. The employee concerned may also be
represented by a member of her/his employee organisation if he/she so chooses. The
Panel must consider all written representations within fourteen working days from the
date of being received.
(c) The PAAP has the following responsibilities —
i.

ii.

To make recommendations to the Head of Department or his/her delegate on
the rating of employees where there is a disagreement between the employee
and the supervisor and or between the supervisor and the moderating
committee.
To make recommendations regarding actions to be considered where managers
and supervisors did not properly and fairly execute their responsibilities with
regard to PMDS.

(d) In the event of persistent disagreement over performance assessment of an employee ,
involving the employee and his/her supervisor, the employee may within 5 days of
being informed of the decision of the PAAP , follow the formal grievance rules of the
Public Service.
7.9

Dealing with Poor Performance.
(a) Corrective measures must be taken to support employees whose performance has been
assessed as poor.
(b) Supervisors shall at all times distinguish between issues relating to performance
management problems and disciplinary matters in terms of Labour Relations Act. It is
advisable that the Directorates: Human Resource Development (Performance
Management) or Labour Relations Management be consulted immediately for
appropriate advice on such matters.
(c) A maximum of six (6) months period may be considered for extending an employee's on
probation if poor performance has been identified.
(d) As part of corrective measures, a PDP shall be prepared for appropriate development
actions. This shall also apply to employees who are not on probation but their level of
performance having been found to be below average.
(e) In case all reasonable measures to support the employee to improve his/ her
performance fail, the incapacity procedures shall be invoked in accordance with the
Labour Relations Act.
(f) It is important to note that a Workplan cannot be used as a basis for dismissal, but may
be used as evidence of poor performance over a period of time.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 94 of 183

7.10 Dealing with probation
(a) In terms of the Public Service Act, 1994 as amended, the period of probation shall not
be less than 12 calendar months. The period of probation is linked to the appointment
date of the employee. The assessment to decide on whether the appointment must be
confirmed or not must therefore take place 12 calendar months after the date of
appointment. This means, an employee's probationary period will not necessarily
coincide with the 1 April to 31 March cycle.
(b) Performance Management and Development System will serve as the process to assess
an employee during probation. The performance assessment of employees on probation
must be conducted quarterly for probation quarterly assessment forms). At expiry of the
probationary period the supervisor of the probationer must do a final assessment of the
employee‘s performance through an Annual Assessment Instrument in order to make a
recommendation on whether or not appointment must be confirmed. This assessment
will be subjected to moderation.
(c) Although the outcome of this assessment may not necessarily lead to assessment for
reward, it may be utilised for confirmation of appointment and development purpose.
7.11 Career Planning.
(a) Employees must be active drivers in the development of their professional careers.
(b) Supervisors must support employees by providing opportunities for employees to
participate in programs that will optimise their career growth and also job assignments
that are most relevant to their professional growth. These shall be aligned with the
business priorities or strategic objectives of the relevant components.
(c) By identifying competencies per occupational posts, both the employees and supervisors
will be able to understand the scope (i.e. technical, managerial, interpersonal, etc) of
job demands and requirements for career progression purposes.
8. INSTITUTIONAL MANDATE – ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
8.1 Directorate: Human Resource Management (Performance Management)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

Develop, review and align the departmental PMDS Policy in line with best practices and
mandatory legislative requirements.
Facilitate the implementation of the final performance appraisal results in conjunction
with all key role players
Provide technical advice and support on the correct application of PMDS in the
department.
Monitor and evaluate the overall implementation of individual performance management
of employees in the department, within the applicable scope of legislative framework.
Communicate all performance management related issues to all employees of the
department.

8.2 Line Managers
(a)
(b)
(c)

Promote compliance to all aspects of the PMD System in the department by ensuring
that all employees in their components have signed and mutually agreed workplans.
Create an enabling environment for performance and development of employees to
enhance service delivery requirements.
Deal with disagreements and disputes as a result of performance management
problems for all employees under his/ her component.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 95 of 183

(d)
(e)

Monitor and evaluate individual performance against the overall strategic objectives of
their components as reflected in the workplans.
Ensures that the granting of performance rewards is done within the budget limitations
as prescribed by DPSA (i.e. 1.5%) and departmental directives. Proper financial
planning should have been done in consultation with HR prior to any Moderating
Committee meetings:
i.

The Department shall budget 1.5% of the total remuneration of employees for
performance bonuses and 1% of the wage bill for pay progression.
ii. The applicable amount shall be distributed between the various components and
District Office levels.
iii. The 1% of the wage bill, for pay progression, shall under no circumstances be
exceeded in the department.
iv. Components shall, as far as possible, not exceed their 1.5 % performance bonus
budget.
8.3 Supervisors
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)

Ensure that employees have signed and mutually agreed Workplans.
Provide guidance and support to employees in order to achieve agreed objectives/
outputs.
Monitor and evaluate performance of employees and provide constructive feedback.
This will allow employees the opportunity to improve his/ her performance standard and
avoid any surprises during the annual performance appraisal period.
Identify solutions on any obstacles that may arise making it difficult for employees to
achieve agreed objectives/ outputs. This shall be done in conjunction with the relevant
employee.
Create an enabling environment for performance and development of employees to
enhance service delivery requirements
Deal with disagreements and disputes as a result of performance management
problems for all employees under his/her component

8.4 Employees.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

Together with Supervisor draft a Workplan for discussion with his/ her supervisor and
facilitate the signing thereof.
Prepare reports on key achievements to inform the process of performance progress
reviews with his/ her supervisor. It is advisable to utilize the performance measuring
toolkit designed to enhance objective performance evaluations.
Jointly initiate and participate in the performance progress review discussions between
himself/ herself and the supervisor(s) in an endeavour to comply with PMDS policy.
Timeously alert the supervisor of any obstacles identified that might influence the
achievement of agreed objectives/ outputs.
Identify areas of development in line with KRA‘s agreed in the Workplan.

8.5 Performance Moderating Committee.
(a)
(b)

The chairperson shall have the right to request any further information from reporting
officers or employees should there be a need to substantiate performance rating scores
in order to make an informed decision.
The chairperson shall ensure that appropriate assessment instruments and supporting
documents are utilised for purpose of appraisal reviews (i.e. a signed Workplan,
Progress Review Discussions and Annual Performance Appraisal Discussions submitted).
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 96 of 183

(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)

The chairperson shall ensure that individual performance achievements correlate and
support the objectives of the Directorate‘s Business or Strategic Plan, thereby linking the
process with improvement of service delivery.
Ensure that adequate records are kept in line with decisions taken in order to enable
supervisors to provide constructive feedback to their subordinates.
Ensure consistent and objective appraisal process takes place with regard to cases
presented to the committee. Membership to the panel shall be informed by the level of
functional expertise relevant to cases considered before the Committee.
The committee members shall advice the chairperson on any aspects of performance
appraisals which do not add value towards achievement of component‘s business
priorities or departmental strategic objectives and service delivery requirements.
The supervisors must ensure that employees are provided with feedback on the
outcome of the recommendations made by the committee.

8.6 Executing Authority (or Head of Department) or his/her delegate shall:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)

Determine a system for performance management and development for employees
within his/her department who are not senior managers;
ensure total commitment of managers by way of full compliance with the policy
framework;
ensure that employees are provided with the necessary resources to carry out their
responsibilities;
designate formal annual assessment dates for each employee;
ensure that all employees are assessed on an annual basis;
ensure that there is existence of a systematic remedial support for poor performance
and that good performance is rewarded accordingly;
appoint a Moderating Committee constituted by expertise of the different line function
appoint Performance Assessment Appeal Panel;
ensure that the Moderating Committee is well conversant with the assessment process
ensure that progress on PMDS is given at every management meeting; and
ensure that PMDS must be one of the Heads of departments‘ Key Responsibility Areas,
upon which they are assessed.

9. GENERAL GUIDELINES.
9.1 Identifying Key Result Areas.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

KRA‘s should be linked to the goals and objectives of the department so as to achieve
the overall performance of the department.
KRA‘s should be non-repetitive. In other words, they should focus on key areas of
performance which are interrelated and grouped together.
KRA‘s should preferably not exceed the amount of five (5) or six (6).
Supervisors should make their Work Plans available to employees working under them
to ensure proper alignment.
If necessary, provision for employees in acting capacities might be included as interim
KRA‘s.

9.2 Identifying key activities.
(a)
(b)

They represent elementary actions that would lead towards achieving desired outputs
and KRA‘s.
Each activity should where possible, have its own performance indicators unless
activities in one group of a KRA share similar indicators. This should be clarified
between the supervisor and the employee to avoid possible misunderstanding.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 97 of 183

9.3 Setting performance measures or standards.
(a)

Measures or standards should comply with the following elements:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.

(b)

Quantity,
Quality,
Cost and,
Time.

When setting performance measures or standards, the following principles should be
followed:
S – Specific, i.e. simple, clear and understandable to avoid any possible
misinterpretations.
ii. M – Measurable, i.e. according to the four elements outlined above (i.e.
paragraph 9.4.1).
iii. A – Achievable, i.e. it should be possible to achieve the desired output.
iv. R – Realistic, i.e. challenging but realistic.
v. T – Time bound, i.e. clearly indicate time frames.
i.

(c)

Target date(s).
i.
ii.
iii.

Fall within the performance cycle.
Mutually agreed between supervisor and employee.
Revised according to new priorities

9.5 Resource requirements & enabling conditions.
(a)
(b)
(c)

Resources needed to accomplish objectives/ outputs as agreed upon, e.g. a personnel
officer working on leave records need a Personal Computer and access to PERSAL.
The resources should be checked against constraints such as budget and feasibility.
Thus, the allocation of resources should as a general rule be determined by the
activities or functions to be performed.

9.6 Weighting.
(a)
(b)
9.7

This is a percentage attached to each KRA according to its importance.
All the percentages of the KRA‘s should add up-to a total of 100% when combined
together.

Ratings.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

This is a two way process between the employee and his/ her supervisor. The emphasis
must be on the actual achievements by employees, in relation to performance measures
agreed upon in the Workplan.
Should there be differences in terms of ratings, reference should be made to specific
situations and examples, i.e. what informs the basis for giving a particular score or the
lack of it.
It is preferable for both parties to agree to the rating awarded. Reasons should be
provided by both parties on areas of differences according to the above requirement
Special circumstances or conditions in which officials work should be considered in this
regard, e.g. ill health, personal crises, new assignments, etc.
Disagreements arising from ratings should be dealt with in accordance with the
following:
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 98 of 183

i. Where an official wishes to appeal, he/ she may do so to the supervisor‘s senior.
ii. A senior manager (supervisor) may challenge the initial rating done by the first level
supervisor or employee where there is insufficient substantiation of a rating.
iii. Should the rating be subject to changes as a result of a challenge after the appraisal
period, another meeting must be held with the official concerned.
iv. The normal grievance procedure shall be followed to deal with dissatisfactions from
the outcome of the Moderating Committee. All cases in this regard shall be referred
to the Directorate: Labour Relations Management.
(f)

The following rating problems should be avoided:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.

vii.
viii.

The ‗halo effect‘: one or two outstanding or negative characteristics may result in the
tendency to rate the employee consistently high or low.
The consistent error: supervisors are inclined to rate all employees consistently high
or low.
The central tendency: either wittingly or unwittingly, some people rate everyone
average.
Tendency to rate everybody high to avoid conflict: the principle of objectivity and
fairness becomes crippled and an injustice is done to those who give sustainable
above average or excellent performance.
Erroneous ratings of qualities: managers can allow themselves to be influenced by
the kind of work the staff member is doing, i.e. there is a ‗halo effect‘ around the
type of work (as opposed to the employee‘s performance).
Over-emphasis on recent behaviour: there is tendency to attach more importance to
the performance during the month or two preceding the performance appraisal
interview instead of rating the work of the whole period. All quarterly reviews must
be added together to arrive at an overall performance rating.
Undue credit for long service: the length of service by an employee is not a factor
during performance appraisal.
Compensation for perception of incorrect job grading: the perception that a post is
graded too low is not relevant to the assessment of an employee‘s performance in
that job.

9.8 Criteria for Appraisals.
(a) Appraisals serve as a basis for providing feedback on the job done, whether there is
money involved or not.
(b) Timely feedback is essential to reinforce and redirect performance so that the employee
can repeat successful initiatives or endeavours. This will also allow employees whose
performance is below average ample time to improve his/ her level of performance.
(c) Each manager must be assessed against the fulfilment of performance management and
appraisal function in their components. This can be linked to the standard KRA on ―People
Development and Management‖.
(d) During appraisals, the key achievements by employees should satisfy the following
elements, namely:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.

Valid, i.e. there should be no fabrication of achievements to justify rating scores.
Relevant, i.e. the achievements should reflect an employee‘s own performance and
correlate with specific indicators.
Current, i.e. the achievements should reflect performance within a specific
performance cycle.
Sufficient, i.e. there is enough evidence of the right quality. The actual
achievements should be able to compare with the desired output/ deliverable
benchmarked against agreed performance measures in the Workplan.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 99 of 183

(e) For each key activity or KRA to be appraised, the following should be satisfied:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.

How does the level of performance compare with performance measures or
standards agreed upon?
The assessment should be based on actual outcomes/ deliverables on the
employee‘s work performance to ensure objectivity.
How was the level of performance confirmed? What does quarterly reports or work
products show?
What was the impact or consequences as a result of the employee‘s performance?
The resource requirements and enabling conditions should be considered where
necessary.
Performance measures or standards shall be used as a benchmark against which the
actual output/ was achieved to reflect an acceptable level of performance.

10. DISPUTE RESOLUTION
10.1 Disciplinary Action
(a) The Department of Public Safety reserve the right to take disciplinary action against any
person who does not comply with the policy in accordance with the Labour Relations Act
1998 (as amended) and Resolution 2 of 1999 as amended by Resolution 1 of 2003.
(f) The procedure to follow in dealing with disciplinary matters is governed by the
provisions of Resolution 1 of 2003 (Disciplinary Code and Procedures for the Public
Service, hereafter referred to as the DCP).
(g) The basic principles of procedural and substantive fairness in handling disciplinary
matters must be adhered to. Procedural fairness means that the department must
follow a fair procedure in terms of the DCP. Substantive fairness means that the
department must take disciplinary action for a fair
reason, and that the sanction
must be commensurate with the offence.
10.2 Grievance Procedure
The prescribed Public Service Grievance Procedure must be complied with in lodging a
grievance.
11. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REVIEW
In order to have this policy amended, the following processes shall be followed:
11.1 The proposed amendments shall be submitted in writing to the Directorate: Human
Resources Management, which shall investigate the validity, practicality and cost
effectiveness of the inputs.
11.2 All amendments shall be forwarded to the HOD/MEC for approval; and
11.3 All amendments made to this Policy shall be presented to Labour in the Departmental
Bargaining Chamber for consultation/negotiation.
11.4 The policy shall be reviewed after a period of five (5) years from the date of commencement.
12.

RELATED POLICIES

12.1
12.2
12.3
12.4

Provincial Performance Management and Development System Policy;
Training and Development Policy;
Employment Equity Policy; and
Labour Relations Policy.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 100 of 183

13.

COMMENCEMENT OF THE POLICY

This policy shall be implemented by the Department with effect from the date of approval and
signature by the HOD.

APPROVED

______________________
OB MONGALE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT

_______________
Date:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 101 of 183

TABLE A
PMDS RATING/REWARDS SCALE TABLE (LEVELS 1-10)
SCORE
1

PERFORMANCE CATEGORY
Unacceptable performance

TOTAL SCORE
69% and lower

OUTCOME/DECISION/REWARDS
- No rewards or incentives
- Probation period may be extended or
employment terminated

2

Performance not fully effective

70%-99%

3

Performance full effective

100%-114%

-

4

Performance significantly
above expectations

115%-129%

5

Outstanding performance

130%-149%

150% and
above

No Rewards or Incentives
Probation period to be extended
Appointment to be conformed
Pay progression: One notch

Appointment to be confirmed
Pay progression: One notch
_________________________
Performance bonus: 5%-14%
115%-116%=5%; 117%-118%=6%
119%-120%=7%; 121%-122%=8%
123%-124%=9%; 125%=10%;
126%=11%; 127%=12%; 128%=13%
129%=14%
Pay Progression: (One notch); Plus –
Performance bonus: (15%-17%)
130%-136%=15%
137%-143%=16%
144%-149%=17%
- Pay progression: One notch plus
- Performance bonus: (18%)
150% and above = 18%

REMARKS
- Appropriate intervention
compulsory
- Prescribed incapacity procedures
must be followed
- Appropriate intervention
compulsory
- Appropriate skills development
programmes to be considered in
order to improve the level of
performance.
- Appropriate skills development
programmes to be considered in
order to improve the level of
performance

- Level of performance
acknowledged as outstanding

Performance Bonus is calculated on the salary notch for the qualifying/assessment period

TABLE B
PMDS RATING/REWARDS SCALE TABLE (LEVELS 11-12) MMS
SCORE
1

PERFORMANCE CATEGORY
Unacceptable performance

TOTAL SCORE
69% and lower

OUTCOME/DECISION/REWARDS
- No rewards or incentives
- Probation period may be extended or
employment terminated

2

Performance not fully effective

70%-99%

3

Performance fully effective

100%-114%

-

4

Performance significantly
above expectations

115%-129%

Appointment to be confirmed
Pay progression: One notch plus
_________________________
Performance bonus: 5%-10%
115%-116%=5%; 117%-118%=6%
119%-120%=7%; 121%-123%=8%
124%-126%=9%; 127%-129%=10%;

5

Outstanding performance

130%-149%

- Appointment to be confirmed
Pay Progression: (One notch); Plus –
Performance bonus: (11%-13%)
130%-135%=11%
136%-140%=12%
141%-149%=13%
- Pay progression: One notch plus
- Performance bonus: (14%)
150% and above = 14%

150% and
above

No Rewards or Incentives
Probation period to be extended
Appointment to be conformed
Pay progression: One notch

REMARKS
- Appropriate intervention
compulsory
- Prescribed incapacity procedures
must be followed
- Appropriate intervention
compulsory
- Appropriate skills development
programmes to be considered in
order to improve the level of
performance.
- Appropriate skills development
programmes to be considered in
order to improve the level of
performance

- Level of performance
acknowledged as outstanding

Performance Bonus is calculated on the salary notch for the qualifying/assessment period

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 103 of 183

SKILLS DEVELOPMENT POLICY
“Harnessing the Potential of all
Employees”

NORTHWEST PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY
POLICY NO:
NAME OF POLICY:
EFFECTIVE ON:
DATE OF REVIEW:

HR2008/006
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT POLICY
……………………….
APRIL 2012
CONTENTS

Contents

Page

Preamble
1. Abbreviations and Definitions …………………………………………………...........

105-107

2. Purpose and Objectives …………………………………………………………...........

107

3. Principles ………………………………………………………………………………. ......... 107-108
4. Legislative Framework

…………………………………………………………......... 108

5. Scope of Application ………………………………………………………………..........

108

6. Policy Statement ……………………………………………………………………..........

108-109

7. Planning and Implementation of Training and Development …………........ 109-110
8. Responsibilities and Obligations …………………………………………………........ 110-111
9. Training and Development Implementation Guidelines. ………………....... 111-112
10. Dispute Resolution ..…………………………………………………………………......

112-113

11. Monitoring, Evaluation and Review ……………………………………………......

113-114

12. Related Policies .………………………………………………………………………......

114

13. Commencement of the Policy ……………………………………………………......

114

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 105 of 183

PREAMBLE
The government of South Africa views people development in the workplace as a critical element
of public sector and broader societal transformation and has elaborated a comprehensive skills
development framework to facilitate the realization of this objective.
The Skills Development Act, Skills Development Levies Act and the National Skills Development
Strategy, HRD Strategy provide mechanisms and tools for the pursuit of training and
development of employees in a manner that supports the realization of service excellence and
employment equity.
Training and development of all employees in the Department and selected prospective
employees is an important part of the Department‘s human resources strategy, which seeks to
provide equal developmental opportunities and maximise the performance, commitment and
contribution of all employees to the ai8ms of the Department.
The Department accordingly commits itself to:





Continuous investment in training and development as an essential mechanism for
improving the performance of employees in the Department and enhancing service
delivery;
Promoting life-long learning among all employees and addressing inherited systemic
race, gender and disability based skills disparities;
Aligning skills development measures with employment equity objectives and goals; and
Harnessing training and development as a means for transforming attitudes in the
workplace to engender workplace environments and climates that affirm cultural, gender,
disability and other forms of diversity.

1. ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
ABET:
ASGI-SA:
ATR:
CFO:
CHE:
EEO:
FET:
HDI:
HOD:
HRD:
HHRD:
HRH:
ILO:
NQF:
PDP:
PFMA:
SAQA:
SETA:
SDA:

Adult Basic Education and Training.
Accelerated Shared Growth Strategy for South Africa.
Annual Training Plan.
Chief Financial Officer.
Council for Higher Education.
Employment Equity Officer.
Further Education and Training.
Historically Disadvantaged Individual.
Head of Department.
Human Resources Development.
Head of the Human Resources Directorate.
Human Resources Head.
International Labour Organization.
National Qualifications Framework.
Personal Development Plan.
Public Finance Management Act.
South African Qualifications Authority.
Sector Education and Training Authority established in terms of
section 9 of the SDSA.
Skills Development Act.

SDP:

Skills Development Plan.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 106 of 183

WSP:

Workplace Skills Plan.

Affirmative Action:

Systematic employment measures that seek to redress systemic
inequalities experienced by black people, women and persons
with disabilities in employment opportunities and include
preferential treatment of suitably qualified black people, women
and persons with disabilities, in regard to recruitment, skills
development, advancement and selection.

Bursary:

Funds awarded to an employee or member of the community for
the pursuit of studies with a view to ensuring that when the
studies are completed the person adds value to the awarding
organisation.

Department:

Department of Public Safety, North West.

Disability:

A physical or mental impairment which is long-term or recurring;
and which substantially limits a person‘s prospect of
advancement in employment.

Employment Equity:

The achievement of equal opportunities in the workplace
through the elimination of unfair discrimination and the
implementation of remedial measures aimed at eradicating
existing inequalities and advancing black people, women and
persons with disabilities, collectively referred to, in Employment
Act, as Designated Groups.

Employment Equity Plan:

A plan drawn in compliance with the Employment
Equity Act as a framework for proactive elimination of unfair
discrimination and implementation of affirmative measures to
advance black people, women and persons with disabilities in
response and ensure their equitable representation to barriers
identified through an Employment Audit.

Historically Disadvantaged
Individuals:
In this context this term is assigned to black people, women and
persons with disabilities in recognition of their historical
subjection to systematic institutionalized unfair discrimination.
Internship:

Is similar to a learnership and involves employing a person
(targeting recent graduates, school leavers and job seekers) on
a fixed term contract involving entry level employment and
providing them with mentorship, under the auspices of the Skills
Development Act, to empower them with skills, work experience
and employment creation.

Learnership:

Learnerships are provided to recent graduates and school
leavers and job seekers to provide them with some basic work
experience and skills to enhance their employability.

Mentorship:

Refers to a skills transfer programme where managers,
professionals or artisans are teamed with young or
inexperienced employees or persons to guide them
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 107 of 183

systematically, facilitate their accelerated development in a
particular field of work.
Service Provider:

In the context of training and development, a service provider is
external entity or person that is contracted to provide training
and development services.

Succession Planning:

Succession planning involves ensuring that there will always be a
suitably qualified person to replace an outgoing leader or skilled
person. In this policy succession planning refers to having a pool
of appointable persons for each position that may become
available in the future, to ensure that affirmative action and skills
goals of the Department are readily attained.

Training and Development: Activities that enable employees to acquire, maintain,
up-date and enhance their work related knowledge, skills,
values and capabilities.
2. PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
2.1.

The purpose of this policy is to guide managers and employees in the department in the
implementation of measures aimed at promoting continuous training and development of
employees to enhance competency, performance and effective service delivery, while
facilitating individual development and the achievement of employment equity.

2.2

The policy objectives include to:
(a) Outline mechanisms and commit resources for structured, systematic and sustained
training and development of all employees;
(b) Facilitate the adoption of measures that ensure that all employees have the adequate
and appropriate
skills, knowledge, values and attributes to discharge their
responsibilities effectively and efficiently;
(c) Entrenchment of a lifelong learning and professional growth among employees;
(d) Align skills development measures with affirmative action objectives and specifically
ensure that skills development advances employment equity;
(e) Ensure that each employee has a career path backed by a Personal Development
Plan (PDP) that is continuously implemented and periodically reviewed; and
(f) Address all skills shortages in the department and ensure a sustainable supply of all
skills requirements within the department.

3. PRINCIPLES
The principles that underpin this policy and which should inform all aspects of employee
training and development include the following:
3.1 All training and development measures should be aligned with the skills development
framework, employment equity objectives and performance requirements for the individual
and the organization;

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 108 of 183

3.2 All training and development measures shall be informed by a skills audit as envisaged in the
Skills Development Act and aligned to each person‘s and the Department‘s identified skills
needs as captured in a Skills Development Plan;
3.3 All employees regardless of age, grade, gender, disability or ethnic background or nature of
their contract of employment are expected to undertake staff development and training,
which is viewed as a continuous process throughout employment;
3.4 Training and development measures should be linked to immediate performance
requirements, the Department‘s strategic objectives and personal development;
3.5 Training and development provision will be evaluated and reviewed to ensure that it is
adequate, relevant, effective, provides value for money and supports employment equity
objectives; and
3.6 Equality and non-discrimination, including gender and disability mainstreaming, and diversity
awareness and values education, shall be integrated in all training activities.
4.

LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK

4.1 The principles that govern the management of training and development are informed by
the national skills development policy framework, applicable international norms, particularly
ILO guidelines, employment equity principles and provincial policy frameworks.
4.2 South African laws and policy frameworks that underpin the policy include the following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)
(m)
(n)
(o)
(p)
5.

Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, 2003;
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa;
Employment Equity Act, 1998;
National Land Transport Transitional Act;
North West Province: Employment Equity Policy;
Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000;
Public Finance Management Act;
Public Service Act, 1994;
Road Traffic Act;
Road Transportation Act;
Skills Development Act, 1998;
Skills Development Levies Act, 1999;
Skills Development Strategy;
National Land Transport;
White Paper on the Transformation of the Public Service; and
White Paper on Public Service Training.

SCOPE OF APPLICATION
This policy is applicable to all the employees of the department.

6.

POLICY STATEMENT

6.1 The Department is committed to the facilitation of lifelong continuous training and
development to empower all its employees on the basis of equality, including affirmative
action for historically disadvantaged individuals (HDIs), with a view to fostering optimal
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 109 of 183

performance of duties and personal development and advancement in an affirming
workplace environment;
6.2 Training and development should also contribute to the creation of a pool for affirmative
action related appointments at all levels of employment, particularly the highest levels of
decision-making and scarce skills; and
6.3 Some attention shall be paid to preparing employees for advancing beyond the department,
including retirement and self employment.
6.4 In addition to having specialized or voluntary mentors all managers , supervisors and
experienced employees should be equipped with mentorship skills and incorporate
mentorship in their day today interactions with new or inexperienced employees.
6.5 Incentives and sanctions will be used to facilitated compliance with and excellence in the
pursuit of the objectives of this policy.
7.

PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

7.1 Training and Development Planning
(a) Each employee shall be assessed during recruitment or at the earliest possible
convenience, to assess their training needs for purposes of designing and implementing
a Personal Development Plan(PDP);
(b) It is the responsibility of the Head of Department (HOD), Human Resources Director
herein referred to as Human Resources Head (HRH), Skills Development Facilitator
(SDF)and the Employment Equity Officer(EEO) to ensure that Skills Development Plans
are aligned with the Employment Equity Plans; and
(c) A Skills Profile/database of all employees should be created and maintained at unit level
and at organizational level.
7.2 Quality of Training Programmes and Materials
(a) All training programmes and materials should be outcomes based and aligned to the
Skills development framework.
(b) Training design, materials and delivery methodology should be compliant with the
national qualifications authority requirements (SAQA compliant) and should be delivered
by accredited trainers, except for informal training sessions.
7.3 Training and Development Programme
Training and development will include the following programmes:
(a) Induction and Re-orientation: All new employees and where necessary, promoted
employees should be taken through an induction programme;
(b) Reorientation;
(c) Standardized Management and Leadership Development for all Managers;
(d) Policy Implementation Management;
(e) Professional and Functional Competency Development;
(f) Scarce and Critical Skills Development;
(g) Internships/Learnerships;
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 110 of 183

(h) Empowerment of HDIs through Accelerated Skills Development;
(i) ABET Programme;
(j) Diversity Awareness and management ( emphasis on gender, disability, culture and HIV
AND AIDS awareness); and
(k) Non Discrimination and Sexual Harassment Training
7.4 Funding of Training and Development
(a) All SMS Level Managers are required to budget for functional training needs in their
sections.
(b) The Department shall devote at least 2% of its human resources budget to training and
a substantial percentage of that will be devoted to accelerated development of HDIs
(c) Where a person receives a training bursary from the Department, they will be required
to work for the Department after completing for a period stipulated in the bursary grant.
7.5. Access to Information
(a) Managers have a responsibility for ensuring that all employees are always aware of
available training and development opportunities.
(b) Subject to preferential treatment as part of affirmative action, no employee shall be
subjected to unfair discrimination with regard to access to information and opportunities
for training and development.
8. RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS
8.1 General Principles
(a) Each employee is responsible for their own development and training, which includes
both participation in planned activities and making use of opportunities to learn when
they are presented.
(b) Subject to delegations, each manager is responsible for training and development of
subordinates and responsibilities in this regard including identifying individual training
and development needs and supporting and encouraging employees.
(c) Accountability for staff development and training rests with management at
these levels:
i. MEC: Bears overall responsibility to ensure that the Department‘s training and
development objectives are met and that relevant laws and policies are complied
with.
ii. HOD: Bears ultimate administrative responsibility for ensuring skills development legal
and policy compliance, financing training and development initiatives and ensuring
that all departmental employees are constantly developed for service excellence and
optimum personal growth.
iii. Chief Director Corporate Services: Should support the SDF and HRH to ensure
that training and development goals are met.
iv. HRH: Assists SDF and HOD to ensure that training and development planning takes
place and that execution is monitored effectively and regularly reviewed for optimal
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 111 of 183

success in meeting the skills needs of the Department and personal growth needs of
employees.
v. SDF: Has overall responsibility for coordinating training and development planning and
ensuring that plans are executed, monitored and reviewed. The SDF facilitates
compliance with the SDA and related skills development and Human Resources
Development (HRD) policy frameworks.
vi. CFO: Ensuring that funds not less than 2% of human resources budget are ringfenced and utilised for skills development annually.
vii. Line Managers: Bear responsibility for conducting Skills Audits of personnel in all
units and facilitating the ongoing development of subordinates for optimal
performance and personal growth.
viii.Training Committees: Are responsible for designing or procuring appropriate
training programmes and ensuring access to all, taking into account the need for
accelerated development of Designated Groups and development of a pool of scarce
and critical skills personnel.
(ix) All employees: Bear a level of personal responsibility for own development.
8.2 Unions and Other Stakeholders
Representatives of employees and other social partners should, from time to time, be
consulted on training and development and mobilized to assist in the execution of
awareness-raising on HIV and AIDS, Disability, Gender and other equality or human rights
matters.
9. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT IMPLEMENTATION GUIDELINES
9.1

The National Skills Development Framework, the Public Service Human Resources Policy
Guidelines and the countries development framework, including the Accelerated Shared
Growth Strategy for South Africa (Asgi-SA) inform the Department‘s Training and
Development vision and all aspects of implementation.

9.2

The main guiding principle is to ensure that all departmental employees are optimally
developed for cost effective and responsive service delivery while contributing to the
country‘s human resources development obligations and goals.

9.3

The approach includes creating a learning organisation where learning is a life long
undertaking and where it is possible for a person to be developed from an ABET phase to
obtaining a professional qualification, including obtaining scarce skills.

9.4.

The training programmes designed by the Department accordingly include vocational
training as well as academic development, which involves in-house programmes,
outsourced programmes and programmes provided by institutions of higher education
and accredited by the Council for Higher Education(CHE).

9.5.

In contribution to broader national human development objectives, and poverty
eradication, the Department‘s programme incorporates Learnerships/internships for job-

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 112 of 183

seekers, bursaries2 and empowerment programmes for long serving employees to assist
them with economic aspects of their exit from Departmental employment.
9.6.

The personal developmental aspects of the Department‘s programme includes informal
life skills training incorporating issues such as personal finance management, diversity
management HIV and AIDS management and stress management.

9.7

Skills, knowledge and values relating to leadership, service orientation, anticorruption
and human rights are to be infused in all aspects of training and development.

9.8

Training design should be responsive, outcomes based, recognize prior learning and
encourage life long learning, acquisition of portable skills and inculcate constitutional and
service delivery values.

9.9

SETA and SAQA compliance shall be sought at all times.

10. DISPUTE RESOLUTION
10.1

General Statement
All training and development disputes, except those with elements of sexual harassment
or HIV and AIDS will be dealt with in accordance with public service procedures for the
handling of grievances and those relating to disciplinary action.
All training and development disputes will be dealt with expeditiously and with due
regard to fairness (procedural and substantive) and human dignity.

10.2

10.3

Disciplinary Action
(a)

The Departments reserves the right to take disciplinary action, in accordance
with the Labour Relations Act 1998 (as amended) and Resolution 2 of 1999 as
amended by Resolution 1 of 2003, against any person who violates any provision
of this policy.

(b)

The procedure to be followed with in dealing with employment equity violations
will be as stipulated in Resolution 1 of 2003 (Disciplinary Code and Procedures
for the Public Service(DCP)).

(c)

Sanctions may range from requiring an apology, being ordered to undergo
appropriate training, losing merit points, warnings to sanctions such as
suspension, demotion and dismissal for gross violations.

Grievance Procedure

(a) Informal Grievance Procedure
i.

An employee who feels discriminated unfairly or has some other employment equity
grievance may approach his or her manager/supervisor for a resolution.
ii. If not satisfied with the outcome, the employee may approach a higher authority or
the HOD.
iii. Disputes arising from the interpretation and implementation of this policy shall
2

Bursaries for outsiders in addition to bursaries awarded to employees for further education.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 113 of 183

generally be dealt with by a mediator appointed by the HOD with the consent of the
parties. If the mediation fails, then the HOD shall further attempt to mediate in
his/her capacity.
iv. Should all attempts at mediation fail, an employee may seek recourse in external
avenues, having followed the procedure outlined in (b) below.
(b) Formal Grievance Procedure
i.

ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.
vii.
viii.

ix.

x.
xi

If the manager/supervisor‘s response is unsatisfactory, the grievance may be
escalated to Labour Relations Office (Rule F.1) to facilitate the resolution of
grievances in the department on the prescribed form. (Rule F.2) within 90 days
(Rule D.3) from which the employee became aware of the official act or omission
which adversely affects him or her.
The Labour Relations Office(LRO) acknowledges receipt on the prescribed form.
The LRO must liaise with the relevant structures of authority of the Department to
attempt to resolve the grievance (Rule F.3)
The LRO must inform the aggrieved employee about the status and the progress
made towards the resolution of the grievance (Rule F.5).
If the grievance is resolved to the satisfaction of the aggrieved employee, the
confirmation thereof will be reduced to writing by the LRO on the prescribed form.
If the grievance cannot be resolved the HOD must inform the aggrieved employee
accordingly (Rule F.7).
If the aggrieved employee is still dissatisfied after being supplied with the outcome
he or she must inform the executing authority within 10 days.
the executing authority must in terms of section 35(1) of the Public Service Act of
1994 forward the grievance and any relevant documentation to the Public
Service
Commission for a recommendation within 5 days of being informed by the aggrieved
employee (Rule F.9 (a) and (b) ).
If however the grievance constitutes an alleged unfair labors practice as defined in
the Labour Relations Act (Act 66 of 1995) the employee may inform the executing
authority in writing that he or she wishes to utilize the dispute resolution mechanism
provided for in the constitution of the General Public Service Sectoral Bargaining
Council and the Public Service Commission should therefore not consider the
grievance (RuleF.10)
On receipt of the Commission‘s recommendations the executing authority must
within 5 days inform the employee and the Commission of his or her decision in
writing (Rule G.2).
Appropriate disputes may be taken to the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and
Arbitration (CCMA) or the Equality Court, after exhausting internal procedures.

11. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REVIEW
11.1

The Human Resources Directorate and the SDF will monitor, evaluate and drive the
implementation of the Training and Development Policy, guided by the Skills
Development Framework;

11.2

Training Records will be maintained in respect of all employees;

11.3

The policy shall be reviewed after every five years in the light of legal, policy and
behavioural changes, and appropriate adjustments/amendments shall be ratified and
communicated accordingly;

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 114 of 183

11.4

The CFO and SDF should conduct an annual compliance audit of training and
development implementation to ensure that every employee has a PDP and receives the
training and developmental opportunities envisaged in that plan, this policy and the
national skills development framework; and

11.5

A report should be prepared and submitted to the HOD and where implementation are
established during the annual compliance audit, corrective action should be taken by the
HOD against responsible persons or structures.

12. RELATED POLICIES
Effective implementation of this policy requires that it be read together with the Employment
Equity Policy, Performance Management Policy, ABET, Learnership, Internship and other
Human Resources policies.
13. COMMENCEMENT OF THE POLICY
This policy shall be implemented by the Department with effect from the date of approval and
signature by the HOD.
APPROVED

______________________
OB MONGALE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT

___________________
Date:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 115 of 183

RETENTION/EXIT POLICY
“Harnessing the Potential of all
Employees”

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 116 of 183

NORTHWEST PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY
POLICY NO:
NAME OF POLICY:
EFFECTIVE ON:
DATE OF REVIEW:

HR2009/007
RETENTION/EXIT POLICY
……………………
APRIL 2012
CONTENTS

Contents

Page

Preamble
1. Abbreviations and Definitions ………………………………………………..........

117

2. Purpose and Objectives .……………………………………………………….........

118

3. Principles …………………………………………………………………………….........

118

4. Legislative Framework ……….………………………………………………….......

118

5. Scope of Application ……………………………………………………………..........

119

6.

119-120

Policy Statement ……………………………………………………......................

7. Confidentiality of Exit Process Information ………………………………........

120

8. Exit Procedures ……………………………………………………………………........

120-121

9. Other Out-Process Information: Asset and Risk Management ……........

121-122

10. Responsibilities and Obligations……………………………………………….........

122

11. Dispute Resolution ……………………………………………………………….........

123

12. Monitoring, Evaluation and Review ….. …………………………………….......

123

13. Related Policies ……………………………………………………………………........

123

14. Commencement of the Policy ………………………………………………….......

123

Annexure A: Exit Process Checklist ………………………………………………........

124

Annexure B: Employee Exit Questionnaire …………………………………….........

125-126

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 117 of 183

PREAMBLE
The Department of Public Safety (―the Department‖):

VIEWS its employees as its greatest asset and that investing in its people is an important pillar
of batho pele oriented service delivery.
FURTHER VIEWS the retention of its employees as an important element of ensuring service
excellence, which includes maintaining high quality and minimising service interruptions.

ALSO VIEWS the retention of employees from Designated Groups as a critical element of its
employment equity strategy.

RECOGNISES up to now retaining suitably qualified persons from Designated Groups and
employees with scarce or critical skills, has been a major challenge.

BELIEVES that identifying the reasons for leaving and adopting measures to minimise the loss of
Designated Groups and scarce or critical skilled persons is an important part of containing the
problem.

IS CONVINCED that it is possible to implement measures to minimise human resources losses
particularly among Designated Groups and scarce or critical skilled personnel.

FIRMLY BELIEVES that when people believe they have a legitimate place in the organisation
and they have a meaningful contribution to make, a culture of trust will begin to emerge and the
journey towards commitment will have begun.
1. ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
HOD:

Head of Department.

Department:

Department of Public Safety, North West.

Retention:

Keeping skilled or potential employees in the Department by
minimizing resignations and or dismissals.

Employment Equity:

The achievement of equal opportunities in the workplace
through the elimination of unfair discrimination and the
implementation of remedial measures aimed at eradicating
existing inequalities and advancing black people, women and
persons with disabilities, collectively referred to, in the
Employment Equity Act, as Designated Groups.

Employee:

An employee includes all employees of the Department
employed in terms of the Public Service Act of 1994, the Basic
Conditions of Employment Act of 1998, as amended and includes
contract workers, interns, volunteers and prospective employees.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 118 of 183

2. PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
This policy seeks to provide guidance on attracting, appointing and retaining good caliber
employees in the Department. It also incorporates the training, development and advancement
of these employees within the Department.
The policy objectives include:
2.1 Promoting employment equity and the creation of a more representative workforce where
staff is treated equitably, fairly and where access to opportunities and services are
accessible to all.
2.2 Promoting a non-racial, non sexist environment and to enhance cultural diversity and gender
sensitivity within the Department.
2.3 Investing in human resource development across the full spectrum of skills with special
emphasis on increasing the participation of black people in skilled, strategic and operational
leadership.
2.4 Redressing the imbalances of the past, eliminating unequal practices imposed on black
people, women and the disabled, promoting a culture of inclusivity, while at the same time
relentlessly pursuing a strong business focus.
2.5 Fostering an organizational culture and climate where all feel comfortable and valued and
accepted through creating inclusivity.
2.8 Identifying and removing barriers that hamper the attraction and retention of talented
women, black people, people with disabilities and scarce/critical skills person.
3.

PRINCIPLES

3.1 The principles that underpin and guide the Department‘s approach to retention and which
should underpin employment practices aimed at maximizing employee retention, include the
following:
(a) Retaining and investing in human resources is essential for cost effective and
responsive service delivery;
(b) Maintaining an affirming workplace environment and climate which makes all
employees feel valued, taking into account gender, disability, culture and other forms of
diversity, is a critical pillar of employee retention;
(c)

(d)

Fair remuneration and career pathing/progression, which include counter offering an
employee that has received a better offer, is equally critical for employee retention; and
Professional and personal development contribute to job satisfaction.

4. LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK
4.1 Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1997 (as amended);

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 119 of 183

4.2 Employment Equity Act, 1998;
4.3 Public Service Act, 1994;
4.4 Public Service Regulations, 2001
4.5 Public Service Coordinating Bargaining Council Resolutions 1 and 2;
4.6 Skills Development Act, 1998; and
4.8 Skills Development Levies Act, 1999.
5. SCOPE OF APPLICATION
This policy is applicable to all Employees, with a focus on those skills that are a risk within
the Department, as identified by the Department.
6. POLICY STATEMENT
6.1 The Department is fully committed to retain those skilled individuals critical to the
Department, and its continued effectiveness to ensure sustainability, efficiency and service
excellence.
6.2 The Department will do everything possible to attract develop and retain highly competent
women and men from diverse cultural background as a critical pillar of its service delivery
improvement and maintenance strategy.
6.3 The Department will use various measures to retain its valuable employees, including
counter offers (where appropriate), adaptation of work for persons with disabilities and
employees with family responsibilities, retraining, internal transfers/relocation.
6.4 Guidelines on counter offers will be developed and issued within three months of this policy
coming into operation.
6.5 Measures aimed at retaining valuable personnel in the Department will target various entry
points from prevention of resignations to rescuing a situation where an employee has filed a
resignation.
6.6 Creating an affirming environment and constantly identifying and eliminating reasons for
employee loses will form the nucleus of the Department‘s retention strategy.
6.7 Exit interviews with an exiting employee and the immediate supervisor and compiling reports
to be fed back into effective people management to prevent future similar scenarios, will
form a critical element of mechanisms that will anchor the objectives of this policy.
6.8 The Department will audit and review its employment practices to establish whether:
(a) Its employment equity strategy, including affirming diversity, supports the ideal of
becoming an employer of choice, with a view promoting attraction and retention rates;
(b) As an employer, does the Department offer its diverse employees adequate support
channels? If not - the impression could be one of apathy and lip service which could
impact negatively on retention;
(c) The Department enforces its human resources policies effectively and consistently;
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 120 of 183

(d) When bench marked against similar organizations, its employment practices are sound;
(e) Its current employment equity goals are sound and;
Monitor how its human resources management practices are or are not promoting the
retention of valuable personnel.
7. CONFIDENTIALITY OF EXIT PROCESS INFORMATION
7.1 It is the policy of the Department to make all reasonable efforts to protect the confidentiality
of persons completing an Employee Exit Questionnaire and/or an Exit Interview. Information
that could reveal employee identity be disclosed only when necessary on a "need-to-know"
basis for the management of personnel practices and the work environment.
7.2 The Promotion of Access to Information Act provides for public access to most records made
and kept by governmental agencies. Public access means that any member of the public,
including the media, can request and receive copies of public records upon request, unless
the custodian of the record determines that the public interest in not releasing the record
outweighs the clear statutory presumption in favor of disclosure. The Department pledges to
make reasonable efforts, to the extent allowed by law, to maintain the confidentiality of the
identity and information which might disclose an employee or former employee‘s personal
information.
7.3 In cases in which the Department intends to take action that is wholly or partially based on
information an employee has provided, through the exit questionnaire or interview, it may
not be possible to maintain full confidentiality or the confidentiality of the provided.
7.4 If the situation in paragraph 7.3 should arise, the Department will inform an employee prior
to disclosure of this information, whenever possible.
8.

EXIT PROCEDURES

8.1

Resignation
If an employee decides to leave, he or she shall serve written notice: classified - two
weeks; unclassified - 30 days or according to the employee‘s appointment letter.
The employee will receive acceptance of the resignation from the Department.

8.2

Exit Questionnaire
Employees shall complete an exit questionnaire, available from the supervisor or
divisional personnel representative, and bring the completed questionnaire to the exit
interview. This information will be retained in a confidential file, separate from other
personnel records, in the Affirmative Action office.

8.3

Retention Measures
The immediate supervise has a responsibility with the assistance of the Human
Resources Directorate, to explore measures for retaining employees, which could include:
(a) A counter offer; and
(b) Redeployment.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 121 of 183

8.4

Exit Interviews

(a)

Prior to the last day worked, an exiting employee will have an exit interview conducted
by one of the following officers: Human Resources Consultant, Indirect Supervisor and
HOD.
The exiting employee shall choose the office to conduct the interview and the supervisor
or divisional personnel representative shall assist in scheduling the interview. A telephone
interview will be arranged for employees who do not work in the Provincial Office
Building. The exiting employee's supervisor will not participate in the exit interview but
the employee and supervisor are encouraged to discuss any matters of interest.
Information collected during the Exit Interview Process shall be confidential and will
not be used in any way to reflect upon the exiting employee. Employees are encouraged
to be candid and to ask any questions they may have regarding their separation. The exit
interview is intended to give the employee a chance to speak freely concerning reasons
for leaving Extension.
Exit interview data shall be compiled, summarized, and reported to the Executive
Committee on a quarterly basis.

(b)

(c)

(d)

9.

OTHER OUT-PROCESS INFORMATION: ASSET AND RISK MANAGEMENT

9.1

Department’s Exit Process& Checklist
On the last working day the employee's supervisor shall schedule a meeting. The
Department‘s exit process checklist should be used for this meeting and possible followup. The purpose of the Checklist is to ensure all accesses are revoked and the necessary
items belonging to the Department are returned. The checklist covers the following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)

Keys and key cards;
Computer access authorization codes;
Telephone cards or ID cards;
Corporate credit cards;
Company computers, cell-phones and other logistics;
Forwarding address;
Identification cards/badges;
Return Employee Handbook;
Arrange last paycheck and vacation pay;
Insurance conversion and benefits continuation rights; and
Pension information.

9.2 Employee Benefits
Terminating employees:
(a) Will receive a letter from the Human Resources Office with information about benefits.
(b) Will be paid all salary earned through the last day of work, including any accrued
vacation as provided by Public Service Act and Regulations, classified personnel policies
or unclassified personnel policies, provided that all leave reports are up to date.
(c) May approach the Human Resources Directorate to arrange for benefit continuation
elections and to terminate appropriate benefits.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 122 of 183

9.3 Exit Forms
Exit processing forms include:
(a) An Exit Process Checklist (To be provided by supervisors- Annexure A)
(b) An Employee Exit Questionnaire (To be administered by the Human Resourced
Directorate- Annexure B)
10. RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS
10.1

All managers/supervisors are responsible for
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)

10.2

Identifying key critical and scarce skills
Implementing a career path strategy
Guiding, developing, coaching and retaining employees;
Creating an affirming environment for all employees with development and
advancement opportunities;
Identifying those employees that could potentially leave the Department;
Conducting bi-annual performance assessments;
Reviewing and providing constructive feedback on the performance of employees;
Identifying and addressing training gaps and relevant training interventions both
formal and informal development;
Setting effective goals and review achievements;
Communicating goals and behaviour that is required in the Department;
Delivering quality; and
Practicing visible reward and recognition.

All Employees are responsible for:
(a) Understanding their own deliverables and participate to achieve them;
(b) Being knowledgeable about their job and the Departments goals and strategies of
the Department;
(c) Accept and ask for constructive feedback on performance and behaviour; and
(d) Understand how their performance and behaviour affects the success of the
Department.

10.3

The Human Resources Directorate is responsible for:
(a) Supporting managers in their quest to retain and motivate employees;
(b) Assisting managers to create affirming and inclusive workplace environments and
climates;
(c) Facilitating the speedy implementation of a counter offer as a retention mechanism,
where appropriate;
(d) Facilitating the implementation of alternatives such as: reorganisation of work to
accommodate employees such as persons with disabilities or family responsibilities;
teambuilding; and transferring one of employees involved in a conflict; and
(f) Ensuring that all exit forms and processes are completed.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 123 of 183

11. DISPUTE RESOLUTION
11.1

When an employee alleges that a grievance has arisen out of the act of a superior or
Manager in charge of him, the grievance may immediately be referred to the next
level of supervision or management.

11.2

For the Retention Strategy it is important that employees are aware that they are
considered as critical to the business. Those that are not may dispute this and the
manager will need to substantiate why/why he/she considers a skill or person to be
critical or not to the Department.

11.2

If in the exit process an employee says they have been treated unfairly, the formal
grievance process must be followed and the necessary forms completed and
submitted to the employee‘s manager/supervisor.

12. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REVIEW
12.1
12.2

The Retention Policy and Exit Strategy will be monitored to assess if the desired retention
has been achieved.
The Policy will be reviewed every 5 years or as and when required.

13. RELATED POLICIES
This policy must be read with the Employment Equity Policy and all other Human Resources
policies.
14. COMMENCENT OF THE POLICY
This policy shall be implemented by the Department with effect from the date of approval and
signature by the HOD.

APPROVED

______________________
OB MONGALE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT

___________________
Date:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 124 of 183

ANNEXURE A: EXIT PROCESS CHECK LIST
Employee ________________________________ Department____________________________
Termination Date _______________________ __-Exit Interview Date ______________________
Supervisor: Provide Exit Questionnaire, and assist employee in making an appointment with one
of the following offices for an exit interview, and completing the tasks listed below.
Employment Equity Officer _________________Director of Personnel Services_______________
Classified
Personnel
Office
__________________Employee
Rep_____________________________
Exiting Employee:_________________________
10.1 Complete Exit Questionnaire and bring it to Exit Interview.
10.2 Classified staff must complete final timesheet.
10.3 Unclassified staff must complete final leave report and send to payroll office;
discuss payment or transfer of vacation balance with payroll office.
10.4 Arrange for last paycheck.
10.5 Inform the payroll Office of any change of address so tax forms (IRP 5) will be sent
to the proper address at the end of the year.
10.6 Benefits: A termination letter from the Staff Benefits Office with information about
benefits will be sent to every exiting employee. If questions remain, the Benefits
Office should be contacted for an appointment.
10.7 Return keys and/or security cards.
10.8 Return identification cards/badges.
10.9 Notify appropriate computer personnel for purposes of computer authorization.
10.10 Corporate Credit Card to be returned if employee had access to one: Payroll
Office.
10.11 Parking Access Card returned
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Employee Signature/Date Supervisor Signature/Date
Forwarding Address ____________________________________________________________

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 125 of 183

ANNEXURE B:

EMPLOYEE EXIT QUESTIONNAIRE

Employee Name: ______________________________ Department: ___________________
Gender: ______ Ethnicity/Race: _________ Age: _____ Disability: Yes___ No___
A. Please rate the following working conditions in your job with Extension.
Fully
Agree
Agree
1. My skills were used effectively.
2. At time of employment my educational background
was sufficient.

Disagree

Strongly
Disagree

3. At time of employment my knowledge of the job was
sufficient.
4. My orientation to the job was effective.
5. My job training was adequate.
6. My workload was reasonable.
7. My equipment, supplies, and other resources were
adequate.
8. My work accomplishments were acknowledged.
9. My request(s) for additional job training/professional
development was met.
10. My relationship with co-worker(s) was satisfactory.
B. Please describe your perception of your supervisor.
Always
1. Provided effective supervision.
2. Clearly defined work standards and
expectations.
3. Gave fair and equal treatment.
4. Was available to discuss job-related
information.
5.
Provided
useful
work
related
information.

Usually

Sometimes

6. Provided periodic performance feedback.
7. Maintained consistent policies and
practices.
8. Provided recognition for good work.
9. Encouraged cooperation among staff.
10. Maintained a positive working
environment.
11. Conducted fair performance appraisals.
12. Encouraged my advancement.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 126 of 183

Seldom

Never

N/A

C. How did you feel about your pay and benefits provided by Department?
Excellent
Good
Satisfactory
1. Performance Appraisal Program
2. Job Classification
3. Annual Salary Increases
4. Vacation Leave
5. Sick Leave
6. Holidays
7. Retirement
8. Life Insurance
9. Health Insurance
10. Dental Insurance
11. Parking
12. Promotional Process/Advancement
13. Other - Specify:

Poor

N/A

D. General Comments:
1. Do you believe that the Human Resources Department was accessible to you?
Yes: ______ No: ______ If not, why?
__________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________
2. Would you recommend employment with the department you are leaving to a friend or
relative?
Yes: ______ No: ______ If not, why?
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
3. Would you return to work for Department? Yes: ______ No: ______
__________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________
4. Other comments:
__________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________
I understand this information is confidential; however, I understand the information
contained in this questionnaire may be revealed on a "need to know" basis. (See
Confidentiality of Exit Process Information in the Exit Policy and Procedures.)
Employee Signature: ___________________________________ Date: __________________
Exit Interviewer: _____________________________________ Date: ___________________

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 127 of 183

INCAPACITY LEAVE AND ILL HEALTH
POLICY
“Harnessing the Potential of all
Employees”

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 128 of 183

NORTHWEST PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY
POLICY NO:
NAME OF POLICY:
EFFECTIVE ON:
DATE OF REVIEW:

HR2009/008
INCAPACITY LEAVE AND ILL-HEALTH POLICY
.……………………..
APRIL 2012
CONTENTS

Contents

Page

Preamble
1.
Abbreviations and Definitions …………………………………..….......

129

2.

Purpose and Objectives ………………………………….…………........

129

3.

Principles …………………………………………………………………........

130

4.

Scope of Application ………………………………………………….........

130

5.

Legislative Framework………………………………………………….......

130

6.

Policy Statement ………………………………………………………........

130

7.

Appointment of Health Risk Manager…………………………….......

131

8.

The Management of Incapacity ………………………………….........

131-135

9.

Role of Employment Assistance Programme ………………….......

135

10.

Roles and Responsibilities ……………………………………………......

136

11.

Dispute Resolution ……………………………………………….…….......

136-137

12.

Monitoring, Evaluation and Review ……………………………….......

137

13.

Related Policies ……………………………………………….………….......

137

14.

Commencement of Policy …………………………………………….......

137

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 129 of 183

PREAMBLE
The Department of Public Safety (―the Department‖) is committed to creating a working
environment that optimally supports effective and efficient service delivery which is
simultaneously sensitive to the circumstances of its employees. Particular attention is paid to the
needs and requirements of the members of the public who the Department serves as a core
business in this regard.
1. ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
DPSA:
GEPF:
LRA:
PILIR:
PSA:
PSCBC:

Department of Public Service and Administration.
Government Employees Pension Fund.
Labour Relations Act.
Procedure on Incapacity Leave and Ill Health Retirement.
Public Service Act.
Public Service Co-ordinating Bargaining Council.

Department:

Department of Public Safety, North West.

Employee:

An employee includes all employees of the Department
employed in terms of the Public Service Act of 1994, the
Basic Conditions of Employment Act of 1998, as amended
and includes contract workers, interns, volunteers and
prospective employees.

Employment Legislation:

means the PSA, read with the Public Service Regulations,
2001, as amended and laws governing the appointment of
persons in the services and state educational institutions;

Health Risk Manager :

means an independent natural or juristic person appointed by
the Employer to advice on the granting of incapacity leave
and ill-health retirement of employees;

Incapacitated:

means the inability to perform some or all of one‘s assigned
functions as a result of incapacity;

Incapacity:

means an illness or injury;

Leave Determination:

the Determination on leave of Absence in the Public Service
made by the Minister for Public Service and Administration in
terms of section 3(3)(c) of the PSA, as amended from time to
time.

2. PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
2.1 The purpose of this policy is to provide a framework for managing departmental responses to
Incapacity Leave and Ill-Health in the manner that complies with the constitution and
applicable laws, prevents abuse of sick leave and eliminates unfair discrimination and enables
the harnessing of each person‘s full potential.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 130 of 183

2.2 The objectives of the policy include:(a) To ensure that the employers and employees have a common understanding in dealing
with Incapacity Leave and Ill-Health;
(b) Ensure intervention and management of incapacity leave in the workplace to
accommodate temporary or permanently incapacitated employees and
(c)
To provide employers and employees with appropriate guidelines in dealing with
issues of Incapacity Leave.
3. PRINCIPLES
3.1 The principles that underpin this policy and which should inform its implementation,
Includes the following:
(a) To promote consistency and standard compliance in dealing with Incapacity Leave and
Ill-Health retirement;
(b) The protection of the human rights and dignity of people who need Incapacity Leave and
Ill-Health retirement;
(c) Confidentiality of information on Incapacity Leave and Ill-Health shall be maintained at all
times.
4. SCOPE OF APPLICATION
This policy is applicable to all the employees of the department.
5. LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK
5.1 South African Laws and policy frameworks that underpin the policy include the following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)

Schedule 8 of the Labour Relations Act, 1995;
Employment Equity Act, 1998;
Public Service Act, 1994;
Labour Relations Act, 1995;
Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act 1993; and
Occupational Health and Safety Act 1993.

6. POLICY STATEMENT
6.1 The Department believes that all its employees are valuable including those that are impaired
by ill-health or disability;
6.2 The employees that are affected by ill-health can remain productive and contribute to
effective service if given alternative employment, or having the duties adapted to
accommodate the employee‘s impairment.
6.3 Accordingly:
(a) Unfair discrimination on the grounds of Incapacity and Ill-Health is prohibited;
(b) The Employer must, in accordance with the constitutional rights to privacy, the Code of
Conduct in the Public Service Regulations treat at all times any information regarding the
medical condition of an employee with the necessary respect and confidentiality;
(c) All forms, document and information on Incapacity Leave and Ill-Health must be
classified and treated as ―Strictly Confidential‖ and kept in a safe environment;
(d) Breach of confidentiality through disclosure of another‘s incapacity status without their
consent shall be subject to disciplinary action, which may culminate in dismissal;
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 131 of 183

(e) The Department‘s Employment Assistance Programme shall be adjusted with a view to
improving responsiveness to Incapacity and Ill-Health related wellness challenges.
7. APPOINTMENT OF A HEALTH RISK MANAGER
The DPSA shall appoint an independent multi-disciplinary medical expect, specializing in
occupational medicine as a Health Risk Manager.
8. THE MANAGEMENT OF INCAPACITY LEAVE
8.1 Temporary Incapacity Leave
(a) Incapacity Leave is not an unlimited amount of additional sick leave days at an
employee‘s disposal. Incapacity leave is additional sick leave granted conditionally at the
Department‘s discretion, as provided for in the Leave Determination and PILIR.
(b) An employee who has exhausted his or her normal sick leave, referred to in paragraph
12 of the Leave Determination, during the prescribed leave cycle and who according to
the treating medical practitioner requires to be absent from work due to a temporary
incapacity leave, may apply for temporary incapacity leave with full pay on the applicable
application form prescribed in terms of PILIR in respect of each occasion.
(c) For the purposes of managing temporary incapacity leave and the application of PILIR,
temporary incapacity leave is regarded to be:
i.
a short period of incapacity leave, if the employee is absent for not longer
than 29 working days per occasion, after the normal sick leave credit have
been exhausted, in a sick leave cycle; and
ii.
a long period of incapacity leave, if the employee is absent for 30 working
days or more per occasion, after the normal sick leave credit have been
exhausted, in a sick leave cycle.
(d) Applications for temporary incapacity leave must be submitted on the following
prescribed application forms:
i.
Annexure A for short periods of incapacity leave; or
ii.
Annexure B for long period of incapacity leave.
(e) For an employee‘s application for temporary incapacity leave to be considered the:
i.
employee must submit sufficient proof that he/she is too ill/injured to
perform his/her work satisfactorily;
ii.
application form must, regardless the period of absence, be accompanied by
a medical certificate issued and signed by a medical practitioner that certifies
his/her condition as temporary incapacity and if the employee has
consented, the nature and extent of the incapacity.
iii.
Employee is in accordance with item 10(1) of Schedule 8 of the LRA,
afforded the opportunity to submit together with his/her application form:
(aa) any medical evidence related to the medical condition of the
employee, such as medical reports from a specialist, blood tests
results, x-ray results or scan results, obtained at the employee‘s
expense; and
(bb) any additional written motivation supporting his/her application;
(f) An employee must submit his or her application for temporary incapacity leave in respect
of clinical procedure in advance, unless the treating medical practitioner certifies that
such procedure has to be conducted as an emergency.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 132 of 183

(g) If overcome by a sudden incapacity, the employee must personally notify his/her
supervisor or manager immediately. A verbal message to the supervisor/manager by a
relative, fellow employee or friend is only acceptable if the nature and/or extent of the
incapacity prevents the employee to inform the supervisor/manager personally.
(h) An employee must submit an application form for temporary incapacity leave personally
or through a relative, fellow employee or friend within 5 working days after the first day
of absence.
(i) If the employee fails to submit an application within the period indicated in paragraph
(h), above, the following arrangements apply:
i.
The employee‘s manager/supervisor must immediately notify the employee
that if such application is not received within 2 working days, the sick leave
period will be deemed to be leave without pay. If the employee fails to
submit the application on time or submit compelling reasons or compelling
reasons exist why the application cannot be submitted, the
supervisor/manager must immediately inform the relevant personnel
section/office that relevant absence must be covered by annual leave (with
the employee‘s consent) and/or unpaid leave if insufficient annual leave
credits are available and if the employee failed to notify the Department of
his/her choice.
ii.
Failure by the employee to submit an application form within the stated
periods, or failure by the supervisor/manager to properly manage it, must be
viewed in a serious light and disciplinary steps should be taken.
8.2 Short Period of Temporary Incapacity Leave
This refers to 1-29 working days requested per occasion
(a) The Department must within 5 working days from receipt of the employee‘s application
for temporary incapacity leave, verify that the employee has attached:
i.
ii.

A medical certificate
Current medical reports not older than 6 months and not older than 2 months in the
case of psychiatric cases
iii. Current blood tests, x-ray results
iv. Additional written motivation provided by the employee and
v. The employee‘s sick leave records for at least the current sick leave cycle
(b) Conditionally grant a maximum of 30 consecutive working days temporary incapacity
leave with full pay subject to the outcome of his or her investigation into the nature and
extent of the employee‘s incapacity. Use Part C of the application form for this purpose
(c) Immediately complete the department‘s report to the Health Risk Manager provided for
in Part D of the application form and refer the application form to the Health Risk
Manager together with:
i.
ii.

the employee‘s sick leave records for at least the current sick leave cycle and if
available for the previous sick leave cycle;
the employee‘s annual and other leave records for the corresponding periods.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 133 of 183

(d) The Health Risk Manager must acknowledge receipts of the above-mentioned report
within 2 working days and confirm in writing that the department shall receive feedback
on the application within 12 working days, It is incumbent on the department to
confirm that the Health Risk Manager receives the report and required attachments.
(e) The Health Risk Manager must then undertake an assessment. The purpose of the
assessment is to:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.

determine the validity of the application for temporary incapacity leave;
determine the need for ongoing temporary incapacity leave;
determine the appropriate duration of the leave;
provide preliminary advice on the management of the condition; and
advise a full health assessment, if applicable.

The Health Risk Manager and the department must adhere to the guidelines for
incapacity assessment at Annexure G to enhance objective, equitable and consistent
advice and decision-making.
(f)

The Health Risk Manager may request further information before concluding its advice
to the department.
(g) The Health Risk Manager must, while maintaining and protecting the confidentiality
relating to medical information, forward its advice to the department.
(h) The Department must within 30 working days after receipt of both the application form
and medical certificate, approve or refuse temporary incapacity leave granted
conditionally. In making a decision, the department must apply its mind to the medical
certificate, (with or without describing the nature and extent of the incapacity), medical
information/records (if the employee consented to disclosure), the Health Risk
Manager‘s advice, the additional information supplied by the employee (if any) and all
other relevant information available to the department and based thereon approve or
refuse the temporary incapacity leave granted conditionally, on conditions that the
department may determine, e.g. to return to work,
Please use Part F of the application form for purposes of the decision-making process
(i)

If the department:
i.
approves the temporary incapacity leave granted conditionally, such leave must be
converted into temporary incapacity leave, or
ii. refuses the temporary incapacity leave granted conditionally, he/she must notify
the employee in writing:
(aa)
of refusal;
(bb)
of the reasons for refusal;
(cc)
that if he/she is not satisfied with the department‘s decision, that he/she
may lodge a grievance.
(dd)
that he/she must notify the department in writing within 5 working days of
the date of the notice to him/her, whether or not the period of conditional
incapacity leave must be covered by annual leave (to the extent of the
available annual leave credits) or unpaid leave and that, if he/she fails to
notify the department of his/her choice, the period will be covered by
unpaid leave.
Please refer to an example of a draft reply at Annexure D. The draft reply must be
adapted according to the circumstances of each individual case.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 134 of 183

(j)

The department must cover the period of absence, in accordance with the employee‘s
written notification or the annual leave credits are insufficient, the relevant period of
absence must be covered by unpaid leave.

8.3 Long Periods of Temporary Incapacity Leave
This refers to 30 working days or more requested per occasion
(a) An employee may be subjected to a full assessment by the Health Risk Manager, which
may include a second or further medical opinion and/or functional assessment by an
occupational therapist. This will allow proper and detailed evaluation of the employee‘s
health condition and the opportunity to assess whether the condition is serious enough
to warrant temporary incapacity leave for a long period or otherwise and where
applicable alternative employment or to adapt the work circumstances/duties of the
employee in order to accommodate the employee, in his/her work environment;
(b) The Department must within 5 working days from receipt of the employee‘s application
for temporary incapacity leave, verify that the employee has:
A medical certificate
Current medical reports not older than 6 months and not older than 2 months in the
case of psychiatric cases
iii. Current blood tests, x-ray results
iv. Additional written motivation provided by the employee and
v. The employee‘s sick leave records for at least the current sick leave cycle
i.
ii.

(c) conditionally grant a maximum of 30 consecutive working days temporary incapacity
leave with full pay subject to the outcome of his/her investigation into the nature and
extent of the employee‘s incapacity. Please use Part D of the application form for this
purpose. The employee must accordingly be notified in writing. Please use example of
the pro forma letter at Annexure C and
(d) immediately complete the department‘s report to the Health Risk Manager provided for in
Part D of the application form refer the application form to the Health Risk Manager
together with:
i.
the employee‘s sick leave records for at least the current sick leave cycle and if
available for the previous sick leave cycle
ii. the employee‘s annual and other leave records for the corresponding periods
(e) The Health Risk Manager must acknowledge receipt of the above-mentioned report
within 2 working days and confirm in writing that the department shall receive feedback
in the application within 12 working days. It is incumbent on the department to confirm
that the Health Risk Manager receives the documentation as required.
8.4 Permanent Incapacity Leave
(a) An employee shall not directly access or apply for permanent incapacity leave. The
Department may grant an employee up to maximum of 30 working days‘ permanent
incapacity leave once he or she has following the above-mentioned records determined
that an employee‘s condition is permanent, The Department must during this period and
in accordance with the advice of the Health Risk Manager, ascertain the feasibility of:i.
ii.

alternative employment; or
adapting duties or work circumstances to accommodate the employee
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 135 of 183

(b) An employee, whose degree of incapacity has been certified as permanent but who can
still render a service, may be redeployed horizontally with retention of his or her benefits.
If the redeployment necessitates reallocation to a job a lower grading, it must be
explained well in advance and the continued utilization of the employee must, in this
regard, be with his or her consent. If the employee‘s redeployment entails retraining, the
employer must take requisite resources (time and financial) and potential returns into
consideration before approving redeployment. The redeployment of an employee‘s
services must ensure the optimal utilization of his or her competencies and may not
compromise service delivery.
(c) If both the Department and employee are convinced that the employee will never be
able to render an effective service at his or her level or rank, the employer and employee
may proceed with the process of termination of service on grounds of ill-health.
(d) The Department may extend the period, referred to in paragraph (a), up to a maximum
30 working days in order to finalise processes already commenced. If the processes are
not completed within the 60 working days, the case must be referred to the Director
General: Public Service and Administration together with a report explaining the reasons
for the delay
8.4 Shortened Application for Ill-Health
If the Department, following a full assessment of an employee for purposes of long
temporary incapacity leave, decides that the employee should be retired on grounds of illhealth, the shortened application form for ill-health retirement at Annexure F must be
completed and submitted without delay to the GEPF. Copies of the information, which was
submitted to the Health Risk Manager, as well as a copy of the Health Risk Manager‘s advice
must be attached to the application form.
8.5 Ill-Health Retirement
(a) The Supervisor/Manager must submit an application for ill-health retirement as soon as it
is evident that an employee may not be able to return to work following incapacity. An
employee may decide to apply for ill-health retirement
(b) An application for ill-health retirement may be lodged even before an employee‘s normal
sick leave credits have been exhausted.
9. ROLE OF EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMME (EAP)
9.1 The Employment Assistance Programme (EAP) Officer will assist in monitoring of voluntary
counselling, general support of Incapacity and Ill-health related matters at the workplace
and promotion of wellness.
9.2 The role of EAP is to facilitate counselling and promote wellness programmes and support
committees in a workplace environment.
9.3 External professionals, internal trainers and other colleagues will assist in managing and
monitoring all Incapacity and Ill-health training programmes and other interventions at the
work place.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 136 of 183

10. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The roles and responsibilities of the Health Risk Manager, Department (as an employer) and
the employee in the management of Incapacity Leave and Ill-health will be as outlined
below:
10.1

Health Risk Manager
(a) The Health Risk Manager is responsible for continuously notifying the DPSA of trends
in undue delays on the part of the Department, with in the above processes
prescribed in PILIR. The DPSA will investigate the cause of the delay and make
recommendations to the Department in respect of preventive steps to avoid a similar
trend in future
(b) He/she must, in accordance with PILIR, provide advice with regards to the granting
of incapacity and the management of illnesses, where applicable, as well as the
adjustment of the work environment to meet the incapacity of the employee.
(c) The Health Risk Manager will assess and provide advice to the Department in
respect of an employee‘s application for incapacity leave within specified time frame.
The systems and administrative capacity for handling the volume of forms, as well
as the medical knowledge and experience to do incapacity leave and ill-health
assessments will be the responsibility of the Health Risk Manager.

10.2

Department
The Department shall be responsible to process applications and complete reports within
the specified time frames. The Department shall, within the scope of his/her authority
and with due consideration of the Health Risk Manager‘s advice, take a final decision on
an employee‘s application for incapacity leave and/or ill-health retirement.

10.3

Employee
The employee shall submit application forms for either incapacity leave or ill-health
retirement. He/she shall submit medical certificates and reports to his/her
supervisor/manager.

11.

DISPUTE RESOLUTION

11.1

An employee who is not satisfied by a decision by the Department may lodge a grievance
as contemplated in terms of the rules made by the Public Service Commission.

11.2

In terms of section 35 of the PSA, the Department requires new medical evidence to
defend his/her decision. The costs of such evidence would be for the account of the
Department. If the employee requires new medical evidence to prove the substance of
his/her grievance, the cost will be for the employee‘s account.

11.3 If an employee refuses to accept the adapted duties or to move to alternative
employment, which is more suitable for his or her incapacity, the Department may,
subject to due process being followed, terminate the services of the employee
concerned.
11.4

The Department, based upon the advice of the Health Risk Manager must take the final
decision with regard to the granting of incapacity leave, alternate employment or the
adjustment of the employees work environment. If the Department deviates from the
advice of the Health Risk Manager, he or she must:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 137 of 183

(a)
(b)

record the reasons for deviation in his/her decision; and
in writing inform both the Health Risk Manager and the DPSA of the reason for the
deviation

12.

MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REVIEW

12.1

The Department shall establish a committee that will deal with Incapacity and Ill-health
issues. This committee shall consist of the Designated Officer Employee Integrated
Health and Wellness Sub-directorate Health Officer, who would be directly accountable to
the Human Resource Manager, representatives from all key departments and organized
labour.

12.2

The Incapacity Leave and Ill-health Committee shall evaluates and advise on the
implementation of the this policy

13.

RELATED POLICIES

13.1

Effective implementation of this policy requires that it be read together with the
Employment Equity Policy, Policy on the Management of HIV and AIDS, Disability Policy
and PILIR.

14.

COMMENCEMENT OF POLICY
This policy shall be implemented by the Department with effect from the date of approval
and signature by the Head of Department.

APPROVED

______________________
OB MONGALE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT

___________________
Date:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 138 of 183

ANTI-SUBSTANCE AND DRUG ABUSE
POLICY
“Managing Health and Wellness in the
workplace”

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 139 of 183

NORTHWEST PROVINCE:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY
POLICY NO:
NAME OF POLICY:
EFFECTIVE ON:
DATE OF REVIEW:

HR2009/009
ANTI-SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND DRUG ABUSE POLICY
..……………………..
APRIL 2012
CONTENTS

Contents

Page

Preamble
1. Abbreviations and Definitions ……………………………………………….......

140-141

2. Purpose and Objectives …………………………………………………………....

141

3. Principles ……………………………………………………………………………......

141

4. Legislative Framework …………………………………………………………......

141-142

5. Scope of Application …………………………………………………………….......

142

6. Policy Statement …………………………………………………………………......

142

7. Employee Assistance Programme ……………………………………………....

142-143

8. Referral procedures ……………………………………………………………….....

143-144

9. Referral outcomes ………………………………………………………………….....

144

10. Information, Education and Training ………………………………………......

144

11. Dispute Resolution …………………………………………………………………....

145

12. Monitoring, Evaluation and Review ………………………………………….....

145

13. Related Policies ………………………………………………………………………...

145

14. Commencement of this policy …………………………………………………....

145

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 140 of 183

PREAMBLE
The North West Department of Public Safety (―the Department‖):

ALIGNS itself with former President of South Africa, Mr Nelson Mandela, who, singled out
alcohol and drug abuse as social pathologies requiring urgent attention, in his opening address to
Parliament in 1994,

BELIEVES that substance abuse is a major contributor to crime, poverty, reduced productivity,
unemployment, dysfunctional family life, political instability, the escalation of chronic diseases
such as AIDS and tuberculosis (TB), injury and premature death.

IS CONVINCED that substance abuse transcends social, racial, cultural, language, religious and
gender boundaries and affects everyone directly or indirectly. Even tobacco use has been shown
to exacerbate poverty and reduce productivity and, together with alcohol, is also recognized as a
gateway to the use of other drugs.

RECOGNIZES the extent of the problem and is committed to responding positively in order to
ensure a safe and productive workplace, as well as healthy employees.

The response of the Department includes the development of this policy, strengthening the
training and awareness of its employees, and support and treatment through its Employee
Assistance Programme.
1. ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
AIDS:
EAP:
TB:
PSCBC:

Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome.
Employee Assistance Programme.
Tuberculosis.
Public Service Co-ordinating Bargaining Council.

Alcohol Related Problems:

Department:

For the purposes of the following policy, any employee
whose use of alcohol interferes with the efficient and
safe performance of assigned job duties is considered to
have an alcohol related problem. S/he may or may not
yet be an acute or chronic alcoholic.
Department of Public Safety, North West.

Substance Abuse:

means the consumption of alcohol and/or other lawful
drug, illegal drugs or controlled substances, by a person,
which interferes with his/her work performance or ability
to work and/or his/her relationships at work.

Substance Dependence:

is a clinical diagnosis characterized by specific
physiological and behavioural symptoms caused by a
pattern of pathological substance use that leads to
personal distress or significant impairment in social or
occupational functioning.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 141 of 183

Treatment:

is a process aimed at the promotion of the quality of life
of the drug dependant and his/her support system
(husband/wife, family members and significant other
persons in his/her life) with the help of a multiprofessional team.

Work performance:

To conform to the reasonable expectation of
management, including availability for work and levels of
conduct and behaviour.

2. PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
2.1 The purpose of this policy is to:
(a) Promote a culture of respect for co-workers and the communities we serve by
encouraging the development of a safe and productive environment;
(b) Promote safety and wellness in the workplace;
(c) Promote compliance with legislative obligations; and
(d) Inculcate awareness that substance abuse is counter productive.
2.2 The
(a)
(b)
(c)

objectives of this policy are to:
Protect the safety, health and wellbeing of the employees of the Department;
Protect the safety and wellbeing of the people served by the Department;
Define employer and employee responsibilities and roles where cases of substance
abuse present themselves; and
(d) Provide mechanisms for the detection, treatment, management and rehabilitation of
persons who may have a substance abuse problem.

3. PRINCIPLES
3.1 Health and wellness for all employees;
3.2 Workplace safety;
3.3 Employee assistance and rehabilitation; and
3.4 Respect for co-workers and colleagues.
4. LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK
4.1 Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993;
4.2 Labour Relations Act, 1995;
4.3 Employment Equity Act, 1998;
4.4 Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
4.5 National Road Traffic Act,
4.6 Prevention and Treatment of Drug Dependency Act,
4.7 Medicines and Related Substances Control Act,
4.8 Criminal Procedure Act, and
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 142 of 183

4.9 National Drug Master Plan.
5. SCOPE OF APPLICATION
This policy is applicable to all the employees of the department.
6. POLICY STATEMENT
6.1 The Department values the safety, health and wellbeing of all its employees and their
families.
6.2 Substance and drug abuse is strictly prohibited and all reported cases shall be dealt with in
accordance with procedures outlined in this policy.
7. EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMME (EAP)
7.1 The Department maintains an Employee Assistance Programme to assist employees with
personal problems, including those related to substance abuse/dependence, which has an
impact on work performance.
7.2 The EAP policy provisions and procedures are applicable in the identification, referral and
treatment of employees with substance abuse / dependency problems.
7.3 The EAP will provide employees and their families with confidential, professional assessment
and referral for assistance in resolving or accessing treatment for addiction to, dependence
on, or problems with alcohol, drugs, or other personal problems adversely affecting their
work performance.
7.4 Confidential assessment and referral services will be provided without cost to the employee
or family member. The cost of treatment, counselling or rehabilitation resulting from EAP
referral will be the responsibility of the Department.
7.5 When documented job impairment has been observed and identified, a supervisor may
recommend participation in the EAP. Any action taken by the supervisor, however, will be
based on work performance. Refusal to participate in or failure to complete the EAP-directed
program will be documented. The employee is however, free to utilize external services at
own cost. Should work performance not improve after a reasonable amount of time, the
employee is subject to progressive corrective action up to and including termination of
employment.
7.6 Self-referral by employees or family members is strongly encouraged. The earlier a problem
is addressed, the easier it is to deal with and the higher the success rate. While self-referral
in itself does not preclude use of corrective actions, participation in an EAP-directed program
may enable the supervisor to allow time for completion of such program before initiating or
determining additional corrective actions.
7.7 EAP-related activities, such as referral appointments, will be treated on the same basis as
other personal business or health matters with regard to the use of sick leave.
7.8 Confidentiality is assured. No information regarding the nature of the person will be made
available to supervisors, nor will it be included in the permanent personnel file.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 143 of 183

7.9 Participation in the EAP will not affect an employee‘s career advancement or employment,
nor will it protect an employee from disciplinary action if substandard job performance
continues. The EAP is a process used in conjunction with discipline, not a substitute for
discipline. An employee through self-referral or through referral by a supervisor can access
EAP. Information will be distributed about the EAP to employees for their confidential use.
8. REFERRAL PROCEDURES
The Department will provide an environment in which those with alcohol-related problems
are encouraged to obtain guidance and advice as soon as possible. Names and addresses of
specialist agencies are available, in confidence, from the EAP office. Referral to specialist
agencies must always include the agreement of the person with the substance abuse
problem.
8.1

Self-referral
(a) An employee who believes that he/she is experiencing substance abuse problems is
encouraged to obtain specialist advice. When troubled employees seek the advice of
EAP practitioners directly, it is known as a self –referral.
(b) Employees may call for information or to make appointments without the knowledge
or participation of their supervisors. If attendance at such counselling sessions is
during the employee‘s normal work time, this should be by mutual agreement with
the person‘s supervisor.
(c) Any employee who, as a result of self-referral, is required to undertake a course of
treatment that requires absence from work will be deemed to be absent from work on
ill-health grounds.

8.2

Supervisory referral
(a) A Supervisor who has reasonable evidence to support the view that an employee for
whom he/she has responsibility, may have an alcohol-related/substance abuse
problem that is affecting his/her work performance, should arrange to discuss this with
the person concerned. The purpose of the discussion is not for the supervisor to
―diagnose a substance abuse problem‖, rather it will be to raise problems in his or her
work performance.
(b) If normal supervisory procedures do not assist in rectifying the situation, a supervisor
may refer the employee to an EAP practitioner.
(c) While it is appreciated for the supervisor to raise questions about performance in the
context of the person‘s use of alcohol or other substances, the employee has an
absolute right to refuse to discuss the matter. If the employee does not wish the
matter to be considered under the departmental substance abuse prevention and
management policy, it will be dealt with under the normal disciplinary procedures.
(d) If the employee accepts that there may be aspects of his or her performance that are
alcohol or substance related, the supervisor will offer assistance. Normally the matter
will be referred to the EAP for further action.
(e) Any employee who, as a result of supervisory referral, is required to undertake a
course of treatment that requires absence from work, will be deemed to be absent
from work on ill –health grounds.
(f) In order to strengthen the capacity of supervisors to intervene timeously and to make
the necessary referrals, training should be provided to them in this regard.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 144 of 183

8.3

Responsibilities of the Supervisor:
(a) Always inform all staff members of what is expected of them in terms of
performance.
(b) Be alert to changes in performance and changes in patterns of attendance. Record
such changes in consultation with the employee.
(c) Any employee reporting to work visibly impaired, will be deemed unable to perform
required duties and will not be allowed to work. The supervisor will then consult
privately with the employee to determine the cause of the observation, including
whether substance abuse has occurred. If, in the opinion of the supervisor, the
employee is considered impaired, the employee will be sent home. An impaired
employee will not be allowed to drive state vehicles or to operate state
machinery/property.

9. REFERRAL OUTCOMES
9.1 Employees referred under these procedures accept and are accepted by the Department as
having had performance problems because of substance abuse. Any disciplinary action that
might have been pending as a result of substance abuse problems will be held in abeyance
pending the outcome of the referral programme.
9.2 If, as a result of the referral programme, the employee is able to sustain a return to working
at an acceptable level of performance, references to pending disciplinary action will be
deleted. The period of sustained evidence of a successful outcome of the referral
programme will normally be two years.
9.3 Employees who embark on, but refuse to follow, the referral programme will be dealt with
under the normal disciplinary procedure.
9.4 Employees who return to working at an acceptable standard but whose performance again
deteriorates as a result of alcohol-related problems may, if appropriate, be given further
opportunities under the referral procedures. It should be noted, however, that the
opportunities to deal with problems created by substance abuse under the referral
procedures would not be unlimited. If an employee appears incapable of dealing with the
problem, the Department may take steps to terminate the employment on the grounds of
incapacity/misconduct.
10. INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND TRAINING:
10.1 In actualizing the Substance Abuse Prevention and Management policy, the employer
should introduce alcohol and drug awareness education and training for the workforce as a
whole. It should also provide training for the supervisors in particular with the skills to
identify and address employees with the problem themselves or suffering due to some
other employees drug and alcohol misuse.
10.2 The Department will provide drug and alcohol awareness information to all employees.
10.3

Identified persons in the Sub-directorate: Integrated Employee Health and Wellness in
conjunction with the Human Resources component should be trained as master trainers in
order to roll out training throughout the Department for all staff, including new staff during
Induction Programmes.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 145 of 183

11.

DISPUTE RESOLUTION

11.1 Should a complaint emanating from the un-procedural application of this policy not be
satisfactorily resolved by internal procedures set out in this policy, either party may within
30 days of the dispute having risen, refer the matter to the relevant dispute resolution
procedure. Should the dispute remain unresolved, either party may refer the dispute to the
Labour Court within 30 days of the receipt of the certificate issued by the conciliator.
11.2 Any contravention of this policy/disciplinary infraction shall be dealt with in terms of the
relevant PSCBC Resolutions relevant to the public service.
12. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REVIEW
12.1 The implementation, monitoring and evaluation of this policy shall be the
responsibility of the Sub-Directorate Integrated Employee Health and Wellness.
12.2 This policy shall be reviewed after every five years of its coming into operation.
13. RELATED POLICIES
This policy must be read with departmental policies on incapacity and ill – health, Leave and
EAP.
14. COMMENCEMENT OF THE POLICY
This policy shall be implemented by the Department with effect from the date of approval and
signature by the HOD.

APPROVED

______________________
OB MONGALE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT

___________________
Date:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 146 of 183

SMOKING POLICY
“Promoting a Healthy and Safe Work
Environment”

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 147 of 183

NORTHWEST PROVINCE:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY
POLICY NO:
NAME OF POLICY:
EFFECTIVE ON:
DATE OF REVIEW:

HR2009/010
SMOKING POLICY
……………………….
APRIL 2012
CONTENTS

Contents

Page

Preamble
1. Abbreviations and Definitions ………………………………………………….......

148

2. Purpose and Objectives ………………………………………………………….....

148-149

3. Principles ………………………………………………………………………………......

149

4. Legislative framework …………………………………………………………….......

149

5. Scope of Application ……………………………………………………………….......

149

6. Policy Statement …………………………………………………………………….......

149

7. Policy Provisions ……………………………………………………………………….....

149-150

8. Responsibilities and Obligations ……………………………….………………......

151

9. Smoking cessation programmes …………………………………………………....

151-152

10. Dispute Resolution ……………………………………………………………………....

152-153

11. Monitoring, Evaluation and Review …………………………………………….....

153

12. Related Policies ………………………………………………………………………....

153

13. Commencement of the Policy …………………………………………………….....

153

PREAMBLE
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 148 of 183

The Department of Public Safety (―the Department‖):

REALISES the need to provide a healthy working environment to all its employees, clients and
visitors.

CONSIDERS that the effects of smoking on health calls for strong action to deter people from
taking up smoking and encourage existing smokers to give up smoking.

Has developed and will implement this policy with a view to aligning the health system with the
values of the Constitution as well as to enhance and protect the fundamental rights of citizens by
discouraging the use of tobacco products in order to reduce the occurrence of tobacco related
health problems and death.
1.

ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS

DCP:
DENOSA:
FEDHASA:
HOD:
MEC:
NPPHCN:
PSCBC:

Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa.
Federated Hospitality Association of South Africa.
Head of Department.
Member of the Executive Council.
National Progressive Primary Health Care Network.
Public Service Co-ordinating Bargaining Council.

Department:

Department of Public Safety, North West.

Employee:

An employee includes all employees of the Department
employed in terms of the Public Service Act of 1994, the
Basic Conditions of Employment Act of 1998, as
amended and includes contract workers, interns,
volunteers and prospective employees.

Public Place:

any indoor or enclosed area which is open to the public
or any part of the public including the workplace.

Smoke:

inhale, exhale, hold or otherwise have control over an
ignited tobacco product, weed or plant, and ―smoked‖
and ―smoking‖ have corresponding meaning.

The Act:

refers to the Tobacco Product Control Act, 1993 (Act 83
of 1993) as Amended by the Tobacco Product Control
Amendment Act, 1999(Act 12 of 1999).

2.

PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES

2.1

To provide a healthy and comfortable working environment for all employees;

2.2

To accommodate the needs of both smokers and non-smokers based on mutual
tolerance, respect and common courtesy;

2.3

To promote health awareness; and
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 149 of 183

2.4

To protect and enhance our indoor air quality

3.

PRINCIPLES

This policy seeks to:
3.1

secure a healthy and safe environment for employees and the public;

3.2

eliminate passive smoking within its premises. Moreover, the Department acknowledges
the rights of individuals and therefore the provisions of this policy will not be applied to
unfairly discriminate against smokers in any way.

4.

LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK

4.1

The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa;

4.2

Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000;

4.3

The Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993 (as amended);

4.4

Tobacco Products Control Act, 1993; (as amended);

4.5

Labour Relations Act, 1998 (as amended); and

4.6

Public Service Regulations, 2001 (as amended).

5.

SCOPE OF APPLICATION

This policy will apply to:
5.1
5.2
5.3

6.

All employees, clients, visitors and contractors of the Department and no exception to
the policy will be made;
All buildings, premises or enclosed spaces occupied, owned, leased or controlled by the
Department; and
All workplaces, which include all departmental buildings, corridors, toilets, stairwells,
elevators, cafeterias or any other common areas frequented by employees, visitors or
clients.
POLICY STATEMENT

Smoking is prohibited on all of the Department‘s premises except in designated areas.
7.

POLICY PROVISIONS

7.1

Smoking is prohibited in the workplace, unless that area is a designated ―smoking area‖.
The designated ―smoking area‖ shall in all respects comply with Section 3 of Government
Notice R.975, ―Notice relating to smoking tobacco products in public places issued under
the Tobacco Products Control Amendment Act No 12 of 1999.

7.2
7.3

Designated smoking areas must be clearly marked as such.
The number, location and distribution of designated smoking areas will be determined by
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 150 of 183

7.4
7.5
7.6
7.7

the Department.
Designated ―smoking areas‖ must be properly ventilated. Ventilation from designated
―smoking areas‖ will be directed out of the building so as to ensure that this smoke-filled
air is not circulated into other areas of the workplace.
All designated smoking areas will be clearly marked with a sign stating that it is a
―smoking area‖.
The Department on a regular basis will monitor designated ―smoking areas‖ for
compliance with the policy.
Changes will be implemented to the work environment:
In all workplaces, particular areas shall be designated as non-smoking areas. These are :
(a)
Any area in which a fire or safety hazard exists, including employer‘s state owned
vehicles;
(b)
training, conference and staff rooms;
(c)
rooms where meetings are in progress;
(d)
common areas, including elevators, staircases, lobbies waiting rooms, copier
rooms, mailrooms, libraries, store-rooms, reception areas, customer service
areas and rest rooms/ toilets;
(e)
areas where equipment can be damaged e.g. computer and production areas; or
recreation areas;
(f)
offices where facilities are shared, including open plan/communal offices; and
(g)
any area not specifically designated "smoking permitted".

7.8

The Department will allow employees who do smoke, to take short breaks during the day
to smoke in designated areas. However, the specific times and number of smoke breaks
will be dependent upon the following factors:
(a)
The effect on workflow and organisation of employees being absent from the
workplace;
(b)
The requirements of the workplace and the work-processes in that particular
area, including considerations relating to client liaison;
(c)
The impact of absence from the workplace on employees, who remain in that
workplace, particularly, if the employees, who remain at their workplaces, will
have to perform tasks normally performed by those employees who are absent
from their workplaces;
(d)
The Department recognizes and acknowledges that employees have the right to
work in a safe and healthy environment and therefore the Department will
attempt to minimise the exposure of non-smoking employees to designated
―smoking areas‖. Despite this, consideration must also be given to the
operational needs and requirements of the business of the Department. Bearing
in mind, non-smoking employees, who liaise with the public must acknowledge
that in certain circumstances, they be required to perform their services in areas
of the workplace, which are designated ―smoking areas‖;

7.9

Time wasted as a result of officials leaving the Department‘s premises to smoke, must be
monitored by the Supervisors and such time must be made up.

7.10

The employer will give assistance to those who want to give up smoking to establish an
environment which is supportive, through the Employee Assistance Programme.

7.11

Education and information programmes shall be provided to all staff on the effects of
smoking on health.

8.

RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 151 of 183

8.1

8.2

8.3

Employer
(a)

Shall ensure that all the public areas become no smoking areas and are to
display NO SMOKING stickers.

(b)

If a suitable area is available, a designated smoking area can be established
subject to it complying with the conditions as laid down in the Act.

Employees
(a)

Must cooperate and comply with all non-smoking, safety rules and procedures
provided;

(b)

Report unhealthy or unsafe conditions; and

(c)

Take care of his/her own health and safety as well as that of other persons who
may be affected by his/her actions or negligence to act.

Sub-Directorate Human Resources
The Sub-Directorate: Human Resources will be responsible for facilitating the
implementation of this policy and for monitoring compliance.

8.4

Occupational Health and Safety Committee
(a)
(b)

The Departmental Occupational Health and Safety Committee (―the Committee‖)
will be responsible for review of concerns, complaints, or questions about the
application of this policy as referred to them by management or staff.
The Committees will review such referrals and make recommendations to the
department to resolve any problems arising from this policy.

9.

SMOKING CESSATION PROGRAMMES

9.1

To assist employees who wish to stop smoking, the Department may make arrangements
to provide smoking cessation programmes for employees who wish to stop smoking
provided there is a sufficient demand for such programme.
Information regarding smoking cessation programmes is available from organizations
such as the:

9.2

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)
(m)
(n)

National Council Against Smoking;
Cancer Association of South Africa;
Heart Foundation;
National Cancer Registry;
Medical Research Council;
Human Sciences Research Council;
UCT School of Economics—Economics of Tobacco Control Project;
National Progressive Primary Health Care Network;
Tobacco Action;
South African Medical Association;
Freedom of Commercial Speech Trust;
Tobacco Institute;
Vending Machine Association; and
Federated Hospitality Association of South Africa.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 152 of 183

10.

DISPUTE RESOLUTION

(a)

(b)
(c)

The Departments of Transport, Roads and Community Safety reserve the right to
take disciplinary action against any person who does not comply with the policy
in accordance with the Labour Relations Act 1998 (as amended) and Resolution
2 of 1999 as amended by Resolution 1 of 2003.
The procedure to follow in dealing with disciplinary matters is governed by the
provisions of Resolution 1 of 2003 (Disciplinary Code and Procedures for the
Public Service, hereafter referred to as the DCP). (Annexure A).
The basic principles of procedural and substantive fairness in handling
disciplinary matters must be adhered to. Procedural fairness means that the
department must follow a fair procedure in terms of the DCP. Substantive
fairness means that the department must take disciplinary action for a fair
reason, and that the sanction must be commensurate with the offence.
(Annexure B).

10.1

Grievance Procedure
When dealing with grievances Resolution 14 of 2002 should be taken into
consideration. Steps to be followed:

10.2

Informal Grievance Procedure
(a)
Should an employee feel aggrieved the matter should be taken up with his or her
manager (need not to be in writing).
(b)
If the answer given by the manager is not satisfactory or if the manager is not in
a position to resolve the grievance, the matter may be taken up with a higher
authority i.e. head of office.

10.3

Formal Grievance Procedure
(a)

(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)

(i)

In the event of the dispute not being resolved then it can be escalated to the
employee designated (Rule F.1) to facilitate the resolution of grievances in the
department on the prescribed form. (Rule F.2) within 90 days (Rule D.3) from
which the employee became aware of the official act or omission which
adversely affects him or her.
The designated employee acknowledges receipt on the prescribed form.
The designated employee must liaise with the relevant structures of authority of
the Department to attempt to resolve the grievance (Rule F.3)
The designated employee must inform the aggrieved employee about the status
and the progress made towards the resolution of the grievance (Rule F.5).
If the grievance is resolved to the satisfaction of the aggrieved employee, the
confirmation thereof will be reduced to writing by the designated employee on
the prescribed form.
If the grievance cannot be resolved the executing authority (MEC) must inform
the aggrieved employee accordingly (Rule F.7).
If the aggrieved employee is still dissatisfied after being supplied with the
outcome he or she must inform the executing authority within 10 days.
the executing authority must in terms of section 35(1) of the Public Service Act
of 1994 forward the grievance and any relevant documentation to the Public
Service Commission for a recommendation within 5 days of being informed by
the aggrieved employee (Rule F.9 (a) and (b) ).
If however the grievance constitutes an alleged unfair labour practice as defined
in the Labour Relations Act (Act 66 of 1995) the employee may inform the
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 153 of 183

(j)

executing authority in writing that he or she wishes to utilize the dispute
resolution mechanism provided for in the constitution of the General Public
Service Sectoral Bargaining Council and the Public Service Commission should
therefore not consider the grievance (RuleF.10)
On receipt of the Commission‘s recommendations the executing authority must
within 5 days inform the employee and the Commission of his or her decision in
writing (Rule G.2).

11. MONITORING EVALUATION AND REVIEW
In order to have this policy amended the following processes shall be followed:
11.1 The proposed amendments shall be submitted in writing to the Sub-Directorate: Human
Resources Management, which shall investigate the validity, practicality and cost
effectiveness of the inputs.
11.2

All amendments shall be forwarded to the HOD/MEC for approval; and
All amendments made to this policy shall be presented to Labour in the Departmental
Bargaining Chamber for consultation and negotiation.

11.3 The policy shall be reviewed after a period of five years from the date of
commencement.
12. RELATED POLICIES
The Smoking Policy should be read with related human resources policies, which include the
Employee Wellness Policy, Official Working Hours Policy, Overtime policy and the Antisubstance and drug abuse policy
13. COMMENCEMENT OF THE POLICY
This policy shall be implemented by the Department with effect from the date of approval and
signature by the HOD.
APPROVED

______________________
OB MONGALE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT

___________________
Date:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 154 of 183

FUNERAL AND BEREAVEMENT POLICY
FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF PUBLIC SAFETY
“Managing LOSS OF LIFE AND LOVED
ONES in the workplace”

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 155 of 183

NORTHWEST PROVINCE:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY
POLICY NO:
NAME OF POLICY:

HR2009/011
FUNERAL AND BEREAVEMENT POLICY FOR EMPLOYEES
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
EFFECTIVE ON:
…………………..
DATE OF REVIEW: APRIL 2012
CONTENTS
Contents

Page

Preamble
1. Abbreviations and Definitions ……………………………………………………....... 156-157
2.

Purpose and Objectives………………………………………………………….......... 157

3. Principles …………………. ………………………………………………………............ 157
4. Legislative Framework …………………………………………………………............ 157
5. Scope of Application ………………………………………………………………........... 158
6. Policy Statement …………………………………………………………………..…....... 158
7. Personnel Provisions…………………………………………………………..……........ 158
8. Leave days ……….……………………………………………………………..…......... 158
9. Emotional Support …….…………………………………………………………........... 158-159
10. Individual Donations and Contributions .………….……………………............. 159
11. Employer‘s Role and Responsibility

………………………………….......... 159

12. Dispute Resolution ………………………………………..……………………….......... 160
13. Monitoring, Evaluation and Review……………………………………………....... 160
14. Related Policies ………………………………………………………………………........ 160
15. Commencement of Policy …………………………………………………………....... 161

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 156 of 183

PREAMBLE
The Department of Public Safety (―the Department‖).

REALISES that family responsibility for funeral/bereavement affects employees in a fundamental
way, impacting on their wellbeing and productivity

BELIEVES that the principles underpinning Batho Pele require the Department as an employer

to respect the rights of employees and provide a basis for affording employees a healthy work
environment and supporting them when death and bereavement occur.

FURTHER BELIEVES that challenges concerning funeral/bereavement have to be addressed
collectively by the stakeholders without prejudice. Examples are religious and cultural diversities.

COMMITS ITSELF to implement this policy to promote fairness and equal consideration to all
employees in departmental processes and benefits seeking to support employees involved in
funerals/ bereavement.
1. ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
HRM:
PSCBC:

Human Resource Management.
Public Service Co-ordinating Bargaining Council

Adopt:

To take into a relationship another one‘s child as
your own.

Counsellor:

A person trained to give guidance on personal,
social and psychological problems.

Department:

Department of Public Safety, North West.

Designated Officer:

An employee who performs the role of the
Investigating Officer

Employee:

An employee includes all employees of the
Department employed in terms of the Public
Service Act of 1994, the Basic Conditions of
Employment Act of 1998, as amended and
includes contract workers, interns, volunteers
and prospective employees.

Foster Care:

Bring up a child that is not your own birth.

Guardian:

A person having a legal custody of a child

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 157 of 183

Immediate Family Member:

Biological mother or father, mother or father inlaw and children including anyone directly
related by legal requirements.

Induction:

Formal introduction into a new job

Leave:

Concession of absence from work provided for in
the PSBC resolution 7 of 2000

Life Partner:

A person with whom the incumbent has a
stable, long standing relationship.

Memorial Service:

Service held to pay last respect in honour of the
deceased in the workplace

2. PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
2.1

The policy is developed because the organisation wants to standardise the procedure for
allowing staff time to mourn and grieve their loved ones without jeopardising their job;

2.2

Provide guidelines to deal with bereavement;

2.3

Ensure consistency in treating those who have lost their loved ones;

2.4

Support the employees during their difficult times

3.

PRINCIPLES

The principles underpinning this policy are:
3.1

Promotion of emotional and mental well-being of employees with elimination of disputes
as far as possible;

3.2

Progressive realization of constitutional rights as an indication of care and concern by the
employer; and

3.3

Adopting and maintaining a passionate environment of solidarity in the workplace with
observation of individual norms, values, religions and cultural diversities.

4.

LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK

For the purpose of the policy the legislative framework is as follows:
4.1

Labour Relations Act, 1995;

4.2

Public Service Act, 1994;

4.3

Public Service Commission Act; 1997

4.5

Public Service Regulations (Resolution 7 of 2002);

4.6

PSCBC Resolution 7 of 2000, ( as amended);
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 158 of 183

4.7

PSCBC Resolution 1 of 2007; and

4.8

Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1997.

5.

SCOPE OF APPLICATION

5.1

This policy is applicable to all employees of the Department, their immediate family
members i.e. spouse, life partner and children, and

5.2

Former employees who died within three months of resigning or termination of
employment due to pension or disability are also included.

6.

POLICY STATEMENT

6.1 All departmental employees affected by death and or bereavement shall be treated with
compassion informed by a balance between a productive workforce and a caring workforce.
6.2 The employee shall be allowed a funeral leave with pay for attending to funeral matters.
7.

PERSONNEL PROVISIONS

7.1

The Bereavement Policy applies to the employee or colleague members and immediate
family members.

7.2

Every employee should register their family members at the time of employment and will
update it from time to time when necessary.

7.3

Registered members would not be replaced or changed unless an unemployed member
gets married or delivers a baby then they can be added.

7.4

For foster care, adoption or guardianship, four (4) leave days must be granted and proof
should be provided. Still born babies should also be included and four (4) leave days
granted.

8.

LEAVE DAYS:

8.1

The number of days taken shall not exceed five(5) working days in an annual leave
cycle, unless specific circumstances warrant further leave at the discretion of the
supervisor.
All leave granted shall be paid as per PSCBC Resolution 7 of 2000 as amended. If
exhausted available annual leave may be used or unpaid leave of 184 calendar days.

8.2
8.3

Leave
(a)
(b)
(c)

days are taken from:
Family Responsibility Days,
Compassionate; or
Unpaid leave can be taken.

9.

EMOTIONAL SUPPORT

9.1

An appointed counsellor, a leader of the Integrated Employee Health and Wellness
Committee, should attend to the bereaved.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 159 of 183

9.2

In the case of death of the employee/colleague counselling and support should be
extended to the immediate family members.

9.3

The Wellness Committee should comprise of:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)

An appointed counsellor; and
Members from various directorates
Members should be trained and have guidelines in respect of their duties.
Guidelines can be revised from to time to time.
Members should take turns in co-ordinating activities during the time of
bereavement
Colleagues should communicate with the Wellness Committee
A person should be assigned to work with the Wellness Committee member.
Support should be given to the member and or family members by both
colleagues and close friends.

10.

INDIVIDUAL DONATIONS AND CONTRIBUTION

10.1

Compulsory donations at a stipulated amount per Directorate should be encouraged.

10.2

A record should be kept for all the contributions.

10.3

A list for donations from all directorates should be circulated by the Wellness Committee.

10.4

Colleagues in the members unit should assign a responsible person to collect
contributions and liaise with the Wellness Committee.

10.5

All contributions are streamlined to the co-ordinator of the Wellness Committee who will
hand the donations over to the family.

11.

THE EMPLOYER’S ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITY

11.1

Memorial Service
(a) In the event of the death of an employee, the employer ensures a memorial service
is arranged.
(b) The family is informed about the date and time set.

11.2

Funeral Attendance
(a) Colleagues within the members‘ unit may attend the funeral.
(b) Colleagues from other units are encouraged to attend.

11.3

Departmental Representation
(a) The person/s representing the employer should attend the funeral and speak on
behalf of the Department.
(b) The Department shall purchase a wreath or flowers for the family of the deceased
employee in time for the funeral.

11.4

Utilization or Provision for State Owned Transport

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 160 of 183

Transportation of a set capacity should be made available for the funeral of the deceased
employee.

12.

DISPUTE RESOLUTION
Any dispute arising from the provisions of this policy shall be dealt with in terms of the
Department‘s dispute resolution procedure.

13.
13.1

MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REVIEW
In case of bereavement, the staff member should do the following:
(a) Inform the head of the Directorate who will in turn inform the Communications
Office who will in turn inform all members.

13.2

Notify Human Resource Management who will:
(a) check which leave is suitable and advise the employee accordingly;
(b) A leave form with proof confirming leave of absence should be submitted by the staff
member;
(c) The Integrated Employee Health and Wellness Committee will refer the bereaved to
a departmental counsellor;

13.3

Individual or group visits should be continuous.

13.4

If news was received whilst at work, the member has to be accompanied home.

13.5

In the event of death of a member, the date and time of the memorial service should be
announced to all the directorates:
(a) A programme should be drawn;
(b) The family should be informed; and
(c) Support to the family should also be given on this day.

13.6

Together with the list of donations, a list of colleagues who will be attending the funeral
should be circulated.

13.7

Assistance with preparations before and on the day of the funeral must be rendered in
both instances where a member of the immediate family is deceased (depending on the
needs and wants of the family).

13.8

Counselling and support should be extended to the family during this time.

13.9

The Integrated Employee Health and Wellness Committee co-ordinator, and Human
Resources should assist with processing of claims on behalf of the family of the deceased
member.

13.10

Sub-Directorate: Human Resources and Integrated Employee Health and Wellness
Committee should monitor the implementation of the policy in all instances.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 161 of 183

14.

RELATED POLICIES
This policy should be read with the abscondment policy and the National Transport
circular.

15.

COMMENCEMENT OF THE POLICY
This policy shall be implemented by the Department with effect from the date of approval
and signature by the HOD.

APPROVED

______________________
OB MONGALE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT

___________________
Date:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 162 of 183

SPORTS AND RECREATION POLICY
“Managing Sport and Recreation in
the workplace”

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 163 of 183

NORTHWEST PROVINCE:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY
POLICY NO:
NAME OF POLICY:
EFFECTIVE ON:
DATE OF REVIEW :

HR2009/012
SPORTS AND RECREATION POLICY
…………………
APRIL 2012
CONTENTS

Contents

Page

Preamble
1. Abbreviations and Definitions ………………………………………………… …...... 165-167
2. Purpose and Objectives ……………………………………………………………......

167

3. Principles ………………………………………………………………………………….....

167

4. Legislative Framework ………………………………………………………………....

167

5. Scope of Application ………………………………………………………………….....

168

6. Policy Statement ……………………………………………………………………….....

168

7. Needs Assessment …………………………………………………………………….....

168

8. Criteria for Prioritizing Sports Codes and Recreational Activities ……......

168

9. Human Resource Considerations …………………………………………………....

169

10. Membership ……………………………………………………………………………......

169

11. Team Management ………………………………………………………………….......

169-170

12. Injuries and damages ………………………………………………………………......

170

13. Responsibilities and Obligations …………………………………………………...... 170-171
14. Sport and Recreation Forum ……………………………………………………........ 171
15. Sport Kits and Recreational Uniforms …………………………………………....... 171-172
16. Financial Considerations ……………………………………………………………....... 172
17. Dispute Resolution ……………………………………………………………………...... 172
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 164 of 183

18. Monitoring, Evaluation and Review ……………………………………………....... 173
19. Related Policies …………………………………………………………………………..... 173
20. Commencement of policy …………………………………………………………….... 173

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 165 of 183

PREAMBLE
The Department of Public Safety in the North West Provincial Government (―the Department‖):

RECOGNISES and ascribes to the following principles and values:





Sport is an investment in the health, vitality and productivity of its employees.
Sport contributes to the overall improvement in the quality of life, physical, mental and
moral wellbeing of its employees.
Because of its visibility, sport can play an enormous part in redressing gender inequalities
and discrimination against the disabled and minorities.
Successful athletes serve as role models for the youth of the province – as achievers,
unofficial ambassadors, as individuals committed to equality and fairness in competition.

TAKES COGNISANCE of the impact of sport on:





1.

Health.
The economy: Physical activity has a favourable effect on productivity levels.
Crime: Delinquent behaviour is associated with low self-esteem, and success in sport and
recreation work to improve self-esteem.
Nation-building.
International relations.

ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS

CFO:
SRF:
PSCBC:

Chief Financial Officer.
Sport and Recreation Forum.
Public Service Co-ordinating Bargaining Council.

Department:

Department of Public Safety, North West.

Sport:

any activity that requires a significant level of physical
involvement and in which participants engage in either a
structured or unstructured environment for the purpose of
declaring a winner, though not solely so; purely for
relaxation, personal satisfaction, physical health, emotional
growth and development.

Recreation:

a guided process of voluntary participation in any activity
which contributes to the improvement of general health,
well-being and the skills of both the individual and society.
It includes not only sporting activities, but also activities
such as participation in choirs, traditional games and any
other activity which the Department may deem
recreational.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 166 of 183

Sporting activities:

the playing of games, practice sessions, pre-approved
team activities of the sporting codes sanctioned by the
Department.

Recreational activities:

voluntary participation in any activity such as choir
practices, choir competitions, and any other activity which
the Department may deem a recreational activity.

The Department:

The North West Department of Public Safety

Employee:

means any person who is employed by the Department on
a permanent or contractual basis and includes a person
who is on a learnership or internship programme.
Contractors employed by the Department are excluded.

Sanctioned sporting codes:

A list of sporting codes compiled by the Sport and
Recreation Forum and agreed to by the Department, of
the codes which will be participated in during any
particular financial year.
means the Senior Manager (salary level 13 and higher) of
the specific office.

Head of office:
Participation:

refers to all travelling, accommodation and participation in
the actual sporting and recreational activities.

Voluntary:

means employees will participate in sporting
recreational activities out of their own free will.

Sport kit:

refers to the common clothes that participants will wear
when representing the Department in different sporting
codes.

Recreational uniform:

refers to the common clothes that participants will wear
when representing the Department in different
recreational activities, e.g. choir uniforms.

Departmental logo:

refers to the emblem of the North West Department of
Public Safety

Tournament:

refers to a sports/recreational event where more than two
teams or sporting codes are participating.

Financial support:

refers to money that may be spent by the Department,
related to participation in sport or recreational activities.

Financial year:

refers to the annual financial cycle starting 1 April of each
year and ending on 31 March of the following year.

Interdepartmental tournament:

refers to a tournament that involves other government
departments.

Refreshments:

refers to meals and soft drinks, excluding alcohol.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 167 of 183

and

Objective code:

is a financial term that is used to describe the purpose of
specific transactions.

2. PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
2.1 The purpose of this policy is to:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

Promote participation in sport and recreation;
Promote the adage: a healthy body encourages a healthy mind;
Promote employee wellness and health;
Promote sport and recreation as a de-stressing and relaxation methodology;
Provide assistance to employees who wish to participate in specific sporting codes,
sporting activities and recreational activities;
(f) Improve the quality of life of employees in the Department; and
(g) Support the Employee Wellness Programme of the Department.
2.2 The objectives of this policy are as follows:
(a) Ascertaining the sport and recreation needs through a needs assessment exercise
amongst employees;
(b) Consulting with relevant stakeholders in regard to sporting codes, sporting facilities,
recreation and recreation facilities etc, in order to give effect to the implementation of
this policy;
(c) Upliftment of women and the disabled through sport and recreation;
(d) Fostering unity and teambuilding through sport and recreation;
(e) Encouraging sport and recreation excellence; and
(f) Marketing of sport and recreation within the Department.
3. PRINCIPLES
3.1 Health;
3.2 Wellness;
3.3 Teambuilding;
3.4 Quality of life; and
3.5 Developing social skills.
4. LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK
4.1 The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa;
4.2 Public Service Act, 1994 (as amended);
4.3 Employment Equity Act, 1998;
4.4 Basic Conditions of Employment Act; 1997
4.5 Public Service Regulations, 2001 (as amended);
4.6 Public Finance Management Act, 1999;
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 168 of 183

4.7

Treasury Regulations, 2002 (as amended);

4.8 Labour Relations Act, No 85 of 1995
4.9 Occupational Health and Safety Act, of 1993;
4.10 National Transport Policy;
4.11 Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, 1993;
4.12 White Paper on Sport and Recreation; and
4.13 Public Service Code of Conduct
5. SCOPE OF APPLICATION
This policy is applicable to all the employees of the department.
6. POLICY STATEMENT
The Department is committed to improving the health, wellness and quality of life of its
employees through sport and recreation.
7. NEEDS ASSESSMENT
7.1 In order to know what sports and recreational activities employees wish to engage in, a
needs assessment exercise shall be launched in the Department, to determine this.
7.2 This needs assessment exercise will be monitored and coordinated by the Sport and
Recreation Forum (SRF).
7.3 The needs assessment exercise may take the form of questionnaires, focus discussion
groups or any other methodology which the SRF deems appropriate.
7.4 The SRF shall analyse the information flowing from the needs assessment exercise and
disseminate the results within the Department.
8. CRITERIA FOR PRIORITIZING SPORTS CODES AND RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES
The following criteria should be utilized in determining the sporting codes which the Department
will ascribe to:
8.1 Popularity;
8.2 Membership;
8.3 Degree of transformation;
8.4 Existence of administrative support and sporting structures within the province;
8.5 Existence of well-structured Codes of Conduct for players within provincial, local or club
level;
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 169 of 183

8.6 Empowerment of disadvantaged groups; and
8.7 Promotion of indigenous games.
9. HUMAN RESOURCE CONSIDERATIONS
9.1 The attendance of sporting and recreational activities during working hours shall be
regulated through the recording of these absences in a Sport and Recreation Leave of
Absence Register.
9.2 The attendance of sporting and recreational activities during working hours shall include the
playing of games, practice sessions for sport, choir practices, choir performances and other
pre-approved sport and recreation activities.
9.3 In the event where the participants need practice sessions in preparation for official
competition, the head of the office or directorate or the relevant senior manager, may grant
permission for the participants to leave their place of work early. The relevant senior
manager must however ensure that service delivery is not compromised as a result of the
earlier release of staff.
9.4 The attendance of sporting and recreational activities outside of working hours shall be a
voluntary decision by the employee, a decision made for the love and passion for the
sporting code.
9.5 Each sanctioned sporting code/recreational activity in the Department shall be governed by
a separate code of conduct.
9.6 In the event where participants need to take leave for official competition, the Departmental
leave policy will apply.
9.7 The public service code of conduct and disciplinary code shall apply before, during and after
sports and recreational events.
10. MEMBERSHIP
10.1 Employees shall be allowed to participate in no more than two sanctioned sporting codes
within the department.
10.2 Employees shall be allowed to participate in no more than two recreational activities within
the Department.
10.3 Employees shall be limited to participation in no more than two (2) other sporting structures
within the North West Province.
11. TEAM MANAGEMENT
11.1 Sporting coaches and managers for the sanctioned sporting codes or recreational activities
will be appointed from the ranks of employees. This will be done on a voluntary basis
where employees are prepared to give off their time and expertise for the love of the
particular sporting code or recreational activity.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 170 of 183

11.2 Team managers shall have the following responsibilities:
(a) Establish the team or club for a specific sanctioned sporting code;
(b) Compile and submit a list of members to the SRF for record purposes;
(c) Attend to the needs of the sporting code or club;
(d) Develop a code of conduct for the specific sanctioned sporting code;
(e) Ensure the safekeeping of sports kits;
(f) Submit reports to relevant programme managers;
(g) Submit action plans for the next financial year, to the SRF;
(h) Advise programme managers on the amount to be budgeted for in the next; financial
year, for sport and recreation activities; and
(i) Submit rosters for sporting/recreational activities to the SRF, timeously.
11.3 Team managers shall ensure that proper planning and organization precedes participation
in sporting and recreational activities, including the booking and authorization procedures
for accommodation, travelling, sport kit and venues.
12. INJURIES AND DAMAGES
12.1 Although the Department supports sport and recreational activities, employees should note
that participation is voluntary and injuries sustained whilst training, playing or
participating, or travelling to and from the event, or engaging in any related activity, will
be submitted to the Compensation Commissioner in terms of the Compensation for
Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act and the Department has no jurisdiction to consider
these claims itself.
12.2 Regarding injuries sustained during participation in sports and recreational activities in
terms of this policy, claims will be referred to the Compensation Commissioner for
consideration. Participants must note that the Department has no jurisdiction over injuries
on duty and must abide the decision of the Compensation Commissioner.
12.3 Any sick leave which has to be applied for due to a sport injury will be deemed to be sick
or special leave to be deducted from the sick or special leave consideration of an
employee.
12.4 The Department will not be liable for any damages linked to sports/recreation
participation; this includes damages that may arise from travelling, accommodation and
participation in the actual sporting or recreational activities.
13. RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS
13.1 The responsibilities and obligations of the Department shall be:
(a) To create an environment within the workplace that is conducive to fostering
participation in sport and recreation.
(b) To oversee the establishment of the SRF.
(c) To encourage stakeholder participation and management for the purpose of involving
the Department in the sporting/recreational environment in the province
(d) To ensure the development of sporting/recreational policies and codes for the
sanctioned sporting codes or recreational activities.
(e) To ensure that employees are given time off for participation in sporting/recreational
activities.
13.2 The obligations and responsibilities of the employee shall be:
To utilize opportunities granted/created for participation in sporting/recreational activities:
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 171 of 183

(a) To fully participate in the needs assessment exercises;
(b) To adhere to the prescripts of this policy as well as the codes of conduct for the
sanctioned sporting codes or recreational activities;
(c) To ensure that timely notice of sporting/recreational activities is given to management
through the SRF; and
(d) To ensure that the assets of the Department are well taken care of.
14. SPORT AND RECREATION FORUM
14.1 A Sport and Recreation Forum is to be established within the Department.
14.2 The terms of reference for the SRF shall be as follows:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)

(l)
(m)
(n)

To coordinate the needs assessment exercise within the Department;
To implement and popularize this policy;
Encourage employees to participate in sports and recreation activities;
To list the priority sports codes or recreational activities based on the results of the
needs assessment and utilizing the criteria listed in paragraph 8;
To communicate sports and recreation issues to staff;
To advise on issues of sport, recreation and this policy;
To be a think tank on any issue related to sport and recreation;
To determine a time – off roster for each sporting code in terms of practice sessions
and games or competitions;
To arrange and coordinate sports and recreation activities;
Ensure safekeeping of sports kits, recreational uniforms and other related equipment;
Stakeholder management with relevant stakeholders including the National Sports
Commission, National Department of Sports and Recreation, Local authorities, Local
and provincial federations and clubs, other government departments, nongovernmental organizations;
Ensure that all sanctioned sporting codes are governed by a separate policy/code of
conduct;
Ensure the establishment of one team per sporting code, representing employees
across all components within the Department; and
Report to the Chief Director: Corporate Services and the relevant senior managers
after each sports or recreational event.

14.3 The SRF shall meet on a monthly basis.
14.4 The composition of the SRF shall be representative of all the business units within the
Department, gender and disability.
15. SPORTS KITS AND RECREATIONAL UNIFORMS
15.1 A standardized sports kit or recreational uniform for all codes/clubs with the Departmental
logo shall be used at all times during games, tournaments and competitions, to promote
the image of the Department.
15.2 Sports kits or recreational uniforms may be purchased as required and shall be utilized only
for the intended purposes.
15.3 Sports kits or recreational uniforms may only be purchased for sanctioned sporting codes or
recreational activities.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 172 of 183

15.4 Requisitions for sports kits or recreational uniforms shall be forwarded to the CFO through
the SRF.
16. FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
16.1 The Department may provide financial support subject to the availability of funds budgeted
for sport and recreational activities.
16.2 Due to financial constraints, participation in sporting or recreational activities is restricted
to events taking place within the North West Province. Playing or competing with teams in
other provinces is subject to the approval of the CFO.
16.3 Efforts shall be made to acquire the most economical means of accommodation and
transport. Due to budgetary constraints, employees may not claim subsistence and travel
allowance for participating in sport and recreational activities.
16.4 The Department may fund or subsidize persons who want to go to a sport or recreation
event as spectators.
16.5 The Department may create an objective code for sports and recreation activities where
funds will be centrally controlled.
16.6 Relevant programme managers will make provision in their budgets for the funding of
sport and recreational activities. Such funds will be transferred to the objective code to be
created.
16.7 The Department may make funds available in respect of the following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)

sports kits or recreational uniforms for sports codes or recreational activities;
first aid kits for sport codes or recreational activities;
employees‘ membership fees for sports and recreation competitions;
hiring of venues;
travelling and accommodation
referees‘ fees; and
refreshments, during inter-departmental tournaments.

16.8 Funding requests shall be forwarded to the Chief Director: Corporate Services at least 5
working days before the actual event.
16.9 Tournaments for inter-provincial sport and recreational activities shall only be considered if
approved by the CFO.
16.10 The normal procurement procedure shall apply to all funding requests.
17. DISPUTE RESOLUTION
17.1 Any dispute arising from the provisions of this policy shall firstly be dealt with by the next
senior supervisor.
17.2 The Directorate: Human Resource Management shall advise relevant parties on best
practices in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
17.2 Any contravention of this policy shall be dealt with in terms of the PSCBC Resolution 2 0f
1999 (as amended).
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 173 of 183

18. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REVIEW
18.1 The Department shall on an annual basis monitor compliance to this policy by its employees.
18.2 This policy shall be reviewed and amended once every five years, unless circumstances
dictate otherwise.
19. RELATED POLICIES
This policy should be read with the Leave Policy, Employee Health and Wellness Policy,
Transport Policy, Subsistence and Travel Policy and the Overtime Policy.
20. COMMENCEMENT OF POLICY
This policy shall be implemented by the Department with effect from the date of approval and
signature by the HOD.
APPROVED

______________________
OB MONGALE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT

___________________
Date:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 174 of 183

ABSCONDMENT POLICY
“Promoting a Productive Workforce”

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 175 of 183

NORTHWEST PROVINCE:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
UMAN RESOURCES POLICY
POLICY NO:
NAME OF POLICY:
EFFECTIVE ON:
DATE OF REVIEW:

HR2009/014
ABSCONDMENT POLICY
.....................................
APRIL 2012
CONTENTS

Contents

Page

Preamble
1.

Abbreviations and Definitions ……………………………………………………….......

176

2.

Purpose and Objectives..………………………………………………………………......

177

3.

Principles …………………………………………………………………………………….....

177

4. Legislative Framework ……………………………………………………………………....

177

5. Scope of Applications ……………………………………………………………………......

177

6. Policy Statement ……..…………………………………………………………………….....

177-178

7. Policy Provisions and Procedure ………………………………………………………....

178-180

8. Confidentiality ……………………………………………………………………………….....

180

9. Responsibilities and Obligations ……………………………………………………….....

180

10. Dispute Resolution ……………..………………………………………………………….....

180

11. Monitoring, Evaluation and Review ……………………………………………………...

181

12. Related Policies ………………………………………………………………………………....

181

13. Commencement of the Policy ………….…………………………………………………..

181

Annexure A: Abscondment Procedure Guidelines ………………………………………...

182

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 176 of 183

PREAMBLE
Managing employee abscondment is a cause of concern to the Department of Public Safety (―the
Department‖), particularly as it has an adverse impact on productivity and service delivery.
Managers often do not know what to do with employees that disappear and resurface after
lengthy periods of time and often nothing is done to determine the whereabouts of missing
employees.
Responses to abscondment often depend on the disposition of each manager or supervisor
leading to complaints about inconsistency and lack of compassion.
It is accordingly imperative that a uniform procedure which complies with the Public Service Act
and all other relevant legislation is followed by all managers and employees in addressing this
problem.
The Department therefore adopts this abscondment policy to provide managers and human
resources practitioners with guidelines on managing and minimising abscondment within the
Department.
1.

ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS

CCMA:
EAP:
HOD:
MEC:

Commission of Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration.
Employee Assistance Programme.
Head of Department.
Member of the Executive Council.

Abscondment:

Being absent from work for a period 30 calendar days or more
without authorisation.

Absenteeism:

Being regularly away from work with or without permission.

Department:

Department of Public Safety, North West.

Discipline:

Any action initiated by management in response to unacceptable
employee performance or behaviour.

Dismissal:

Termination of employment by the Department with or without
notice or pay in lieu of notice.

Employee:

An employee includes all employees of the Department
employed in terms of the Public Service Act of 1994, the Basic
Conditions of Employment Act of 1998, as amended and includes
contract workers, interns, volunteers and prospective employees.

Disciplinary Hearing:

A meeting convened with the purpose of gathering information
related to a disciplinary matter.

Summary dismissal:

The termination of employment by the Department without
notice or pay in lieu of notice.

Trade Union:

Worker representative body.
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 177 of 183

2. PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
2.1 The purpose of this policy is to ensure substantive, procedural fairness and correctness in
addressing the issue of employee abscondment from duty and to provide guidelines to
minimize the occurrence of abscondment.
2.2 The policy also seeks to ensure that abscondment is addressed.
2.3 The key objectives of this policy are:
(a) To ensure that a fair procedure is followed when dealing with abscondment.
(b) To ensure that managers and employees share a common understanding in dealing with
matters of abscondment.
(c) To help managers to detect potential abscondment and prevent it where possible.
(d) To prevent arbitrary and discriminatory actions by managers towards employees who are
considered to have absconded.
3. PRINCIPLES
3.1 It is the policy of the Department that all employees shall be aware of and follow the
abscondment procedure.
3.2 The Department strives to always treat its employees with fairness and compassion while
promoting service excellence and productivity.
4. LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK
4.1 Public Service Act, 1994 as amended;
4.2 The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa;
4.3 Labour Relations Act, 1995, as amended; and
4.4 Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1997
5. SCOPE OF APPLICATION
This policy is applicable to all employees of the department.
6. POLICY STATEMENT
6.1 An employee of the Department who absents himself or herself from his or her official duties
without the permission of his or her Manager or Supervisor, for a period exceeding one
calendar month shall be deemed to have been discharged from the Public Service on
account of misconduct with effect from date immediately succeeding his or her last day of
attendance at his or her place of duty.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 178 of 183

6.2 If such an employee assumes other employment, he or she shall be
deemed to have discharged himself or herself as stated in paragraph 6.1 above, irrespective
of whether the said period has expired or not.
6.3 If an officer who is deemed to have been so discharged, report for duty at any time after
the expiry of the period exceeding one (1) calendar month , the relevant Executing Authority
may on good cause shown and not withstanding anything to the contrary contained in any
law approve the reinstatement of that officer in the Public Service in his or her former or any
other post or position and in such a case the period of his or her absence from official duty
shall be deemed to be absence on vacation leave without pay or leave on such other
conditions as the executive authority may determine‖.
6.4 This policy forms part of the Disciplinary Code and Procedure of the Department.
7. POLICY PROVISIONS AND PROCEDURE
7.1 Provisions
(a) An employee, may not absent himself/herself until he/she has applied for leave and such
application has been approved, except an employee who has been absent due to sudden
illness.
(b) In terms of Section 17(5) of the Public Service Act, 1994, as amended the employee,
after three consecutive working days of unauthorized absence, the Department shall
have the right to regard the employee as having absconded or deserted, and the
agreement shall be regarded as terminated as from the last day on which the employee
presented himself/herself for duty.
(c) An employee may be treated as absconded if he has been absent from work without
notifying the Department for a period of three working days or longer
(e) The managers/supervisors shall be primarily responsible for handling and resolving
disciplinary matters relating to abscondment.
(f) The principles of administrative justice shall be adhered to at all times
(g) A procedure as set out below will be followed to determine whether an employee‘s
unauthorized/ unreported absence amounts to abscondment.
(h) The involvement of EAP at all stages is important as conduct that appears to be
abscondment may be a symptom of ill health.
7.2 Procedure in the Event an Employee Does not Report for Duty
(a) Tracking and Warning the Employee
i.

If an employee or an official does not report for duties for at least (3) consecutive
days without having reported to the supervisor or without the permission of the
supervisor / manager must make attempts if circumstances permit, to determine the
whereabouts of the employee. Those attempts may include:
(aa) Sending an Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) practitioner to the
employee‘s place of residence in the company of the shop steward or a fellow
employee;
(bb) Giving the employee a written instruction that he or she report for duties and
the implications of non compliance should be clearly outlined on the letter
(highlights that services could be terminated once exceeding one calendar
month);
(cc) Sending, in a case where the whereabouts cannot be determined, a
delegation or a telegram to the employee‘s last known address; and
North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 179 of 183

(dd) Keeping records of all communication with the employee.
ii.

If after seven (7) days of absence no reply has been received and an employee has
not reported for his duties, the supervisor must send a follow up registered letter to
him or her requesting him or her to return to work, with the provisions and
consequences of Section 17 (5) of the Public Service Act clearly outlined.
iii. The letter must be hand delivered and proof of receipt should be obtained and retained.
Where this is not feasible the letter must be posted by registered mail using the known
address in the employee‘s file.
iv. The procedure stipulated in (par ii. above should be repeated after 14 days and 21
days as the last attempt. The copies of all the communication should be forwarded
with a report after 10 days and after forthcoming steps to the HOD/ District
Manager, whichever is applicable, Office for their information).
v. If an employee resurfaces before 30 days misconduct proceedings relating to
absenteeism may be invoked, depending on the employee‘s explanation.
vi. Where it is established that ill health is the problem the Incapacity and ill health policy
shall apply.
(b)

Discharging an Employee that is deemed to have Absconded
i.
ii.

iii.
(c)

If the employee is still not reporting for duties on the expiry of the one (1) calendar
month, the responsible manager should report the matter to the HOD or District
Manager.
A letter informing the employee about the implementation of the provision of
Section 17 (5) (a), that is terminating his/her employment, must be communicated
to the said employee. A sample of such letter is attached to this policy as Annexure

A.

Simultaneous to the issuing of the letter in terms of section 17(5), the employee‘s
salary shall be frozen.

Recommending a Discharge
The manager/supervisor of an employee that has absconded or his/her delegate must
prepare a submission to the HOD, through the Labour Relations Office, recommending
the discharge of the employee in terms of section 17(5)(a)(i) specifying the date of
discharge, which in terms of the section under reference will be a day following the last
day the employee in question will have reported for work, or the last day the employee
was at work.

(d)

Procedure when an Employee Reports for Work after 30 Calendar Days
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.

Where the employee resurfaces after the expiry of 30 calendar days, the manager
/ supervisor will draw his or her attention to the provision of Section 17(5).
If the letter to an employee who has been absent for 30 calendar days,
implementing Section 17(5), is not yet signed by the HOD or the delegated person,
the employee may be informed to wait for his or her letter at his or her residence.
The employer must ensure that the employee receives the letter within five (5)
working days from the date he or she resurfaced.
If the employee wishes to set aside the discharge, she or he may make
representations to the MEC through the Labour Relations Office in terms of section
17(5)(b) of the Public Service Act of 1994, as amended.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 180 of 183

7.3 Procedure to deal with an Employee who is deemed to have been
Discharged
(a) In the event where an employee who is deemed to be discharged, reports for duty,
he/she must under no circumstances be allowed to resume duty. He/she must be
informed of his/her rights to apply for re-instatement in terms of section 17(5) (b) of the
Public Service Act.
(b) If an employee who is deemed to be discharged wishes to be re-instated, he/she must
apply to the MEC, giving reasons why he/she should be re-instated, through the Labour
Relations Office, who will make recommendation.
(c) On receipt of the report of the application for re-instatement, the MEC shall consider the
application and communicate the decision to the employee.
8. CONFIDENTIALITY
8.1 In the course of their duties, employees become aware of confidential matters and it is
important that employees keep the strictest secrecy concerning the Department, its
customers and its employees.
8.2 Managers and human resources involved in abscondment proceedings will maintain
confidentiality on personal information obtained via abscondment proceedings and shall not
unlawfully disclose such information.
9. RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS
9.1 Duties of Managers
(a) Provide the necessary training and communication to all employees of the Department
relating to this code
(b) Are required to be aware of when employees are not at work and the reasons
(c) Are required to be aware of the policy and the process
(d) Are required to follow the process outlined in this document
9.2 Duties of Employees
(a) To notify employer when they will not be at work
(b) Are required to know the policy and the process
(c) To comply with the rules and procedures given by the Department
10. DISPUTE RESOLUTION
10.1 Dispute resolution for misconduct matters is integrated in the policy provisions outlined
above
10.2 If the Employee is dissatisfied with internal procedures and outcomes, he or she is entitled
to refer the matter to the bargaining council, CCMA or the Equality Court, whatever is
applicable as per his or her employment status in terms of the Labour Relations Act.

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 181 of 183

11. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REVIEW
11.1 The Human Resources Directorate must keep a register of all abscondment cases dealt with
in each year, indicating the parties involved and outcome of each case. A report should be
provided to the HOD with a view to enhance strategies to prevent abscondment.
11.2 The review of this policy will formally take place every 5 years, or as and when there is a
need.
12. RELATED POLICIES
The policy should be read with departmental policies on Employment Equity, Incapacity
and Ill-health, and Absenteeism.
13. COMMENCEMENT OF POLICY
This policy shall be implemented by the Department with effect from the date of approval and
signature by the HOD.
APPROVED

______________________
OB MONGALE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT

___________________
Date:

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 182 of 183

ANNEXURE A
ABSCONDMENT PROCEDURE GUIDELINES:
Amended April 2006
1. Abscondment is when an employee absents him/herself from his/her official duties
without authorization/permission from his/her head of Department, office or institution
for a period exceeding one calendar month.
2. In the event an officer absconds, s/he shall be deemed to have been discharged from the
Public Service on account of misconduct with effect from the date immediately
succeeding his/her last day at work (see sec.17 (5)(a)(i) of the Public Service Act of
1994, as amended).
3. The employee does have an obligation to inform the employer of any reason why s/he is
unable to be at work and when s/he intends to return to work. However, where the
employee does not contact the employer, the employer does have an obligation to try
and contact the employee.
4. Managers and Supervisors at all levels should at all material times detect, track and report all
unauthorized and unaccounted absences from work to the relevant line manager or head of
office. Failure to do so will be deemed as dereliction of duty and as a result disciplinary
measures may be preferred against the guilty manager or supervisor.

ANNEXURE A: MODEL LETTER OF NOTIFICATION OF ABCONDMENT PROCEEDINGS
(Sent by Manager/Supervisor/ District Manager with the help of Labour Relations Office to an
employee who has been absent for a continuous period of more than 30 calendar days (or 22
working days. Letter to be hand delivered or sent by registered mail).
Dear Mr/Mrs/Ms/Dr……………..
It has come to my attention that you have been absent from work from _______ to
__________ (specify the period) and that such absence is unauthorized and
unaccounted for. (Where the whereabouts of the employee are unknown)
Your attention is brought to the provisions of section 17(5)(a)(i) of the Public Service
Act of 1994 as amended which reads “ quote the section”.
You are therefore requested/given notice to report for work immediately. Should you
fail to report as directed the provisions of the above section will be invoked without
any further correspondence (specify the person that the employee should report to,
the usual workplace, date and time) in order to present any reasons why your
services should not be terminated as contemplated in the above section.
Yours sincerely,
Name
Designation

North West Provincial Government: Department of Public Safety
Human Resources Policy Pack

Page 183 of 183

