Human Resource Manual
_____________________________________________________________________________________

2011 – 2012

Table of Contents
1.

Background ........................................................................................................................................... 2

2.

Vision, Mission, Goal ............................................................................................................................. 3

3.

Organization Structure .......................................................................................................................... 4

4.

Human Resource Policy ........................................................................................................................ 6

5.

Recruitment .......................................................................................................................................... 7
6.1

Hiring ............................................................................................................................................. 8

6.2

Induction ....................................................................................................................................... 8

6.

Terms of Employment......................................................................................................................... 11

7.

Other Terms and Conditions ............................................................................................................... 14

8.

Employment Policies ........................................................................................................................... 16

9.

9.1

Check-in Policy ............................................................................................................................ 16

9.2

Work Schedule and Leave Policy ................................................................................................ 17

9.3

Travel and Living Policy ............................................................................................................... 20

9.4

Sexual Harassment Policy ........................................................................................................... 26

Performance Appraisal and Reviews .................................................................................................. 29

1

1. Background

Dasra is India’s leading strategic philanthropy foundation, working with philanthropists
and successful social entrepreneurs to bring together knowledge, funding and people as
a catalyst for social change. Dasra scales non-profit organizations and social businesses
in order to help accelerate change and transform lives.
With 11 years’ experience in the sector, a depth of knowledge gained from working with
over 150 non-profits and having brought $10 million in funding to organizations, Dasra is
in a position to accelerate social change in India.
Knowledge - We have over a decade of expertise in the social sector in India. Our skills
include undertaking in-depth research, developing effective scaling models, capacity
building and developing management skills. We share our research and experiences
with Indian Philanthropy Forum members and support social entrepreneurs through our
executive
education
program,
Dasra
Social-Impact.
Funding - We match resources with needs by developing dynamic funding models for
our donors. We bring together strategic financial resources through the Indian
Philanthropy Forum and Dasra Giving Circles, and through Dasra Social-Impact help
social entrepreneurs gain access to funds to enable them to build scale.
People - We bring the right people together to create change. We select the most
innovative, scalable and high impact non profits and social businesses and employ
experienced professionals to work hands-on with these entrepreneurs to help them
think strategically and ensure their growth targets are met. Highly interested people
from the corporate world, social sector experts, academics, government and
philanthropists engage with us in discussions on philanthropy and funding.

2

2. Vision, Mission, Goal
Vision – We believe that if philanthropists and social entrepreneurs are given the skills,
support and networks that enable them to become more strategic in their work, then
increased funding will flow to the organizations with the most potential and move more
people out of poverty faster.
Mission – Dasra is India's leading strategic philanthropy foundation. We work with
philanthropists and successful social entrepreneurs and bring together knowledge,
funding and people as a catalyst for social change.
Goal – Dasra's work is not just about connecting stakeholders, it is about working hands
on with both philanthropists and social entrepreneurs to scale non profit organizations
and social businesses by providing knowledge, funding, and people to help accelerate
social change.

3

3. Organization Structure

Dasra

Indian
Philanthropy
Forum (IPF)

1.

Investor
Relations

Communications

Human
Resources

Finance/
Administration

Dasra Giving
Circle (DGC)

Dasra Social
Impact (DSI)

Research

Portfolio

The Indian Philanthropy Forum
The Indian Philanthropy Forum (IPF) is India’s fastest growing platform dedicated to building a
community of visionary philanthropists committed to driving social change by enhancing the
strategic nature of their giving and being actively involved in exploring the social issues facing
India. With a diverse membership base of over 175 philanthropists, the IPF has successfully
positioned itself globally as the thought leadership hub for strategic philanthropy in and to India.
The IPF offers its members thought leadership events attended by family foundations, HNIs and
corporate organizations. IPF annual event supporters include Edmond de Rothschild
Foundations, Bain & Company, Barclays Wealth Management and the TB Alliance.

2.

Dasra Giving Circle
Dasra, launched India’s first ever collaborative giving effort with the establishment of Dasra
Giving Circles (DGC) in November 2010. Part of the Indian Philanthropy Forum, a Dasra Giving
Circle is the perfect example of strategic philanthropy in action. A DGC is made up of 10 donors
who pool their funds over a period of 3 years. This group then collectively decides on the grant
disbursement to one non profit. Dasra provides hands on capacity building to the selected
organizations through its portfolio services.

4

3.

Dasra Social-Impact Program
Dasra Social-Impact (DSI) is India’s only executive education program, which provides non profit
organizations and social businesses the transformational skills needed, to build sustainable and
scalable organizations that accelerate their impact. DSI brings together social entrepreneurs,
mentors, sector-leaders and professionals to create growth plans designed to raise growth
capital and bring operations to scale sustainably. Over the past 5 years DSI has helped build the
capacity of 110 organizations across India. Since 2010, Dasra has directed more than US$3.5
million in funding to its DSI alumni organizations. The DSI alumnus provides donors with access
to one of India’s most high potential groups of organizations for potential funding.

4.

Dasra Research
Dasra conducts thorough research within the social sector in India to help clients reach funding
decisions. The cutting edge reports, that take approximately 6 months to prepare, highlight the
most effective interventions in the researched sector and find scalable organizations that can
make a large impact. Dasra has published five research reports on Child Malnutrition, Public
Education in Mumbai, Tribal Education, Girls’ Education and Disaster Relief – to inform effective
philanthropy. Research reports that are in progress are on Employability, Adolescent Girls
Empowerment and Livelihoods in the craft industry, amongst others.

5.

Dasra Portfolio
Each year Dasra selects a number of organizations to enter its portfolio, through either the
Giving Circle process or through DSI investor panels. Our portfolio team provides 250 days of
hands on capacity building support to the organization in order to build India’s next high impact,
large scale social organizations and enables the best solutions to poverty to scale and lift more
people out of poverty faster. Dasra leverages its management support to give donors a sense of
confidence that they are contributing to the most efficient and successful social organizations.

5

4. Human Resource Policy
For sustainable growth, employee satisfaction and organizational effectiveness, Dasra
deems it necessary to have a Human Resource Policy that encompasses the policies and
procedures followed within the organization keeping in mind the vision and goals.
The Dasra Human Resources Policy also provides guidelines that Dasra will use to
administer these policies, with the correct procedure to follow.
Dasra will keep HR policies current and relevant. Therefore, from time to time it will be
necessary to modify and amend some sections of the policies and procedures, or to add
new procedures.
These policies and procedures apply to all employees, fellows and volunteers.
Employees – Are full time staff at Dasra.
Fellows – Dasra runs a fellowship program, where one can apply through the website
and then considering the skill set of the applicant, he/she is chosen for upto one year
fellowship at Dasra. Fellows enjoy the same benefits in terms of Insurance and leaves as
the full time employees. Dasra also has fellowship tie-ups with institutions like AIF's
William J. Clinton Fellowship for Service in India, American Jewish World Service and
others.
Volunteers – Dasra has tie-up with various universities and institutions like the Center of
Advance Study in India and Harvard Business School for the summer internships and
volunteer opportunities.

6

5. Recruitment
Recruitment at Dasra is based on requirements and vacancies for each vertical. Dasra
focuses on keeping a healthy gender balance and also a mix of national and
international employees.
The following procedure is followed when hiring an employee at Dasra.

Hiring

Offer Letter

Introduction to Staff and E-mail to the candidate from
the team

Acceptance or Rejection of the offer

If rejected process
ends here

Contract to be signed

Induction

Probation

Confirmation Letter

Personal Goals

7

Although Dasra follows a very horizontal work flow, for managerial ease and effectiveness, the
given hierarchy is adopted within each vertical.
Director

Manager

Associate

Analyst

Fellows

The following processes are followed at Dasra:
6.1

Hiring
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.
vii.

6.2

Source: Web postings, direct applicants, word of mouth
1st Interview: By Associates and Human Resource. Candidate data form is
asked to be completed
2nd Interview: By Managers and Senior Management. Case studies or writing
assignments are given
Reference Check: If the candidate is selected then the reference check is
done
Selection or rejection: The candidate is either selected or rejected
Offer Letter: If the candidate is selected, he/she is sent the offer letter
Acceptance/Rejection: The candidate is free to accept or reject the offer

Induction

Once the candidate joins Dasra, and becomes an employee, Dasra makes sure he/she
feels welcome and is ready to start work safely and competently. The Induction is
conducted on the first two days from the date of joining. Each Dasra team meets the
candidate to help him/her gain an understanding about the different verticals and
projects underway.

8

The employees are provided information and directed on how to reach out to various
departments for additional support.
Human Resource
 Contracts & Letters
 Leaves
 Policies and Procedures
 Reviews and Appraisals
Accounts




Reimbursements
Salaries
Advances

Administration




Pantry
Stationery
IT Support

The following rules are shared with the employees regarding the use of pantry,
stationery and IT support.

PANTRY







Keep your workstation clean before leaving for the day so that the office space can
be cleaned properly by the office boy the next morning
Duplicate office keys set will be provided to you, please see to it that you carry the
same to office everyday (just in case you are the 1 st person to arrive or the last
person to leave the office premises)
Kindly switch off the lights / fans when leaving the office, a meeting, or an empty
room.
Kindly shut the windows, lights, fans, routers, shared drive computer if you are the
last person to leave the office.
Kindly use recycled papers for printing materials to be used in-house (internal
circulation only)

9

STATIONERY
The stationery is placed in the Operations room and all office supplies are placed in the
small pullover cupboards

IT- SUPPORT
Admin can also be contacted for the following IT support




Helping with e-mail access
Printers not working
Any kind of PC related problems

All employees are supposed to submit the following within two working days from the
date of joining
For Indian Nationals:
 Pan Card copy
 Two recent photographs
 Completely filled up HDFC Account opening form
 Address Proof
 Passport copy
For Foreign Nationals:
 Visa copy or other documents
 Passport copy
 Other documents as required

10

6. Terms of Employment
The terms of employment in Dasra are contractual, either as a full-time consultant, as a
fellow or as a volunteer/advisor. Dasra has a policy of keeping a healthy gender balance
within the organization.
Probation
All staff shall undergo probation for a period of three months, after which time the staff
member shall continue in the services of Dasra if expected levels of performance are met. If
performance does not match up to the expected levels, the staff shall be informed in
writing of extension of probation or termination of service as the case may be. During the
probationary period, the services can be terminated with one day’s notice from Dasra or the
employee.
i.
ii.

Within the first 6 weeks of employment, there is a check in conducted by the HR and
the supervisor of the candidate.
Within first 10 weeks there is second check in conducted along with the supervisor
and the team

Contract
The terms of employment in Dasra are contractual and are decided between Dasra and the
staff after the successful completion of the probationary period. Based on organizational
needs and the staff’s performance, a decision regarding the continuation of services after
the period will be communicated to the staff a month before the end of the contract period.
Compensation
The staff members will be paid a consolidated monthly professional fee, as decided at the
time of employment. Salary will be disbursed through direct deposit into a salaried bank
account at HDFC at the end of each working month. The staff member must submit a
timesheet to the accounts department at the end of each week to ensure timely salary
payment.
Health Insurance
After successful completion of the probationary period, the staff member will be entitled to
the benefits of health insurance according to the firm’s rules in force at that time. There
will also be a health card given to each staff member by the insurance company, through
which he/she can avail services in specified hospitals.

11

After completion of two years of employment, staff will also receive health insurance at
that time for their spouse and children.
Mobile Telephone
The staff gets a flat reimbursement of Rs.600 across verticals and levels. They have to
submit their monthly mobile bill for this reimbursement. This reimbursement is provided
understanding the mobile usage an employee might have for official purposes. All personal
call expenses are to be borne by the staff. There are also very basic office handsets which
are also given to employees instead of the reimbursement on case by case basis
In case of loss or damage of the handset, the staff will have to replace the same or bear the
repair costs.
Deductions
All income tax on professional/consultancy charges payable by the staff member will have
to be borne and paid by the staff member. Accordingly, the organization will compute and
deduct income tax at source (TDS) in monthly consolidated payments. Presently the TDS is
10.3%.
Transfers
The organization reserves its right at any time to transfer staff to such other places as it may
deem necessary.
Resignations
A staff member desiring to resign may do so by notifying the company in writing, giving the
reasons and the effective date. Failure to give at least one month’s (30 days) notice may
result in forgoing 30 days of salary accrued. The staff is not entitled to any leaves in the
notice period. However, waiver of required notice may be granted by the senior
management in the presence of a sound cause. A resignation feedback interview shall also
be organized.
Dismissal
Dasra may terminate an employee’s services at any time by giving one month notice or one
month’s professional fees in lieu thereof. During the probationary period, any staff
member may be dismissed at any time and will not be afforded any severance. Dismissal
during, or at the end of, the probationary period shall be based on the staff’s unsuitability
for the position as determined by senior management.

12

Final Settlement
Settlements will be made only after Dasra assets such as laptop, mobile telephone and any
other material that may belong to Dasra are duly returned.
Automatic Cessation of Service
A staff member’s services would be liable for automatic termination under the following
circumstances:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.

Misconduct
Continuous ill health
Violation of agreements
Continuous absenteeism for more than a week without any written notice to
management
Mental incompetence, unsound mind, insolvency and criminal status

13

7. Other Terms and Conditions
During the probationary period




The consultant’s services can be terminated with one day’s notice by either party.
In case of unsatisfactory performance, the consultant’s probationary period can be
extended, the tenure of which is at the sole discretion of the management.
The consultant cannot avail of paid vacation but the same will be carried over on
successful completion of the probationary period and accrue to his/ her account.

During the contract period














The consultant will get, up to 20 working days, paid vacation inclusive of sick leave and
personal leave per year starting April 1 to March 31 and will be calculated on pro-rata
basis if the consultant joins midyear
In addition, Dasra gives a total of 9 national/ festive holidays allowing the employee to
choose holidays they wish to avail of during the year
Approval for vacation is to be obtained at least three weeks in advance but the
consultant’s responsibilities and work load may not be able to take a full month off at
one time
This vacation time cannot be rolled over to the following year and will not be
compensated for if not taken
The consultant will be covered under individual health insurance and personal accident
insurance for 5 lakhs each as per the policy
This contract may also be terminated by mutual agreement by giving a notice period of
one month.
The Organization shall have the right summarily and without notice to terminate the
appointment if the consultant is found guilty at any time of neglect, subordination or
breach of any of the terms of the contract, or commit any act which is likely to be
detrimental to the organization
All materials / documents and any property of the organization including intellectual
property collected / handed over to the consultant in pursuance of this contract, shall
remain the sole property of the organization and that the consultant shall not have any
claim, title, lien on them, or divulge to any person, firm or any organization
At the end of the contract period the consultant will be bound to return all and any of
the materials / documents and property of the organization including intellectual
property which he/ she has used in pursuance of his/ her responsibilities

14






At the end of the contract period, based on the needs of the organization and the
consultant’s performance, a decision regarding the continuation of services will be
made and communicated to the consultant a month before the end of the contract
period.
This agreement is executed in duplicate and one copy will remain with the organization
and the other with the consultant
Any disputes, disagreements and discord arising out of the contract are subject to
Mumbai jurisdiction

15

8.

Employment Policies
9.1

Check-in Policy

The 6th and 10th week check-in processes are as follows:
6 week check-in
 The purpose of a 6 week check-in is to gather feedback about the new employee and
have a clear understanding about whether the employee fits in well within the role and
organization. It is therefore very important to have the feedback in writing from each
team member.
 There is sharing of thoughts within the team in the presence of the supervisor and HR;
there is also formal feedback shared by each team member in writing through the
“Team feedback form”
 Further, based on the feedback received from the team, the supervisor gives a
consolidated written feedback to the new employee which has to be signed by both, the
new employee and the supervisor and submitted to HR.
10 week check-in
 A 10 week check-in is done by the team to understand that the new employee has a
sense of clarity of role or there is still some disconnect on what is expected out of
him/her. Based on the conversation it is decided whether there will be an extension of
the probation period or a confirmation of employment with Dasra.
 This is more of a verbal conversation within the team where the 6 week review is taken
into consideration, to see the progress on the points of improvement discussed earlier
in the presence of the supervisor and HR.
 The supervisor gives written feedback to the new employee on his/her improvements
and is signed off by both the parties and submitted to HR.

16

9.2 Work Schedule and Leave Policy
The guidelines below establish uniform policies for all staff (full/part time) of Dasra at all
locations. All staff is expected to become thoroughly familiar with and adhere to its provisions.
Official Hours of Work
The workday begins at 9.00 am and ends at 6.00 pm. Variations in the regular workday must be
approved by Senior Management.
Travel time (except travel to and from work at the Dasra office) will be considered as work time
and logged accordingly by those individuals on authorized travel.
Daily Attendance and Punctuality
It is the duty of all staff to report for work and be punctual on every official working day. If they
are unable to attend or are late due to unavoidable circumstances, they should immediately
inform their manager on the same day. All absences shall require reasonable explanation from
employee and approval from managers. Absenteeism and habitual late coming patterns are
eligible for disciplinary action.
Definition of Work Week
The work week is defined as beginning on Monday and ending on Friday. Dasra does not
encourage employees to work on holidays. However, working outside office hours on
Saturdays, Sundays or public holidays may be unavoidable at times. As a responsible staff
member, one is expected to work additional hours whenever required.
Leave and Absence Policies
The leave year shall cover the period of April to March.
Dasra believes in making time available to staff for rest, recreation to re-energize and for
fulfilling various social obligations and needs.
In the event of situations such as floods, riots or any other eventuality that may prevent staff
from being able to reach the office, Senior Management, upon receiving such information, shall
make an appropriate decision accordingly.
All leave applications must be submitted in the stipulated time and must be approved by the
supervisor. Any absence of work that is not approved by the supervisor will be treated as leave
without pay. Any leave cannot be carried forward and will automatically lapse. There will be no
encashment of leave.

17

Probationary Period
During probationary period, the employee is entitled to take 5 days of paid leave (with another
15 days remaining in the year once the probationary period ends), subject to the same approval
regulations. If any additional leave is taken, it will be deducted from the salary.
Earned leave
All staff members are entitled to earned leave of 20 working days every year. This is not
applicable to those staff who are on an employment period of 12 months or less than 12
months. Any leave entitlements for such staff will be decided on a case by case basis at the time
of joining Dasra.
Staffs who wish to avail of annual leave of more than 3 days must submit their request in
writing at least one week in advance to their manager for approval.
Any leave taken in excess of above entitlements shall be treated as unpaid leave. Application
for such leave can be approved only by the senior management.
For Fellows
Fellows will be provided the same allotment of earned leaves and festival/national holidays as
full time employees. The minimum tenure for the fellowship at Dasra is from 10-12 months.
Attending Workshops
Time employees are away from the office attending work related workshops, conferences, or
events will not be considered as leave and will be treated as working days. All work related
events will require prior approval to attend.
National Holidays
Dasra gives a total of 9 days festive/national holidays, allowing them to choose which holidays
they wish to avail of. These are paid holidays. There are no compensatory holidays for days that
fall on Saturdays or Sundays.
Extraordinary Leave
Extraordinary leave (taken for medical grounds, personal family matters, etc.) may be granted
by the management at its sole discretion and strictly on a case-to-case basis. In cases where all
eligible leave is exhausted, the leave granted will be deducted from the employee’s salary.

18

Maternity leave
All women staff, who have worked continuously at Dasra for at least eighteen months, shall be
eligible for paid maternity leave to cover a period of confinement, miscarriage, abortion or
adoption. In cases where the staff member has worked for a period of less than eighteen
months, the staff member will not be eligible for any leave, and any leave taken will either be
extraordinary leave or considered as a break in service without assurance of continuation.
Senior management must be notified of planned maternity leave at least four months in
advance. The staff shall be entitled to 90 days of paid maternity leave which can be taken either
prior and/or after delivery (pre natal and post natal) of the child or processing of adoption.
Paternity leave
All male staff, who have worked continuously at Dasra for at least one year following the initial
probationary period, are entitled to 6 weeks of paid paternity leave for the birth or adoption of
their children. Senior management must be notified of planned paternity leave at least a month
in advance, and the leave shall be granted within one month before or after delivery or
processing of adoption.

19

9.3 Travel and Living Policy
This policy should be adhered to by all employees of Dasra (full time/part time/intern or
volunteer) when undertaking any work related travel, whether domestic or international.
This policy is subject to change without prior notice at the discretion of the senior management
team.
Any questions related to this policy should be directed to HR.
Section 1 – Responsibilities
1.1 Senior Management Team



All managers must be fully aware of Dasra’s current travel policy and be able to
communicate to all staff the most up to date policy and procedures.
The management team will determine if travel is really necessary to achieve a goal and
will approve expenses only in accordance with the policy detailed below.

1.2 Employee (full time/part time/intern or volunteer)








Employees will notify the senior management team as early as possible of necessary
travel arrangements. If travel plans are made 7 days or more in advance, the trip will, in
most cases cost considerably less. If travel is requested less than 7 days prior to
departure, a low-fare airline (if a flight is needed) must be used
Employees must work around the donors/organizations schedule when requesting
travel arrangements. Dasra employees should never inconvenience a
donor/organization
Employees should only incur expenses that are consistent with the business needs and
exercise care in determining appropriate expenditures
Employees should only use company authorized travel providers and vendors the
company has negotiated discount programs with
Employees should submit expense reports as outlined in the expense section on this
policy, on a timely basis.

Section 2 - Business Travel
Business travel relates to any work related travel by a Dasra employee outside of their normal
routine job duties. Business travel is defined as starting when the employee leaves their place
of regular employment (or his/her residence) for the purpose of business. The business trip is

20

considered as completed when the employee returns to his/her place of regular employment
(or residence) whichever occurs first.
2.1 Insurance
All employees of Dasra (full time/part time/intern or volunteer) will be covered by the
organizations health insurance policy when traveling on business. Full details can be
obtained from HR.
2.2 Local Travel (Mumbai and Suburbs)
Dasra will NOT reimburse any transportation costs or pay a transportation allowance to
any employee for travel between the home and office.
Reimbursement will be given only for local travel if the employee is on company
business. Employees should ALWAYS use the most appropriate and cost efficient mode
of transport available.
Reimbursement will only be provided on actuals and on the submission of a completed
expense report and valid receipt/s. Claims must be made within 7 days of the actual
travel date to the finance team.
2.3 Mode of Transport
Train
Please retain and submit your ticket for reimbursement. Female employees if traveling
alone are permitted to travel in First Class Ladies for any local journey.
Bus
Please retain and submit your ticket to finance to be reimbursed.
Rickshaw
If traveling by rickshaw – no receipt will be given. You will need to complete a voucher
on return to the office and submit this to finance for reimbursement.
Taxi
If traveling by black and yellow taxi – no receipt will be given. You will need to complete
a voucher on return to the office and submit this to finance for reimbursement.
If you are traveling by any other pre-book/pre-pay taxi – a receipt will be provided. You
will need to retain this receipt and submit to finance for reimbursement.
Personal Car Reimbursement

21

If an employee uses his/her personal car on approved business travel, Dasra will pay 5
INR per KM. Dasra will also reimburse all actual auto tolls and parking fees, on
submission of a receipt.
Mileage from employee's home to regular assigned work location is not a reimbursable
expense. However, if the employee goes directly from home to another work
assignment other than the regular work location, and the distance to the work
assignment is greater than the distance to the regular work location, the employee can
expense the difference.
In order to receive reimbursement for mileage, the employee must complete an
expense report specifying purpose of trip, start and finish odometer reading, point of
origin, destination and time of trip.
The employee assumes the responsibility for all parking and traffic fines.

Section 3 - Domestic Travel (India)
All the travel arrangements and bookings will be made by the administration team. The
details of the travel should be shared with her per mail
Where possible all travel reservations should be made a minimum of 7 days in advance
of the outbound travel date.
Any unplanned travel must be approved by a member of the management team before
any reservation is confirmed.
A completed expense claim form and all valid tickets/receipts must be retained and
submitted within 14 days of the outbound travel date to the finance team.

3.1 Mode of Transport
Air
All travel by air will be in economy class.
Low-fare air carriers such as Kingfisher Red, Jet Lite, Go Air, and Indigo must be used,
where ever possible. All air travel must be via the most direct and economical means.
Deviations from the lowest fare available must have the management team’s approval.
Booking of "Non-Refundable" airfares is recommended. These fares are usually

22

considerably less expensive than refundable un-restricted fares. In most cases, if the
travel must be changed or the trip, the funds can be used as a credit toward future
travel, less a service charge imposed by the airline.
Your boarding pass must be retained and submitted along with your ticket/e-ticket.
Train
Employees traveling by train on a journey that is over 2 hours and taken during the day
should booked in a 2AC Chair. If overnight travel is required then travel should be
booked in a 2AC Sleeper.
Please retain and submit your ticket for reimbursement.
Bus
Please retain and submit your ticket to finance to be reimbursed.
Rickshaw
If traveling by rickshaw – no receipt will be given. You will need to complete a voucher
on return to the office and submit this to finance for reimbursement.
Taxi
If traveling by local taxi – no receipt will be given. You will need to complete a voucher
on return to the office and submit this to finance for reimbursement.
If you are traveling by any other pre-book/pre-pay taxi – a receipt will be provided. You
will need to retain this receipt and submit to finance for reimbursement.
Personal Car Reimbursement
If an employee uses his/her personal car on approved business travel, Dasra will pay 5
INR per KM. Dasra will also reimburse all actual auto tolls and parking fees, on
submission of a receipt.
Mileage from employee's home to regular assigned work location is not a reimbursable
expense. However, if the employee goes directly from home to another work
assignment other than the regular work location, and the distance to the work
assignment is greater than the distance to the regular work location, the employee can
expense the difference.
In order to receive reimbursement for mileage, the employee must complete an
expense report specifying purpose of trip, start and finish odometer reading, point of
origin, destination and time of trip.

23

The employee assumes the responsibility for all parking and traffic fines.
3.2 Accommodation
Accommodation will be provided for all employees traveling on business where an
overnight stay is required.
All reservation for accommodation should be made in advance as far as possible.
Where possible please request that the host organization book accommodation in
advance as they will often have a “regular” place that is used by them frequently.
Female employees must ensure that their safety and security are paramount at all times
when reserving any accommodation.
3.3 Per Diem and Accommodation Standards/Rates
A per diem will be provided to all staff members on official business travel. The per diem
is paid to cover food and boarding/lodging costs during business travel.
Staff members may choose, preceding a business trip to submit a claim for an advance
per diem to a member of the senior management team for their approval.
Per Diems within India for all Metros/State Capital Cities* are set at 500 INR for food
and up to 3500 INR for lodging as per actuals. All receipts must be submitted within 14
days of the outbound travel date to the finance team.
Per Diems within India for non Metros* are set at 500 INR for food and up to 1500 INR
for lodging as per actuals. All receipts must be submitted within 14 days of the
outbound travel date to the finance team.
The per diem can be claimed from the date of departure (outbound travel date) through
to the day prior to arrival back (inbound travel date) to the office in Mumbai.
Dasra will cover all expenses related to food and accommodation charge as per the
above However other out of pocket expenses that may be incurred such as working
meals, local transportation, airport tax etc., may be reimbursed. All receipts must be
submitted within 14 days of the outbound travel date to the finance team.
In case of an invitation for national business travel from another organization, which will
bear all the travel and other related costs, staff members may not claim a daily per diem.
Reimbursement of any other out of pocket expenses that might be incurred may be
reimbursed on approval from a member of the senior management team. All receipts

24

along with an expense form must be submitted within 14 days of the outbound travel
date to the finance team.
* Metro cities, Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Ahmedabad (and
State Capital cities)
* Towns – non-metro cities/rural districts
3.4 Passport and Visa
Passport
It is expected that all staff members (full time/part time/intern or volunteer) will carry
the necessary and valid documentation when traveling on business.
Visa/Permit
Should a visa or permit be required by any staff member (full time/part time/intern or
volunteer) for work travel, then Dasra will cover these fees. The employee will be
responsible for obtaining all the necessary paperwork and the visa/permit prior to the
planned travel date.

Section 4 - International Travel
Should International travel be required – it will be reviewed on a case by case basis.
Section 5 – Two Wheel Travel
No employee should travel on a two wheel vehicle at any time for official work. This
pertains to travel within and outside of Mumbai for meetings, site visits, conferences
and other events. It is important that all employees strictly adhere to this policy. It is the
responsibility of the Dasra employee to set this expectation with partners/organizations
prior to any travel. Any person found violating this policy will be immediately
terminated from employment without any notification.

25

9.4 Sexual Harassment Policy
Dasra considers workplace sexual harassment to be a serious offense and will deal with such
incidents in the strongest possible manner.
Scope of this Policy:
This policy applies to all individuals who are employed in a permanent, contractual, temporary,
or fellowship capacity at any Dasra office location. This policy document is also being forwarded
to all the Dasra offices with the clear advice to establish a similar approach in dealing with this
issue.
This policy pertains to sexual harassment in the workplace, or during work related travel and
meetings. However, as a representative of Dasra, all staff is expected to act responsibly and
respectfully both within the office and beyond office hours.
Definition of Issue:












A broad definition of sexual harassment consists of any physical or verbal behaviour and
any form of communication that has unnecessary, improper or unwelcome sexual
connotations. Sexual harassment may vary in form depending on circumstances. It may
consist of, but not be limited to, any of the following:
Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favours, display of sexual visuals,
sexual audios, pornographic or obscene material and any other verbal or physical
conduct of a sexual nature
Transmitting any message, by mail, telephone, e-mail etc. which is obscene, lewd,
suggestive or blatantly sexual in nature
Any explicit or implicit communication wherein a sexual favour or demand, whether by
words or actions, is made a condition for an individual’s employment, career progress,
promotion etc. thereby creating a hostile environment.
Sexually charged jokes or remarks and behaviour which have sexually oriented
innuendoes
Consistent pattern of unnecessary physical contact, staring or targeting unreasonable
attention at an individual in day-to-day dealings
Any pervasive pattern of behaviour which makes others uncomfortable, insecure or feel
humiliated or disadvantaged on the basis of gender differentiation
Actual sexual assault

As mentioned above, this is an indicative but not an exhaustive list of possible forms of sexual
harassment.

26

Complaints Handling Process:

















Dasra has established the following process to ensure that any incidence of sexual
harassment is dealt with appropriately, sensitively and expeditiously.
Complaints Committee for Sexual Harassment: Dasra has established a Complaints
Committee for Sexual Harassment headed by Ms. Neera Nundy, Managing Partner, Mr.
Deval Sanghavi, Chief Executive Officer & Mr. Vikas Bahl, Manager.
Process for dealing with incidents of sexual harassment
Any employee/fellow/intern who experiences sexual harassment can get in touch with
any member of this Committee. Alternatively, the affected employee/fellow/intern may
approach his/her supervisor and the supervisor will be expected to inform a member of
the Committee immediately. All such complaints shall be in writing with full details of
the incident.
On receipt of such a complaint, the Committee will immediately arrange to fully
investigate all relevant details of the matter. It will do so with all possible care,
sensitivity and discretion in protecting the sensibilities of the impacted
employee/fellow/intern. The member, who has allegedly committed the offence, will be
given all reasonable opportunity to be heard by the Committee.
The result of this investigation will be formally recorded and discussed within the senior
management team for appropriate action.
The Committee will normally complete this process and make its formal
recommendation within 10 working days after receiving the complaint unless there are
exceptional circumstances.
Necessary action will then be taken with regard to the offending member based on the
circumstances and seriousness of the offence.
Where Dasra is legally advised that any such incident constitutes a criminal offence,
Dasra will inform the relevant authority, provide full details and request appropriate
action. If the aggrieved employee/fellow/intern directly takes any action, against the
offending member, either civil or criminal, the Committee, on becoming aware of such
action by the aggrieved employee/fellow/intern, shall be entitled to, suo moto, start the
internal enquiry / investigation and recommend appropriate action.
Dasra will ensure that the career interests of the complainant are not adversely affected
by virtue of the individual having drawn attention to such an offence.
In order to ensure that this important matter is not trivialized, any complaint, which, in
the opinion of the Committee, is blatantly false or frivolous or has been motivated by
reasons that are clearly unconnected with gender issues, would be viewed very
seriously by the company and appropriate action taken against such complainants.

27





If the Committee receives an anonymous reference related to sexual harassment, it will
draw the attention of the supervisor concerned with the relevant business or location.
The matter will be fully examined by the concerned supervisor and its conclusions and
plans for necessary action will be communicated to the Committee.
Heads of departments and senior management at all Dasra locations will also be
expected to be sensitive to any circumstances or behaviour among their colleagues
which appear to go against the company policy on this matter. In case they become
aware of any such incidence, they will immediately inform the head of the Committee
and take appropriate action as advised.

Dasra has added the following instructions to ensure, to the best of its ability, the security of
its Staff:











No employee will be subject to any form of retaliation for making a good faith report of
conduct that they believe violates the aforementioned policies.
If attending work related social events, meetings, dinners, etc. outside of office hours,
employees should try and have another Dasra staff member accompany them if
possible. Employees must inform their supervisors of any such events they plan to
attend.
Employees must use sound judgment when socializing with external contacts developed
through work initiatives. For ex: IPF members, DSI entrepreneurs, portfolio organization
staff, donors, etc.
Employees travelling for work must inform their supervisors of the dates, duration,
location, and purpose of the visit. Contact information for the partner organization must
be documented and provided to a supervisor.
During site visits, or work related travel, employees must use sound judgment at all
times and take every measure to ensure their safety. Examples of things to consider
may include: Understanding if it is safe to go out at night on your own; keeping host and
supervisor informed regarding where you will be staying; avoid attracting unnecessary
attention to yourself with unruly behavior; understanding from the host organization
any cultural or local sensitivities.
Employees /fellows/interns catching up after office hours have to be careful and should
take care of themselves as Dasra will have no control over any accidents that may occur
after office hours

28

9.

Performance Appraisal and Reviews

Dasra considers performance appraisals and reviews an integral part of the entire career life
span of its staff as any progressive organization. Dasra understands and value the contribution
of their staff, also realizes that management must bear responsibility for how their staff
performs their jobs and the role that motivation and encouragement play in increasing efficacy
of their work.
What performance management is not at Dasra:
Performance management is not an annual event. This is a continuous process that takes place
throughout the year and that is what Dasra believes in. It is also not a process used to
determine salary or other material benefits as these can have a negative effect on development
of staff, nor is it a tool to punish staff.
Dasra strongly believes that a performance discussion should have no surprises! This means
that the manager as well as the staff must be aware of all important matters and nothing
should come out as an unknown entity at the actual discussion itself. This also means that the
process of performance management must be a followed in a committed manner. The
manager’s own performance is as much on line as the staff member’s! The focus should be on
performance management and development.
As a part of the system, Dasra practices the following Performance Appraisal and Review
Process:

29

360Degree Appraisal
For the 360 degree Appraisal, feedback is taken from peers, colleagues and team members
within the organization to assess the employee’s cultural fit within the organization. The
appraisal is taken as an opportunity to provide honest and open feedback to the employee and
also from the employee. The appraisal usually revolves around Dasra values.
Weekly Plan:
Dasra not only believes in quarterly check-ins in the form of reviews but also with a view to help
staff develop and perform on regular basis have induced an innovative process of having
weekly plans from their verticals. It is further consolidated and analyzed which helps the senior
management get a clear understanding whether the work being carried out is in line with the
broader goals and as per priority.
Monday Meetings:
Every Monday morning, the entire Dasra staff gets together and each team has an opportunity
to share their updates on their work over the previous week and plans for the upcoming week,
addressing specific achievements, developments and giving kudos to team members. The
meeting is followed by a weekly plan meeting with each vertical.

30

