December 2011

Photo Credits: Khomulo Anna, used under licence from Shutterstock.com / Layout: graphics@arcelormittal.com

Human Resources
at a Glance

Table of contents
Human Resources Guiding Principles....................................................... page 3
Global Executive Development Programme........................................... page 5
Career Committees.................................................................................... page 7
Performance Management....................................................................... page 9
Talent Identification.................................................................................... page 13
Succession Planning................................................................................... page 15
Development Planning............................................................................... page 17
Diversity and Inclusion............................................................................... page 19
Resourcing Procedure................................................................................ page 21
Vetting Procedure....................................................................................... page 23
Global Induction Programme.................................................................... page 25
Job Classification and Job Titling ............................................................. page 27
Remuneration and Benefits ...................................................................... page 29
Employee Relations.................................................................................... page 33
Workforce Planning.................................................................................... page 35
Training Procedure . ................................................................................... page 37
International Assignment Procedure . ..................................................... page 41

2

3

Implementing the ArcelorMittal Human Resources Guiding Principles requires several key
commitments on the part of the Company’s leadership:
1. All ArcelorMittal leaders must own and adhere
to the company’s HR guiding principles. While we
will continue to value results, we will value equally
the requirement that results be achieved while
promoting these guiding principles.
2. HR teams will ensure that relevant HR policies,
processes, and competency frameworks are
documented and well known by ArcelorMittal
staff.
3. Measurable HR objectives, with appropriate
reporting procedures, will be deployed by Business
Unit and functional leaders, supported by their HR
teams.
4. Unit leaders and functional heads will effectively
communicate their objectives, plans, and
performance objectives all the way to the shop
floor.

5. Whenever necessary, proper deployment of
policies and processes will be monitored through
audits.
6. The regular Company Climate Survey, the
whistleblower policy, and other appropriate
feedback mechanisms will help identify areas for
improvement and facilitate global and local
follow-up.
7. All entities must comply fully with all legal
requirements and meet or exceed these
expectations wherever we operate throughout
the world. All entities must fully comply with all
ArcelorMittal Compliance Policies including the
ArcelorMittal Code of Business Conduct and the
ArcelorMittal Anticorruption Guidelines.

4

Global Executive
Development Programme
1. Purpose

4. Scope

The purpose of this procedure is to define the processes of
the Global Executive Development Programme. All aspects
of this procedure are meant to ensure that the everyday
activities of individuals, departments and functions are
carried out efficiently and effectively.

This procedure applies to all Executive Vice Presidents, Vice
Presidents, General Managers, Managers and exempts of
ArcelorMittal, including Globally Mobiles, MBA Hires and
Expatriates.

5. Responsibilities

2. Detailed Statement
The Global Executive Development Programme, the GEDP,
is the cornerstone of our people strategy. It includes
the following four major People Management processes
at ArcelorMittal: Performance Management, Talent
Identification, Development Planning and Succession
Management. The GEDP helps individuals align personal
goals with business strategy, encourages feedback and
communication between managers and direct reports,
measures results, identifies competencies needed to perform
the work of the organisation, and encourages career
development discussions.
This process will be implemented and performed in
accordance with the respective national laws, in particular
with respect to labor law and data protection requirements.

3. Principles
The key principles of the GEDP programme are:
• Managers meet with their direct reports to discuss
performance, competencies, career planning and
development requirements at least twice a year.
• These discussions must be formal and outcomes should be
recorded in the eGEDP system.
• Any number of informal coaching and feedback sessions
can take place throughout the year.

5

5.1	Group	Management	Board	(GMB)
Defines the ArcelorMittal business strategy and
Company values and ensures communication is
cascaded to all individuals
Carries out annual GEDP reviews and twice yearly
Career Committees
5.2	Business	Unit	Managers
Leads Business Unit / Function Career Committees
reviews
5.3	Managers
Ensure complete understanding of the GEDP process
and their role and responsibilities
Apply the full GEDP process to appropriate members
of his/her team
Comply with the GEDP cycle dates
Assist individuals with objective setting, competency
assessment, development and career planning
Provide timely feedback to individuals
Provide objective assessments for individuals
5.4	Individuals
Ensure complete understanding of the GEDP process
and their roles and responsibilities
Comply with the GEDP cycle dates
Set and document performance objectives,
competency assessment and development objectives
with input from their manager
Request continuous feedback from their manager

5.5 Corporate Human Resources Leadership
Development:
	Ensure	complete	understanding	of	the	GEDP,	the	
cycle	dates	and	roles	and	responsibilities
	Establish	relevant	standards,	processes,	metrics	and	
systems	to	ensure	effectiveness	of	the	process
	Provide	GEDP	process	training	through	the	Leadership	
Development	network
	Ensure	that	GEDP	information	is	recorded	in	the	
system,	perform	analysis	and	provide	information	to	
GMB	and	Business	Units	where	appropriate
	Quality	check	and	audit	to	ensure	full	implementation	
of	the	GEDP	process
5.6 Local Human Resources:
	Ensure	complete	understanding	of	the	GEDP,	the	
cycle	dates	and	roles	and	responsibilities
	Provide	GEDP	process	training	through	the	local	
population
	Ensure	that	GEDP	information	is	recorded	in	the	
system,	perform	analysis	and	provide	information	to	
Business	Units	leads	where	appropriate
	Support	business	leaders	on	planning	and	conducting	
all	career	committees.

6

Career Committees
1. Purpose

4. Process

The purpose of this procedure is to explain the Career
Committees meetings at ArcelorMittal with the support
from Human Resources.

Career Committees are held all throughout the Group. A
particular review will focus on individuals belonging to the
GEDP audience. At these meetings, managers are required
to present and support their individual ratings with written
evidence providing concrete examples of good and bad
performance. Individuals across functions and departments
are compared with each other and the discussion focuses
on employee’s initial ratings and whether or not they
should be moved from one rating to another based on their
performance.
These sessions are typically interactive and participants ask
questions to understand the strength of reasoning behind
ratings, forcing managers to critically assess their initial
judgments and come to a conclusion regarding the most
appropriate rating based on the ratings other managers have
assigned.

2. Detailed Statement
The «Career Committee» meeting is one of the key
processes that ensures the efficient management and
development of individuals at ArcelorMittal. Besides raising
the competence levels in our organisation, it ensures a
pipeline of talent, developed and ready for key positions.
The meetings involve close participation and teamwork of
the Management/Operations Committees, including Human
Resources and Leadership Development heads, discussing
important aspects regarding leadership development of our
people.
This process will be implemented and performed in
accordance with the respective national laws, in particular
with respect to labor law and data protection requirements.

3. Key objectives of Career
Committees
Career Committees ensure the achievement of the following
objectives that support the business strategy:
• Place efficient managers in every function within the
company
• Improve managers efficiency through training and
development
• Identify and prepare future leaders
• Recognise each manager’s contribution to attract and keep
the best but also to deal with the less able ones
• Anticipate, business evolution and potential impact on the
organization
• Ensure replacements are ready for key positions
• Involve all levels of the organisation Site/Unit/Function/
BU/Country, Segment and Group.

7

5. Scope
This procedure applies to all Executive Vice Presidents, Vice
Presidents, General Managers, Managers who participate
in the management of the Global Executive Development
Programme.

6. Responsibilities
6.1	Group	Management	Board
Carries out full Career Committees at Group level
6.2	Operational	Leads	/	Operational	HR	/	Business	
Unit	HR	/	Career	Committees
Gather information from data from multiple sources;
create reports to prepare for the sites/Business Units
Career Committee
Conduct feedback meetings with potential successors
where appropriate
Review and challenge ratings, succession and
development plans

6.3	Human	Resources	Leadership	Development
	 Gathers	information	from	data	from	multiple	sources;	
create	reports	to	prepare	for	the	Group	Career	
Committee	
Facilitates	the	discussions	during	the	Career	
Committee’s	meeting

8

Performance Management
1. Purpose
The purpose of this procedure is to define the
Performance Management process at ArcelorMittal.

2. Detailed Statement
Performance Management is a standard process
across the Group and the foundation for delivering
lasting improvement by effectively managing
the performance and potential of our people.
The process uses the same explicit performance
criteria and rating descriptions across the Group.
To ensure consistency of application, Performance
Management training is made available to all
managers and calibration or moderation meetings
are held to justify ratings.
This process will be implemented and performed
in accordance with the respective national laws,
in particular with respect to labor law and data
protection requirements.

3. Principles
The key outcomes of the Performance
Management process at ArcelorMittal are to:
Align individual’s goals with ArcelorMittal
business strategy through SMART performance
objectives:
Specific enough to establish clear expectations
and specify the “stretch” involved
Measurable in cost, quantity, quality, or timeless
Agreed-upon to ensure co-ordination and buy-in
Realistic as a goal which can be attained, given
stretch effort
Trackable and time-linked through ongoing
review and milestones for progress against
schedule.

9

Increase individual’s commitment to goals
Drive performance improvement
Recognise and acknowledge behaviours and
achievements which are required to successfully
perform the role
Identify and provide development opportunities
Serve as a ‘radar for talent’ in the organisation
Build ownership for personal development
Provide an input for other Human Resource
processes e.g. ArcelorMittal University
nominations, compensation and benefits
Use as a vehicle for change.

4. Key Steps
To successfully manage individual’s performance,
managers should complete the following process:
4.1 Establish a performance plan
Establishing a performance plan determines
expectations and goals for an individual
to achieve during the following year. By
establishing this plan together, the manager
and the individual can work together to
ensure success.
4.2 Provide regular feedback and coaching
Managers who provide feedback allow
their teams to move forward, change, and
grow as people and individuals. Through
proper guidance, individuals learn the skills
they need to meet their performance goals
while improving their self-esteem and job
satisfaction.
4.3 Complete a mid year review
The Mid Year Review assesses whether
or not an individual is performing against
expectations in his or her performance plan.
By checking individual’s performance during

the year, the manager and the employee can
identify any issues, take action to ensure
a high level of performance, and make any
necessary improvements.
4.4 Complete the annual performance appraisal
process
The Annual Performance Appraisal Process
assesses whether or not an individual has
achieved the goals and expectations in his
or her performance plan. By measuring an
individual’s performance at the end of the
year, the manager and the employee can
formally evaluate performance against plan
seeking feedback from other interested
parties and assess competencies, potential
and career aspirations

5. Definitions performance/
potential
5.1 Performance is about an individual’s
actual contribution to the business in the
performance year and covers specific
requirements of delivery in the role. Reference
to performance objectives and expectations
should be made in determining overall
performance rating.
5.1.1 Rating 1: Below Expectations (BE) – Needs
significant improvement and specific actions
laid out to bring about improvement (regular
review). Meets some expectations, but
continuously falls short.
5.1.2 Rating 2: Somewhat Meets Expectations
(SME) – Performance needs to be improved.
Meets a majority of expectations expected
for the role, but improvement required in
some areas.
5.1.3 Rating 3: Fully Meets Expectations (FME)
– Very solid performance. Fully meets
requirements for the role and performs
at a fully competent level. A 3 rating
demonstrates successful achievement of all.
5.1.4 Rating 4: Exceeds Expectations (EE) – An
excellent contribution. Performance meets
all and exceeds some of the requirements
expected for the role.
5.1.5 Rating 5: Significantly Exceeds Expectations
(SEE) – An outstanding contribution.
Performance significantly exceeds the
requirements for the role and has shown
significant contribution above the normal
demands.

5.2 Potential is about an individual’s future growth
and is NOT a performance assessment but a
review of their future progression within the
Organisation.
5.2.1 Rating 1: No Upward Potential (NP) Has no potential and is overgraded for
the contribution being made. Needs
reassignment (subject to Performance rating
above).
5.2.2 Rating 2: Reached Potential (RP) - Has
reached current level of potential and
upward progression unlikely. A perfectly
acceptable assessment for people who are
doing a good job and do not want more
responsibility.
5.2.3 Rating 3: Further Potential (FP) - Has the
ability and aspiration to move laterally within
the Organisation or advance in a specialist
or functional area. Is committed to the
Organisation.
5.2.4 Rating 4: Significant Potential (SP) - Has the
ability and aspiration to successfully advance
AND/OR take on additional responsibilities in
other sectors/functions and is committed to
the Organisation.
5.2.5 Rating 5: Outstanding Potential (OP) - Has
the ability and aspiration for successful
move to a major role above the current level
of responsibility within the Group in the
near future, and is totally committed to the
Organisation.
5.2.6 For advancement outside of the local level
and for those people with aspirations to
develop a career at a Group level, mobility
and good working knowledge of English
language are requirements.

6. Scope
This procedure applies to all Executive Vice
Presidents, Vice Presidents, General Managers,
Managers and exempts of ArcelorMittal, including
Globally Mobiles, MBA Hires and Expatriates.

10

7. Responsibilities
7.1	 Senior and line Managers:
	
Conduct	the	Performance	Management	
process	within	their	teams
	
Model	the	principles	of	the	Company’s	
performance	management	system
	
Apply	the	full	GEDP
7.2	 Individuals:
	
In	charge	of	their	performance	and	hold	their	
managers	accountable	for	implementing	the	
process
	
Request	continuous	feedback	from	their	
manager
7.3	 Corporate and Local Human Resources
Leadership Development:
	
Contributes	to	performance	management	
by	facilitating	the	process	and	providing	the	
necessary	training	and	support	to	managers	
and	individuals.

11

12

Talent Identification
1. Purpose
The purpose of this procedure is to define the
Talent Identification process at ArcelorMittal.

Anticipate and support changes in a
multicultural, multi-experience and diverse
Group by ‘nursing’ internally the generations of
tomorrow

2. Detailed Statement

Make performance gains sustainable through
empowered and motivated talents.

The identification and development of
ArcelorMittal internal talents is considered to
be one of the key challenges for the business
today. As any other business planning process,
talent planning is a very important organisational
capability which will directly reflect on the
management of our processes by an effective
leadership pipeline.
This process will be implemented and performed
in accordance with the respective national laws,
in particular with respect to labor law and data
protection requirements.

3. Key objectives of Talent
identification and management

4. Definition of a Talent
A Talent is someone with the ability, engagement
and aspiration to rise to and succeed at a next
level position; and/or is able to take on increased
responsibilities in other sectors/functions in the
organisation; and has demonstrated a consistent
history of successful performance. In GEDP terms,
the Potential rating should be 4 or above and the
Performance rating should be 3 or above.

5. Key Steps
There are 5 key steps involved in Talent
management as described below:

The key objectives of the Talent Management
process are:
Realise ArcelorMittal business strategy in future
through developing people and giving career
development opportunities.
Lead the organisation into fast and effective
growth and development by:
− Having the right people in the right places
− Preparing future leaders
− Identifying people for succession plans for
‘senior’ positions.

13

5.1 Identification of the Talents through annual
assessment and validation
5.2 Communication between direct superior and
nominee
5.3 Identification of skill gaps and creation of
development plans
5.4 Tracking and reporting of Talent pool by
Corporate Leadership Development
5.5 Managing the Talent nominee.

6. Scope
This procedure applies to all individuals who are
identified as being Talents at ArcelorMittal.

7. Responsibilities
7.1 Group Management Board:
Carries out full review of Talent pool;
Champions the process as a way of growing
our own talents.
7.2 Career Committees / Group Reviews
Review and validate Performance and
Potential ratings.
7.3 Business Units Human Resources:
Support the implementation of individual
development plan for nominee, containing
career aspirations, next potential position,
strengths, weaknesses etc.:
Support the definition of training and
development and job based opportunities
Assist with cross-checking individual needs
with organisation needs in a drive to identify
the “right fit”;
Assist with placing the nominee, when
appropriate, in the new position and provide
support and monitor performance;
Follow-up career planning and progress
7.4 Direct Managers:
Understand and implement the Talent
identification process;
Provide feedback and assist nominees with
objective setting, competency assessment
and development planning;
Manage Talents expectations.
7.5 Corporate Leadership Development:
Promotes the Talent identification process
throughout the organisation;
Monitors and track the progress of Talent
pool;
Provides reports to highlight successes and
identify gaps.

14

Succession Planning
1. Purpose

3.2 Build successor profiles
3.3 Mid-year succession review
3.4 Modify/update development goals and action plan
3.5 Compile, maintain and report data

The purpose of this procedure is to define the Succession
Planning process at ArcelorMittal.

4. Scope

2. Detailed Statement
The Succession Planning process is a deliberate and
systematic effort by our organisation to encourage
individual enhancement and to ensure continuity in key
positions, including management, technical and professional
specialist roles. Succession management is fundamental
to organisational learning as it is aimed at preserving
the company’s memory and continuous improvement in
individual and organisational effectiveness.
The outcome of the Succession Planning process is to
identify successors for key positions and evaluate each
successor’s readiness and development needs for assuming
new leadership roles. The priority for development is in
building leadership and professional capabilities.
The succession management process involves evaluating
position risks, vacancies and needs, and determining the best
way to deal with a potential vacancy. Some vacancies will be
filled with the best-qualified successor. Other positions may
be filled with a high potential, or involve restructuring the
position, or changing the timing of when the position is filled.
This process will be implemented and performed in
accordance with the respective national laws, in particular
with respect to labor law and data protection requirements.

3. Key Steps
There are 5 key steps involved in Succession Management as
described below:
3.1 Identify key positions and successors

15

This procedure applies to key positions within ArcelorMittal.

5. Responsibilities
5.1	Group	Management	Board:
Carries out full review of GEDP ratings in preparation
for succession management
Carries out succession review
5.2	Business	Unit	Leads:
Understand the succession management process
Identify with HR key positions and successors through
GEDP
Assist with the building of successor profiles
Conduct feedback meetings with potential successors
where appropriate
Develop and put in place a Development Plan in
accordance with the future and planned next steps
5.3	Operational	Leads	/	Operational	HR	/	Business	
Unit	HR	/	Career	Committees:
Understand the succession management process
Assist with the building of successor profiles
Conduct feedback meetings with potential successors
where appropriate
Review and challenge succession plan during Career
Committees

5.4	Human	Resources	Leadership	Development:
	Facilitates	the	gathering	of	information	from	all	
sources	data,	create	reports	and	maintain	the	
succession	management	information
	Quality	check	and	audit	to	ensure	full	implementation	
of	the	succession	plan
5.5	Managers:
	 Understand	the	succession	planning	process	and	roles	
and	responsibilities
	Apply	the	full	succession	management	process	to	
appropriate	members	of	team
	Conduct	feedback	meetings	with	potential	successors	
where	appropriate
	Develop	individual	development	plans
5.6	Potential	Successors:
	Understand	the	process	and	their	role
	Set	and	document	succession	plan	and	goals	with	
input	from	their	manager
	Request	feedback	from	their	manager

16

Development Planning
1. Purpose
The purpose of this procedure is to define the
Development Planning process at ArcelorMittal.

This process will be implemented and performed
in accordance with the respective national laws,
in particular with respect to labor law and data
protection requirements.

2. Detailed Statement

3. Scope

The development planning process is essential
to complement the people management at
ArcelorMittal and focuses on identifying and
assessing current and future developmental needs
in order to identify gaps that need to be filled to
enhance current and future performance.

This procedure applies to all Executive Vice
Presidents, Vice Presidents, General Managers,
Managers and exempts of ArcelorMittal, including
Globally Mobiles, MBA Hires and Expatriates.

Development Plans are very important part of
the Performance Planning process. Development
Plans focus on current job needs and future career
aspirations as well as leverage existing strengths
and build on any areas for development.
Good development plans include a mix of
development opportunities, including training
courses, on-the-job experiences (including stretch
activities), and relationship building activities.
The Development Plans should be realistic, yearly
achievable and fully supported by the employee’s
manager. Responsibility for the development
plan is shared: managers should help their direct
reports meet their goals, whilst the employees
themselves should measure progress against goals
and work against the timetable set out in the plan.
At least once a year, employee and manager
need to establish developmental objectives and
actions required to support the achievement of
each employees’ annual performance goals based
on current job requirements and competencies.
The development plans should be developed and
agreed at the start of each year.

17

4. Responsibilities
4.1	 Senior and line Managers:
	Understand	and	implement	the	development	
planning	process;
	Ensure	that	all	individuals	have	development	
plans	is	place.
4.2	 Individuals:
	In	charge	of	their	development	actions	
and	hold	their	managers	accountable	for	
implementing	the	process.
4.3	 Human Resources Leadership Development:
	Supports	the	managers	by	facilitating	the	
process	and	providing	the	necessary	guidance	
to	stakeholders	involved
4.4	 Local Human Resources Department
	Supports	individuals	and	managers	put	in	
place	development	planning	actions	and	
measure	results.

18

Diversity and Inclusion
1. Purpose

Sustainability

In ArcelorMittal we are convinced that the
diversity of our workforce is an asset; bringing
fresh ideas, perspectives and experiences in a
welcoming environment which supports our values
of Leadership, Quality and Sustainability.
For ArcelorMittal diversity means a workforce
reflective of different cultures, generations,
genders, ethnic groups, nationalities, abilities,
social backgrounds and all the other unique
differences that make each of us individuals.
Inclusion is about creating a work environment
where everyone has the opportunity to fully
participate in creating business success and where
all employees are valued for their distinctive skills,
experiences and perspectives.

Leadership

Our people live the standards and business
behaviors set by the Code of Business Conduct,
competency framework and values. Our
leaders model an open and inclusive approach
to the organization of work, relationships with
communities, suppliers, customers and other
stakeholders with the aim of driving continually
improving and sustainable levels of performance.

19

In order to transform tomorrow and to continue
to set new standards we are growing international
standard business leaders who have both deep
local and ArcelorMittal specific knowledge. We
leverage the diverse ideas and approaches at all
levels within the organization to continually build
and enhance our performance and service to our
customers.

Quality

We want to attract and retain the best people
and strive to be seen as an attractive employer of
choice to the widest possible talent pool. We also
want be recognized for supporting all our people
to reach their potential and contribute to the
success of ArcelorMittal.

2. Principles

3. Scope

To support this, we are committed to:

This policy applies to all employees.

Proactively identifying, analyzing and addressing
diversity challenges within the Group and its
units in order to support the deployment of this
policy.
Ensuring that all business units comply with
legal, regulatory obligations, Code of Business
Conduct and Values.
Removing unlawfully discriminatory behaviors
at every step of work life and at every
hierarchical level.

4. Responsibilities
Each employee is responsible for ensuring that
their behavior and actions are in accordance with
this policy.
Each manager is responsible for supporting the
implementation of the policy principles and
ensuring that the behavior and actions within their
teams are in accordance with this policy.

Giving the right to all employees or service
providers to a workplace free from harassment.

The Corporate Diversity and Inclusion team is
responsible for establishing the global processes,
metrics and systems to support this policy.

Creating a supportive and understanding
workplace environment in which all individuals
feel welcome, respected and heard, and where
they can realize their full potential regardless
of their race, colour, sex, age, religion, ethnic or
national origin, and disability.

Local Human Resources is responsible for ensuring
understanding of this policy through providing local
training, ensuring local processes and systems to
support the implementation of the policy principles
and for supporting managers to address any
behavior which is not consistent with this policy.

Adapting internal processes and procedures to
support diversity and inclusion.
Providing training and awareness on the
responsibilities and benefits of diversity
and inclusion to promote understanding of
differences and similarities. We strive to
decrease judgmental behavior and increase
acceptance and flexibility and so enhance the
efficiency of our multicultural teams.

20

Resourcing Procedure
1. Purpose
By resourcing we mean getting the right people to the right
place at the right time at the right cost.
This includes planning the people we need in the future as
well as attracting, selecting, deploying and inducting the
most suitable candidates. The Resourcing team’s work is
aligned with the strategy and values of the company.

2. Detailed Statement
ArcelorMittal is committed to ensuring that each applicant
is treated with fairness and dignity and supports diversity.
Accordingly, any unlawful discriminatory practice based
on race, colour, sex, age, religion, ethnic or national origin,
disability or any other unlawful basis will not be tolerated.
ArcelorMittal wants a transparent and dynamic job market
covering all countries where we are present supporting
individual career paths, personal development and
international mobility. The only exception to this are jobs
filled through a managed job move process, such as through
succession planning.
In addition, prior to any external recruitment, all qualified
internal local candidates must be considered and internal
local candidates meeting the job requirements will be
granted preference over external candidates.
This process will be implemented and performed in
accordance with the respective national laws, in particular
with respect to labor law and data protection requirements.
To achieve these aims:

• Ideally all applicants should inform their line manager that
they are applying for another role internally. The host
HR will communicate with applicant’s home HR once the
applicant has been through a successful first interview.
• The decision not to transfer an employee to another role
can only be exercised by an Executive Vice President. This
decision may only be based upon justified business reasons.
• Once an internal applicant has secured another role they
should not be requested to wait for an unreasonable length
of time before the transfer is made (and this period of
time cannot be longer than their notice period unless the
delay is due to international transfer processes).
• Timely and appropriate responses are to be provided to all
internal and external applicants
• Before a hiring decision is made, each candidate must have
been interviewed in person by a minimum of two people
including by an HR representative and the hiring manager.
• Each interview is to be conducted in accordance with
national laws in particular labour laws. Only questions
relevant to the job description and permitted under
applicable under local laws are to be asked. Interviews
are to be documented including the interview questions
and responses, however only the record of the successful
interview candidate will be retained and then only in
accordance with national data protection requirements.
• Candidates will be ranked solely on the factual
requirements and competencies as outlined in the job
description.

3. Scope

• As a general guideline, job rotation is usually not faster
than two years.
• All open roles are to be advertised on Job Market Online up to and including Manager level positions. General
Manager and above roles are advertised at perimeter’s
discretion.

21

The Resourcing procedure is applicable for resourcing
undertaken for positions which are classified by the Company
as exempt.

4. Responsibilities
•	All	General	Managers	and	above	hires	should	be	sourced	in	
liaison	with	Corporate	resourcing
•	Engagement	of	all	retained	search	firms	is	to	be	
undertaken	in	conjunction	with	support	of	Corporate	
Resourcing		
•	Final	resourcing	decisions	must	be	taken	by	the	hiring	
manager	or	as	per	the	delegation	of	authority	and	
validated	by	the	HR	owner.

22

Vetting Procedure
1. Purpose

–	Satisfactory	work	record	for	the	last	5	years	(or	since	leaving	
university/college/school)

•	In	order	to	minimise	the	potential	impact	of	fraud,	theft	
and	business	disruption	caused	by	inappropriate	hiring	
decisions,	pre-employment	vetting	is	standard	practice	
for	all	new	employees	and	for	existing	employees	who	are	
promoted	into	General	Manager	and	above	roles	unless	
they	have	been	vetted	previously	by	ArcelorMittal.		

–	Legal	right	to	work	in	the	country	in	which	the	offer	is	made.

•	The	principal	purpose	of	pre-employment	vetting	is	
to	reduce	risk	to	the	business	by	identifying	adverse	
information	or	discrepancies	which	will	or	may	impact	on	
a	candidate’s	ability	to	perform	a	role	effectively	and	to	
ensure	compliance	with	regulatory	requirements,	including	
Sarbanes	Oxley.	

Level 2– Principles to be applied to all new exempt employees
•	 All	Level	1	principles	apply
•	 In	addition,	the	following	must	be	checked	for:
–	criminal	convictions	(excluding	minor	driving	and	parking	
offenses)
–	verification	of	declared	relevant	educational	qualifications	;	
–	financial	probity	for	roles	with	financial	accountabilities	
for	profit	and	loss;	for	agreeing	contracts	or	authorizing	
expenditure;	or	as	agreed	by	the	responsible	Segment/
Function	HR	Lead
–	identification	of	any	potential	conflicts	of	interest	through	
ongoing	ownership	of,	or	employment	with	other	companies	or	
organisations.		

2. Detailed Statement
•	Vetting	requirements	will	only	be	conducted	in	line	with	
the	national	and	local	legislation	where	the	person	will	be	
employed.		Where	national	and/or	local	legislation	requires	
additional	vetting	steps	(compared	to	those	outlined	
below)	these	additional	steps	will	also	be	performed.		It	
is	the	responsibility	of	the	Segment/Function	HR	Lead	to	
ensure	legal	compliance	with	local	legislation	within	their	
perimeter.		Where	there	is	an	inconsistency	between	this	
policy	and	the	national	and/or	local	legislation	the	national/
local	legislation	requirements	shall	prevail.
•	All	vetting	will	take	place	before	the	potential	employee	
takes	up	their	new	role.	
•	All	vetting	will	be	with	the	preferred	candidate’s	prior	
written	consent	and	in	accordance	with	data	protection	
requirements	of	the	country	where	the	person	will	be	
employed.
Level 1 - Principles to be applied to all new non-exempt
employees
•	 All	new	non-exempt	employees	must	be	checked	for	the	
following:
–	Full	name	(for	example	via	identity	card,	passport)
–	Address		(for	example	via	identity	card,	recent	utility	bill)

23

Level 3 – Principles to be applied to all external General
Managers and above hires & internal promotions to General
Manager for employees who have not previously been vetted
•	 All	General	Manager	and	above	hires	or	internal	promotions	must	
be	checked	for	the	following:
–	Full	name	(for	example	via	identity	card,	passport)
–	Address		(for	example	via	identity	card,	recent	utility	bill)
–	Satisfactory	work	record	for	the	last	5	years	
–	Legal	right	to	work	in	the	country	in	which	the	offer	is	made.	
–	Criminal	convictions	(excluding	minor	driving	and	parking	
offenses)
–	Verification	of	declared	relevant	educational	qualifications	
–	Financial	probity	for	roles	with	financial	accountabilities	
for	profit	and	loss,	for	agreeing	contracts	or	authorizing	
expenditure	in	excess	of	US	$250,000	for	a	single	transaction;	
–	Identification	of	any	potential	conflicts	of	interest	through	
ongoing	ownership	of,	or	employment	with	other	companies	or	
organisations;	

–	Pre-employment	medical	examination	to	determine	if	
an	applicant	can	effectively	and	safely	perform	the	job	
requirements	of	the	position	they	are	seeking.	The	offer	to	
join	the	company	will	be	dependant	on	the	satisfactory	health	
assessment	relative	to	the	job	they	have	been	offered.	For	
external	candidates	the	health	checks	will	be	conducted	after	
the	candidate	accepts	the	offer	and	before	the	candidate	joins	
ArcelorMittal.		In	the	case	of	promotions	the	health	checks	will	
be	conducted	as	required	by	the	position	and	as	permitted	by	
local	laws.

3. Scope
The	vetting	procedure	applies	to	all	newly	hired	employees	
and	the	in	case	of	General	Manager	and	above	roles	to	
employees	who	have	been	internally	promoted	into	these	
positions.

4. Responsibilities

•	Discrepancies	or	adverse	information	will	not	automatically	
disqualify	the	person	from	employment;	all	information	
identified	is	considered	in	light	of	the	role	requirements	
and	responsibilities.		For	General	Manager	and	above	
positions	all	adverse	reporting	will	be	referred	to	the	most	
appropriate	Segment/Functional	Executive	Vice	President	
and	the	Head	of	Group	HR	who	will	decide	whether	to	
continue	with,	or	withdraw	the	offer	of	the	new	role.		For	
all	other	positions	the	senior	local	HR	person	is	responsible	
for	deciding	the	relevance	of	the	discrepancy	to	the	role	
being	offered.
•	For	all	other	positions	the	vetting	will	be	conducted	by	
local	HR	or	by	a	locally-contracted	third	party	supplier	who	
has	been	approved	by	Segment/Function	Lead.		
•	The	Segment/Function	HR	Lead	is	responsible	for	
nominating	a	local	HR	person	in	each	country	who	has	
accountability	for	ensuring	compliance	with	this	Vetting	
Policy.

•	For	General	Manager	and	above	hires	and	internal	
promotions	Corporate	Resourcing	will	be	accountable	for	
ensuring	that	the	third-party	supplier	is	commissioned	at	
the	time	a	current	employee	is	identified	as	the	preferred	
candidate	or	when	a	potential	employee	indicates	
that	they	wish	to	accept	an	offer	to	join	ArcelorMittal.		
Corporate	Resourcing	is	also	accountable	for	scrutinizing	
the	third-party	report.	

24

Global Induction Programme
1. Purpose
The Induction Programme is designed to support the
integration of new employees into the ArcelorMittal
environment and enable them to maximise their contribution
to the performance of their team, business unit and to
support the realisation of the Group’s objectives, business
plans and strategy.

To facilitate the above goals, the programme comprises:
• Welcome pack including written and electronic materials
• The induction checklist
• Site visit checklist
• Learning log
• An assigned buddy
• Line manager and HR support

2. Detailed Statement

4. Scope

Induction is a defined programme of planned activities which
commences from when a candidate accepts a job offer until
the end of six months of employment or any other predetermined period of time.

All new employees of the Company should undertake the
induction programme.

This programme will be implemented and performed in
accordance with the respective national laws, in particular
with respect to labor law.
The programme comprises three elements:
1. global content which is consistent across all geographies
and business units and focuses on ArcelorMittal’s vision,
mission, values and business strategy.
2. local content which is tailored to the segment, business
unit, local team’s mission, goals and plans
3. individual content which is based on individual job
requirements including performance and development
plans

3. Principles
The programme is designed to enable new employees to:
• understand the Group’s and their business unit’s vision,
mission, values and business strategy
• feel part of their team and be safe and challenged in their
working environment
• accelerate their understanding of their team and their
individual accountabilities
• maximise their contribution to their team’s performance

25

5. Accountabilities
Segment/Function HR Leads own the programme and are
accountable for its deployment within their perimeter.
Local HR is accountable for ensuring that the programme is
used each time a new person joins their organisation.
The Line Manager is accountable for ensuring that all the
items in the induction programme are conducted either by
direct action or by delegation.
The new employee is ultimately accountable for managing
their own induction activities, ensuring that he or she
complete any induction activities and submitting a
completed checklist to HR at the end of their first six months
of employment.

26

Job Classification
and Job Titling
1. Purpose

Professional responsibility: level and
application of general knowledge and
professional know-how.

The purpose of Job Classification is to group
and then value positions in a fair, consistent
and transparent manner across functions and
geographies.

People management: total number of people
directly managed.
Autonomy: number of reporting levels
between the position and the CEO of
ArcelorMittal.

This process supports other Human Resources
processes such as Compensation, Succession
Planning and the identification of career paths.
The purpose of Job Titling is to provide a
title to each classification grouping so that
the responsibility and level of the position is
recognised in a consistent and equitable manner.

2. Detailed Statement

International role: scope of the position i.e.
national, regional or global.
Customer relations: nature and importance
of the relations managed and the level of
responsibility for customers, suppliers, partners
and other internal and external contacts.
Business Environment & Challenges:
additional accountabilities that significantly add
value to the usual job (business risk, degree of
unknown, degree of change, …).

The ArcelorMittal job classification process
utilises a customised LDA methodology. This
methodology grades the content, responsibility
and function of the job. The LDA methodology
compares jobs according to several factors to
derive a numerical value or ‘job points’. A range of
numerical values or job points are then grouped
together as a job classification level.

3. Principles

The factors considered by the LDA methodology
are:

Prior to undertaking an evaluation the following
information is to be gathered:

The numerical value or jobs points are the addition
of all criteria.

Business area: added value of the considered
unit.

Formatted job description

Functional domain: the scope of the function
covered by the position identified in the job
map.

Relevant financial metrics

Functional role: role within the functional area.

27

Organisational chart
Former evaluations of the position (where they
have been conducted)

These details are then confirmed with an interview
with the current incumbent and their manager to
ensure a complete understanding of the position.
The evaluation should then be conducted in line
with the following:
Each evaluation outcome is to be validated by
the job evaluation committee (which includes
the Segment HR Lead and a member of the
Corporate Compensation team).

Based on the outcome of the job evaluation, a
title is then provided to the role. Titles within
ArcelorMittal are based on a two tier approach,
the official ArcelorMittal title and the local title.
A person can hold two titles, one being recognised
globally throughout the Group, while the other is
recognised only locally.
The ArcelorMittal Group titles are:
Senior Executive Vice-President of
ArcelorMittal,

An evaluation is to be conducted in light of
the business unit/functional structures and
evaluations to avoid ‘spot’ evaluation outcomes
which may not be internally consistent.

Executive Vice-President of ArcelorMittal,
Vice-President of ArcelorMittal ,
General Manager of ArcelorMittal and

Only the position is evaluated, not the
incumbent.
Evaluations commence with the most senior
role in the business unit or segment and then
are cascaded down to ensure alignment.
Consistency of evaluation outcomes needs to
be confirmed with like positions in other areas
as well as former evaluations of the position.
Once an evaluation has been conducted by the
job evaluation committee, it is then submitted to
the Segment HR Lead and to the Corporate HR
Compensation team for approval.
Any position evaluated potentially as a General
Manager or Vice President position must be
approved by the Group Management Board.

Manager of ArcelorMittal.
To obtain an ArcelorMittal Group title, the
candidate must have a minimum of 6 months in
the position to be eligible for the title nomination
process. Local titles may be deployed in units
taking care to avoid confusion with ArcelorMittal
Group titles.

4. Scope
This procedure applies to all exempt and above
positions.

The following documentation must be submitted in
support of the evaluation:
Job documentation: information collected about
the position.
Job evaluation: analysis of the job content and
application of the methodology.
Validation: confirmation of internal consistency
vertically and horizontally and with former
evaluations.
Decision/Approval by the concerned Job
Evaluation Committee.

28

Remuneration
and Benefits
1. Purpose
The purpose of the ArcelorMittal Remuneration
and Benefits procedure is to provide the guidelines
for the design, implementation and maintenance
of remuneration and benefits plans for Executive
and Exempt employees within the Company.
This procedure is designed to ensure that
ArcelorMittal Total Compensation offer is able to
attract and retain engaged and high-performing
employees globally through a consistent approach
to Remuneration and Benefits.
This procedure will be implemented in accordance
with the respective national laws, in particular
with respect to labor law and data protection
requirements. This procedure is deployed through
ArcelorMittal local companies.

2. Definitions
‘Executive employees’ here refers to the
employees who have been nominated General
Manager, Vice President, Executive Vice President
or Senior Executive Vice President of ArcelorMittal
according the “Job Classification and Titling Policy”.
‘Exempt employees’ are those defined according
to local laws and practice. Generally they are
employees who are not governed by Collective
Labour Agreements; this category may be
extended to other employees exercising
responsibilities or high expertise level according
to local definitions, rules, labour agreements or
practices.
‘Collective Labour Agreements’ are agreements
entered into by a group of employees (and/or

29

one or more unions) and a site or part of a site
regarding the particular wages and conditions
which are to apply to the group of employees.
‘Total Compensation’ includes base salary/fixed
annual salary, variable pay (bonus/short term
incentive), Long Term Incentive Plans (LTIP),
benefits and other company provided financial
elements.
‘Benefit programs’ refers to the pension and
health care insurance plans that are put in place by
ArcelorMittal. The benefits programs are designed
and adapted to the local needs and customs in
each country where we operate.
‘Other company provided financial elements’
refers to elements such as a company car, meal
vouchers, etc. and are based upon local practices.
They are included in the Total Compensation to
ensure proper benchmarks.
‘Total Reward Statements’ are statements
provided to Executive Employees detailing the
Total Compensation and other relevant non
monetary reward items. ArcelorMittal supports
providing Total Reward Statements to all executive
employees to ensure transparency and knowledge
of their total compensation package.
‘Peer Group’ refers to the relevant group of
industrial companies of a similar size and scope in
each local market. “Hay Industry High Revenue”
segment is generally used as Peer Group when
available. Information on those companies is
always provided by independent compensation
specialists.

3. Detailed Statement

3.1.2	Adjustments	to	the	Fixed	Annual	Salary	

Total Compensation packages are influenced by
various factors such as:
competitive market practices
local approaches and practices
position in the company
retention of key people
cost efficiency
global and local business results
individual performance
individual potential

The Group Management Board (GMB) of
ArcelorMittal reviews on an annual basis, after the
completion of the Global Executive Development
Programme (GEDP) cycle, the fixed annual salary
situation to determine whether any adjustment
is necessary. Information that is considered
includes national inflation levels, government
mandatory salary increases, salary trends (as
provided by salary international consultants),
the prior three years of salary increases, salary
outcomes of local collective labour agreements
and recommendations of local management.

Total compensation outcomes are based on the
following principles:
Performance: direct link between individual,
Site, Business Unit, and Company performance.
We want to motivate our employees towards
the achievement of Company and personal
goals, including Health & Safety, Financial
and Operational Performance and Leadership
behaviour. In addition we want to retain
individuals who consistently perform at or
above expected levels and contribute to the
success of the organization.
Competitiveness: our intent is to have a
competitive total package compared to
packages offered by other Companies who
are of a similar size and scope and with whom
we compete for talent the ‘Peer Group’. A
competitive package is defined by reference to
the ‘percentile salary level’ of a Peer Group of
comparable jobs within a local market.
Cost: our programmes are costs-effective and
affordable.

Salary increases and adjustments are generally
determined on an individual by individual basis
in order to recognize a position, motivate and
reward personal performance. Generally acrossthe-board increases are avoided unless legally or
contractually required.

3.1	Total	Compensation
3.1.1	Fixed	Annual	Salary	or	Base	Salary
The fixed annual salary or base salary is the
foundation of Total Compensation. Fixed
annual salary practices are determined locally.
Some categories have their salary managed
(ArcelorMittal VPs and above) or followed for
consistency (ArcelorMittal GMs, Expatriates,
Globally Mobiles) at Corporate level.
The size of the fixed annual salary is targeted
to a defined salary level of the Peer Group of
companies.

3.1.3	Variable	pay:	Short	term	incentive/
bonus
ArcelorMittal Managers and above: The Global
Performance Bonus Plan is a short term incentive
bonus plan for ArcelorMittal Managers and above.
The outcome, whilst ultimately discretionary, is
based upon the performance of the ArcelorMittal
Group, the performance of the relevant business
unit, site or department and the individual’s overall
performance and potential.
Each year, after review and approval by the GMB,
the details of that year’s bonus is published in the
bonus plan brochure.
The bonus is calculated as a percentage of the
individual’s base salary. The specific bonus plan
brochure should be consulted each year, however
as a general principle performance-related
payments are only made if certain minimum
performance thresholds are exceeded by the
ArcelorMittal Group as a whole and/or the
relevant business segment and if the beneficiary
is still in the Company at the time of the
payment (provided compatibility with local laws
and regulations). In case of retirement or early
retirement, the performance bonus will be paid
in prorata of the time worked in the year before
retirement.
Exempt employees below ArcelorMittal Manager
level: local rules apply. Unit Management ensure,
with their HR teams, that the local rules reflect a

30

Performance-related bonus plans can be deployed
at a local level for the other employees of the
Company following the same general principles as
the Global Performance Bonus Plan.

Such proposals relating to Senior Executive
compensation comprise the following elements:
Fixed annual salary
Short-term incentives, e.g. performancerelated bonus
Long-term incentives, e.g. stock options

3.1.4	 Long-term	incentives

The ARCG is informed about the application of
these plans on a regular basis.

proper alignment with Company objectives and
guidelines.

A discretionary Long Term Incentive Plan (LITP),
currently a Stock Option Plan is in place in
ArcelorMittal. This plan applies to the Executive
employees but more generally to a group of
employees as determined by the Appointments,
Remuneration and Corporate Governance
Committee (ARCG) of ArcelorMittal. The overall
number of ‘awards’ available to be granted during
a year will be approved by the shareholders at the
annual general meeting.
The objective of a LTIP is to link the individual
engagement and performance to the longer term
development of the Company.
The ‘award’ of stock options or other equity
has a total term of ten years. An award is totally
vested at the third anniversary of the grant
date, provided the participant is still employed
by the ArcelorMittal group at the time of
vesting. The exercise price of a stock option
is equal to the average of the highest and the
lowest price of a share of ArcelorMittal common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the
last day on which trading occurred preceding
the grant date.
Vesting stops when an individual leaves the
Company for a reason other than a retirement in
the conditions defined by the ARCG.
The LTIP may be adapted in accordance with the
laws, customs and practices of each country.
3.1.5	 Other	company	provided	financial	
elements
These elements may include a company car, meal
vouchers and other benefits that are provided
according local rules, practices and customs.

3.2	

Benefits	Programs:	Pension	and	
Insurance	Plans

Pension and Insurance plans at ArcelorMittal are
generally designed to provide a reasonable level of
retirement income reflecting the number of years
of service with the company and to provide safety
against financial hardship that may result from
death or disability.
In accordance with the laws, customs and practices
of each country, the group participates in plans
offering retirement, death, disability, healthcare
and sometimes specific termination benefits.
These plans provide benefits based on various
factors such as length of service, salaries,
integration of other benefits (e.g. local Social
Security…).
We recommend employees to pay a personal
contribution in the countries where it is in line with
regulation and tax effectiveness.
The benefit plan is targeted to be market
competitive compared to other appropriate
organizations with which we compete for talent
in each geography and to maintain an adequate
standard of living.
Each benefit plan is designed to ensure long-term
financial sustainability.
3.2.1	 Pension	plans	
The Defined Contribution plan is the preferred
vehicle for providing pension benefits.

3.1.6	 ArcelorMittal	Senior	Executive	
Compensation

Whenever possible and practical, Defined
Benefit Plans should be converted into Defined
Contribution Plans. Retirement benefits for new
entrants should be delivered under Defined
Contribution plans.

The ARGC draws up proposals for the Board of
Directors on ArcelorMittal’s Senior Executive
compensation (CEO and members of the Group
Management Board and any Executive identified as
Senior by the ARCG).

Employees who participate in a maintained legacy
Defined Benefit plans can continue to accrue
benefits in such plans for past service or past and
future service depending on the specificity of the
country.

31

4. Scope

The plan assets of Defined Benefit plans are
managed in the most cost effective manner to
mitigate and limit the volatility associated with
plan funding.

Unless otherwise specified this procedure applies
to Exempt and above employees.

The Corporate Pension Committee, comprising
Corporate Consolidation, Corporate Treasury,
Corporate Human Resources and Corporate Legal,
monitors the pension governance and manages the
risk associated with the pension plans. Corporate
approval is required for any change in benefit plans,
as well for implementation of modifications. Social,
financial and accounting consequences have to be
analyzed before any change.

5. Responsibilities

In addition each Pension Plan will have a local
Committee to follow it and ensure all policy and
regulatory requirements are met.

The ArcelorMittal Corporate Compensation and
Benefits Group is the owner of ArcelorMittal
Remuneration and Benefits procedure and
processes. Any request to external consultants in
relation to Compensation & Benefits matters e.g.
salary survey, transformation of compensation
structure, job evaluation, implementation or
modification of benefit plan, is discussed or
coordinated with the ArcelorMittal Corporate
Compensation and Benefits Group.

The international assignees are enrolled in specific
pension and health care plans. Please refer the
“International Assignment Policy” for further
details.

Segment/ business unit HR understand and
support the Remuneration and Benefits procedure
and care for fair and consistent application of its
principles in his/her segment / business unit.

3.2.2	 ArcelorMittal	Senior	Executives	Benefits

Local Management ensure with their HR teams
that the local rules reflect a proper alignment
with the Company Remuneration and benefits
procedure and refers questions of interpretation to
the Corporate Compensation and Benefits Group.

The ARCG of ArcelorMittal draws up proposals
for the Board of Directors on ArcelorMittal’s
senior Executive’s (the Chief Executive Officer,
the members of the Group Management Board
and any Executive identified as Senior by the
ARCG) pension and insurance plans.
The ARCG is informed about the application of
these plans on a regular basis.
3.3	

Non	Monetary	Rewards

The Company considers that the recognition
process of our employees is not only based solely
on monetary rewards and benefits and encourages
the deployment and use of all kinds of non
monetary reward approaches.

32

33

34

Workforce Planning
1. Purpose
Workforce planning is about getting ‘the right
number of people with the right skills, experiences
and competencies in the right jobs at the right
time and at the right cost’. The ArcelorMittal
workforce planning approach aims to provide the
organisation with a framework for making staffing
decisions based on the organisation’s business
objectives, strategic plans, budgets and necessary
workforce competencies to achieve the business
goals.

2. Detailed Statement
Workforce planning provides managers the
means of identifying the competencies needed
in the workforce not only in the present but also
in the future and then selecting and developing
that workforce. Essentially this process assists
ArcelorMittal to effectively manage organisational
and workforce changes and to minimise adverse
impacts and outcomes. To achieve this each site/
function is expected to undertake the workforce
planning process which consists of:
a) Analysis of current workforce: This stage
focuses on identifying the competency profile
of current workforce using the competency
framework/s, identifying current business
productivity and performance levels, analyzing
workforce demographics and identifying overall
regional/country/functional employment
trends.
b) Future organisational requirements based
on business strategies and tactics: This stage
seeks to identify the levels of future activities
and workloads and describes the competency

35

set needed by the workforce of the future. The
demand analysis needs to take into account
not only workforce changes driven by changing
work, but also workforce changes driven by
different future business scenarios, changing
work processes and therefore changing
workload.
c) Gap analysis: This is the process of comparing
the analysis of the current workforce to the
organisational requirements analysis to identify
the differences (the gaps) between the
current organisational competencies and the
competency set and personnel level needed in
the future workforce.
d) Solution analysis: This provides the plan for
addressing competency and personnel level
differences between current and future states.
The aim of this process is to identify the
particular interventions necessary for closing
any gaps identified including training required,
development and succession planning. As stated
in the Resourcing Policy ArcelorMittal wants
to grant preference to internal candidates
over external candidates, however where the
identified gaps can not be practically closed
using internal resources, external recruitment
programs will also be put into place.
This process will be implemented and performed
in accordance with the respective national laws,
in particular with respect to labor law and data
protection requirements.

3. Scope
This procedure applies to all ArcelorMittal business
and sites and is deployed through local companies.

36

Training Procedure
1. Purpose

3. Areas of Training

Fulfilling our brand promise of “Transforming
Tomorrow” requires outstanding technical
mastery and executional excellence at all levels
of the organisation. ArcelorMittal aims to provide
continuous training and development to improve
the skills and competence of the entire workforce,
based upon workforce plans, skill and training
needs analysis. It is ultimately an individual
employee’s responsibility to pursue these trainings
and development opportunity and to continue to
improve their skills and competences.

ArcelorMittal supports a wide range of training/
development methods including formalized
on-the-job training, self directed study, online
programmes, internal classroom training and
seminars.

2. Detailed Statement
The purpose of training is to equip people with
the necessary skills, knowledge and attributes to
meet the organisation’s needs in relation to its
objectives. It is the responsibility of each employee
to pursue these development opportunities and
to support continuous improvement across the
company.
ArcelorMittal recognises that such development is
a continuing process for every employee at every
level of the organisation and that formal training
is only one element amongst several development
opportunities.
ArcelorMittal wants to ensure that training is
made available on a fair basis and allocated in
a transparent manner based solely on business
requirements.

Externally provided training should only be chosen
when no suitable and competitive alternative
exists within the organisation. The decision process
for the participation in externally provided training
should be the same as for internal programmes.
Training and development can be broken down into
categories to aid understanding and organisation.
The categories of training used at ArcelorMittal
are:
a) Induction
The aim of this process is to enable the
newcomer to adjust as quickly as possible to
the new working environment and to achieve
effectiveness in the shortest possible time.
b) Formalized On-The-Job Training
The largest percentage of learning in the
workplace happens on the job. On-thejob training needs to follow a specific
format incorporating appropriate learning
methodologies and a systematic approach to
support the transfer of skills and knowledge
from one individual to the next.
c) Leadership programmes

All training will be implemented and performed
in accordance with the respective national laws,
in particular with respect to labour law, antidiscrimination laws, data protection requirements
and (national) refunding system rules.

37

Increasing the effectiveness of first level,
middle and senior management is an important
part of ensuring the continued growth and
success of ArcelorMittal

	 The	enrolment	in	and	the	validation	of	learning	
needs	for	the	leadership	programmes	is	in	
all	cases	coordinated	by	the	relevant	HR	
organisation.	E.g.	participation	to	the	corporate	
Talent	Pipeline	programmes	is	determined	by	
the	Segment	career	committee.

training	is	focused	on	the	needs	of	the	
organisation.
	 Assessment	of	skills	may	take	place	in	a	range	
of	circumstances:	
•	 At	appraisal	stage:	these	formal	reviews	
(GEDP	or	similar	processes)	are	the	main	
vehicle	of	reviewing	and	identifying	training	
needs	to	improve	job	performance.
•	 As	part	of	the	workforce	planning	process	in	
order	to	meet	current	or	emerging	skills	gaps.
•	 As	part	of	the	preparation	for	a	career	move,	
preferably	in	line	with	a	succession	plan	or	an	
approved	development	plan.
•	 Specific	requirements	of	a	project.	
•	 Training	related	to	professional	development:	
where	applicable,	all	professional	staff	are	
required	to	comply	with	the	rules	of	their	
professional	bodies	in	respect	of	continuing	
professional	development.	

d)	General management training
	 There	are	a	range	of	general	skills	and	
knowledge	which	are	not	specific	to	one	
occupational	area,	which	are	often	referred	
to	as	a	‘toolbox’	and	includes	subjects	such	as	
team	management	and	coaching,	presentation	
skills,	decision	making,	time	management,	etc.
e)	Professional, Functional and Technical
Training
	 Employees	working	in	a	range	of	vocational	
areas	such	as	steel	making,	maintenance,	
various	operational	areas	and	functional	areas,	
such	as	finance,	purchasing,	human	resources,	
etc.	need	to	keep	up-to-date	with	changes	and	
developments	in	their	particular	field.	
	 For	all	employees	in	professional,	functional	
and	technical	areas	a	skills	and/or	competence	
matrix	is	defined	and	training	should	be	offered	
to	ensure	that	the	workforce	has	the	required	
competence	level.
f)	 Language training
	 English	is	the	international	business	language	of	
ArcelorMittal.	Every	employee	is	encouraged	to	
reach	an	adequate	level	of	English	proficiency	
to	facilitate	exchange	of	information,	best	
practices,	etc.	through	the	Global	English	
program.
	 Support	for	other	language	skills	is	provided	
to	assist	in	employees	achieving	efficient	
communication	with	their	workforce	and	
business	relations.
In	addition	specific	training	relating	to	safety,	
compliance	and	other	matters	related	to	company	
policies	and	local	laws	are	available.		In	some	cases	
this	training	is	mandatory	for	all	employees,	local	
management/functional	teams	are	responsible	for	
ensuring	that	this	training	takes	place.

4. Training Processes
a)	 Training Needs Analysis

b)	Registration
	 Individuals	interested	in	registering	for	training	
programs	must	follow	the	registration	process	
defined	by	the	organizing	unit.	The	criteria	
for	participation	in	a	training	course	should	be	
clearly	defined,	especially	when	training	courses	
are	by	nomination	only	or	when	access	is	
granted	only	after	an	assessment.
	 Unless	otherwise	stated,	the	cost	is	paid	by	the	
participant’s	unit.
c)	 Training record
	 A	record	of	training	is	established	for	each	
individual	employee	and	held	centrally	at	
unit	level	on	the	personnel	file.	This	will	be	
continually	updated	throughout	the	lifecycle	of	
their	employment	to	provide	an	auditable	trail	
of	their	training	and	development.		This	will	be	
collected	and	stored	(preferably	electronically)	
in	line	with	data	protections	laws.	
d)	Training Evaluation
	 Training	events	are	evaluated	and	their	
contribution	to	meeting	objectives	at	each	level	
is	measured.
	 Progressively	all	trainings	should	include	a	
formal	evaluation	of	the	knowledge	acquired	
and	how	this	is	applied	at	the	workplace	
(outcome	based	assessment).

	 Training	needs	flow	out	from	organisational,	
service	and	individual	objectives.	This	ensures	

38

5. Scope
This procedure is applicable to the whole
ArcelorMittal organisation and all its employees
and is deployed through local companies.

6. Responsibilities
Units Management Role
The Management of Units has a key role to play in
training by:
• Ensuring that training and development plans are
focused on the organisation’s needs and provide
cost effective resources to meet these needs.
• Ensuring training and development actions are
evaluated in relation to service and organisational
objectives and the benefits clearly identified.
Provide feedback to the Training Organisation
regarding these results.
• Demonstrating a commitment to train
and develop employees in relation to the
organisation’s objectives and setting objectives.
Managers’ Role
Managers’ and Supervisors’ main areas of
responsibility are to:
• Induct new employees.
• Identify training needs jointly with employees in
relation to individual objectives
• Formulate training plans in collaboration with the
Training department.
• Carry out/facilitate on-the-job instruction and
coaching.
• Make all employees aware of training and
development opportunities open to them.
• Wherever possible supports employees by
releasing from their work to participate in any
approved training.
• Supports those who are trained share their
learning with others wherever possible and
appropriate.
• Evaluate the effectiveness of training events in
relation to service and individual objectives with
those involved.
Training Department’s Role
The Training Department’s role is to:
• Publicise training activities (objectives, target
audience, calendar and location, cost and
cancellation rules).
• Establish and provide guidance on training policy
processes and procedures.

39

• Assist Managers to identify and quantify training
needs / Perform a Training Needs Analysis.
• Advise and train managers to carry out their
training responsibilities.
• Develop a training plan annually and assist with
the formulation of departmental training plans.
• Implement agreed training plan/s
• Facilitate the design, development and
organisation of specific training activities.
Facilitate training externally, if in-house
programmes are not available.
• Facilitate the effective evaluation of training
activity in liaison with appropriate managers at
individual, service and organisational levels.
• Report on the selected KPIs for training.
• Liaise with local national structures in terms of
government grants or subsidies.
Individual Employee’s Role
The individual employee’s role is to:
• Identify personal training needs in relation to
their personal objectives and unit service plans.
• Be aware of training and development
opportunities open to them and request training
where appropriate to their training needs.
• Actively participate in the training in which he/
she is registered.
• Evaluate the effectiveness of training with their
line manager.
• Share learning with colleagues wherever possible
and appropriate.
Role of ArcelorMittal’s training organization
and its Learning Council
The global training organisation operates a ‘hub
and spoke’ decentralized model:
• Training is a local managerial responsibility
• HR Corporate teams provide global policies and
guidelines.
• ArcelorMittal University and the Functional
Academies constitute the delivery part at the
global corporate level. The Functional Academies
are organized by function or group of functions.
• The Main Training Centres and/or Training Shared
Services Centres in each country or region
are part of the Training Centre of Excellence
Network, which are aligned and coordinated in
terms of activities in training design and delivery.
These centres operate across segments and
provide support to all sites in the country or
region.
• The Training Centres at site/unit level, are linked
to the Training Centre of Excellence Network.

40

International Assignment

April 2010

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

48

49

50

51

52

53

ArcelorMittal
Corporate Human Resources
19, avenue de la Liberté
L-2930 Luxembourg
G.D. of Luxembourg

