The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

© October 2002, Nestec Ltd., Human Resources Department
Concept and design: Nestec Ltd., B-COM , Corporate Identity and Design, Vevey, Switzerland
Printed by Neidhart + Schön AG, Zurich, Switzerland

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

Table of Contents

2
4
5
6
8
9
10
11
14
15

The Nestlé human Resources Policy
A shared Responsibility
Dealing with People
Joining Nestlé
Employment at Nestlé
Work/Life Balance
Remuneration
Professional Development
Industrial Relations
HR Organisation

The Nestlé
Human Resources Policy

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

This policy encompasses those guidelines
which constitute a sound basis for efficient
and effective HR Management in the Nestlé
Group around the world.
They are in essence flexible and dynamic
and may require adjustment to a variety of
circumstances. Therefore its implementation
will be inspired by sound judgement,
compliance with local market laws and
common sense, taking into account the
specific context. Its spirit should be
respected under all circumstances.
As Nestlé is operating on a worldwide
basis, it is essential that local legislation
and practices be respected everywhere.
Also to be considered is the degree
of development of each market and its
capacity to advance in the management
of their human resources.

Should any HR policy conflict with local
legislation, local legislation will prevail.
These policies are addressed to all those
who have a responsibility in managing
people as well as to HR professionals.
The Nestlé Management and Leadership
Principles include the guidelines inspiring
all the Nestlé employees in their action
and in their dealings with others. The
Corporate Business Principles refer to all
the basic principles which Nestlé endorses
and subscribes to on a worldwide basis.
Both these documents are the pillars on
which the present policy has been built.

P. Brabeck-Letmathe
Chief Executive Officer

3

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

A shared Responsibility

Each employee has a distinct
responsibility in dealing
with people be it as a leader
of a team or as a peer.
HR managers and their staff are there
to provide professional support in handling
people matters but should not substitute
themselves to the responsible manager.
Their prime responsibility is to contribute
actively to the quality of HR management
throughout the organisation by proposing
adequate policies, ensuring their consistent
application and coherent implementation
with fairness.
Acting as business partners, the
HR manager advises and offers solutions
which results in positive impact on the
organisation’s effectiveness.

4

Furthermore, she/he proposes best
practices and provides state-of-the-art
support and counselling to her/his
colleagues. Together they act as
co-responsible partners for all HR matters.

This partnership is the key for
efficiency in people management.
The communication skills of the HR staff
must be appropriate to deal with all delicate
matters as they occur frequently in human
relations issues. They gain their credibility
not only from their professional contribution
but also through the care and the excellence
of their communication skills.

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

Dealing with People

The Nestlé Management and Leadership
Principles describe the management
style and the corporate values of the
Nestlé Group, specifically in the area of
interpersonal relations. Their respect
calls for specific attitudes which deserve
to be outlined in the present policy:
_ A prerequisite for dealing with people is
respect and trust. There can be no room for
intolerance, harassment or discrimination
of any kind as they are the expression of an
elementary lack of respect. This principle
suffers no exception and is to be applied at
all levels and under all circumstances.
_ Transparency and honesty in dealing with
people are a sine qua non for efficient
communication. Based on facts and on a
sincere dialogue, such transparency is the
only solid basis for boosting continuous
improvement.

_ This is to be complemented by open
communication with the purpose of sharing
competencies and boosting creativity. It is
particularly relevant in a flat organisation to
convey systematically all information to
those who need it to do their work properly.
Otherwise no effective delegation or
knowledge improvement are possible.
_ To communicate is not only to inform.
It is also to listen and to engage in dialogue.
Every employee has the right to an open
conversation with superiors or colleagues.
_ The willingness to cooperate and to help
others is a required basis for assessing
potential candidates in view of a promotion.
_ In case of discord between an employee
and her/his superior or another employee,
the possibility must be offered for a fair
hearing. The HR staff will provide assistance
to ensure that the disharmony is dealt
with impartially and that each party has the
opportunity to explain her/his viewpoint
regardless of hierarchical position.

5

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

Joining Nestlé

The long-term success of the Company
depends on its capacity to attract, retain
and develop employees able to ensure
its growth on a continuing basis. This
is a primary responsibility for all managers.
The Nestlé policy is to hire staff with
personal attitudes and professional skills
enabling them to develop a long-term
relationship with the Company.

Therefore the potential
for professional development
is an essential standard
for recruitment.
Each new member joining Nestlé is to
become a participant in developing a
sustainable quality culture which implies
a commitment to the organisation, a sense
for continuous improvement and leaves no
place for complacency.
Therefore, and in view of the importance of
these Nestlé values, special attention will be
paid to the matching between a candidate’s
values and the Company culture.

6

Hence, a clear communication of these
principles and values from the very beginning
of the recruitment process is required.
Those who are not willing to adhere to
the Corporate Business Principles and/or to
the Nestlé Management and Leadership
Principles cannot be part of the Company,
as both these documents express the basic
values and principles of the Organisation.
Moreover, for managerial positions specific
leadership qualities and business acumen
will be required.
Nestlé wishes to maintain and develop
its reputation as an employer of high repute.
Contacts with universities, attendance at
recruitment events and other contacts are
to be undertaken so as to ensure good
visibility of the Company vis-à-vis relevant
recruitment sources. Particular care
will be given to the treatment of each
candidacy regardless of the outcome of
the selection process.
Even when promoting employees intensively
from within the organisation, it is the role
of management and HR to keep an eye on
valuable candidates from outside and to
benchmark internal skills with external offers.

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

Whilst adequate recruitment tools may
improve the hiring process, it is understood
that the decision to hire a candidate remains
in the hands of the responsible manager
supported by the HR staff. Under no
circumstances should the decision to hire
or not to hire be left in the hands of an
outside consultant or expert.
As mentioned in the Nestlé Management
and Leadership Principles, only relevant
skills and experience and the adherence to
the above principles will be considered
in employing a person. No consideration will
be given to a candidate’s origin, nationality,
religion, race, gender or age.
It is as important to hire the right person
as it is to integrate newcomers in the
organisation so that their skills and
behaviour can merge smoothly with the
company culture. Whereas from new
employees it is expected to respect our
company’s culture, it is accordingly required
from all employees to show an open mind
towards new ideas and proposals coming
from outside.

7

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

Employment at Nestlé

The Corporate Business Principles outline
the Company’s commitment to fully endorse
and to respect a series of principles and
international conventions concerning
employee’s rights, the protection of children
against child labour and other important
issues. These principles are to be respected
everywhere and under all circumstances.
The management will implement the
necessary processes to ensure that these
principles are enforced at all levels.
Employees who are not abiding with
the Corporate Business Principles and
the Nestlé Management and Leadership
Principles cannot be maintained in
employment and will be requested to
leave the organisation.
Also our main suppliers and providers
of outsourced services should be informed
of the Corporate Business Principles
and should comply with those.
Nestlé provides a working environment
which protects the health and welfare of
the employees according to the highest
affordable standards of safety, hygiene and
security. Each employee should not only
care for her/his own safety but also that of
her/his colleagues. Therefore, suggestions
for improvement are welcome and will
be given prime consideration.
In the same way that no discrimination for
reason of origin, nationality, religion, race,
gender or age will be tolerated when
joining Nestlé, no such discrimination will
be tolerated towards Nestlé’s employees.

8

Furthermore, any form of harassment, moral
or sexual, will not only be prohibited but
actively tracked and eliminated. Internal
rules and regulations will explicitly deal with
discrimination and harassment issues so
as to obtain the best possible prevention.
Nestlé considers that it is not enough to
avoid discrimination or harassment.
It is essential to build a relationship based
on trust and respect of employees at all
levels. Therefore, it is indispensable for each
manager to know how her/his employees
feel in their work. In larger units it may
be necessary to organise such feedback
on a regular basis, using internal surveys
or other valuable approaches.
Nestlé favours a policy of long-term
employment. Whenever, an operation/
activity cannot be maintained within the
Nestlé sphere, reasonable steps will
be undertaken to avoid overall loss of
employment by identifying an external
business willing to take over activity
from Nestlé, whenever this is possible.
If this is not possible, a closing down may
be unavoidable. It will be handled in
full respect of local legislation and of the
Corporate Business Principles. A social plan
will be elaborated taking into account the
legitimate interests of the concerned staff.
Reasonable efforts will be deployed to
reduce, as much as possible, the negative
social impact of such a situation.

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

Work/Life Balance

At Nestlé we believe that
the employee’s private
and professional life should
have a good balance.
Not only because it reinforces employee’s
satisfaction, loyalty and enhances
productivity but also because it positively
reflects on the Company’s reputation.
It helps attracting and retaining people
and reconciles economical imperatives with
well being.
Nestlé is willing to support employees who
wish to take an active part in the life of the
community or by assuming responsibilities
in professional, civic, cultural, religious or
voluntary organisations it being understood
that any activity during working hours
be first approved by the Company.

In the same spirit, Nestlé
encourages flexible working
conditions whenever possible and
encourages its employees
to have interests and motivations
outside work.

9

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

Remuneration

Nestlé favours competitive, stimulating
and fair remuneration structures offering
an overall competitive and attractive
compensation package. Remuneration
includes salary, any variable part of
remuneration as well as social, pension
and other benefits.
Each operating company will establish
a compensation practice taking into account
relevant external compensation levels as
well as the requirement of internal fairness.
It is recommended to undertake regular
surveys so as to gather relevant information
on the remuneration levels practised at
a local or national level.
Nestlé’s policy is to strive to position itself
as an employer offering remuneration
levels above the average of the relevant
benchmark. Nestlé reviews regularly its
competitive position with other companies
so as to keep in line with the market trends.
However, the evolution of remuneration is in
the first instance determined by the capacity
of the Company to improve its productivity.
Wage and salary structures should be kept
simple and avoid unnecessary complexity
so as to provide effective compensation
and reward.
Remuneration structures should specifically
facilitate the implementation of flat
organisational structures and be flexible
so as to be able to adapt to the evolution
of the market conditions. This means
broad spans allowing sufficient flexibility
to effectively reward high professional
insight and performances as well as
individual potential.

10

It is the responsibility of each manager to
propose, within the framework of the
company policy, the remuneration of her/his
employees, taking into account the local
market, individual performance, skills and
potential for development.
It is also the responsibility of each
manager, if needed with the support
of HR management, to communicate
properly, clearly and with sufficient
transparency, the individual remuneration
of each staff member taking into account
her/his professional performance and
her/his specific responsibilities.
The quality of communication in these
matters is an essential part of the dialogue
that each manager will have with her/his
employees on remuneration matters.
Specifically at management level, the
variable part of the remuneration may be
substantial. This part will be linked to a
combination of group, business and
individual or team target achievements.
The higher the remuneration level, the more
important will become the variable part.
It should be realised that, however
important remuneration is for each
employee, it is not remuneration alone that
will stimulate the motivation of the staff.
The HR management sees to it that the
implementation of the remuneration policy
is fair throughout the organisation and
that its spirit is duly reflected.

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

Professional Development

Learning
Learning is part of the Company culture.
Each employee, at all levels, is conscious of
the need to upgrade continuously her/his
knowledge and skills.
The willingness to learn is therefore
a non-negotiable condition to be employed
by Nestlé.
First and foremost, training is done
on-the-job. Guiding and coaching is part
of the responsibility of each manager
and it is crucial to make each one progress
in her/his position.
When formal training programs are
organised they should be purpose oriented
and designed to improve relevant skills and
competencies. Therefore they are proposed
in the framework of individual development
programs. As a consequence, attending
a program should never be considered as
a reward.

Adequate training programs
are developed at the level of each

Great importance will be attached to
programs enhancing the language skills
of the employees.
Training programs organised at the
International Training Centre Rive-Reine
aim at developing and sharing best
practices of the various management
disciplines practised in the Group. They
also strive to strengthen corporate
cohesion as well as to promote networking
throughout the Group.
Training programs should, as much as
possible, be based on action learning
and reduce ex-cathedra teaching to the
strict minimum.
It is necessary to make optimal use of
e-learning programs as a complement to
or a substitute for formal training programs.
According to needs they should be made
available at shop floor level and enlarge
the access to training.
It is the role of each manager to assess
progress achieved as a result of training
programs.

operating company capitalising
on the availability of local, regional
or global resources of the Group.
It is the responsibility of HR staff to
assist the management in the
elaboration of training programs.

Assessing and Developing
Each employee is in charge of her/his
own professional development. However,
the Company endeavours to offer the
opportunity to progress for those having
the determination and the potential to
develop their capabilities.

11

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

Such opportunities should take into account
the potential of each employee and be
discussed with transparency. They will be
based on defined possibilities, concentrate
on the next career step and not on vague
promises or remote hypotheses. The
Company encourages its employees to
express their objectives and expectations
in an open dialogue.
The objective is to retain and motivate
employees by offering attractive but realistic
career moves allowing them to develop
their skills over a long-term period
within the framework of economic reality
and a changing environment.
Whereas succession plans forecast the
Company needs, they will be reconciled,
inasmuch as possible, with individual
development plans.
HR management provides the support for
implementing the necessary planning tools,
having in mind the necessary flexibility
to cope with unforeseen situations.
However, it is understood that each
manager is co-responsible for preparing
the resources necessary to the development
of the Company as this is also part of
his accountability.

12

Professional Development

Regular counselling and guidance are
the best tools for improving performance
and for helping people develop their
skills. It also allows to correct errors swiftly
and to transform them into a positive
learning experience. In an organisation
with flat structures this supports better
delegation. Direct personal contact should
always been given preference over written
communication whenever possible.

Each manager has the duty to act
as a mentor for his employees.
Formal assessment should take place on
a regular basis, preferably once a year. Its
purpose is to provide feedback on past
performance and future potential as well as
on other relevant aspects concerning a staff
member’s work including the development
of his skills and competencies. Both the
positive and negative aspects of individual
performance should be frankly addressed.
Assessment of performance should be
based on facts rather than opinions.
For managerial positions, assessment will
be based essentially on agreed objectives
and their level of achievement.

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

Professional Development

Efficient performance management
emphasising the achievement of agreed
objectives is a prime responsibility for
each manager. The necessary time should
be dedicated to the monitoring and the
follow-up of the progressive achievement
of objectives during the year.
This feedback is meant to stimulate
performance and should take place through
an open dialogue based on mutual trust
and willingness to progress. It is requested
to provide written evidence of such
meetings. Focus should be essentially on
continuous improvement, appropriate
training measures but also on shaping a
stimulating working environment.
In case of serious underperformance,
a termination of employment should be
envisaged. Such termination should
be handled with due respect of the person
and should include, where appropriate,
separation terms that take into account
the employee’s personal situation.
When assessing potential it should be
kept in mind that the best indicator of talent
is achievement. Therefore responsibility
should be given as early as reasonable
to allow people to prove themselves.
Candidates for managerial positions should
clearly have demonstrated their willingness
and ability to apply the Nestlé Management
and Leadership Principles.

Promotions will exclusively
be based on competence, insight,
performance and potential with
the exclusion of any consideration
for origin, race, nationality, gender,
religion or age.
Flexibility is a requirement for ensuring
a positive professional evolution. Staff may
be requested to move to other positions.
Managers, especially international staff, may
be asked to move to other locations.
International experience and participation
in group development initiatives such as
GLOBE, SMPT and others can be acquired
in all countries of the Group and are a
requirement for holding high-level positions.
The development of expertise in specific
areas of competence is determinant for the
Company’s success. Therefore job rotation
should be practised with caution. Whilst
job rotation might be useful under certain
circumstances, it should not result
in weakening our expertise in key areas.

13

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

Industrial Relations

Nestlé upholds the freedom of association
of its employees and the effective
recognition of the right to collective
bargaining.
Nestlé wishes, also through its relationship
with unions and other representative
associations, to sustain the long-term
development of the Company, both to the
benefit of the employees and of the
Company, by maintaining a level of
competitiveness adapted to its economic
environment.
Industrial relations are a clear responsibility
of local management and will be handled
at the appropriate level: first at site
level (factories, warehouse) subsequently
at regional or national level, according
to local law and practices.
Nestlé will ensure that direct and frequent
communication is established with its
employees, both union members and
non-members, as mentioned in the Nestlé
Management and Leadership Principles.
Relations with unions will be established
under strict observation of national law,
local practices as well as those international
recommendations to which Nestlé has
adhered to on a voluntary basis as stated
in the Corporate Business Principles.

14

Contacts with union delegates should create
a further opportunity to provide information
allowing their members and other
representative associations to acquire a full
understanding of the business activities
and the goals of Nestlé.
In accordance with local legislation, Nestlé
will refrain from any action restricting the
employee’s right to be or not to be affiliated
to a union.
Nestlé will not engage with any union or
other representative association in activities
or discussions other than those relating
to employment and working conditions as
well as issues relating to the workplace.
Whenever negotiations take place, they will
be duly prepared with the full involvement
of line management and take into account
both the Company’s and the employees’
legitimate interest. In dealings with
unions, it will be ensured that management
prerogatives be properly maintained.

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

HR Organisation

The fact that Nestlé is more
people and product than systems
oriented is reflected in the way HR
is functioning and is organised.
Processes and systems as well as
professional HR tools are there to support
HR management but never to the detriment
of the human dimension. The human
perspective should be present at all times
and under all circumstances.
The HR function should report to the
manager responsible for a defined operation
(Region, Market, Country, Factory) with a
functional relation to the market HR
according to the size of that operation.

Whereas the HR function should indeed
provide flawless administrative support, its
main role is to add value to the business
and to play a proactive role in every
situation where HR action is required.
Specific HR KPI’s are useful in assessing
the performance of an HR unit. However,
it should be kept in mind that the
HR contribution aims in the first place at
optimising the overall company performance
through improving people performance.
With the evidence that the human capital
is of increasing importance, HR plays
indeed a pivotal role in the conception
and implementation of the people
strategies that impact financial results
and the organisation’s overall reputation
and effectiveness.

The HR manager should not only have the
skills and competencies from a purely
professional standpoint but also have the
charisma and the credibility to be a
trustworthy partner to her/his colleagues.

15

The Nestlé Human Resources Policy

© October 2002, Nestec Ltd., Human Resources Department
Concept and design: Nestec Ltd., B-COM , Corporate Identity and Design, Vevey, Switzerland
Printed by Neidhart + Schön AG, Zurich, Switzerland

