Template De-Identified
Human Resources Policy & Procedures
Manual
for an
Aboriginal Community Controlled Health
Organisation (ACCHO)
December 2015

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

CONTEXT
This is one example of a de-identified, template Human Resources Policy & Procedures
Manual. It attempts to consolidate comprehensive and current best practice.
NACCHO has made this example template available to Member ACCHOs as a resource which
each ACCHO can consider and adapt to their individual operational and legal environments; or
at least reduce the costs of hiring consultants.
Any queries should be directed to the Chief Operations Officer of NACCHO. NACCHO also
welcomes feedback in the spirit of continuous quality improvement.

DISCLAIMER
Not all the sections may apply to your ACCHO.
ACCHO’s in reviewing or adopting any components or parts of the provided policies will need
to contextualise the relevant sections to:
 suit their own organisational structures/scale
 suit their organisational industrial environment eg relevant Awards,
 ensure compliance with their own state/territory legislation.

Considered by the CEO:
Considered by the Board
Review Date:

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

Date
Date
Date

Contents
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY AND PROCEDURES
1.
HR Framework ............................................................................................. 3
2.
Code of Conduct .......................................................................................... 3
Section 1 - EMPLOYEE CONDITIONS ....................................................................... 6
1.
Employment Contracts ................................................................................ 6
2.
Remuneration and Salary Sacrifice ............................................................... 7
3.
Hours of Work & Attendance ..................................................................... 12
4.
Time in Lieu (TiL) Policy.............................................................................. 15
5.
Staff Exit Policy .......................................................................................... 17
6.
Annual Leave ............................................................................................. 17
7.
Personal/Carers Leave……………………………………………………………………………… 18
8.
Long Service Leave..................................................................................... 19
9.
Parental Leave ........................................................................................... 20
10. Public Holidays .......................................................................................... 21
11. Ceremonial Leave (unpaid leave) ............................................................... 21
12. Compassionate Leave ................................................................................ 22
13. Community Service Leave .......................................................................... 22
14. Leave without Pay (LWOP) ......................................................................... 23
Section 2 - EMPLOYEE CONDUCT & MANAGEMENT ..............................................25
15. Recruitment and Selection Policy............................................................... 25
16. Induction ................................................................................................... 28
17. Personnel Records ..................................................................................... 29
18. Confidentiality & Privacy............................................................................ 32
19. Performance Management ........................................................................ 33
20. Training & Development ............................................................................ 39
21. Staff Grievances ......................................................................................... 41
22. Misconduct & Disciplinary Action .............................................................. 43
Section 3 - EMPLOYEE TOOLS & TRAVEL ................................................................ 0
23. Business Travel ......................................................................................... 46
24. Standard of Dress & Staff Uniforms ........................................................... 48
25. Mobile Telephone Policy............................................................................ 49
26. Use of ICT Systems, Internet & Email ......................................................... 50
Section 4 - EMPLOYEE CARE .................................................................................55
27. Workplace Health & Safety ........................................................................ 55
28. Sexual Harrassment, Discrimination and Workplace Bullying ..................... 59
29. Smoking Management ............................................................................... 64
Section 5 – QUALITY MANAGEMENT ....................................................................65
30. Scope of Quality ........................................................................................ 65

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

HUMAN RESOURCE POLICY & PROCEDURES
1. HR POLICY & PROCEDURES FRAMEWORK
National Employment Standards, Modern Industrial Awards & ACCHO Policy &
Procedures
All employees have the minimum entitlements set out in the National Employment
Standards (“NES”). Apart from these minimum statutory entitlements, employees may be
subject to the terms of a modern industrial award or enterprise agreement as well as their
common law contract of employment.
The National Employment Standards apply to all employees covered by the national
workplace relations system, however only certain entitlements apply to casual employees.
The Modern Awards applicable to an ACCHO include:


Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services Award 2010 (MA000115)
and potentially, depending on organisation functions and job roles: -



Social, Community, Home Care and Disability Services Award 2010 (MA000100)



Health Professionals and Support Services Award 2010 (Award code MA000027)



Nurses Award 2010, (Award code MA000034).



Medical Practitioners Award 2010 (Award code MA000031).



Royal Australian College of General Practitioners & General Practice Training
Employees Award 2003 (transitional) Award (MAA000027)



Aged Care Award

The objectives of an ACCHO’s HR Policies and Procedures are:
 to ensure all NES and Modern Award entitlements and conditions are met
 to ensure compliance with other relevant legislation
 to take all practicable steps to provide and maintain a workplace that is safe and
healthy and free from discrimination and harassment
 to articulate the ACCHO specific procedures and conditions
It is common for an ACCHO’s HR polices actually exceed the statutory requirements in a
number of areas and are constructed to reflect the industry, sector and organisational
specific needs.
Employees are required to comply with the ACCHO’s policies and procedures.

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

2. EMPLOYEE CODE OF CONDUCT
2.1 Purpose - The Code of Conduct outlines the responsibilities, general standards of work,
conduct and behaviour expected of all employees of the ACCHO, with a view to encourage and
promote a culture of integrity, quality and performance.
The Code of Conduct draws together a number of requirements outlined in legislation and
specific HR policies. It is presented as a stand-alone policy to emphasise key requirements, it is
to be presented to all staff as part of an induction process.
All employees are required under the Code of Conduct, to behave at all times in a way which
adheres to the ACCHO’s expectations of employees.
Compliance with the Code of Conduct is mandatory. A breach of the Code of Conduct can
result in sanctions, ranging from a reprimand to termination of employment.
2.2 Scope - The Code of Conduct applies to all employees (full-time, part-time, fixed term,
casual, voluntary and temporary) for the duration of their employment.
2.3 Principles
The Code of Conduct requires that employees at all times:

behave in a way that upholds the integrity and good reputation of the ACCHO

respect and observe appropriate cultural protocols and practices;

act with care and diligence in the course of their employment;

perform the duties and responsibilities which are assigned to them to the best of their
ability, with all care and diligence and in compliance with the directions of the ACCHO

comply with all applicable Australian laws;

not be under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol in the workplace:

comply with any lawful and reasonable direction given by someone who has authority
to give the direction;

disclose, and take reasonable steps to avoid, any conflict of interest (real or
apparent);

disclose any offer of gifts or benefits offered or suggested to them in carrying out
their duties;

provide evidence of and maintain all necessary licenses/accreditation/certification
/qualifications/checks required to fulfil their work requirements

use provided resources in a proper manner;

take responsibility for their actions, and be accountable for the consequences;

maintain a high level of confidentiality in regard to the work they undertake and any
other client matters they may encounter;

not make improper use of inside information, or the employee's duties, status, power
or authority, in order to gain, or seek to gain, a benefit or advantage for the employee
or for any other person;

maintain all premises and vehicles as smoke free environments;

ensure access to and use of mobile phones, internet, email and social media are as
authorised and consistent with policies and procedures;

ensure that no unauthorised public or media comment pertaining to the operations
of the business are made

not conduct themselves in such a manner, whether during work hours or after work
hours, as to cause damage to the ACCHO’s property or reputation (or the property or
reputation of any of the ACCHO’s clients);
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual





not, without the ACCHO’s express written consent, engage directly or indirectly in any
trade, business or professional activity for any other entity during the period of their
employment with the ACCHO (unless the employee is a casual employee and
therefore this sub-clause will not apply); and
not unlawfully discriminate against or harass another person.

2.4 Disclosures by Employees
All employees are required, as a condition of their employment, to disclose:
 details of any employment /second job held outside of the ACCHO and
 details of any pre-existing injury and any previous Work Cover Claims.
Second Job
Employees are required to provide immediate advice of any outside employment. Details must
include any other employer’s name, their job role, hours and term of employment.
The ACCHO requires all employees to provide “faithful service”, meaning to serve the best
interests of the ACCHO. Accordingly any outside employment that creates obligations that
conflict with your obligation to ACCHO are unacceptable. eg where there is a clash of hours,
the outside role is in competition with ACCHO, the outside role conflicts with the ethos and
values of the ACCHO.
The following circumstances will be considered a breach of Policy and Procedure and will be
subject to disciplinary action (including possible termination of employment);
o failure to advise of a Second Job/outside employment and obtain written agreement from
the ACCHO
o outside employment which is deemed by the ACCHO to be in conflict with your obilgations
to the employer
o using the ACCHO time and/or resources to perform work for another organisation
Pre Existing Injury
The employee (including a prospective employee) is required to disclose, in writing, details of
any existing medical condition or disability which may adversely affect their ability to carry out
their functions and duties and/or which may be aggravated by the duties offered by the ACCHO.
The employee (prospective employee) is required to provide written consent for the ACCHO to
seek a copy of their Work Cover claims history.
2.5
Code of Conduct Acknowledgement
All staff are provided with a copy of the Code of Conduct upon commencement.
A signed copy of the Code of Conduct Acknowledgment will be maintained on the Personnel
File.

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

Section 1 - EMPLOYEE CONDITIONS
1.

Employment Contracts

1.1

Responsibility

The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the authorisation and issuing of Employment
Contracts. (The Board Chairperson is responsible in the case of the CEO’s contract).
The Chief Finance Officer [INSERT ALTERNATIVE POSITION TITLE FOR YOUR ACCHO] will
coordinate development of the employment contract content in accordance with the relevant HR
Policies and Procedures. The Chief Finance Officer will coordinate signing, issue, processing and
filing of the Employment Contract.

1.2

Contract Duration

Other than casual and contractor arrangements, all of the ACCHO’s Employment Contracts are
subject to funding renewal and will be fixed term contracts for a specified maximum term, in line
with the period of funding for each position.
Should the funding that provides for a position cease, at any stage, the contract of employment
will be terminated at the same date as the cessation of funding. The ACCHO will advise you of any
withdrawal of funding, and the resultant effect on your employment, as soon as possible after the
ACCHO has been advised of the withdrawal of such funding by the relevant statutory authority.

1.3

Employment Contract Elements

The Employment Contract outlines the key non-legislative conditions applicable to employment.
It should be read in conjunction with the Policies and Procedures to identify the full conditions
applicable to employment with the ACCHO.
The Employment Contract will clearly set out:

The employment status; eg full time, part time, fixed term or casual

The position title, ordinary hours of work, status of work, conditions of termination, leave
entitlements and superannuation guarantee fund details.

A commencement date and to whom the person should report upon their arrival

A maximum term end date

The probation/qualifying /minimum employment period for statutory unfair dismissal
purposes should be stated.

Remuneration details including salary and benefits.

Conflict of Interest, Confidentiality, Intellectual Property obligations
The Contract will have attached:

A position description

A Confidentiality Agreement
The Employment Contract will be signed by both parties. Signing by the employee confirms their
acceptance and acknowledgement of:

the terms of the Employment Contract

the ACCHO’s policies and procedures
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual





the Confidentiality Agreement
full disclosure of any or all pre-existing injuries or diseases that an employee suffer from,
of which the employee is aware, and which could be affected by employment by the
ACCHO.
If the employee fails to disclose or makes a false or misleading disclosure about any such
pre-existing injury or disease then the relevant legislation will apply and the employee
may not be entitled to workers’ compensation under Workers Compensation legislation
for any recurrence, aggravation, acceleration, exacerbation or deterioration of that injury
or disease.

A signed copy will be provided to the employee and the original kept in the personnel files.
Note: An Employment Contract for an individual who is a school aged child for the purpose of
child employment legislation will require Parental/Guardian consent.

2.

Remuneration and Salary Sacrifice

The Policy applies to all full time, part time and casual employees/positions.
It details the principles and procedures that apply to:
- Payment of Salaries/Wages, - Setting of Salaries, - Salary Review, - Salary Sacrifice.

2.1Pay Rates
Pay rates are set by the Organisation to ensure:
 Compliance with Minimum Award conditions
 Fairness , Transparency and Consistency
 (Above award salaries are discretionary based upon ACCHO consideration of own
situation, location and the relative market to attract and retain the required skills)
Where salary ranges for any job family are set above Award rates, then the salary ranges for each
job will be reviewed and set annually by the CEO, and approved by the Board.
The Salary ranges and points will be determined as a result of analysis of:
 The level of work required and Job grades of all positions
 Relevant Modern Award(s) Salary Ranges (adjusted by Fair Work Commission July each
year)
 Relevant Queensland Health pay grades
 Funding Agreements and budget situation on funding levels, the organisations ability to
pay.
 Consideration of Total Reward position to ensure alignment and consistency in approach
to non- Salary reward including, vehicles, benefits and any other Reward and Recognition
programs

Overtime and Penalty rate conditions are as per Section 4.

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

2.2 Base Salaries
2.2.1 Salary on Commencement
 Each employee’s salary will be set by the CEO, informed by the Job Grade and the ACCHO
Salary Table/Award rates.
 Commencement will typically be at the base point of the Grade. The CEO has discretion to
vary in accordance with the employee’s relative experience, qualifications and or
situation.
 For the Senior Management level jobs, the pay point on commencement will be as
determined by the CEO, based on relative experience and qualifications.
2.2.2 Pay Increases
Each employee’s salary will be reviewed as a minimum annually but it may be reviewed more or
less regularly at the ACCHO’s discretion.
Staff on award rates may receive
 automatic increases in line with relevant award rate increases, usually with effect
from1 July in each year;
 annual increment adjustments, where applicable, on the anniversary date of
commencing in the role, subject to satisfactory performance
Staff on above Award rates will be
 reviewed annually
 Individual salaries for employees will increase only in the following circumstances;
o where the employee is not paid above the salary range for their current job grade
o where the employee’s salary has not been reviewed or set above base level in the
six months prior to the review date
o if there has been satisfactory performance on the job

 salary changes will be advised in writing and applicable from a set date each year
Salary Changes outside of the Annual Review process are possible where there is a significant
change in job role.

2.3

Payment of Wages

The ACCHO operates on a weekly/fortnightly payroll system.
Staff are paid retrospectively for the period worked.
Wages will be paid after the end of the week into a bank account nominated by the employee.
Payments must be made to a bank account or financial institution.
[NOTE: THE PRECEDING CLAUSES ARE SUGGESTED BUT EACH ACCHO WILL ADJUST THE HOURS
TO REFLECT THEIR OWN OPERATIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES.]

2.4

Superannuation

The ACCHO will make employer contributions, in accordance with the Superannuation Legislation
Amendment (Choice of Superannuation Funds) Bill 2003.
Contributions will be at a rate as determined by the ACCHO Board and will ensure compliance or
payment above the rate required by legislation, currently 9.5%.
The contribution will be paid into the employee nominated superannuation fund.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

Should the employee fail to nominate a fund, the ACCHO will make contributions to the Default
Fund, which is currently [INSERT NAME OF FUND, FOR EXAMPLE, HESTA].

2.5

Higher Duties

Absences/Vacancies will not automatically create a higher duties situation.
Where the CEO approves the need to fill a position on a temporary basis, higher duties may be
payable. Periods of short term acting in a higher role are considered by the ACCHO, to be
primarily development opportunities for the individual.
The ACCHO will automatically pay higher duties where an individual is assigned to and performs
the full responsibilities of a higher role for a minimum period of one (1) week or more. The higher
duties will be paid at a rate equivalent to the minimum rate for that role for the entire period of
higher duties. Such rate is as determined and approved by the CEO.
At the discretion of the CEO, payment of partial higher duties may be authorised where acting is
for a minimum period of two weeks and less than the full position responsibilities are assumed by
the employee. The assessment of responsibility and rate of pay will be as determined by the CEO.

2.6

Salary Sacrifice

Salary Sacrifice provides eligible employees with the flexibility to package benefits into their
salaries thus minimising the amount of PAYG tax paid and maximising their available income.
Salary Sacrifice is an arrangement between an employee and their employer, whereby the
employee agrees to forego part of their salary or wages and in return receive a benefit to the same
value as the amount sacrificed. The main aim of a “Salary Sacrifice” arrangement is to legitimately
restructure the way participating staff receive their salary and maximise their net pay after tax,
thus reducing the amount of PAYG tax paid.
2.6.1 Eligibility
To be eligible to participate in the Salary Sacrifice Policy of ACCHO the employee must:
be a permanent full time employee with an employment contract, and

earn a minimum gross base salary of $45,000 or greater.
Employees who are employed on a part time or casual basis are not eligible, nor are contractors.
2.6.2 Capping of concessional & exempt Fringe Benefits Tax
ACCHO as a Public Benevolent Institution (PBI) under the Fringe Benefits Tax Legislation is deemed
to be an Exempt Employer. As an Exempt Employer ACCHO receives concessional treatment under
the legislation.
The first $30,000 of grossed-up taxable benefits provided to an employee will be exempt of tax for
an Exempt Employer. Any excess, however, will be taxed in the normal way. The $30,000 grossedup taxable benefits capping equates to an actual cash value of $15,899.
This means that ACCHO as the employer will pay no fringe benefits tax on the first $15,889 of
taxable fringe benefits of each employee. This exempt threshold amount is dependent upon the
top marginal tax rate and is subject to change depending on changes to this tax rate.
2.6.3 How does it work?
Salary sacrifice is not mandatory and it is up to each eligible employee to decide whether they wish
to take advantage of this benefit offered by ACCHO. As such, ACCHO requires all eligible employees
who wish to arrange salary sacrifice to obtain independent financial advice about the packaging of
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

benefits and salary, in line with this policy and the Fringe Benefits Tax Legislation. The employee
is required to provide a letter from their independent financial advisor, to ACCHO outlining how
the employee’s salary is to be packaged and also complete the “Salary Sacrifice Application Form”.
For a salary sacrificing arrangement to be considered to be bona fide, the arrangement must be
agreed to in writing before the arrangement commences and must be reviewed annually prior to
1st April each year to ensure that the agreement and amount of salary sacrificed complies with the
PBI exempt threshold and the Fringe Benefits Tax Legislation.
The exempt threshold of $15,889 of taxable fringe benefits per year for each employee equates to
$306.00 per week of salary based on a payroll year of 52 weeks. Some payroll years will be 53
weeks and therefore the weekly threshold is reduced to $301.892 per week. Essentially the
employee would salary sacrifice an amount equivalent to $306 per week from their weekly payroll.
The $306 is coded to an “Employee Salary Sacrifice Control Account” in the general ledger. It is
from these accounts that the salary sacrifice payments for all employees are administered.
Payments are made to the employee’s nominated expenses at regular intervals. These individual
control accounts are liability accounts and must never be overdrawn (go into debit). At the end of
each Fringe Benefits Tax year, 31st March, all employee control accounts must be cleared to a zero
account balance.
The fringe benefits tax year commences 1st April and ends 31st March, so it is important that the
salary sacrifice system is coordinated around these dates. The FBT return is required to be
completed for the FBT year ended 31st March and will involve reconciliations of the “Employee
Salary Sacrifice Control Accounts” which will provide information and data to calculate the
employee’s reportable benefits amount to be included on the employee’s PAYG Payment Summary
for the year ended 30 June.
2.6.4 Superannuation on Salary Sacrifice Amounts
The FBT and Superannuation legislation state that the employer is only obliged to calculate and
pay the statutory superannuation guarantee charge on the gross salary after salary sacrifice.
ACCHO’s salary sacrifice policy states that the employer statutory superannuation guarantee
charge is calculated and paid on the gross salary before salary sacrifice, ensuring that the
employee’s overall salary package is not diminished by the act of salary sacrifice.
2.6.5 Benefits Available to be Salary Packaged
The following is a list of benefits that are available to be salary packaged, this list is not exhaustive
nor complete. To keep administration costs to a minimum, each employee will be limited to salary
packaging only three benefits.
 Housing Loans / Mortgages, Personal Loans, HECS Loans
 Rent
 Credit Card repayments
 Superannuation
2.6.6 Documentation Requirements
With all salary packaged benefits, whether exempt or not, it is important to ensure that the
employee provides copies of receipts, invoices and loan statements to verify the expense before
the expense payment benefit is made from their salary sacrifice control account. Any loan account
including credit card accounts are required to be verified that a debt actually exists before the
salary sacrifice payment is made. This can be achieved by obtaining a copy of the latest statement.
If the debt does not exist at the time the salary sacrifice payment is made, then the payment must
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

be treated as salaries and wages and therefore taxed as such in the hands of the employee. Where
there are transactions of benefits where the GST input credit is able to be claimed by ACCHO, the
employee must ensure that a correct “Tax Invoice” is supplied to the finance department.
It is the employee’s responsibility to ensure that they are adequately informed about the
operations of salary sacrifice and that they provide all the necessary supporting documentation
and declarations to assist ACCHO in administering this salary sacrifice policy.
2.6.7 Administration Fees
Currently ACCHO does not charge an administration fee for administering the salary sacrifice
arrangements of its employees. The decision not to charge a fee is based on employees salary
packaging a maximum of three benefits.
ACCHO reserves the right to charge an administration fee at any time should there be legislative
changes and/or other factors which significantly impact on the cost of administering the salary
sacrifice policy. Should ACCHO decide to charge an administration fee, we would ensure that the
employees are advised of these charges prior to them being imposed.
2.6.8 Changing or Terminating Salary Sacrifice Arrangements
Employees may elect to terminate their salary sacrificing arrangements at any time. This
termination advice must be in writing and provided to the Chief Finance Officer with sufficient
notice for the changes to be made in payroll.
Employees may elect to make changes to their salary sacrificing arrangement at the
commencement of the FBT year, namely 1st April. The employee may only make a change to the
salary sacrificing arrangement at another time during the year when these changes are brought
about from extenuating circumstances which necessitate the amendments to the arrangement. All
changes must be advised in writing to the Finance Manager.
2.6.9 Changes to the Salary Sacrificing Policy
This salary sacrifice policy is guided by the provisions of the Fringe Benefits Tax Legislation, Income
Tax Assessment Act, Superannuation Industry Act and Australian Tax Office Rulings and
Determinations and may be modified or altered from time to time to ensure compliance with the
relevant legislation.
ACCHO reserves the right to make any alterations or changes to or terminate the salary sacrificing
arrangements between the employer and the employee as may be required to maintain ACCHO’s
compliance with the applicable legislation.

3.

Hours of Work & Attendance

3.1 Ordinary Hours
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

Staff are expected to be at work for their full weekly hours of employment. All absences and
variations must be accounted for by completing relevant leave forms.
The standard applicable requirement is for all full time staff to work an ordinary 38.0 hour week.
The standard weekly hours of work, as prescribed in the relevant Awards, may be worked, as
directed by the CEO, any time between:
- ACCHS Award - 7.00 am and 7.00 pm Monday to Friday
- Nurses Award - 6.00am to 6.00pm Monday to Friday for Nurses
- Social and Community Services Award – 6.00am - 8.00pm Monday to Sunday
Part time staff will work the daily and weekly hours as agreed in their contract.
Casual staff will work the daily and weekly hours as determined by their Line Manager .
ACCHO’s standard hours / Daily Start and Finish times will be typically between 8.30am and 5.00pm
as determined by the Line Manager in line with operational needs.
Unpaid lunch breaks will be ½ an hour as determined by the Line Manager and a morning /
afternoon tea break is to be kept to a maximum of 10 minutes.
Part time staff will work the daily and weekly hours as agreed in their contract.
Casual staff will work the daily and weekly hours as determined by their Manager .
Any variations to standard start and finish times must be requested in writing and can only be
approved by the CEO if in accordance with operational needs.
Any variation must be included in the individual’s employment contract.
[NOTE: THE PRECEDING CLAUSES ARE SUGGESTED BUT EACH ACCHO WILL ADJUST THE HOURS
TO REFLECT THEIR OWN OPERATIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES.]

3.2 Record of Work Attendance
To record their hours of work each employee must complete a Timesheet each week, and submit
to their Line Manager for signature.
For known periods of leave, timesheets must be completed and submitted in advance prior to
going on leave.
The timesheet is to be used daily to record attendance/times and should be supported by Leave
forms as required. All employees must record their daily hours of work, including lunch breaks.
It is each employee’s responsibility to ensure they make use of this system in an accurate way to
record attendance.
The employee’s Line Manager will check and approve each employee’s Timesheet. It is the
responsibility of the employee to ensure that their timesheet is duly completed and in the
timesheet folder for Line Manager signature by 2.00pm on Tuesday of each week.
Failure of staff to complete timesheet correctly will mean that you are not paid until it is submitted
and this may mean waiting until the next pay period.

3.3 Absence from Work
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

If for any reason a staff member is unable to attend work, they must telephone their Manager as
soon as practicable and in any event no later than (½) half an hour prior to the scheduled start
time. This will help to minimise the disruption to other staff members.
An SMS or email message is unacceptable as the sole means of advice of absence.
Any person who will be absent from work for any health-related reason must advise
his or her manager of his or her inability to report for work and of the nature of the
illness/injury.
In cases where a person is absent from work on personal leave for two or more
consecutive days, a medical certificate from a duly qualified medical practitioner is required to be
submitted to the Manager at the earliest possible opportunity, or on the day that the person
returns to work after the absence in the event of the staff member’s illness and a statutory
declaration in the event of the staff member taking carer’s leave.
Unless unusual circumstances exist, absences of one day do not require a medical certificate.
Notwithstanding the ACCHO reserves the right to request a Medical Certificate from any person,
for any absence due to illness, at any time if it is believed that unusual circumstances exist.
An employee who is absent from work for a continuous period exceeding (3) three working days
without notification to the employer shall be evidence that the employee has abandoned their
employment.

3.4 Leave Forms
An employee must submit all requests for leave via Replicon in the following manner:
Annual Leave – Minimum four (4) weeks’ notice, approved by CEO
TOIL
– requires prior approval by CEO
Personal Leave – As soon as you return to work following your
absence or as soon as practicable for pre-arranged leave eg surgery
Leave forms must clearly identify the type of leave claimed and reasons for leave, especially
where combination of leave types taken in one pay period.
Separate Leave forms are required for periods of non-continuous leave.

3.5 Right to Request Workplace Flexibility
Permanent staff who have completed twelve (12) months continuous service or long term casual
employees with a reasonable expectation of continuing employment on a regular and systematic
basis and are;
 parents who care for, or persons with responsibility for the care of children under school
age or a child under 18 who has a disability,
 employees who are legal carers,
 employees with a disability,
 employees over 55,
 employees experiencing family violence or who provide care or support to a member of
the employee’s immediate family or household who requires care or support because the
member is experiencing violence from the member’s family,
 employees returning to work after taking parental leave
may request in writing a change in working arrangements relating to their circumstances.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

The written request must address both the reason for the change (ie how it will assist) and the
nature of the change.
The ACCHO will respond within twenty-one (21) days advising whether the request is granted or
refused. Employers can refuse on reasonable business grounds. These reasons may include the
nature of the role, the impact of the request on business/team operations and associated costs
to the business and individual.

4.

Overtime / Time Off in Lieu (Toil) and Penalty Rates Policy

4.1

Principles

The employer has a reasonable expectation that ad hoc requirement to work back/get in early, up
to 15 minute over standard hours in line with operational demands, will be completed without
additional compensation.
Where full time and part time employees are required for pre-approved work of a minimum of 15
minutes above their standard weekly or rostered hours, they will be entitled to receive
compensation for that extra time worked, unless otherwise specified in their employment contract.
This extra time will either be TOIL or overtime in accordance with the conditions detailed below.
Penalty rates apply to hours worked outside the ordinary span of hours
The ordinary hours of work, as prescribed in the relevant Awards, are between:
- ACCHS Award - 7.00 am and 7.00 pm Monday to Friday
- Nurses Award - 6.00am to 6.00pm Monday to Friday for Nurses
- Social and Community Services Award – 6.00am - 8.00pm Monday to Sunday

4.2

Overtime (extra pay) vs TOIL (time off)

The majority of pre-approved extra work on weekdays is not regular or substantial and will be
compensated as TOIL.
All ACCHO work groups, with the exception of those designated below are, with acknowledgement
of staff, required to participate in the TOIL scheme.
Work groups, as determined by the CEO, where TOIL will not apply and overtime payments are
automatic, unless otherwise specified in the individual contract, currently include,:
- staff working after hours clinics
- Staff working Community Events on weekends
- GP’s, Senior Managers

4.3

ToiL Scheme

Time off-in-lieu is granted at the discretion of the CEO. Reasonable extra work time up to 15
minutes worked, within the span of hours, in order to fulfil the requirements of an employee’s
position will not be TOIL or overtime
All accrual of TiL. must be pre-approved by CEO/Manager prior to accumulation.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

4.3.1 Requirement to Work Extra Hours
Management will attempt to provide all employees with as much notice as possible of the need to
work outside usual hours. However, due to operational requirements, advance notice may not
always be possible.
The work outside of usual hours, which is to qualify as TOIL, must be undertaken by mutual
agreement and be approved by the manager before the work is done. This mutual agreement must
be the result of genuine consultation between the manager and the employee, free from duress.

4.3.2 Accruing of TOIL Credits and Credit Limits
Accrual of TOIL above the standard hours can only occur in the following circumstances:
I. TOIL is not intended as a system for individuals to determine their own flexible start,
lunch and departure times or to claim reasonable travel time as overtime.
II.
Extra Work time (normal work activities/meetings …)

Only relates to approved extra work time above standard weekly hours (eg 38)

Must be for pre-approved extra work on weekdays, within ordinary span of hours
(eg 7.00am -7.00pm)

Must be for one continuous period of greater than 15 minutes
III.
Extra Travel time for approved Work purposes (travel to alternate location, workshops …):

Only that part of travel time not already absorbed in standard (7.6) daily hours, can
be recorded as TOIL. eg does not include travel during normal daily work hours

Weekdays – car travel to alternate location with early departure or late arrival, only
count total actual time above standard daily hours, from time left/arrived at Head
Office and arrived/left the temporary work location

Weekends – car travel to alternate location (but not working on that day) on a nonstandard work day, count from time left/arrived at Head Office and arrived/left the
temporary work location

Note: Weekend work including travel compensated as Overtime

Air Travel – travel time commences from 30 minutes prior to scheduled flight
departure and time counts till 30 minutes after scheduled flight arrival. Only that
part of travel time not already absorbed in standard (8) daily hours, can be recorded
as TOIL. eg does not include travel during normal daily work hours
IV. TOIL Credits – will be accrued at the standard rate eg one hour worked = one hour TOIL.
Credits may be accrued up to a maximum of 15.2 hours (2 standard days) in a fortnight.
Only in exceptional circumstances will accrual above 15.2 hours be approved by the Line
Manager and CEO.
V. TOIL accrued in any pay period (week), must be used within two months of its accrual
VI. Prior to separation TOIL balances should be proactively managed by staff and Manager
down to a zero balance
VII. On separation any TOIL balances remaining shall be paid out at the standard hourly rate

4.3.3 Recording of approved TOIL credits
Recording requirements of TOIL accrued in the above circumstances, are as follows:
I. The number of approved and agreed hours must be recorded on the timesheet.
II.
The hours recorded and accrued as TOIL will be the actual hours worked. (as defined
above at 4.3.2)
III.
The timesheet and hours must be verified by the Line Manager
IV. TOIL balances will be maintained on personnel/payroll records
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

4.3.4 Management of and Taking of TOIL
Both the line manager and the employee must carefully monitor demands to work hours in
excess of ordinary working hours and work cooperatively to manage TOIL balances and granting
of TOIL leave.
I. If an employee wishes to access their TOIL, they are required to complete a Leave
Application Form, and submit it to their Line Manager for approval
II.
The Line Manager is responsible for authorising all leave requests, within their delegation
in line with the service delivery needs of the business;
III.
TOIL leave shall be granted in minimum of 4.0 hour blocks (1/2 day)

4.4 Overtime and Penalty Rates
Rates will be paid in accordance with the provisions of the relevant Modern Award.
For full time employees - time and half for the first two hours of overtime, double time after the
first two hours in any one instance. (Sundays double time for Nurses)

4.5 Roster Scheme
A Roster Scheme (for full time employees only) will be applied to some work groups.
eg Nurses, Senior Managers
Designated work groups will be as approved by the Board.
The Roster Scheme will operate in accordance with following conditions:

Staff will be rostered to work set hours, equalling 40 hours per week, allowing one
RDO per 4 week period, (to be taken as approved by the CEO)

Roster start and finish times are as determined by the Practice Manger / CEO

Prior to separation, staff should use any RDO’s so as to manage any balance down to
zero

On separation any RDO balances remaining shall be paid out at the standard hourly
rate

5.

Staff Exit Policy

5.1

Resignation

Permanent employees are required to give the period of notice of resignation as per the National
Employment Standards, unless otherwise indicated on their individual employment contract.
If a permanent employee fails to give notice, the organisation has the right to withhold monies
due to an amount equal to the ordinary time rate of pay for the period of the notice.

5.2

Termination

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

The ACCHO may terminate employment at any time by giving the other party the required period
of notice specified below and be approved by the Chief Executive Officer:
In order to terminate the employee, the employer must give the following period of notice:
Years of Service
Required Notice
1 Year or less
1 week
Over 1 Year up to completion
2 weeks
of 3
Over 3 Years up to completion 3 weeks
of 5
Over 5 Years completed
4 weeks
service
In addition, employees 45 years and over who have completed at least two (2) years continuous
service with the employer will receive one (1) additional weeks’ notice.
Payment in Lieu of the prescribed notice period must be made if the appropriate notice period is
not required to be worked. Note: that the employment may be terminated with the employee
working part of the required period of notice and by the employer making payment for the
remainder of the period of notice.
Note: The period of notice in this clause does not apply:

in the case of dismissal for serious misconduct;

to employees engaged for a specific period of time or for a specific task or tasks;

to trainees whose employment under a traineeship agreement or an approved traineeship
is for a specified period;

to casual employees
Employees still in their initial six month qualifying period shall be entitled to one (1) weeks’ notice
of termination.
Should the funding from the relevant statutory authorities that provides for a position cease, at
any stage, the contract of employment will be terminated at the same date as the cessation of
funding. The ACCHO will advise you of any withdrawal of funding, and the resultant effect on
your employment, as soon as possible after ACCHO has been advised of the withdrawal of such
funding by the relevant statutory authority.

5.3

Summary Dismissal

The Chief Executive Officer (or Chairperson for the CEO position) may summarily dismiss an
employee for serious misconduct, which may include but not be limited to:

any serious breach of this Agreement committed by the employee or any disgraceful, wilful
disobedience, dishonest or improper conduct in connection with employee’s employment;

any conduct that brings or may reasonably have been foreseen to bring the employee or
the ACCHO or any of its associated companies into disrepute; or

any failure to carry out any lawful and reasonable order or direction given by the ACCHO

5.4

Redundancy

Genuine redundancy occurs where the ACCHO decides it no longer wants an employee’s job to
be done by anyone and terminates their employment. This may include circumstances where:
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual






the job someone has been doing is replaced due to introducing new
technology (i.e. it can be done by a machine)
the business relocates
a merger or takeover happens
the business restructures or reorganises

Redundancy does not apply in situations where funding for a specific role ends nor due to the
ordinary and customary turnover of labour.
If the employer decides that the employee’s position cannot be continued because of
redundancy, the employer shall consult with the employee about alternative possibilities, such as
working in another form of employment and other opportunities besides the ending of their
employment.
If employment is ended because of redundancy then, as well as notice or payment in lieu of
notice, the employer will pay to the employee a severance payment according to the following
Table:
Period of continuous service
Less than 1 year
1 year and less than 2
2 years and less than 3
3 years and less than 4
4 years and less than 5
5 years and less than 6
6 years and less than 7
7 years and less than 8
8 years and less than 9
9 years and less than 10
10 years and over

Redundancy pay
nil
4 weeks pay
6 weeks pay
7 weeks pay
8 weeks pay
10 weeks pay
11 weeks pay
13 weeks pay
14 weeks pay
16 weeks pay
12 weeks pay

Note: long service leave entitlements provide the rationale for reducing the redundancy pay
entitlement for employees who have a period of 10 years’ continuous service or greater.

5.5

Exit Checklist

An exit procedure is to be conducted for all staff members by their Senior Manager. The purpose
is to recover work items and provide an avenue for the employee to communicate feelings/
concerns/ views.
The following procedure should be coordinated by the Senior Manager when an employee leaves
the organisation:
 Staff members who are given notice of termination or resign will be provided with a certificate
of service,
 Recover properties, passwords, tools, keys, relevant documents.
 Letter of resignation or letter of termination to be placed on the personnel file.
 Termination payment to be prepared with ordinary wages due or wages in lieu of notice
calculated.
 Annual leave due to the date of termination to be calculated and paid at the employee’s
current rate.
 Leave loading in accordance with the employment contract is calculated. Any pro-rata long
service leave entitlements that may be applicable are calculated.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

The Manager should dedicate time to the employee to discuss:
 The staff member’s views on the ACCHO, work procedures and any relevant matters.
 The staff members needs and feelings in regards to moving on from the ACCHO
The Manager is to consider and make operational/procedural improvements as required.
Finance staff will ensure:
 Staff members who are given notice of termination or who resign will be provided with a
Statement of Service, on request
 Termination payments will be prepared with ordinary wages due or wages in lieu of notice
calculated and paid within one week of the termination date
 Annual leave due to the date of termination to be calculated and paid at the employee’s
current rate.
 Leave loading in accordance with the employment contract is calculated. Any pro-rata long
service leave entitlements that may be applicable are calculated.

6.

Annual Leave

The National Employment Standards provide for an employee (other than a casual employee) to
have four weeks of paid annual leave for each year of service with the ACCHO. This may be varied
by individual Employment Contract or overridden by an Award eg Nurses Award – five weeks.
An employee’s entitlement to annual leave accrues on a continuous basis according to the number
of ordinary hours they worked.
New Employees must complete 3 months service before annual leave can be taken.
Employees will be paid Annual Leave loading of 17.5% of their ordinary weekly pay.
Typically the approval of periods of annual leave is dictated by our operational requirements.

6.1

Christmas Leave

The ACCHO will determine on an annual basis whether there is a close down period over Christmas.
At the sole discretion of the Chief Executive Officer, the ACCHO may close down over Christmas for
the ordinary working days that fall between 26 December (Boxing Day) and 1 January (New Year’s
Day). Further it is at the sole discretion of the CEO whether staff are required to access annual
leave and/or time-in-lieu (less public holidays) or will paid in full without use of leave entitlements
for this close down period.

6.2

Applying of Annual Leave

Staff wishing to take annual leave must submit an application for leave at least one month prior
to the date that the leave is to commence.
6.2.1 Approval of annual leave is at the discretion of the CEO. Staff must not assume that leave
will be granted until written approval, appropriately authorised by the manager, is received.
6.2.2 The principle behind the concept of Annual Leave is to provide an avenue for staff to relax
and rejuvenate without loss of income. Accordingly annual leave should ideally be taken in blocks
of a minimum of one week’s duration however variations to this is at the discretion of the CEO.
6.2.3 Accrued annual leave should be taken regularly. No person will be allowed to accrue more
than eight (8) weeks annual leave without the written approval of the CEO. Staff are encouraged
to take leave in the year it falls due.

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

6.2.4 Due to the requirements of the business and other departments, the number of people
from the same unit allowed to take leave concurrently may be limited.
6.2.5 In the event of a person, without appropriate approval, accruing greater than eight (8)
weeks annual leave, the ACCHO reserves the right to insist that the person arrange to take annual
leave. If the person does not take steps to arrange such leave, the ACCHO will, with 4 weeks’
notice in writing, send the person on annual leave.
6.2.6 The primary objective of the ACCHO is to successfully operate its business and there are
business peaks at various times each year. At these times, annual leave may be either unavailable
or of limited availability. In all cases, unless extenuating circumstances exist, annual leave will be
approved on a “first in, first served” basis.
6.2.7 The ACCHO reserves the right to cancel or defer approved annual leave of any person if
business requirements dictate that the leave would have a detrimental effect on the operation of
the business. The decision to cancel or defer approved annual leave is at the discretion of the
Chief Executive Officer.

7.

Personal/Carers Leave

Every employee (other than a casual employee) is entitled to ten (10) paid working days per annum
(pro rata for part time employees) of Personal and Carer’s Leave and two (2) days of unpaid carer’s
leave per occasion.
An employee’s entitlement to paid personal/carer’s leave accrues progressively during a year of
service according to the number of ordinary hours worked, and can accumulate from year to
year.
Personal/Carer’s leave is:
(a) paid leave (sick leave) taken by an employee because of a personal illness, or injury, of the
employee; or
(b) paid or unpaid leave (carer’s leave) taken by an employee to provide care or support to a
member of the employee’s immediate family, or a member of the employee’s household, who
requires care or support because of:
I.
a personal illness, or injury of the member; or
II.
an unexpected emergency affecting the member.
Full-time and part-time employees are only eligible for unpaid carer’s leave if they do not have any
paid personal/carer’s leave credit available.
Casual employees are entitled to a period of up to two (2) days unpaid Carer’s Leave for each
permissible occasion, as above.

7.1

Procedure

7.1.1 Any person who will be absent from work for any health-related reason must advise his or
her manager of his or her inability to report for work and of the nature of the illness/injury.
Where practicable, the manager must be advised no later than 1/2 hour prior to the normal work
commencement time. This notification must be by way of telephone call. SMS or email
messages are not acceptable.
7.1.2 In cases where a person is absent from work on personal leave for two or more
consecutive days, immediately before or after a public holiday, a medical certificate from a duly
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

qualified medical practitioner is required to be submitted to the manager at the earliest possible
opportunity, or on the day that the person returns to work after the absence.
7.1.3 Unless unusual circumstances exist, absences of one day do not require a medical
certificate.
7.1.4 Notwithstanding points above, the ACCHO reserves the right to request a Medical
Certificate from any person, for any absence due to illness, at any time if it is believed that
unusual circumstances exist.
7.1.5 Medical Certificates are confidential documents and must be placed in each individual
staff member’s HR file as soon as possible after receipt.
7.1.6 Managers must take all reasonable steps to ensure that the operation of the business is
not delayed or unduly effected by the absence of one or more person through personal leave.

8.

Long Service Leave (varies according to STATE)

The ACCHO recognises that Employees are entitled to a minimum of xx weeks on full pay after each
period of xx years continuous service (pro rata for part time employees). CHECK relevant
STATE/TERRITORY LEGISLATION for ENTITLEMENTS
Employees with (xx) to (xx) years or more of continuous employment are entitled to be paid pro
rata long service leave on termination of employment, in the following circumstances:
 The employee's service is terminated by their death;
 The employee terminates their service because of their illness or incapacity or because
of a domestic or other pressing necessity;
 The employer terminates the employee for reasons other than serious and willful
misconduct; or
 The employer unfairly dismisses the employee.
Long service leave is exclusive of public holidays that may fall during the period of leave.
Only the CEO can approve granting of LSL and will take into account the organisation’s needs.
Leave loading is not payable in relation to any long service leave.
Long service leave may be taken in conjunction with other leave entitlements.
Employees will not receive payment instead of long service leave except where eligible on
termination of the employee’s employment and subject to the employee meeting the long service
leave requirements.

8.1

Procedure

8.1.1 For the purposes of this policy “service” shall be deemed to mean “continuous service”,
which will be defined as service without a break in employment.
8.1.2 A break in your continuous employment for any unpaid leave is not included towards the
length of the employee’s continuous service.
8.1.3 Any person wishing to take Long Service Leave should provide CEO with a minimum of 3
months’ notice, in writing, of his or her intention.
8.1.4 Any variation from the content of this policy that is not dictated by legislative
requirements shall be at the discretion of the CEO.

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

8.1.5 Managers must take all reasonable steps to ensure that the operation of the business is
not delayed or unduly effected by the absence of one or more people on Long Service Leave.

9.

Parental Leave

9.1. Unpaid Leave
Parental Leave may include Maternity Leave, Paternity Leave or Adoption Leave.
The ACCHO’s employees are eligible after 12 months continuous service with the ACCHO. Each
eligible member of an employee couple may take a separate period of unpaid parental leave
totalling 12 months combined subject to a limited entitlement to take concurrent leave.
Parental leave is only available to employees who have or will have responsibility for the care of a
child. The leave must be associated with:
• the birth of a child to the employee, the employee’s spouse, or the employee’s de facto
partner or
• the placement of a child under 16 with the employee for adoption.

9.2

Procedure

9.2.1 General rule -: Employee needs to have completed 12 months of service.
9.2.2 Any person who requires Parental Leave will be entitled to take such leave in accordance
with the NES. The employee will be required to provide a letter from a duly qualified practitioner
or other person of authority.
9.2.3 A minimum of 2 month’s notice, in writing, must be provided to the ACCHO by any person
intending to take Parental Leave.
9.2.4 When a person wishes to return to work from Parental Leave, he or she must provide the
ACCHO with a minimum of 1 month’s notice in writing prior to the intended date of return.
9.2.5 The Manager must take reasonable steps to ensure that the operation of the business is
not unduly effected by absences due to Parental Leave.
9.2.6 The ACCHO will take reasonable steps to ensure that a person returning from Parental
Leave may return to the same role that he or she held prior to commencing the leave. Changes
within the business may however dictate that the role has significantly changed or no longer
exists. In these instances each situation shall be dealt with in a way that provides the best
possible outcome, within legislative requirements, for all parties.

9.3. Paid Leave
An employee may in lieu of or in conjunction with parental leave, access any annual leave or long
service leave entitlements which they have accrued subject to the total amount of leave not
exceeding fifty-two (52) weeks.
From 1 July 2011, employees who have 12 months service prior to the expected date of birth or
adoption of their child, will be entitled to a government funded Parental Payment in addition to
the above unpaid leave entitlement.
Eligible staff may receive 18 weeks Government funded pay at the National Minimum Wage. The
Family Assistance Office will advance funds to the ACCHO.

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

Staff need to advise the ACCHO of their intention to take this leave up to 3 months prior to expected
date of birth/adoption, to enable application to the Family Assistance Office.

10. Public Holidays
You will be entitled to all statutory and gazetted holidays including:
• 1 January (New Year’s Day), • 26 January (Australia Day), • Good Friday, • Easter
Monday
• 25 April (Anzac Day), Labor Day, • Queen’s Birthday holiday
• 25 December (Christmas Day), • 26 December (Boxing Day)
 local
Pay for public holidays will be at normal base rate.
The ACCHO may request employees to work on public holidays, where there is an overriding
business need and sufficient notice is provided.

11. Ceremonial/Cultural Leave (unpaid leave)
An employee who is legitimately required by Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander tradition to be
absent from work for Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander ceremonial/cultural purposes shall be
entitled to up to ten (10) working days unpaid leave in any one year, provided leave is granted in
advance with the ACCHO’s authority.

11.1 Procedure
11.1.1 An employee should complete the Leave Application Form and a written statement of
reasons and evidence of requirement to attend and submit it to their Chief Executive Officer at
least four (4) weeks prior to the requested leave date (where possible). An application will be
granted based on the following criteria:
 The leave request is legitimate; and
 The business needs of the ACCHO can be met whilst the employee is on leave.
11.1.2 Approval of Leave of Absence will be at the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer. The
Manager will notify the employee as soon as possible prior to the requested leave date, of the
outcome of the application.

12. Compassionate Leave
Compassionate leave is paid leave taken by an employee (other than Casual employees);
1/ For the purposes of spending time with a person who is a member of the employee’s immediate
family or a member of the employee’s household who has a personal illness, or injury, that poses
a serious threat to his or her life;
or
2/ After the death of a member of the employee’s immediate family or a member of the
employee’s household.
An employee (other than Casual employees); is entitled to a period of two (2) days of paid
compassionate leave for each occasion as specified above.

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

The employee will be required to provide evidence of the illness, injury or death (ie. funeral
notice) that would reasonably satisfy the ACCHO.
The definition of Immediate Family Member includes an Employee’s:
- Spouse, De facto partner, Child, Parent, Grandparent, Grandchild, Sibling, or
- a Child, parent, grandparent, grandchild or sibling of the employees spouse or de facto partner

12.1 Procedure
12.1.1 People, other than casual team members, may take two days compassionate leave per
occasion, without loss of pay, upon the death of an immediate relative.
12.1.2 Casual team members shall be allowed 2 days’ time off without pay for the purposes of
compassionate leave.
12.1.3 Applications for compassionate Leave should be completed on the Leave Application form
with a statement of reasons and supporting evidence
12.1.4 For the purposes of maintaining appropriate records, any Compassionate Leave taken
should be recorded in writing.
12.1.3 Approval of Leave of Absence will be at the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer. The
Manager will notify the employee as soon as possible prior to the requested leave date, of the
outcome of the application.

13. Community Service Leave
Employees, including casual employees, are entitled to be absent from work for the purpose of
performing certain community service activities such as:
•
a ‘voluntary emergency management activity’;
•
jury service (including attendance for jury selection) that is required by or under a law of
the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory.
An employee engages in a voluntary emergency management activity only if they:
•
engage in an activity that involves dealing with an emergency or natural disaster
•
engage in the activity on a voluntary basis
•
the employee is a member of, or has a member-like association with, a ‘recognised
emergency management body’ and either:
o the employee was requested by or on behalf of the body to engage in the activity or
o no such request was made, but it would be reasonable to expect that if the circumstances
had permitted the making of such a request, it is likely that such a request would have
been made.
Community service leave under the NES is unpaid, except in relation to jury service where an
employee (other than a casual) is entitled to ‘make-up pay’ for the first 10 days that the employee
is absent for a period of jury service. Make-up pay is the difference between any jury service pay
the employee receives (excluding any expense-related allowances) and the employee’s ‘base rate
of pay’ for the ordinary hours they would have worked.

13.1 Procedure
13.1.1 There is no set limit on the amount of community service leave an employee is entitled to.
An employee is entitled to be absent from his or her employment:
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

• for the time that the employee is engaged in the eligible community service activity,
including reasonable travelling time associated with the activity, and reasonable rest time
immediately following the activity
• if the absence is reasonable in all the circumstances (jury service is taken to always be
reasonable).
13.1.2 An employee who wants an absence from his or her employment to be covered by
community service leave must provide the ACCHO with:
• notice of the absence as soon practicable, by completing the Leave Application form
with supporting evidence
• the period or expected period of absence.
The ACCHO may require an employee, who has given notice of taking community service leave, to
provide evidence that would satisfy a reasonable person that the employee is entitled to the
leave. A request to attend Jury Service requires documentation from the relevant government
department.
13.1.3 The ACCHO may, at its discretion, elect to provide the person with a letter requesting that
he or she be excused from jury service.
13.1.4 Casual team members required to attend jury service will be allowed to be absent from
the workplace. This time will be taken as leave without pay.

14. Leave without Pay (LWOP)
Employees are contracted to perform their duties to enable the ACCHO to provide quality and
efficient services to clients in accordance with the Action plan. The ACCHO provides a number of
leave options to employees to meet planned and unexpected personal requirements.
Leave without Pay is not available for staff to opt for occasional unpaid days off work and
approval cannot be anticipated.
Leave without Pay maybe authorised at the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer, subject to
the following conditions:
• only full time and part time employees with 12 months service are eligible (unless
exceptional circumstances exist)
• staff must have exhausted all other available sources of leave eg annual leave
• planned LWOP can only be approved for a minimum period of 5 days and up to a
maximum of twelve (12) months
Whilst absence on leave without pay will not break an employee’s service, this absence will not
generally count for the purposes of accrual of leave entitlements.

14.1 Procedure
14.1.1 Reasonable advance notice is required, for LWOP requests in excess of two weeks, two
months’ advance notice is required.
14.1.2 Application for LWOP must be made in writing with a full statement of reasons, addressed
to the Chief Executive Officer with an accompanying Leave Form, indicating dates.
14.1.3 The date of return to work will be fixed in advance as part of the application and approval
process.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

14.1.4 The Chief Executive Officer must take reasonable steps to ensure that the operation of the
business is not unduly effected by absences due to LWOP.
14.1.5 The ACCHO will take reasonable steps to ensure that a person returning from LWOP may
return to the same role that he or she held prior to commencing the leave. Changes within the
business may however dictate that the role has significantly changed or no longer exists. In these
instances each situation shall be dealt with in a way that provides the best possible outcome,
within legislative requirements, for all parties.

14.2 Conduct During Leave without Pay
Whilst on Leave without Pay, the employee will continue to maintain an employment relationship
with the ACCHO. Consequently, the employee may not accept any other employment during the
period of leave of absence without the permission of the Chief Executive Officer.
Where an employee is granted Leave without Pay, they are expected to conduct themselves in a
manner in line with the Code of Conduct and polices of the ACCHO. Any conduct which might
tend to adversely reflect upon the reputation or standing of the ACCHO will be viewed seriously
and may result in disciplinary action

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

Section 2 - EMPLOYEE CONDUCT & MANAGEMENT
15. Workforce Planning & Recruitment Policy
15.1 Principles of Resourcing and Recruitment
The ACCHO is committed to management of a fair and effective process to ensure appointments
are made in line with approved needs, are based on merit (that is the applicant best meeting the
Position Description will be appointed) and are in line with equal employment opportunity
principles.
Workforce Requirements
The Annual Action planning process will detail the organisations service delivery and program
objectives, taking into account planned growth, strategic objectives and the requirements specified
in relevant funding agreements.
The Chief Executive Officer [INSERT ALTERNATIVE POSITION TITLE FOR YOUR ACCHO] will be
responsible for developing an annual Workforce Requirements Plan that addresses the
organisations needs in terms of:
 the number and type of positions
 skills requirements
 current vs future needs
 resourcing options and timeframes
The plan will inform the annual Salary and Wages Budget.
All recruitment will be conducted in line with the annual Workforce Requirements Plan and
approved Budget.
Recruitment Principles
The ACCHO is committed to appointing applicants based on merit (that is, the applicant best
meeting the position description for the job).
The ACCHO is committed to appointing applicants based on equal employment opportunity
principles, and to providing development opportunities to staff by advertising all vacancies
internally in the first instance.

15.2 Recruitment Approval
Recruitment for existing vacancies (unchanged positions already approved in the budget), can be
approved and initiated by the Chief Executive Officer.
Recruitment to a new or substantially changed position (as a variation to the existing approved
budget positions), required a Business Case submitted by the Chief Executive Officer to the Board
showing:
 current and budgeted FTE
 effect the position will have on salary budget
 why the position is needed
 the reason(s) that it needs to be full-time/part time/casual
 the benefit to the ACCHO
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

15.3 Position Descriptions
A Position Description will be developed or reviewed for each position to be filled. The relevant
Manager is required to review the Position Description and ensure that it is accurate before a
position is advertised.

15.4 Selection Criteria
The Selection Criteria will provide the basis for determining the relative suitability of candidates
for the nominated vacancy.
In developing Selection Criteria, the following should be noted:

each selection criteria should be specifically related to the work to be performed, as set
out in the Position Description;

the number of selection criteria should be restricted to key factors, as such there will be
four to eight selection criteria.
The selection criteria should include, as appropriate, the following:
 organisational alignment/fit with values
 relevant skills, personal qualities, core competencies
 previous work experience and relevant knowledge
 required qualifications and training
 Working with Children Checks /Police Checks as required

15.5 Remuneration on Commencement
Following the review or development of the Position Description, the CEO will consider the salary
to be offered for the position in line with award and the ACCHO Salary Table.

15.6 Advertising Positions
On receipt of relevant approval documentation the Manager will draft advertisement.
All vacancies will be advertised internally and as required, throughout the Sector and externally.
External advertisements will be placed via media that will best target the required audience.

15.7 Selection Panels
Interviews and appointment recommendations will be managed by a Selection panel.
The Selection Panel will be convened by the Manager of the vacant position.
It is the Line Manager’s responsibility to ensure the Selection Panel:
 consists of at least two and no more than three members,
 is gender-balanced and includes where practicable an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander
ACCHO manager
 only has members who have an understanding of relevant health and community issues
Panel members must be fair and objective when conducting the selection process. As such, where
a panel member’s personal relationship with an applicant may cause a conflict of interest, the panel
member must disclose their relationship with the applicant to the other panel member/s. At this
time, the panel member/s may feel that in the interest of fairness to the other applicants, the panel
member (with the relationship to the applicant) should be disqualified from participating in the
selection process. )
The Manager will normally be nominated as the Chair of the Selection Panel and will be responsible
for coordinating and leading the process.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

15.8

Shortlisting

The decision to shortlist an applicant will be based on the applicant’s response to the selection
criteria, and their skills, experience and relevant qualifications.
The Panel Chair is responsible for recommending a Selection Interview Shortlist to the relevant
Unit Manager for approval.

15.9

Interviews

The Panel Chair is responsible for preparing relevant questions to ask during the interview process,
using the Interview Questions Template. All shortlisted candidates shall be asked the same
questions and given the same opportunities to respond. Other panel members are responsible for
reviewing the questions for interview.
Interview notes must be taken for all applicants, and kept for 12 months following the appointment
of the successful candidate. These interview notes will also be used to provide feedback to
unsuccessful applicants.
At the conclusion of the interview for each candidate, the selection panel members will complete
the scoring section. At the conclusion of all interviews, the selection panel will discuss and agree
upon the preferred candidate, and then proceed to complete Reference Checking.

15.10 Reference Checks
Prior to any offer of employment, it is essential that reference checks are conducted and
documented (Reference Check Form). It is recommended that at least two (2) reference checks
are conducted on each applicant prior to the offer of employment being made.
Reference checks should also be conducted on previous employees being reconsidered for a
position within the organisation.
Both written and telephone reference checks can be used to validate an employee’s previous
employment history. Prior to conducting a reference check, the express permission of the
applicant should be obtained.
Qualifications should also be verified, and confirmation that the information provided is accurate
should also be noted with the individual’s application.

15.11 Offer of Employment
The Selection Panel will prepare a brief report (Selection Panel Report) outlining the recruitment
process and the preferred applicant.
When the preferred applicant has been determined, the Selection Panel will submit their report
to the CEO for approval. Once approved by the CEO, the Chief Finance Officer will coordinate the
Letter of Offer and Contract.
Unsuccessful Applications

The Panel Chair will ensure unsuccessful applicants are advised in writing. (may be delegated to
Corporate Services).

15.12 Police Check /Working with Children Check (Blue Card)
Specific positions/ employees will be required to have a Police Check and or Working with Children
Check in accordance with legislative requirements or as determined by the Board.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

A person will need a Blue Card if they work in a paid or voluntary capacity in a child-related area
regulated by the Commission for Children and Young People and Child Guardian Act 2000.
All the ACCHO ‘s employees are required to undertake a national police record check.
The ACCHO will pay for the cost of obtaining and renewals of these documents.
The Police clearance process will be required/renewed every 2 years.
Evidence of disclosable convictions will lead to review of ongoing employment at the discretion of
the Chief Executive Officer(Chair for Director positions) and may result in summary termination of
employment, depending on the inherent requirements of the position.
Note: For Health professionals (Doctors and Nurses) a “police clearance” is provided as part of the
AHPRA registration process.

15.13 Disclosure of Pre-Existing Injury and Claims History
Employees (prospective employee) are required to disclose, in writing, details of any existing
medical condition or disability which may adversely affect their ability to carry out their functions
and duties and/or which may be aggravated by the duties offered by the ACCHO.
Employees (prospective employee) are required to provide written consent for the ACCHO to seek
a copy of their Work Cover claims history.

15.14 Probationary Period
Employees will be informed at the time of employment that the offer of employment is subject to
the successful completion of a six (6) month probationary period and that continuity of all the
ACCHO’s positions are subject to annual funding approval.

16. Induction
16.1 Principles
The ACCHO is committed to a structured Staff Induction process which will provide the necessary
information tools and support to enable new employees to be clear regarding the ACCHO’s
expectations and be job ready from time of engagement. This process is recognised as an important
contributor to staff motivation, productivity and retention.

16.2 Scope
All new employees and volunteers will participate in all elements of the Induction Program. With
the exception of casuals and staff contracted for less than three (3) months, who will have a tailored
program.

16.3 Program Elements
The Induction Program covers three (3) broad areas.
i. Organisation Overview
- History of Organisation
- Outline of current programs/services
- Cultural Awareness
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

ii.

Job Specific
- Unit Action Plan & PD
- Job specific (as applicable) – Use of Equipment & Systems,
- Site specific – introductions, facilities, workstation, Fire Evacuation procedure

iii.

Corporate Services / Administration
- Sign up procedures – Contract, Confidentiality Agreement, Employee Details Form,
Superannuation, TFN Declaration, provision of Qualifications , Salary Sacrifice
- Licences and Clearances – Drivers Licence, Blue Card, Police check
- Briefing on Pay and Leave processes – TiL, timesheet, leave forms, Fair Work Statement
- Provision of Tools - cars, phones, computers, email ID/password, keys
- Policies – briefing on HR Policies, Health & Safety, CQI, Medical Emergencies

16.4 Program Timetable and Responsibilities
The schedule of program elements is as detailed below:
Within First Week
 The Senior Manager shall complete all - Job Specific Induction elements
 Corporate Services Unit shall complete all – Corporate Services Induction elements
 Corporate Services Unit will arrange access to documents on Intranet/Share
Point re Organisation overview
Within First Three Months – Corporate Services will coordinate all new starters’ participation in an
Induction session where Organisation Overview elements and other specifics will be presented.

16.5 Record of Attendance/Completion
Employees will be required to complete a declaration of attendance/completion of the Induction
Program elements, for each program element.
The Record of Induction Attendance/Completion shall be kept on the employee’s Personnel File .

17. Personnel Records
A range of information must be made and kept for each employee as prescribed by the Fair Work
Act 2009 and Fair Work Regulations 2009.
The ACCHO will maintain staff employment records to assist the effective operation of the
business and ensure compliance with all legal and statutory obligations.

17.1 Records Management
Our employee records are:
 in a form that is readily accessible to a Fair Work Inspector
 legible and in English
 kept for seven (7) years
 not altered unless for the purposes of correcting an error
 not false or misleading to the employer’s knowledge.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual





private and confidential. Generally, no one can access them other than the employee,
their employer, and relevant payroll staff, as required by the Privacy Act 1988.
made available at the request of an employee or former employee (copy only)
Currency of Records: Employment records are reviewed at least annually to ensure
currency of clinical qualifications & registrations, professional indemnity insurance,
training records, immunisations and personal contact details.

17.2 Personnel Records
A confidential employee personnel record is created for every employee. The following records
are to be retained in the personnel file.
 Application for employment and medical report (if relevant);
 Evidence of qualifications / current registration (where required);
 Selection Assessment and reference checks;
 Copy of letter of offer and signed acceptance;
 Signed Workplace Confidentiality Agreement, Staff Code of Conduct and receipt of
Policies and Procedures Manual;
 Proof of participation in orientation / induction;
 Copy of individual’s Blue Card (where required);
 Leave application forms (including relevant supporting documentation such as medical
certificates);
 Authority to make deductions from salaries;
 Change of employee details material;








Performance review / appraisal documentation;
Disciplinary notes;
Complaints;
Incident Report Forms relating to the employee;
Workers compensation claims; and
Separation forms, termination letter / form and any exit interview notes
Training Records including:
 Record of training attended, Training plans, Certificates

17.3 Payroll Records
In addition to the information kept in each individual employee’s file the ACCHO maintains
records on payroll, taxation and superannuation transactions, as required by the Fair Work Act
2009. These include:
Time and Wages Records


The name of the employer and the name of the employee.



Date the employee started employment.



If the employee is full-time, part-time.



If the employee is permanent, temporary or casual.



The employee's pay rate, including gross and net amounts paid and any deductions from
the gross amount.



Any loadings, monetary allowances, bonuses, incentive-based payments, penalty rates or
other entitlements paid that can be singled out.

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual



Leave information for all types of leave, including:
a. leave taken, leave balance
b. a copy of any agreement to cash out accrued leave, the rate of payment for the leave
and when the payment was made.



Employees paid superannuation (excluding payments to a defined benefit fund):
a. amount paid, pay period, date(s) paid
b. name of super fund, record of the employee's super fund choice and the date that
choice was made).



If the employee or employer terminates their employment:
a. name of the person who terminated the employment
b. how the termination took place - by consent, by notice, summarily or in some other
way (need to include details).

Pay Slips
Pay slips are given to each employee and these include the following, as required by the Fair Work
Act 2009.


the name of the employer and ABN (if any).



the name, position & classification of the employee.



the period to which the pay relates and the date it is paid.



the hourly rate (or annual rate, if applicable).



the hours worked, itemised as normal hours, overtime, penalty rates & loadings, leave
payments, etc. and the amount paid per hour for each income type.



details of any additional allowances or deductions.



the gross amount of the pay, taxation deducted and the net payment made.



superannuation contributions for the period with the fund name and employer & employee
contributions itemised separately.

17.4 Advising of Changes
It is the employee’s responsibility to notify the Finance Officer [INSERT ALTERNATIVE POSITION
TITLE FOR YOUR ACCHO] of any changes to their personal details, as soon as practicable. This may
include change of address, name, phone number, person to notify in case of accidents or illness,
any changes to information related to the tax status of the employee, change renewal of
qualifications/licences or any other change affecting the relationship between the ACCHO and the
employee.

17.5 Licence and Registration Renewals
Each employee is responsible to ensure current licenses and registration are on record. Each
employee will receive a reminder email from Corporate Services, based on expiry/renewal dates
of work required licences/registration. . The employee is required to provide updated evidence of
renewal/current licence/registration to the Corporate Services Unit, [INSERT ALTERNATIVE
BUSINESS UNIT TITLE FOR YOUR ACCHO] as soon as practicable.

17.6 Database of Record
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

Employee Records: - maintained on secure staff files, contracts on Sharepoint [INSERT
ALTERNATIVE SOFTWARE TITLE FOR YOUR ACCHO]
Pay Records: - maintained on MYOB [INSERT ALTERNATIVE SOFTWARE TITLE FOR YOUR ACCHO]
Training and OH&S records: - maintained on files

17.7 Access to Personnel Records
Employee personnel records are considered confidential and will be maintained by the Chief
Finance Officer. [INSERT ALTERNATIVE POSITION TITLE FOR YOUR ACCHO]
Managers can access personnel records of staff employed in their respective area. The Chief
Executive Officer can access personnel records of all staff on a genuine “need to know” basis.
The Corporate Services Unit will only confirm (not release) employment dates, position and salary,
when contacted by financial institutions, where written authorisation has been provided by the
staff member.
Private telephone numbers of staff may be accessed by the Manager for work-related purposes
only. No address information will be proved without clearance from individual employees.
Employees may view their personnel file at any time, subject to the following conditions:
The employee is to formally request in writing access stating the reason. This request is to be made
to the Chief Executive Officer;
 The employee may then examine their file at a nominated time at the employer’s premises
within 3 days of the employer receiving the request or the employer may post a copy to the
employee within 14 days of receiving the request. The personnel record is the property of
the organisation and will be viewed in the presence of the Chief Executive Officer;
 Under no circumstances is an employee permitted to remove the file from the location or
remove documents from the file;
 The employee is free to insert notes or comments into the file. These notes may include
disagreement with material contained in the file.
Filing cabinets / storage areas containing personnel files will be kept closed and locked at all time
when not in use.
Personnel files are to be treated as strictly private confidential. Any breach or suspected breach of
confidentiality must be reported to the Chief Executive Officer for investigation.

18. Confidentiality & Privacy
18.1 Principles
In order to protect the rights of clients, it is imperative that every member of staff, when dealing
with others’ details, observe the strictest confidence in discharging their duties and professional
responsibilities.
Any disclosure or discussion of records or information concerning clients of the ACCHO, will be
regarded as a serious breach of confidentiality and could lead to dismissal. Such information and
records would include, but are not exclusive to:
 client records
 employee records
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual




ACCHO documents
computer records and passwords

Employees must take care in maintaining the integrity and security of official documents and
information for which they are responsible. Misuse of information includes disclosing information
without proper authority to:
 other employees,
 members of the public,
 government departments/agencies,
 banks, credit agencies,
 the media,
 private investigators.
- Accessing information for personal interest, benefit or advantage, or for the interest, benefit or
advantage of another person.
- Seeking to take advantage, for any reason, of another person on the basis of information about
that person held in official records.

18.2 Publicity/Media Statements
No staff member of the ACCHO is permitted to make any statement to the media concerning clients
or the ACCHO’s business or to allow their photograph to be taken in or around the organisation’s
premises without the express written approval of the Chief Executive Officer.

18.3 Storage, Security and Release of Information
Information in the possession of the ACCHO shall only be used for the purposes for which it was
acquired. Employees who use such information for any improper purpose may be guilty of serious
and wilful misconduct, and their employment terminated in accordance with the Disciplinary
Process.
Staff shall take all precautions to ensure that information is securely stored and managed so as to
prevent other individuals and unauthorised persons obtaining access to personal information when
not authorised to do so.

18.4 Confidentiality Agreement
All employees / contractors are required to sign a Workplace Confidentiality Agreement prior
to/upon commencing with the ACCHO.
This Agreement will be filed on the employee’s Personnel File.
Upon exiting the organisation all staff must handover all properties, passwords, tools, keys,
relevant soft copy and hard copy documents. These elements remain the property of the ACCHO.

19. Performance Management
19.1 Principles
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

The ACCHO endeavours to assist employees maintain and improve their performance through a
fair and structured Performance Management process which will:
 ensure that employees know what is expected of them in their jobs
 drive improved quality of performance and output
 ensure alignment of individual outputs with the ACCHO’s Action Plan
 plan for the development and training of employees
 manage poor performance as it arises

19.2 Performance Review
Managers are responsible for the continuing management of employee work outputs. This will be
managed through regular meetings, discussion and feedback on progress; including discussion of
work plans and targets where relevant.
Formal Performance Reviews will be conducted;
 within the initial six month period of employment and
 as a minimum annually
19.2.1 Probationary Review
The ACCHO’s expectation is that within the initial six months, the employee should have; the basics
of the role under control; a good grasp of the broad business offering, strong ownership of the role,
competence in terms of required administrative and stakeholder relationships.
If it is evident that an employee cannot meet the requirements of the role within six (6) months of
commencement, employment may be terminated within the probationary period without being
subject to Unfair Dismissal proceedings.
It is appropriate both that the employee gets on the job feedback and the ACCHO assess the
suitability for ongoing employment within the initial six month period.
Steps in Probationary Review Process
 Managers provide employee with Probation Review Form and advise of process
o Manager advises employee of date & time for review
o Manager advises employee to write down key work outcomes/tasks/outputs for
past 6 months
 Manager and Employee have discussion, document and complete a Form/Record
o Manager gives feedback on performance
o Highlight any relevant issues with examples if possible
o Discuss issues raised
o Document specific action or outcome
 Manager Completes Form/Record - indicates recommendation and both parties sign,
forward to the CEO/Corporate Services Unit for action and filing.
19.2.2 Annual Review
The annual review will address:
 achievement of objectives (“What” done /outputs/targets/deliverables)
 behaviours and skills demonstrated (“How” worked eg Team Player, Initiative…)
 training and development plans
The Annual Review Process is a two stage process looking forward for next year and looking back
on previous year.
Stage 1 – Looking Forward - Setting Performance Expectations (at start of financial year)
The manager in conjunction with the employee will set:
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual


performance objectives

actions, deliverables, milestones, targets

expected behaviours

Commit to and record a Training and Development Plan
The form/record will be signed by both parties and a copy kept on the Staff Members file.
Stage 2 – Looking Back - Performance Review (at the end of financial year). The formal Annual
Review will be informed by individual Work Plans, the regular Manager/Employee performance
discussions, performance and activity reports for each role and reflect the Action Plan.
This is a formal event that requires preparation by both parties. The Manager will:
 set a date for performance review meeting
 advise employee of date and inform them that they need to prepare by reviewing reports,
outcomes, objectives and work plan and document on the form at Column
 prepare for discussion by gathering performance evidence eg completed reports, statistics,
feedback from member organisations/peers and consider examples of behaviours
 conduct the one on one meeting to discuss achievements, organisational behaviours and
overall performance.
 record final details as discussed and add any further comments.
 consider the individual’s performance and effectiveness against the Rating Scale and
recommend a rating to the Chief Executive Officer for endorsement.

19.3

Review of Decisions

Any staff member is entitled to seek a review of decisions relating to the performance appraisal
process. The following steps apply:
 The staff member should request that the Chief Executive Officer review the initial decision
of the Manager. The CEO should review the decision and discuss the outcome with the staff
member.
 The outcome of this meeting will be final so far as the organisation is concerned.

19.4

Confidentiality and Access

Information contained in the Performance Review forms and discussions held between the
employee and their manager are confidential.
Performance Review forms are kept in the employee’s personnel file, with access to the forms as
per the Personnel Records Policy.

19.5

Managing Poor Performance

Managers are responsible for work outcomes in their unit and the direction of employees to
achieve the business objectives. Accordingly Managers should address any issues regarding poor
or under performance as they arise.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

The process adopted should be fair, transparent and timely. A Six Step process with Manager
Guidelines is outlined below at 19.5.1.
19.5.1 Process
STEP ONE: INFORMAL DISCUSSION
The first step, as appropriate to level of performance issue, is for the Manager to have an informal
discussion with the employee regarding the performance concern.
The manager should explain to the employee the concerns the manager has regarding the
employee’s performance and find out from the employee if there is anything that is preventing
them from performing at an optimal level.
The manager should then work with the employee to try and address the performance issue before
it escalates into a larger problem.
STEP TWO: FORMAL PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT MEETING AND VERBAL WARNING
Where informal discussions have failed to achieve the necessary improvement to performance, the
manager should hold a formal performance management meeting with the employee concerned.
The purpose of the formal meeting is to inform the employee that there is a serious concern
regarding their performance, formally set out the expected performance levels and verbally warn
the employee that they may face disciplinary action if their performance does not improve.
Guidelines for Meeting - the Manager should;
 Give the employee 24 hours’ notice, inform them of the purpose of the meeting, advise the
employee they have the right to have a support person present, arrange a suitable location
 At the meeting
 clearly explain the concerns, give specific examples where possible
 Give the employee an opportunity to respond and provide explanations
 Discuss the reasons behind the poor performance (includes personal and
professional barriers) and whether anything the ACCHO can do to assist
 Clearly explain the level of performance expected and actions employee needs to
take to improve to standard required
 Set a reasonable timeframe for further review
 Warn the employee that if performance does reach level required within timeframe
then further disciplinary action will occur
 Make a written record of meeting, offer employee to sign (they may elect not to) and
file on personnel file
STEP THREE: REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE (and WRITTEN WARNING IF NECESSARY)
During step two a timeframe for improvement of the employee’s performance will have been set.
Following the completion of that timeframe the manager should meet with the relevant employee
for the purpose of reviewing their performance against the agreed actions and performance levels
discussed at the first meeting.
The same guidelines apply to the conduct of this meeting as with the meeting in step two.
If after hearing from the employee and taking into account all relevant information and
circumstances, the manager is of the view that the employee’s performance has not improved to
the requisite level the employee should be informed that a written warning will be issued following
the conclusion of the meeting.
Guidelines for Written Warning - the Manager should;
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual



Consult with the Chief Executive Officer to confirm outcomes and confirm the content and
obtain CEO signing of a Written Warning
 The Written Warning letter should;
- confirm the process steps taken to date
- outline the poor performance that has given rise to the warning
- specify the actions and expectations to address the poor performance and the timeframe
in which improvement to required standard is required
- outline the consequences that if the employee’s performance fails to reach the level
required within timeframe then further disciplinary action, including potential
termination of their employment, will be considered.
 Place a copy of the letter and record of the meeting on the employees personnel file
STEP FOUR: FURTHER REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE (AND SHOW CAUSE LETTER IF NECESSARY)
During step three a timeframe for further review of the employee’s performance will have been
set.
Following the completion of that timeframe the Manager should meet with the relevant employee
for the purpose of reviewing their performance against the agreed actions and performance levels
discussed at the first formal meeting.
The same guidelines apply to the conduct of this meeting as with the meeting in step two.
If after hearing from the employee and taking into account all relevant information and
circumstances, the manager is of the view that the employee’s performance has still not improved
to the requisite level the employee should be advised that they will be issued with a “show cause
letter” and asked to attend a meeting to explain why their employment should not be terminated.
Guidelines for Show Cause Letters – the Manager should;
 Consult with the Chief Executive Officer to confirm outcomes and confirm the content and
obtain CEO signing of a Show Cause Letter
 The Show Cause letter should;
- confirm the process steps taken to date
- provide details of the continued poor performance
- direct the employee to attend a further and final meeting to give them a final opportunity
to provide an explanation for the poor performance and give reasons why their employment
should not be terminated
- inform the employee that they are entitled to bring a support person to the meeting and
- warn the employee that if the ACCHO is not satisfied with the employee’s responses at
the meeting it is likely that their employment will be terminated.
 This letter should ideally be prepared and delivered within 48 hours of the meeting at Step
4, with the Show Cause Meeting set to take place within a further 48 hours.
STEP FIVE: SHOW CAUSE MEETING
In circumstances where a show cause letter has been issued a meeting should be held with the
employee to give them an opportunity to show cause as to why their employment should not be
terminated. The Chief Executive Officer will conduct this meeting and in most cases the Chief
Finance Officer/HR Manager should attend this meeting along with the Manager.
At the conclusion of the meeting the employee should be told that consideration will be given to
the responses provided by the employee during the meeting and a decision regarding their
continued employment will be made and conveyed to them as soon as possible.
Following the meeting the Manager and Chief Executive Officer should decide on appropriate
action to be taken in relation to the poor performance.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

The decision regarding the outcome of the show cause meeting should be conveyed to the
employee as soon as possible following the conclusion of the show cause meeting (and preferably
within 24 hours of the meeting).
If a decision is made to take some form of action other than termination of employment (for
example a further warning is to be issued, the employee is to be demoted or transferred, or no
action is to be taken), this decision should also be conveyed to the employee orally and in writing.
Where a decision has been made to terminate employment, that decision should be communicated
to the employee both orally and in writing, as per Step Six.
STEP SIX: TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
A termination letter on the basis of unacceptable performance, should only be issued in
circumstances where an employee has been provided with at least a written warning and has been
invited to attend/has attended a show cause meeting.
The Chief Executive Officer will issue the termination letter.
Guidelines for Termination Letters- the Termination Letter should;
 Refer to the show cause letter (and the history of performance management process)
 Refer to the show cause meeting
 Explain that the ACCHO does not consider that the employee has acceptable or sufficient
reasons for their continued poor performance
 Clearly state that following consideration of all the circumstances a decision has been made
to terminate the employee’s employment for reasons of unacceptable performance as
detailed in the show cause letter.
 Set out the separation entitlements including:
- notice period and whether this will be paid out or required to work notice period
- stipulate that accrued annual leave (and long service leave if eligible) will be paid out as
soon as practicable

19.6

Related Policies

Misconduct & Disciplinary Action Policy

20. Training & Development
ACCHO is committed to the development of a competent workforce to enable the achievement
of the strategic business objectives and annual action plan deliverables.
The approach to the training and development of employees has three key components:
1) the analysis of required workforce skills sets
2) the development and delivery of “critical” professional development programs
3) structured individual employee assessment and planning

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

The ACCHO recognises that a major proportion job specific skills learning and development occurs
in the workplace eg systems, procedures and reports. The Training and Development policy
provides a framework for the alignment of all learning and development activities to improved
business performance outcomes.

20.1 Workforce Skill Sets
Training and development initiatives and investment will be targeted at the skilling of employees
to meet the knowledge and skill competency requirements of their current position. The
preference is for all training and development programs/initiatives to lead to achievement of an
accreditation under the Australian Qualifications framework.

20.2 Continuing Professional Development
20.2.1 Registered Health Practitioners
As part of the annual Performance Review and Development process, Managers and employees
who are Registered Health Practitioners will develop a learning plan that satisfies the continuing
professional development (CPD) requirements as specified by AHPRA and the relevant National
Board.
20.2.1 Other Professionals
As part of the annual Performance Review and Development process, Managers and employees
are encouraged to plan for ongoing education and maintenance of competencies/professional
requirements.

20.3 Corporate Programs
As part of the annual Action Planning process the ACCHO will identify key skills sets and
development opportunities that will be coordinated by Corporate Services. This includes:
- Generic training needs - regular training will be organised for Fire and Evacuation, information
systems eg Sharepoint [INSERT ALTERNATIVE SOFTWARE TITLE FOR YOUR ACCHO]

20.4

Employee Training and Development Plans

The Employee Performance Review process will provide a focus for the assessment and planning
of employee training and development requirements.
Each Manager will be required to document an Employee Development Plan. This plan should
identify needs, proposed actions eg courses, timing and estimated costings.
Corporate Services can advise Managers on training and development options, compliance with
CPD requirements and assist with coordination of program sourcing/delivery as appropriate.

20.5 Training Approval Process
The Chief Executive Officer [INSERT ALTERNATIVE POSITION TITLE FOR YOUR ACCHO] approves
release and expenditure in line with business requirements and budget.
Prior approval from the employee’s Manager is required for all conference attendance and / or
training undertaken by employees.
Courses of study that require a commitment extending over a period in excess of two months
require approval by the Chief Executive Officer.
Employees seeking assistance to pursue a course of study, not specifically required as part of
current role, must submit a written application to the Chief Executive Officer. (see 20.6)
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

20.6 Payment for Training and Release for Training
On the Job Training
The expectation is that the majority of training will be conducted on the job and during normal
work hours. Accordingly this will mean normal hours of work and pay conditions apply.
Staff doing certificates as part of their current job requirement, will be able to have up to 4 hours
per week for on-site study time, within standard weekly hours, as approved by their Line Manager
and where operational needs permit.
Formal Training Blocks (eg offsite conferences)
The ACCHO will pay for all registration / course costs for approved conferences and/or training
(may also include funding towards associated travel, accommodation costs)
The employees’ time in attending approved training blocks/conferences is to be treated as normal
work hours. The time should be recorded on the timesheet as training, noting that a maximum of
a standard (7.6) hours per day can be recorded on the timesheet.
If conference attendance / training is undertaken outside normal working hours, the employee
will receive no extra payment for their time.
Professional Development Leave
The expectation is that the majority of training will be conducted on the job and in work hours.
Accordingly this will mean normal hours of work and pay conditions apply, unless specific
contract entitlement to professional development leave is specified.
Non Job Specific / Personal Study / Training
Courses of study undertaken by employees on their own behalf, not as part of the approved
Employees Training and Development plan must be done during non-working hours and costs paid
by the employee.
The ACCHO does not provide for Study Leave for non-approved courses.
The Chief Executive Officer may review the granting of Study Leave on a case by case basis. In
instances where non job specific training is supported with time off or payment of fees, this will
be documented and authorised by the CEO and a formal written commitment from the
Employee will be required, as below.

20.7 Employee Commitment to the ACCHO
Where the employee is supported by the ACCHO to undertake a non-job specific course of study
or training eg Studies for a higher level qualification or alternate profession; then the employee is
required to maintain ongoing employment with the ACCHO for a period as determined by the CEO,
as recognition for the ACCHO as the employer supporting their development.
Should you leave the ACCHO of your own accord within twelve (12) months of the completion of such
training, then the cost of that training may be deducted from any monies owing via reimbursement.

21. Staff Grievances
21.1 Purpose
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

The ACCHO acknowledges that employees experience a range of problems in the workplace which
may affect their work performance. If these problems cannot be resolved and develop into a
grievance, there needs to be a formal process to enable the grievance to be resolved.
The purpose of the Grievance Resolution Procedure is to provide employees with the opportunity
to resolve a grievance concerning decisions which adversely affect them, or other matters about
which they are aggrieved, in their capacity as employees of the ACCHO.
The procedures are intended to prevent personal conflicts becoming entrenched and to resolve
disputes without delay and in a conciliatory, informal and effective manner.

21.2 Definitions
A grievance is a problem, concern or complaint related to the working environment. It can arise
from discrimination, harassment, or any other behaviour by one employee against another, or by
the organisation against an employee.
Grievances can be raised on a range of matters including:
 Breaches of policy;
 Interaction with colleagues;
 Employment conditions; and/or
 Any other forms of unfair treatment which are perceived to have a detrimental effect on an

individual or their work environment.
Not every matter complained about necessitates a grievance. Managers are responsible for
resolving concerns and may intervene in instances where inappropriate behaviour or actions have
been observed or reported by others.

21.3 Principles
The Grievance Resolution Procedure will emphasise and promote the following principles:
 Fair and equitable treatment for all staff;
 Confidential treatment of all grievances;
 Access to grievance resolution for all employees;
 Timely resolution of grievances;
 Resolution of grievances by an accountable delegate wherever possible;
 Non-adversarial resolution;
 Open discussion; and
 Open communication and consultation with all stakeholders including relevant unions where
appropriate and necessary.

21.4 Who do you discuss/submit your Grievances to?
In the first instance grievances should be attempted to be resolved between the parties and then
raised with their Line Manager as required.
All employees must comply with the procedures set out below. Unless there is a valid reason (ie.
the employee’s grievance is with their Line Manager), it is not acceptable for an employee to lodge
a grievance outside of the escalation process (ie. an employee cannot take a grievance to the CEO
unless they have first followed steps 1 and 2). The only circumstances in which a grievance can be
lodged outside this procedure, is when an employee has a grievance against the CEO. In such an
instance, it is acceptable for the employee to lodge their grievance directly with the Chairperson
of the Board of Directors.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

Aside from this instance, it is NEVER acceptable for an employee to approach any member of the
Board with a grievance. If an employee deliberately acts outside of this procedure, formal
disciplinary action will be taken.

21.5 Steps in Grievances Resolution Process
1.

If an employee is unable to resolve their grievance on their own (ie. directly with the person
(s) involved), they should discuss the matter with their Line Manager. The Manager will
attempt to resolve the grievance within five (5) working days of the employee’s grievance
being notified.

All parties to the grievance should try to solve the grievance using the following problem-solving
process:
 Assess the situation;
 Plan;
 Implement the plan; and
 Evaluate.
To assist in resolution at this stage, the aggrieved employee should clearly state their concerns,
the party/parties involved and the outcome sought in writing. Any concerns raised verbally will be
documented by the Line Manager for review and confirmation by the aggrieved employee.
If the issue is not capable of resolution on the spot, the Line Manager will establish a process for
addressing the employee’s concerns. If it is not within the power of the Manager to resolve the
issue, they will advise the employee accordingly so they may take the process to the next stage.
2.
3.
4.

5.
6.
7.

If the Line Manager is unable to resolve the matter or it is inappropriate for the employee to
approach their Line Manager, the employee may then approach the Chief Executive Officer.
The CEO will attempt to resolve the grievance within ten (10) working days of being notified
of the grievance.
If the issue still exists after the above mentioned processes have been carried out, the matter
may be referred by either party to the Fair Work Commission for conciliation and, if agreed,
arbitration.
Until the grievance is determined, work shall continue normally in accordance with the custom
and practice existing before the grievance arose, if practicable.
However in the instance of a workplace health and safety matter the CFO should be consulted
before work recommences.
No party shall be prejudiced as to the final settlement by the continuance of work.

21.6 Records
Records of Grievances and actions taken will be maintained confidentially and secured on
personnel files.

22. Misconduct and Disciplinary Action
22.1 Principles
The ACCHO seeks to deal with any breaches of policy, issues of misconduct and or poor
performance; in a prompt, fair and reasonable manner.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

Misconduct is quite separate and distinct from poor performance and therefore will be addressed
in a different manner. An employee can be a good performer and still engage in misconduct.
Allegations and instances of Misconduct will be investigated and dealt with as soon as possible and
in accordance with the procedure detailed below.

22.2 Investigation Procedure
All allegations of misconduct will usually be subject to some form of investigation prior to a
decision being made to take disciplinary action. The precise steps involved in an investigation into
misconduct will differ depending on the nature of the allegations and the particular
circumstances of the matter.
All allegations should be referred by Managers to the Chief Executive Officer for decision on the
appropriate process to be adopted. The CEO will typically assign someone independent to the
allegations to conduct any required investigation.
22.2.1 By way of guidance, an investigation will usually involve the following steps:
(a) gathering of relevant evidence (including documentary evidence and interviewing
witnesses);
(b) meeting with the accused to get their side of the story and give them an understanding
of any evidence against them;
(c) making a decision as to whether the allegations are substantiated and communicating
that decision to the accused via the CEO; and
(d) where the allegations are substantiated, discussion with the accused, via the CEO, in
respect of any proposed disciplinary action.
22.2.2 Investigations should be conducted and resolved as quickly as possible once alleged
misconduct is identified.
22.2.3 In conducting an investigation into an allegation of misconduct, the ACCHO will endeavour
to ensure that the principles of natural justice and procedural fairness are adhered to.
This means that, where possible, the accused will be:
i. fully informed of the details of the allegations against them and provided with details of
any evidence that supports those allegations (this does not necessarily mean that the
accused will be entitled to copies of witness statements);
ii.
given details of the process that will be followed in respect of investigating the alleged
misconduct;
iii. given a reasonable and genuine opportunity to provide a response to the allegations and
put forward any additional evidence;
iv.
treated as innocent until proven guilty; and
v. entitled to be represented and supported by a person of their choice (eg. family member,
union representative, and lawyer).

22.3 Suspension
In most circumstances the accused is likely to be suspended whilst the allegations are being
investigated, subject to the severity of the allegations. This should not be viewed as disciplinary
action but simply a step designed to ensure that all parties’ rights and interests are protected.
Any suspension period will typically be on full pay.

22.4 Summary Dismissal

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

Serious misconduct is assessed by taking into account the effect of the conduct on the safety and
well-being of clients, employees, business, and property; breaches of legislation, industrial
instruments, or policies; and the knowledge, skill, motivation and state of mind of the employee at
the time of the incident/s.
Employees should be aware that the following types of conduct are regarded by the ACCHO as
constituting serious misconduct and are likely to result in summary dismissal:
a) failing to comply with a lawful and reasonable direction given to the employee by their
manager;
b) walking off the job without reasonable excuse;
c) consuming drugs or alcohol whilst on company premises or during working hours (other
than where such consumption is authorised by the ACCHO – for example at a work
function);
d) attending for work under the influence of drugs or alcohol to the extent that the
employee is incapable of carrying out their normal duties or is likely to injure themselves
or any other person or cause damage to ACCHO property;
e) theft or wilful or reckless damage to Organisation property or the property of other
employees;
f) dishonesty (including abuse of personal, carer’s or compassionate leave);
g) physical violence or threats of physical violence;
h) failing to comply with directions and obligations in respect of workplace health and
safety (including smoking on work premises); and
i) breach of any company policy.
The above list is not exhaustive of the types of conduct that constitute serious misconduct.

22.5 Responsibilities
Managers - under this policy, managers have a responsibility to:
- notify the Chief Executive Officer as soon as a misconduct issue is identified;
- have concrete examples of the alleged misconduct;
- keep adequate records of all discussions and meetings;
- remain open minded and not prejudge outcomes before the investigation process has
been completed;
- participate in or conduct the investigation as directed or guided by the Chief Finance
Officer or other senior management; and
- maintain confidentiality at all times by not discussing the matter with anyone other
than as directed by the human resources manager or other senior management.
Witnesses and the accused- under this policy have a responsibility to:
- participate in the investigation process;
- answer any questions asked of them honestly; and
- maintain confidentiality at all times by not discussing the matter with anyone other
than as directed by the Chief Executive Officer or other senior management

22.6 Findings and Disciplinary Action
22.6.1 Findings
All relevant facts will be gathered before reaching a conclusion on the appropriate disciplinary
action to be taken.
Factors to be considered in the process will include:
- the seriousness and implications of the work behaviour or poor performance;
- the employee’s explanation of their conduct;
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

- the employee’s past work record; and
- any previous disciplinary action undertaken.
In the event that the investigating officer makes a finding that misconduct has occurred, this will
be presented to the CEO for confirmation and final decision on the disciplinary action to be taken.
22.6.2 Disciplinary Action
Depending on the judgement of the Chief Executive Officer on the severity of the misconduct the
disciplinary action options include:
- requesting an apology be made by the employee;
- the issuing of a warning ( as per the Performance Management process);
- demotion;
- counselling, possibly by external body/professional or by the ACCH’sO CEO or other
professional as appropriate
- suspension for a fixed period or
- termination of employment
Where an employee has been found to have engaged in Serious Misconduct, their employment is
likely to be terminated summarily (without notice or payment in lieu of notice).
The discipline action to be taken will be formally confirmed by letter issued by the Chief Executive
Officer.
The records of the Investigation and Disciplinary Actions will be maintained confidentially and
secured on personnel files.

22.7 Related Policies
Performance Management Policy

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

Section 3 - EMPLOYEE TOOLS & TRAVEL
23. Business Travel
23.1

Authorised Travel

Travel arrangements will be paid for and arranged by the ACCHO in the following instances;

A requirement to undertake out-of-office travel

A requirement to work temporarily at another location outside of the [INSERT
STATE/TERRITORY].

A requirement to perform a specific travel activity or attend a function.

23.2 Booking Arrangements
All travel arrangements for employees of the ACCHO and the Board shall be arranged by the
Administration Officer [INSERT ALTERNATIVE POSITION TITLE FOR YOUR ACCHO]. This includes:
 Airfares
 Accommodation
 Car Hire
 Travel Allowance
All payment processing of Travel Allowances shall only occur on a Tuesday and/or Thursday. It is
the responsibility of the employee undertaking the travel to ensure that all relevant travel
allowance forms are completed and appropriately authorised and provided to the Finance Officer
in sufficient time to meet the processing deadlines.
Procedures
Employees must ensure that the “Travel Request / Allowance Form” has been completed correctly
and is authorised by their relevant Manager before passing onto the relevant Administration
Officer. (Refer to Appendix 6.) The relevant Administration Officer will complete the “Travel
Request / Allowance Form” on behalf of the ACCHO’s CEO the form shall then be authorised by the
Chief Executive Officer.
Appropriate travel includes, but is not limited to: meetings, conferences, community consultations,
training programs, in-services, and delivery of outreach services that are directly related to the job
roles, duties and work plans of managers and staff.
Where the travel involves a seminar or workshop, a copy of the registration form is required to
accompany the “Travel Request / Allowance Form”. This will ensure that only the necessary travel
arrangements will be made. If accommodation and/or meals are provided as part of the
seminar/workshop and this is confirmed on the registration form, then the ACCHO will not book
accommodation or pay the relevant meal allowance, thus avoiding double payment of travel costs.
The Manager who authorises the “Travel Request / Allowance Form” must record on the form the
appropriate job number that corresponds to the project that the travel costs are to be assigned to.
The Finance Officer will match up copies of the travel forms with the invoices from the airlines, hire
car companies, accommodation providers and/or training providers and assign the appropriate
general ledger account code

23.4

Travel Allowances

Staff are paid a Travel Allowance to cover meals and incidental costs whilst away from home for
work purposes.
Travel Allowance Rates are based on the “reasonable amounts for daily travel expenses” where
overnight travel required, from the Australian Taxation Office.
Mileage Rates. The ACCHO’s policy is to encourage the use of pooled vehicles and Cabcharge
vouchers for all business purposes. The ACCHO will, in exceptional circumstances, reimburse
employees when authorised prior to travel to use their own personal motor vehicle for the
ACCHO’s official business. The rate of reimbursement will be calculated in relation to the Australian
Taxation guidelines or if paid via an Industrial Award the relevant Award entitlement appropriate
to the individual employee
.
Airfares will be booked by the relevant Administration Officer who will always try to secure the
best discounted airfare available for the travel required. If an employee wishes to change a flight
itinerary and this results in additional costs to the fare, then the employee will be required to
reimburse the ACCHO for these additional charges. If the change in flights for the employee is due
to the request of ACCHO or is out of the control of the employee, then the ACCHO will cover any
additional charges. All airfares for the Chief Executive Officer will be booked as “fully flexible” fares
to enable the greatest amount of flexibility for travel.

23.5 Extension of Travel to Incorporate Private Travel
Where an employee undertaking domestic travel for work purposes, proposes to extend the visit for
private purposes, or seeks to extend private travel for work purposes, prior approval from the CEO is
required. The ACCHO will not coordinate or bear any costs involved in changing travel arrangements
for private purposes.
Staff seeking approval for travel must disclose any associated private travel plans or funding at the
time of making the application.

23.6

Overnight Accommodation

The need for overnight accommodation shall be determined by the CEO or delegate, having regard
to the safety of the employee and local conditions applicable to the area.
Where employees are required to attend conferences or seminars, which involve evening sessions
or employees are required to start early at another location, overnight accommodation will be
appropriately authorised.

24. Standard of Dress and Staff Uniforms
24.1 Principles
The appearance of employees reflects the image of our company and has a significant impact on
the way we are viewed by member’s, employees and the general public.

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

The ACCHO expects staff to dress and present professionally and in a manner that projects a good
image. The ACCHO provides employees with access to comfortable and professional uniforms.
Whilst it is not mandatory to wear the provided uniform in the office at all times, the provided
uniform must be worn whilst representing the ACCHO in any face to face work related activities
with external groups/individuals.
This Policy will be reviewed and redeveloped by the Chief Executive Officer [INSERT
ALTERNATIVE POSITION TITLE FOR YOUR ACCHO], with appropriate discussion with staff to
ensure meets business needs.

24.2 Uniform Allocations
All full time and part time employees, from date of commencement, are eligible for a Staff
Uniform on the following basis;

All Staff will allocated 2 ACCHO polo shirts

These shirts are provided free of charge, staff can purchase extras at their own expense

The ACCHO will consider provision of replacements on a needs basis on the return of
the old shirt(s)

24.3 Standard of Appearance
[INSERT OPTIONAL POLICY FOR YOUR ACCHO]

24.4

Wearing the Uniform outside of Work

The Corporate Uniform(s) must not be worn in the following situations/circumstances:
 whilst engaging in private activities outside work hours
 in situations/venues which are not in harmony with THE ACCHO’s ideals of promoting
better health and lifestyle choices or conflicting with the Code of Conduct and
expectations of employees
 inside Pubs, TABs, Betting and Gaming Venues.

24.5

Completion of Employment

Uniforms not purchased by staff, remain the property of THE ACCHO. On termination of
employment, all items shall be returned, before final payments will be made to the employee.

25. Mobile Devices Policy
25.1 Purpose
Employees may be provided with a Mobile Phone and/or Tablets for business usage where it is
necessary to support their work role.
The intent of this policy is to establish a framework for consistent, authorised and lawful use of
the device and minimise the risk of inappropriate and/or unauthorised use.

25.2 Allocation
Each position will be assessed to determine eligibility for allocation of a mobile device, in
accordance with business need.
Business need criteria include, but are not limited to:
 a requirement to undertake frequent out-of-office duties, including travel.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual






a requirement to be on call.
limited access to a fixed phone.
a requirement to perform a specific security or OH& S function.
improved client services, productivity, or efficiency

In all cases the COO is responsible for approving issue of devices to employees.
The device remains the property of the ACCHO and may be reallocated or substituted for another
device at the discretion of the Chief Finance Officer, or other approved delegate. (No employee is
guaranteed to keep the same handset/device).

25.3 Approved Services
The ACCHO will pay for each service up to the monthly allowance on the provided mobile plan.
Staff will be notified where excess charges are incurred and these will be deducted automatically
from staff pay.
Staff are not permitted to enter into any telephony or data plan with any carrier on behalf of the
ACCHO, regardless of funding source or device ownership. Unauthorised plans will be cancelled,
and the carrier advised to recover costs from the staff member responsible for entering into the
plan. The ACCHO will not meet or subsidise plan costs for non- ACCHO devices.
Standard Services provided include; Voice calls, Voicemail, Text messaging (SMS), Data plans,
allowing Internet access, email, and data transfers, are standard on smart phones and certain other
devices only.
Access to the following services is not considered a standard requirement and requires written
approval from the CEO: Global Roaming , Conference calls , Call diversions (except to voicemail) ,
MMS (Multimedia Messaging Service) , WAP (Wireless Application Protocol), PXT (Picture Text
message) , Chargeable downloads, Use of Multimedia Telephony Devices.

25.4 Responsibilities
Managers are responsible for:

Monitoring usage of mobile devices for their staff.
Staff allocated Mobile Devices are responsible for/to:
 Abide by all laws relating to the use of mobile devices
 Report lost/stolen mobile devices to the Business Services Unit and complete the
“Incident/Injury” form within 5 working days of the loss being reported
 Return the device and SIM to their Manager if the device is no longer required
 Limiting usage to that necessary for effective business
 Keeping calls brief
 Protecting devices from damage, loss or theft
 Not using the device for unlawful activities, commercial purposes unrelated to the ACCHO,
or personal gain, or to send harassing, menacing, intimidating or offensive messages
 Reimbursing the ACCHO for all personal charges in excess of your monthly allowance on the
provided mobile plan. Excess charges will be deducted automatically from your pay. At a
minimum rate of 10% per pay until the outstanding is paid at the discretion of the Manager
 The use of any premium services or chargeable downloads (eg third party software, ring
tone services, competitions, 1900 calls) are not permitted and must be fully reimbursed to
the ACCHO. Breaches of this will also be subject to disciplinary procedures
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual



Make themselves aware of potential health and safety risks related to the use of mobile
devices, including use while driving.

25.5 Return of Devices on Leaving the ACCHO
When a user ceases employment with the ACCHO their mobile device must be returned to their
manager for reallocation/recycling.
If the device is not returned the user will be charged the cost of its replacement. The SIM will be
cancelled and the device locked, rendering the device useless.
Outstanding personal calls must be paid for on termination of employment and will be
automatically deducted from your separation payment.

26. Use of ICT Systems, Internet, Social Media & Email
26.1 Purpose
The intent of this policy to establish a framework for consistent, authorised and lawful use and
management of internet, email and other ICT devices and services; thus reducing the risk of
threats, of denigration of service and of inappropriate and/or unauthorised use.

26.2 Definitions
This policy applies to the usage of all ICT devices used in the workplace or in connection with
work, including: desk top computers and laptops (including palm or hand held devices); mobiles
and portable devices (including blackberry, smartphones tablets); removable media (including
USBs, SD cards, external hard drives); recorders and imaging equipment.

26.3

Access and Business Use

Employees should have access to the internet for email and research purposes only if it supports
their work role.
System access will be via user-ID and password, the confidentiality of passwords must be
maintained. This means that passwords should not be disclosed to any other unauthorised person
and should not be written down. Computer terminals should be locked when not in use, logged
out and closed down at the end of each day.
Employees must not allow family members or other unauthorised individuals to access the
Information Technology environment. This includes the use of the ACCHO internet access devices
such as modems and mobile phones.
The ICT systems are tools to be used for the ACCHO’s purposes only.
Obtaining unauthorised access to electronic files of others or to email or other electronic
communications of others, is not permitted and may constitute a criminal offence under the Crimes
Act or other legislation.

26.4 Internet and Information Technology
The Internet and Information Technology environment of the ACCHO is intended to allow for the
creation, access and transmission of information pursuant to achieving the objectives of the
ACCHO. The ACCHO permits reasonable personal use of internet facilities provided that this use is
lawful and does not:
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual





interfere with the performance of the employee’s work duties or the duties of others; or
interfere with the delivery of services to clients; or
breach any policy or procedure.

The following guidelines apply to all employees:
 Internet time should be minimised to keep costs as low as possible and web browser
applications should be closed when not in use;
 Extensive personal research on the internet is not permitted without prior authorisation
from the Manager;
 The internet is not to be used to access, download, send, search or post inappropriate or
offensive material;
 Web based email services are not to be used and contractors will require authorisation
access to do so;
 Installation of links to social interaction tools and web sites such as Facebook, Youtube,
MSN Chat, MySpace, etc is not allowed, unless without prior consent of the CEO.
Installation of peer-to-peer (P2P) file-sharing network programs such as Limewire, is
strictly forbidden
 Large volumes of data must not be downloaded or transmitted (A large file is defined as
equal to or greater than 50mbits in size)
 Computer programs not supplied by the ACCHO must not be downloaded or installed
without approval from the System Administrator;
 Employees must not gain, or attempt to gain unauthorised access to any network, service
information, communications computing facility or resource through the use of the
ACCHO information technology environment.

26.5 Email Usage Policy
Email is a business communication tool and users are expected to utilise this tool in a responsible,
effective and lawful manner. The ACCHO permits reasonable personal use of email facilities (ie.
correspondence to family / friends) provided that this use is lawful and does not:
 interfere with the performance of the employee’s work duties or the duties of others; or
 interfere with the delivery of services to clients; or
 breach any policy or procedure.
Certain email content may expose employees and the ACCHO to legal liability. This includes
material that may be construed as sexual harassment, workplace harassment (bullying),
defamation, breach of confidentiality and / or copyright infringement. The following guidelines
apply to all employees:
 Any personal use of Email must comply with workplace policies, including, (but not limited
to) anti-discrimination, workplace bullying, and sexual harassment. Employees must NOT
send or store emails that contain or attach inappropriate or offensive material (whether in
text, visual or audio form). Employees must immediately delete any messages that contain
inappropriate or offensive material;
 Broadcasting unsolicited views on social, political, religious, or other non-business related
matters is prohibited;
 Employees must not use email for unauthorised purposes, including sending unauthorised
broadcast emails to a group of individuals;
 Employees must not forward and / or reply to material that may be considered spam, chain
letters or hoax emails if in doubt contact [INSERT BUSINESS UNIT FOR YOUR ACCHO] Unit;
 Employees must not personally subscribe to any non-work related external mailing lists or
bulletin boards;
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

 Employees must not send / receive photos or videos without the written explicit approval
of their Manager;
 The use of electronic communications for sending ‘junk mail’, for-profit messages, or chain
letters is strictly prohibited.
 Retention of messages fills up large amounts of storage space on the network and can slow
down performance. As few messages as possible should be maintained in a user’s mail box.
Messages for archive should be kept in separate archive files stored on the user’s network
home or shared drive.
 Email should not be considered as a secure medium to send private messages, and as such
all information sent over Email should be written on the assumption that it may become
public knowledge;
 All messages, both incoming and outgoing, will become the property of the ACCHO, and as
such are subject to examination by the CEO, or any other authorised person, at any time;
 Documents and information that are confidential to the ACCHO must not be sent outside
the organisation at any time via Email;
 Employees using Email should take care in the language they use in drafting Email
messages. Users should endeavour to be polite in all messages and to avoid making
statements on subjects about which they are uncertain, and use common sense to dictate
what is acceptable and what is not;
 All incoming messages and attachments will be scanned for computer viruses to ensure the
information technology system is not disabled or corrupted;
 Any virus infections must be reported as a matter of urgency to the IT department via voice
as soon as practicable.

26.6 Unauthorised Email and Information Technology Use
Any material that is received by email or saved in the ACCHO information technology environment
which is illegal, discriminatory, racially vilifying or which could reasonably be viewed as
inappropriate or offensive or which, in the opinion of the ACCHO, could reasonably injure the
reputation of the ACCHO must be forwarded to IT for archiving in case of need for future legal
reference and deleted immediately. Such material must not, under any circumstances, be
forwarded or distributed within or outside the ACCHO. Storage or distribution of such material will
result in disciplinary action, which may include termination of employment.

26.7 Social Media
Social Media can have a significant impact on the workplace. Social forums such as Facebook and
Twitter have blurred the line about what is acceptable conduct in a private forum that can also be
viewed publicly.
Social Media includes, but is not limited to; social or business networking sites (eg Facebook,
Linkedin), video and/or phot sharing sites (eg YouTube, Flickr, Instagram), business and personal
blogs/micro blogs (eg Twitter), chat rooms and forums.
The ACCHO policy guiding acceptable use of Social Media has two parts covering:
1/ Business Use - access and use in the workplace and
2/ Private Use - employee responsibilities regarding use of Social Media for their own
purposes eg Facebook, Instagram and Twitter pages.
26.7.1 Business Use - ACCHO Sites / Forums and Authorised Use
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

All usage of ACCHO-related social media must be authorised by the Chief Executive Officer.
Use of and participation in interactive services by employees must comply with the following
standards for use;
 Only those authorised to do so by their Unit Manager should undertake social media
activity on behalf of the ACCHO. This includes responding to any comments posted.
 The ACCHO actively encourages staff to share its posts with their social media networks.
 Any personal social media communication on matters that relate to the business should
include a personal disclaimer and not the official view of the organisation.
 We do not provide any confidential or proprietary information.
 Posts and comments by authorised staff will always reflect the ACCHO’s values and culture.
 We do not make reference to clients, colleagues or suppliers without their prior approval.
 We do not use this as a vehicle for your personal views
 Prohibited communications include; postings that may be considered discriminatory or
harassing spam or junk type postings, profanity or pornography
26.7.2 Private Use - Responsibilities as an Employee when using Social Media
Employees should not use their ACCHO email address when creating or accessing social
networking accounts and should not use the ACCHO’s logos that may give the impression of
official support or endorsement of personal comments made online.
Statements and/or comments that are made by an employee via social media eg on their
Facebook and Twitter pages, can be considered to be a public statement. Where such comments
concern the, the employees work, the organisation its employees or clients; these actions are
subject to the Policies and Procedures of the ACCHO and must comply with the standards
required by the ACCHO.
Specifically any comments/allegations against the company, clients and employees, that are;
 breaches of workplace confidentiality,
 examples of bullying, discrimination and/or harassment
 fraudulent or libellous claims
 denigrate the workplace and its employees
 portrayed as representing the company view
Will be considered to be unacceptable behaviour and subject to disciplinary action.
26.7.3 Use of Social Media for private purposes via the ACCHOs server
The ACCHO permits reasonable personal use of social media provided that this use is lawful and
does not:
 interfere with the performance of the employee’s work duties or the duties of others;
 interfere with the delivery of services to clients;
 breach any the ACCHO policy or procedure;
 put at risk the integrity of the system; eg check your account and privacy settings, carefully
consider any ’friend’ requests– especially from people not personally known
 it is not acceptable to spend hours using social media not related to your work
26.7.4 Reporting Inappropriate Use of Social Media
If any employee becomes aware of any negative comment made about the organisation, its brand,
products or services, or employees on any social media they will not respond directly, but inform
the their direct line manager or the communication manager as soon as possible.
The ACCHO will instigate the relevant investigation, grievance and discipline action as appropriate.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

26.8 Viruses
Electronic communications are potential delivery systems for computer viruses. All data, programs
and files which are downloaded electronically or attached to messages should be scanned by an
anti-virus program before being launched, opened or accessed.
Viruses have the potential to seriously damage the ACCHO’s ICT systems. Do not open any
downloaded files, emails or attachments that you are not expecting or that look suspicious. In the
event that you receive any files that you suspect contain a virus it should be reported immediately
to [INSERT BUSINESS UNIT FOR YOUR ACCHO] Unit via Voice communication.

26.9 Property
The ACCHO is the owner of, and asserts copyright over, all electronic communications created by
employees as part of their employment and sent through the ACCHO’s ICT systems.
Electronic communications created, sent or received by the users referred to in this Policy are the
property of the ACCHO, and may be accessed as records of evidence in the case of an investigation.
Electronic communications may also be subject to discovery in litigation and criminal
investigations. Please note that email messages may be retrieved from back-up systems and
organisations, their employees and the authors of electronic communications can be held liable for
messages that have been sent.

26.10 Copyright Infringement
The copyright material of third parties (for example, software, database files, documentation,
cartoons, articles, graphic files, music files, video files, text and down loaded information) must not
be used without specific authorisation to do so. The ability to forward and distribute electronic
messages and attachments and to share files greatly increases the risk of copyright infringement.
Copying material to a hard disk or removable disk, printing or distributing or sharing copyright
material by electronic means, may give rise to personal and/or ACCHO liability, despite the belief
that the use of such material was permitted.
The ACCHO supports the rights of copyright owners and does not and will not tolerate reckless or
deliberate copyright infringement.

26.11 Monitoring
Use of the ACCHO’s ICT systems may be monitored by Authorised Persons.
Use of the ACCHO’s ICT systems is provided to users on condition that it is agreed that ICT systems
are monitored in accordance with this Policy. Use of the ACCHO’s ICT systems constitutes consent
to monitoring in accordance with this Policy.
If at any time there is a reasonable belief that ICT systems are being used in breach of this Policy,
the manager of the person who is suspected of using ICT systems inappropriately may suspend a
person’s use of ICT systems and may require that the equipment being used by the person be
secured by the manager while the suspected breach is being investigated.
The monitoring and retrieval of email messages may be undertaken in any circumstances where
the CEO believes it is appropriate to do so. These circumstances include, but are not limited to,
the following:
 In the course of an investigation regarding misconduct, discrimination or sexual
harassment;
 To comply with Workplace Health and Safety obligations;
 To protect and prevent interference with the ACCHO’s business;
 To locate substantive information required for organisational business, which is not more
readily available by some other means.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

26.12 Complaints
If an employee suspects that this Policy may have been breached, or if they are exposed to an email
or other electronic communication (including mobile phone messages), which offends them and /
or which they believe is inappropriate, they should contact their Manager or the CEO.

Section 4 - EMPLOYEE CARE
27. Workplace Health & Safety
27.1 Purpose
The ACCHO is committed to providing a safe workplace and ensuring compliance with all
requirements under the Federal workplace health and safety legislation and fire regulations
applicable at any point in time.

27.2 Workplace Health and Safety System
Under current prevailing legislation (March 2015), the ACCHO is a PCBU - a person conducting a
business or undertaking – and has a statutory obligation to establish a compliance system for
specific duties under legislation. These include:
 providing and maintaining a working environment that is safe and without risks to
health, including the entering and exiting of the workplace
 providing and maintaining plant, structure and systems of work that are safe and do
not pose health risks (e.g. providing effective guards on machines and regulating the
pace and frequency of work)
 ensuring the safe use, handling, storage and transport of plant, structure and
substances (e.g. toxic chemicals, dusts and fibres)
 providing adequate facilities for the welfare of workers at workplaces under their
management and control (e.g. washrooms, lockers and dining areas)
 providing workers with information, instruction, training or supervision needed for
them to work safely and without risks to their health
 monitoring the health of their workers and the conditions of the workplace under
their management and control to prevent injury or illness
 maintaining any accommodation owned or under their management and control to
ensure the health and safety of workers occupying the premises.
In addition, a PCBU with management or control of a workplace must ensure, so far as is
reasonably practicable, that the workplace, the means of entering and exiting the workplace and
anything arising from the workplace do not affect the health and safety of any person.
The Act authorises a PCBU to establish a Health and Safety Committee (HSC) on their own
initiative. The ACCHO has determined that the Senior Management Team will take on the
functions of the HSC to ensure that the compliance system receives the highest level of
authoritative attention and decision making. Workplace health and safety and fire regulation
compliance are to be standing agenda items for every meeting of the Senior Management Team.
The Senior Management Team will ensure that there is an appropriately trained Fire
Warden/Evacuation Coordinator and a First Aid Officer designated for the Secretariat’s ACT
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

premises; that fire drills are carried out in compliance with fire regulations; and that the means of
entering and exiting the workplace are periodically reviewed.

27.3 Workplace Health and Safety Responsibilities
The Chief Finance Officer [INSERT ALTERNATIVE POSITION TITLE FOR YOUR ACCHO]has lead
responsibility within the Senior Management Team for ensuring the ACCHO and its Managers have;
 current information on work health and safety matters
 analysis of associated work hazards and risks
 appropriate resources and processes to eliminate or reduce risks to health and safety
 appropriate processes to receive and consider information about incidents, hazards and
risks, and to respond in a timely manner
 processes for complying with their duties and obligations
All Business Unit Managers will;
 support compliance with Workplace Health and Safety procedures
 participate in prevention and review decisions as part of Senior Management Team
All Employees must:

take reasonable care for their own health and safety while at work and take reasonable
care that their acts or omissions do not adversely affect the health and safety of other
persons

cooperate with any reasonable instruction given by Management

cooperate with any reasonable policy or procedure of the ACCHO
eg not smoke in work premises or vehicles, promptly report incidents, hazards and
injuries to their Manager

27.4 Workplace Health and Safety Procedures
Workplace Audits
The Senior Management Team, advised by the Chief Finance Officer, will manage a program of
workplace hazard identification, risk assessment and corrective action. Audit program outcomes
and recommendations will be discussed by the Senior Management Team.
Health and Safety related Training
Corporate Services [INSERT BUSINESS UNIT FOR YOUR ACCHO] will manage a program of identifying
relevant need based on a review of individual job requirements. Training will be organized by
Corporate Services in fire warden/evacuation procedures, First Aid, CPR and – on a needs basis Manual Handling.
A schedule of training will be overseen by the COO and the Workplace Health and Safety
Committee.
Injury / Incident Reporting and Notification
Workplace Injury / Incident Report Forms are to be completed in the event of any incident which
is not consistent with the routine operation of the organisation. This includes incidents with or
without injury that relate to any client, staff member, volunteer or visitor to the organisation’s
premises.

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

The Injury / Incident Report form is available on Sharepoint. [INSERT ALTERNATIVE SOFTWARE
FOR YOUR ACCHO]
In completing the Workplace Injury / Incident Report only known facts are to be recorded.
Assumptions could leave the organisation liable in any legal matters.
The Report form is completed by the person reporting the incident and forwarded to the COO.
The CFO will arrange for further investigation as required, recording and reporting to the Senior
Management Team in its capacity as the Workplace Health and Safety Committee.

27.5 Fire and Emergency Procedures
Corporate Services will ensure:
(i) Procedures are in place to ensure persons can evacuate buildings safely including;
 Development and maintenance of all procedural aspects which covers roles and
responsibilities, fire procedures, fire awareness, warning systems and equipment, bomb
threat procedures , other emergencies and checklists and reporting forms.
 Evacuation Plan, diagram and assembly points are developed and displayed in each work
area and toilet facility
 A list of Emergency Contact phone numbers is kept at Reception at each work site
 A Fire Warden/Evacuation Coordinator is appointed and briefed in order to coordinate
evacuation procedures for each workplace premises
 New employees to a worksite are instructed on these procedures and annual briefings are
provided per workplace
(ii) Prescribed fire safety installations for buildings are maintained. (Audit Form)
Evacuation Procedures
The ACCHO has adopted the following standard operating procedure to apply where evacuation of
workplace premises is necessary.
In the event of a fire or hazardous material emergency:
Staff will:
 Raise the alarm (yell Fire, Fire)
 Advise the Fire Warden/Evacuation Coordinator, if they are unavailable
 Ring 000 or 112 and ask for the Fire Service (refer sheet)
 Evacuate the building and gather at the assigned assembly point, as you leave, close all
open doors and windows (if safe to do so).
The Fire Warden/Evacuation Coordinator will:
 Investigate the situation,
 If safe to do so attempt to extinguish fire
 Raise the alarm (yell Fire, Fire)
 Ring 000 or 112 and ask for the Fire Service (refer emergency contact sheet)
 If time permits, check all rooms; turn off building master power switches, heating and airconditioners – secure computers and files
 Ensure safe evacuation of all occupants
 Account for all occupants at the assembly area
 Meet the Fire Service and advise them of any relevant information
 Brief emergency services when they arrive. If it is suspected that someone is still in the
building, only enter the building again if it is safe to do so.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

 Ensure occupants do not attempt to re-enter the building until safe to do so
At the Assembly point
 Responsibility rests with the most senior member of staff present
 Take roll call and check names off against staff list
 Ask each staff member if they had visitors with them and check location of the visitor.
 No one is to return to the building unless the all clear has been given by the most senior
member of staff present in consultation with the emergency services.
Post Evacuation
 The Fire Warden/Evacuation Coordinator will complete an Incident/Injury Report Form and
submit to the Chief Finance Officer
 Corporate Services will conduct debriefings and investigation as required and report
findings to the Senior Management Team
 The Chief Executive Officer should be notified of the event at the earliest opportunity if
(s)he was not present.
 Further instruction to be given to staff by the Chief Executive Officer in regard to
arrangements for the rest of the day, and further duties
First Aid
Corporate Services [INSERT BUSINESS UNIT FOR YOUR ACCHO] will provide a First Aid kit and
oversee training and appointment of a First Aid Officer for the ACT office.

27.6 Return to Work Procedures
The ACCHO is committed to assist employees return to work after periods of illness or injury, as
quickly and safely as possible.
Corporate Services will coordinate return to work with a focus on active case management and
outcomes based rehabilitation to enable optimal return to work in lines with the needs of the
business and the individual.

28. Sexual Harassment, Discrimination and Workplace Bullying
28.1 Purpose
It is the policy of the ACCHO that all employees should enjoy good working relationships with each
other and with management. This means that everyone should feel comfortable at work.
An important part of good working relationships is that everyone must be able to work in an
environment free of:

Sexual harassment;

Discrimination; and

Workplace Harassment/Bullying.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

Such behaviours will not be tolerated by the ACCHO as they are disruptive to the well-being of our
workforce and affect the performance and safety of co-workers. Therefore, the ACCHO is
committed to implementing processes to prevent such behaviour from occurring and the
elimination of sexual harassment, discrimination and workplace harassment/bullying in the
workplace.

28.2 Definitions
28.2.1 Sexual Harassment
Sexual harassment refers to a range of behaviours which are sexual in nature and which are not
wanted, not asked for, not reciprocated, and which make the recipient feel humiliated,
intimidated, offended, hurt or upset. The behaviour can take many different forms and may
include physical contact, verbal comments, jokes, propositions, display of offensive material or
other behaviour, which creates a sexually hostile working environment.
Sexual harassment is not always intentional. Acts or behaviour, which are funny or trivial to one
person may hurt or offend another.









Verbal Sexual Harassment
rude jokes or comments;
making promises or threats in return for sexual favours;
requests for sex;
repeated invitations to go out after prior refusal;
sex-based insults, taunts, teasing or name calling;
offensive or abusive telephone calls; or
persistent questions or insinuations about a person’s private life.

Non-verbal Sexual Harassment
 putting sexually suggestive, offensive, or insulting material including posters, pin-ups,
cartoons, graffiti or messages, on walls, noticeboards, desks, computer screen savers,
electronic mail or other common areas, "flashing" or offensive hand or body gestures;
 staring or leering at a person or parts of their body; wolf whistling; or
 unwelcome practical jokes.
Physical Harassment
 uninvited or unnecessary physical contact such as pinching, patting, brushing up against a
person, touching, kissing, hugging or massaging a person without invitation;
 indecent or sexual assault or attempted assault putting a hand or an object (eg pay slip) into
someone’s pocket, especially breast, hip or back pocket.
Sexual Harassment does not refer to compliments or behaviour which neither party finds offensive
and which is based on mutual attraction, friendship and respect. If the interaction is consensual,
welcome and reciprocated, it is not sexual harassment.

28.2.2 Discrimination
[NOTE: THE FOLLOWING TEXT REFERS TO THE A.C.T. CHANGE THIS FOR YOUR OWN
STATE/TERRITORY LEGISLATION’S DEFINITION.] Under the Australian Capital Territory AntiDiscrimination Act 1991, Discrimination is defined as treating anyone less favourably on the basis
of the following attributes:
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

(a) sex; (b) relationship status; (c) pregnancy; (d) parental status; (e) breastfeeding; (f) age; (g)
race; (h) impairment; (i) religious belief or religious activity; (j) political belief or activity; (k)
trade union activity; (l) lawful sexual activity; (m) gender identity; (n) sexuality;
(o) family responsibilities;
This policy prohibits such behaviour. [Note: Discrimination may be intentional or unintentional]
Direct & Indirect Discrimination
Direct discrimination happens when a person treats, or proposes to treat, a person with an
attribute less favourably than another person without the attribute. Indirect discrimination
happens when a person imposes, or proposes to impose, a condition:

with which a person with an attribute does not or is not able to comply; and

with which a higher proportion of people without the attribute comply or are able to comply;
and that is not reasonable.
The organisation is an equal opportunity employer. All employees are treated on their merits,
without regard to race, age, sex, marital status or any other factor not applicable to the position.
Employees are valued according to how well they perform their duties, their ability and their
enthusiasm in maintaining the standards of service and values.
Discrimination occurs when someone is treated less favourably because one of the personal
characteristics noted above. Discrimination may involve (but is not limited to):
 Making offensive ‘jokes’ about another worker’s racial or ethnic background, sex, sexual
preference, age or disability;
 Expressing negative stereotypes about particular groups eg. ‘Mothers shouldn’t work’;
 Judging someone on their political or religious beliefs rather than their work performance;
 Undermining a person’s authority or work performance because you dislike one of their
personal characteristics; or
 Using selection processes based on irrelevant personal characteristics such as age, race or
disability rather than skills and merit.

28.2.3 Workplace Harassment/Bullying
Workplace bullying can be defined as the repeated less favourable treatment of a person which
may be considered as unreasonable and or inappropriate workplace practice. It includes behaviour
that intimidates, offends, degrades or humiliates a staff member possibly in front of another
employee or client.
Bullying can occur at all levels within an organisation, between individuals and groups.
Bullying behaviours may include, but are not limited to:
 Poorly managed conflicts of opinion or personality;
 Intimidation;
 Abuse of power;
 Yelling, screaming abuse, offensive language, insults, inappropriate comments about a
person’s appearance, life or lifestyle, slandering an employee or their family;
 Belittling opinions or constant criticism;
 Isolating employees from normal work interaction, training and development or career
opportunities;
 Overwork, unnecessary pressure, impossible deadlines;
 Underwork creating a feeling of uselessness;
 Undermining work performance, deliberately withholding work-related information or
resources, or supplying incorrect information;
 Unexplained job changes, meaningless tasks, tasks beyond a person’s skills;
 Tampering with an employee’s personal effects or work equipment;
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual





Teasing or regularly being made the brunt of pranks/practical jokes;
Displaying written or pictorial material which degrades/offends a worker or group of workers;
Unreasonable ‘administrative sanctions’ eg undue delay in processing applications for training,
leave or payment of wages.

28.3 Prevention and Response Procedures
28.3.1 Responsibility of Managers
The ACCHO has a legal responsibility to prevent sexual harassment, discrimination, and workplace
harassment/bullying in the workplace and may also be liable for the behaviour of employees.
This means that Managers have a responsibility to:
 Monitor the working environment to ensure that acceptable standards of behaviour are
observed at all times;
 Model appropriate behaviour themselves;
 Promote the Sexual Harassment, Discrimination, Workplace Harassment/Bullying
Prevention policy within their work area;
 Treat all complaints seriously and take immediate action to investigate and resolve them
under the Grievance Dispute Procedures or Disciplinary Policy. Management must ensure
that complete privacy is maintained. The details or names of anyone involved in a
complaint must not be discussed with anyone other than those people immediately
involved in the complaint; and
 Refer complaints to CEO if they do not feel that they are the best person to deal with the
case (eg. if there is a conflict of interest or if the complaint is particularly complex or
serious).
28.3.2 Employee Responsibility
All employees have a responsibility to:
 Comply with the Sexual harassment, discrimination, workplace harassment/bullying
prevention policy;
 Respect the rights of others and not knowingly tolerate sexual harassment, discrimination,
workplace harassment/bullying in the work area;
 Offer support to a person being harassed by:
letting them know where they can obtain help and advice;
offering to act as a witness if the person being harassed decides to lodge a
complaint;
maintaining confidentiality if required to provide information during the
investigation of a complaint. Breaching confidentiality by spreading rumours or
gossiping may expose a person to action for defamation.
28.3.3 What to do if you are harassed
Any person who claims to have experienced sexual harassment, discrimination, workplace
harassment/bullying may:
 Tell the harasser to stop. Also tell them that you do not like what they are doing and that it is
not OK with you or with management.
 If the harassment does not stop, or if you do not wish to approach them directly, you should
report the incident to your Manager or CEO. Your Manager should take action to stop further
sexual harassment, discrimination, workplace harassment/bullying.
 Record incidents of sexual harassment, discrimination, workplace harassment/bullying with
dates, times, witnesses if any, what happened and what you said, did or felt.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

28.3.4 Defamation
Sexual Harassment, Discrimination and Workplace harassment are serious matters and to formally
lodge a claim against another person is also a serious matter.
A possibility of being sued for defamation arises when the person making the complaint speaks to
someone other than the alleged harasser or those people involved in the process of formally
resolving the complaint. It is in his or her own interests, that the person making the complaint
should not discuss the matter with anyone else.
Complainants and those involved in investigating complaints need to ensure that the allegation is
disclosed only to those with a genuine interest in resolving the dispute.
The defence of qualified privilege protects anyone necessarily involved in investigating or resolving
the complaint both formally and informally.
It should be noted that the person accused also has rights and the principles of internal justice will
be applied.
28.3.5 Rights of the Respondent
 To be informed of what they have been accused of (the specific allegation) and who is
making the allegation;
 The right to natural justice and the opportunity to fully respond to any allegation made;
 The right to have a support person of their own choice during any investigation interviews;
 To fair treatment and procedures;
 Not to be prejudged or discriminated against on the basis of the complaint;
 The right to representation and advice throughout the investigation process;
 The right, taking into account all of the circumstances, not to be unfairly dismissed or
otherwise treated harshly, unjustly, or unreasonably;
 Privacy to have the matter kept confidential on a “need to know” basis;
 The respondent is obliged not to victimise or harass the complainant, witnesses to the
complaint or supporters of the complainant on the basis of the complaint.
 Protection from defamation and malicious complaints.
28.3.6 Consequences of breaching the sexual harassment, discrimination, workplace
harassment/bullying Prevention Policy
The ACCHO views any complaint of sexual harassment, discrimination, workplace
harassment/bullying seriously.
If a complaint is substantiated, it may be dealt with under the Disciplinary Policy. Depending on
the severity of a case, possible disciplinary action can include:
 a verbal or written apology;
 transfer to another position;
 warning notes on file;
 demotion, or dismissal.
The ACCHO may also seek to take disciplinary action against anyone who victimises or penalises a
person who has complained of harassment or who is a witness to such actions.

28.4 Procedures for Dealing with Criminal Conduct
Some forms of severe harassment (for example, sexual assault, stalking, indecent exposure,
physical molestation, obscene telephone calls) may constitute criminal conduct.
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

While the ACCHO is committed to treat harassment complaints at an organisational level as far as
possible, this type of conduct is not suited to internal resolution, and should be directed to the
criminal justice system.
In relation to alleged criminal offences such as rape or sexual assault, the matter must be referred
to the CEO. Employees should be advised of the option of police support or intervention. It is not
the obligation or duty of the ACCHO to report such matters to the police on behalf of the
complainant.

28.5 Contacts for Further Information
Within the ACCHO
Employees wishing to confidentially discuss sexual harassment, discrimination, workplace
harassment/bullying complaints should contact the CEO for advice or further confidential contacts.
External Advice
Employees may seek external advice in relation to the matter (for example, a Union).
Equal Opportunity Commission/Anti-Discrimination Commission
You may at any time contact the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission or the AntiDiscrimination Commission or the Fair Work Commission for advice or to make a complaint, if you
feel that your complaint is not being handled properly.

29.

SMOKING MANAGEMENT POLICY

The ACCHO is committed to fostering the improved health, safety and welfare of all employees,
clients and visitors in the workplace, by providing a smoke free work environment and provision
of information to employees to support healthy choices outside the workplace.
The specific objectives of the policy are two-fold:
(1) to ensure a healthy and productive environment for staff and clients
(2) to actively encourage and role model smoking prevention and cessation

29.1 Smoke Free Workplace(s)
29.1.1 All ACCHO staff are prohibited, without exception, from smoking in the following
circumstances:
 at all ACCHO work sites and facilities (offices, restrooms, lunch areas, vehicles)
 during working activities at all outdoor locations (eg whilst working at Community Days)
 whilst acting in an official capacity off site
 where other ACCHO staff or clients are subjected to the smoke
29.1.2 ACCHO staff choosing to smoke during work hours must:
 comply with the restrictions listed above at 32.1.1
 do so at their own risk
 do so only during designated breaks (no additional breaks are provided to smokers)
 do so beyond 15 metres from ACCHO or Member Service premises/workplaces
 not go out for a smoke in groups

29.2 Smoking Cessation
Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

The ACCHO will ensure that all staff members wishing to attempt quitting or having any concerns
adhering to the policy will receive assistance in the following manner:
 Information about the dangers of smoking and passive smoke will be available to all staff.
Resources available on the Sharepoint System [INSERT ALTERNATIVE SOFTWARE FOR
YOUR ACCHO]include:
o Deadly Choices Tips for Quitting
 13QUIT (137848) is the State Government funded Quitline. [INSERT ALTERNATIVE PHONE
NUMBER FOR YOUR STATE/TERRITORY]A 24x7 telephone service dedicated to helping
people who want to quit smoking.

Section 5 – QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
30.

QUALITY MANAGEMENT

The scope of the ACCHO’s policy and operational engagement with Quality encompass four
domains:
(1) Complying with contemporary best practice quality standards in corporate governance
appropriate to our not-for-profit status and our business size.
Benchmarks are set with the Board of Directors and to date include:
 Quarterly Board meetings
 Appointment of an independent Company Secretary
 Regular review of the Constitution
 Review of a Board-approved Charter of Corporate Governance
 Members’ Conferences and General Meetings
 Appointment of Skills-based Directors (2)
 Board approved and monitored Risk Management Plan
 Board approved and monitored Compliance Register
(2) Complying with contemporary best practice quality standards
Benchmarks are set with the Board of Directors and to date include:
 Board-approved and monitored Annual Budget
 System of transparent, comprehensive and annotated monthly Financial Reports
 Monthly meetings of a Finance Risk and Audit Committee of the Board
 Appointment of an independent, external Auditor
 Board approval for a comprehensive Finance Policy and Procedure Manual
(3) Continuously improving the quality of their models of care for delivery of primary health
care services.
The ACCHO’s CQI strategies include:
 Collection, collation and analysis of data
 Publication of health information analytical products including reports, tables, graphs
and maps

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual




Interpretation of these health information products for performance monitoring,
service improvement, service expansion, stakeholder reporting, and competitive
positioning
Strengthening systems, policies and procedures for better clinical governance,
including through the engagement of specialised staff as well as focused professional
workshops/forums

(4) Maintaining an effective Quality Assurance System complying with QIC Standards [INSERT
ALTERNATIVE ACCREDITATION SYSTEM FOR YOUR ACCHO]
The Senior Management Team has accountability for ensuring compliance with the Quality
Assurance System and will continue to utilise independent, external professionals to position
the ACCHO for periodic audits.
The Chief Operations Officer will ensure an ACCHO Quality Improvement Work Plan is in
place and socialised with QIP, that ensures systems are in place for each of the components
of the Standards as they evolve over time, and that the required processes and policy
documentation are updated and renewed.

Template De-identified ACCHO HR Policy & Procedures Manual

