UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 2370 / March 23, 2005
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 26788 / March 23, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11868

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASEAND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 203(e)
AND 203(k) OF THE INVESTMENT
ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 AND
SECTIONS 9(b) AND 9(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF
1940

PUTNAM INVESTMENT
MANAGEMENT, LLC,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") deems it appropriate
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be,
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 ("Advisers Act") and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940 ("Investment Company Act") against Putnam Investment
Management, LLC ("Putnam" or "Respondent").
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted
an Offer of Settlement (the "Offer"), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting
or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the
subject matter of these proceedings, the Respondent consents to the entry of this Order

Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and
Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Sections 203(e)
and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Order”) as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Putnam's Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
Respondent
1.
Putnam is the registered investment adviser to the over 100
registered investment companies in the Putnam Fund Complex, which include retail
mutual funds, registered closed-end funds and open-end mutual funds that underlie
variable annuities (“Putnam Funds”). Since 1971, Putnam has been registered with the
Commission pursuant to Section 203(c) of the Advisers Act. Putnam is owned by
Putnam Investment Management Trust, a wholly owned subsidiary of Putnam LLC
(“Putnam Investments”), a Delaware limited liability company that conducts business as
Putnam Investments. Putnam Investments is in turn owned by Putnam Investments Trust,
a Massachusetts business trust. Putnam Investments Trust is a subsidiary of Marsh &
McLennan Companies, Inc., which is a publicly owned holding company traded on the
New York Stock Exchange, whose operating subsidiaries are international insurance
brokers, investment managers and management consultants. Putnam Investments is also
the parent of Putnam Retail Management Limited Partnership ("PRM"), the Putnam
Funds' distributor. As of September 30, 2004, Putnam and its affiliates managed
approximately $209 billion, of which $140 billion represented mutual fund assets under
management and $69 billion represented assets under management for institutional
clients. Putnam's principal offices are located in Boston, Massachusetts.
2.
During 2000 through November 2003, the chief executive officer of
Putnam Investments was also the president of Putnam. Putnam also had separate
individuals who served as the "head" or "co-heads" of Putnam's operations, one of which
was referred to within the Putnam organization as the Investment Division. Putnam
Investments had numerous direct and indirect subsidiaries, which included PRM, which
was responsible for retail marketing of the Putnam Funds, the Putnam Fiduciary Trust
Company, the transfer agent for the funds, as well as Putnam or the Investment Division,
which performed the investment advisory functions for the Putnam Funds. The operational
heads of Putnam, PRM and the other affiliated companies reported to the chief executive
officer of Putnam Investments. The financial statements of the subsidiaries were included
in consolidated financial statements of Putnam Investments Trust, the parent of Putnam
Investments. The various subsidiaries also shared administrative, finance and legal
functions.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on
any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2


Overview
3.
This matter involves the failure of Putnam to fully and effectively
disclose material facts, including the conflicts of interests that arose from PRM's
arrangements with broker-dealers for increased visibility within the broker-dealers'
distribution systems. Since at least January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2003, Putnam
directed brokerage commissions on the Putnam Funds’ portfolio transactions to brokerdealers for “shelf space” or heightened visibility within their distribution systems. PRM,
the Putnam Funds' distributor and an affiliate of Putnam, had entered into arrangements
("Preferred Marketing Arrangements") with over 80 broker-dealers whereby the brokerdealers provided services designed to promote the sale of the Putnam Funds.
Approximately twenty of those broker-dealers were paid in cash, while over sixty brokerdealers received directed brokerage commissions from the Putnam Funds' portfolio
transactions. All of these arrangements were based primarily upon negotiated formulas
relating to gross or net fund sales and/or the retention of fund assets.
4.
When Putnam directed fund brokerage commissions to brokerdealers in connection with the Preferred Marketing Arrangements, its affiliate, PRM, did
not use its own assets to pay for the services obtained under these arrangements. Because
the financial results of these entities along with other affiliates were combined within
consolidated financial statements, the entire Putnam organization benefited from the use
of fund assets to defray such expenses. Putnam did not fully and effectively
communicate this potential conflict of interest to the Putnam Funds’ Board of Trustees
(the “Putnam Board” or “Trustees”). Putnam also did not fully and effectively
communicate the potential conflict of interest presented for its Equity Trading group,
which was faced with directing trades to specific broker-dealers designated by PRM
while at the same time satisfying its best execution obligations.
5.
Nor did Putnam fully and effectively communicate the specific
terms and details of those Preferred Marketing Arrangements that were being paid for with
brokerage commissions to the Putnam Board or the Putnam Funds’ shareholders (“Putnam
Shareholders”). Instead, Putnam informed the Trustees, and the Statements of Additional
Information (“SAIs”) and prospectuses for the funds disclosed, that Putnam had a policy of
considering the sale of fund shares as a factor in selecting broker-dealers to execute fund
portfolio trades. Putnam did not fully and effectively advise the Trustees and the Putnam
Funds' SAIs and prospectuses did not fully and effectively disclose that PRM, its affiliate,
had arrangements with those broker-dealers to direct fund brokerage commissions for
marketing and distribution services pursuant to negotiated formulas with the brokerdealers.
PRM Had Preferred Marketing Arrangements with Broker-Dealers
6.
Since at least January 2000 through December 2003, PRM had
over 80 relationships with certain broker-dealers pursuant to which the Putnam Funds
received heightened visibility within the broker-dealers’ distribution or sales systems.
The Putnam Funds' distributor, PRM, negotiated the Preferred Marketing Arrangements

3


on behalf of itself and Putnam. At all times, PRM entered into these arrangements with
the knowledge and approval of Putnam and Putnam Investments.
7.
The broker-dealers provided various types of distribution services
in connection with these arrangements: participation in meetings with registered
representatives, primarily for the purpose of providing education and training regarding
the Putnam Funds; the opportunity for the Putnam Funds to be mentioned in
communications with a broker-dealer’s customers such as on a broker-dealer’s website;
and often, placement on a “preferred list” at a broker-dealer.
8.
Various financial terms existed for participation in the brokerdealers' Preferred Marketing programs based upon the formulas that PRM had
individually negotiated. Typically, broker-dealers were paid anywhere from 10 to 35
basis points (“bps”) on mutual fund gross or net sales and/or 1.5 to 15 bps on aged assets.
These payments were in addition to existing payments, including dealer concessions,
shareholder servicing payments, and payments for services that Putnam or an affiliate
otherwise would provide.
Putnam Directed Brokerage Commissions to Pay
for Preferred Marketing Arrangements
9.
Although many broker-dealers sought Preferred Marketing
payments in the form of cash or "hard dollars", PRM generally negotiated to direct
brokerage commissions on the Putnam Funds' portfolio transactions. Putnam and PRM
referred to these directed fund brokerage commissions as "soft dollars," "fund sales," or
"commissions for sales." In the ordinary course, to conduct portfolio transactions in
connection with the Putnam Funds’ investment program, the Funds pay substantial
amounts in brokerage commissions for execution services. In addition to the execution
services, Putnam and its affiliates at times also receive soft dollar and other benefits from
such commissions, including research and the payment of fund custody expenses. During
the relevant period, Putnam directed some commissions to broker-dealers to pay for
Preferred Marketing Arrangements.
10.
Although PRM or Putnam Investments in some instances used its
own cash, Putnam, PRM, and Putnam Investments preferred to direct fund brokerage
commissions to pay for these arrangements. Putnam's use of brokerage commissions
directly benefited Putnam Investments and PRM by reducing their out-of-pocket
expenses. It was also in Putnam’s financial interest to defray the expenses of an affiliate
because of the positive impact on the Putnam organization’s operating income. This
preference was reflected in an internal presentation PRM created on revenue sharing that
stated that PRM was "always pushing toward a soft dollar deal" when negotiating these
arrangements. The impact of this preference was that PRM had substantially more
Preferred Marketing Arrangements in soft dollars than in hard dollars.
11.
From at least January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2003, Putnam
directed fund brokerage commissions to over 60 broker-dealers for the Preferred

4


Marketing Arrangements.2 When PRM negotiated to direct brokerage commissions to
pay for these arrangements, it sometimes negotiated to direct brokerage commissions of
1.5 times (or some other negotiated multiple or conversion rate) the amounts requested by
the broker-dealers in hard dollars.
12.
In order for Putnam to properly direct fund brokerage commissions
for the arrangements, PRM communicated the commission amounts, but not the details of
the basis point arrangements, for each of the broker-dealers to the Head of Putnam's
Equity Trading ("Equity Trading"). These amounts, referred to as commission targets
(“targets"), were primarily based upon the formulas negotiated with the broker-dealers.
Equity Trading used the targets, subject to its own guidelines, including the requirement
for the traders to seek best execution, to direct fund brokerage commissions to the brokerdealers.
13.
Periodically, PRM communicated modified commission target
amounts for individual brokers to Equity Trading based upon the priorities PRM set for
these broker-dealers. These modifications for individual brokers were sometimes
increases and sometimes decreases to the targets.3 At times, PRM requested that Equity
Trading increase trading with specific broker-dealers in order to more quickly meet target
commission amounts with broker-dealers and provided suggested priority status among
the various broker-dealers. Equity Trading accepted the modifications, subject to
Putnam's best execution policies.
14.
The management of Equity Trading periodically circulated to the
traders a list prepared by PRM reflecting the directed brokerage target amounts for each
broker-dealer, commission amounts paid to each broker-dealer during that year, the
current balance of the target remaining, and the percentage of completion toward the
target. Thus, Putnam's traders were made aware of the targets and placed trades with the
fund-selling broker-dealers subject to the firm's best execution policies. In addition to the
fund sales targets, the traders were also made aware of other brokerage commission
targets, including those for research.
15.
Putnam had a computerized system that categorized trades based
upon the percentage of completion of the target. Six such categories existed, including
research, proprietary research, fund sales, custody, execution and client-directed. For
example, if Putnam placed a trade with a broker-dealer that had both fund sales and
research targets, the computer would automatically assign the brokerage commission to
the category for which the target was farthest away from completion. If a trade or a
certain portion of a trade was assigned to fund sales, the associated commission was used
2

Based upon the Putnam Board’s direction, Putnam ceased directing brokerage to broker-dealers in
connection with the sale of fund shares as of January 1, 2004.
3

Due to declining overall commissions, between 2000 and 2003, the amount of commissions
directed to fund-selling brokers declined each year and was never more than 12.5% of total available
brokerage commissions. In particular, PRM modified the targets substantially downward in 2002 and
2003, and the Equity Trading department was not able to meet many of the individual targets during that
time.

5


to pay for a Preferred Marketing arrangement. In addition to assigning the trades on
Putnam's internal records, Putnam's trading system also electronically communicated this
information to the trading desks at the broker-dealers that executed the trades.
16.
Putnam used two methods to direct brokerage commissions for
Preferred Marketing Arrangements: by forwarding portfolio transactions directly to a
broker-dealer with which it had such an arrangement (“distributing broker”); and through
“step-out” or correspondent arrangements. Putnam used the latter method in its effort to
achieve best execution in circumstances in which the distributing broker’s execution
capability did not satisfy Putnam's trading department's standards.
PRM's Preferred Marketing Practices Were Not Always Consistent 

With Firm Guidelines

17.
Putnam had a policy relating to placing portfolio transactions with
broker-dealers who sold Putnam Funds in recognition of their sales of Putnam Funds’
shares. Its policy, as stated in the SAIs, and later the prospectuses, was that "Consistent
with the Conduct Rules of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and
subject to seeking the most favorable price and execution available and such other
policies as the Trustees may determine, Putnam Management may consider sales of
shares of the fund (and, if permitted by law, of the other Putnam funds) as a factor in the
selection of broker dealers to execute portfolio transactions for the fund."
18.
Internally, PRM's policy was that amounts directed to brokerdealers in consideration of fund sales were not obligations and therefore, directed
brokerage arrangements should not be put into writing. Also, within Putnam, guidance
was given that agreements for the allocation of commissions could not be made. Putnam
conveyed this understanding to the Putnam Board and repeatedly assured the Putnam
Board that there were no agreements for commissions for sales and no firm amounts of
commissions were promised to broker-dealers, but only that targets were set.
19.
PRM did not follow some of this guidance. For instance, PRM
signed an agreement, entitled a "letter of understanding", along with a side letter with a
broker-dealer regarding PRM's participation in the broker-dealer's preferred sales
program. Although the side letter stated that each transaction that generated such
commissions would be carried out on a best execution basis and that the letter did not
create any binding legal obligations, through this letter PRM nevertheless agreed to pay
for its participation in the program with brokerage commissions. Despite the firm's
policy, Putnam approved PRM's signing of this letter of understanding.
20.
PRM also provided a few broker-dealers with letters confirming
the negotiated basis point formulas for directing brokerage commissions.4 Again,
Putnam approved the form of these letters.

4

These letters also stated that they did not create any binding legal obligations.

6


Putnam Did Not Fully and Effectively Communicate its
Directed Brokerage Practices to the Trustees
21.
Putnam did not fully and effectively communicate to the Putnam
Board that it was directing fund brokerage commissions to over 60 broker-dealers to pay
for PRM's Preferred Marketing Arrangements. While Putnam communicated generally to
the Trustees that broker-dealers were seeking financial support, Putnam did not fully and
effectively disclose to the Trustees the existence of the arrangements with the brokerdealers, the terms or details of the arrangements, or the preference to direct brokerage
commissions, which were fund assets, rather than using PRM's or Putnam Investments'
assets.
22.
In the process of providing the Board with information relevant to
the annual review and approval of the management contract for the Putnam Funds,
Putnam provided a memorandum to the Board describing "fall-out benefits" received by
both Putnam and its affiliates. Among other things, the memorandum identified that
Putnam conducts trading for the Funds, and in connection with that trading, Putnam
received research related services from broker-dealers in consideration of those
commissions. While the memorandum reiterated the policy that Putnam may consider
sales of fund shares as a factor in placing trades, it did not discuss the Preferred
Marketing Arrangements nor did it identify the distribution services received with the
Funds' brokerage commissions.
23.
Putnam told the Brokerage and Custody Committee of the Board of
Trustees, which was charged with reviewing the breakdown of the brokerage commissions
on portfolio transactions into the six categories, that Putnam "considered the sale of fund
shares" when selecting broker-dealers to execute fund portfolio transactions. Putnam also
disclosed to the Trustees the amounts of brokerage commissions directed to the top 25
fund-selling broker-dealers in consideration of fund sales. Putnam also told the Trustees
semi-annually that “Putnam Mutual Funds establishes commission targets to recognize the
efforts of broker dealers based on their respective sales efforts.” Putnam did not, however,
fully and effectively disclose that these amounts were actually used to pay for Preferred
Marketing Arrangements negotiated by PRM.
Putnam Did Not Fully and Effectively Disclose To The Trustees 

The Potential Conflicts Of Interest

24.
As a fiduciary, Putnam had a duty to disclose fully and effectively to
the Putnam Board all potential conflicts of interest created by the use of fund brokerage
commissions, yet it failed to do so.
25.
The use of brokerage commissions to pay for participation in
Preferred Marketing Arrangements created two potential conflicts of interest for Putnam.
The first related to the use of fund assets to satisfy what would otherwise have been
obligations of PRM. Because PRM and Putnam were under common control, Putnam
benefited from the use of fund assets to defray the expenses of its affiliate, PRM. Yet,
Putnam failed to fully and effectively disclose this conflict to the Trustees.
7


26.
The second potential conflict was the one that Putnam's Equity
Trading group faced while trying both to satisfy its best execution obligations and to direct
trades to specific broker-dealers identified by PRM. Specifically, Equity Trading had to
determine: which broker-dealers to place trades with and what commission rates to pay;
whether to use single stock trades or program trading; whether to reduce the number of
broker-dealers with which Putnam traded; and whether these relationships affected the
transaction costs of the directed trades and Equity Trading's objectives to reduce overall
transaction costs.
Putnam Did Not Adequately Disclose its Directed 

Brokerage Practices to Putnam Shareholders

27.
Putnam was primarily responsible for ensuring that the Putnam
Funds’ Prospectuses and SAIs were in compliance with the requirements of Form N-1A in
describing Putnam’s trading practices for the Putnam Funds.5
28.
The information the Commission requires investment companies to
disclose in prospectuses and SAIs is set forth in Form N-1A. Specifically, Item 16(c)6 of
the Form N-1A requires a description in the SAI of “how the Fund will select brokers to
effect securities transactions for the Fund” and requires that “[i]f the Fund will consider the
receipt of products or services other than brokerage or research services in selecting
brokers, [the Fund should] specify those products or services.”
29.
From at least January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2003, Putnam
Funds’ SAIs , disclosed that Putnam may consider sales of shares of the Putnam Funds as a
factor in the selection of broker-dealers to execute the Putnam Funds’ portfolio
transactions. The SAIs did not make the distinction, however, between directing
commissions in “consideration of fund sales” and paying for negotiated arrangements with
brokerage commissions. The SAIs did not adequately disclose to shareholders that PRM
had entered into arrangements for heightened visibility within broker-dealers’ distribution
systems for which Putnam, subject to best execution, directed brokerage commissions, the
amounts of which were primarily determined by negotiated formulas.
7

30.

As a result of the conduct described above, Putnam willfully8:

5

The Putnam Funds’ SAIs are incorporated by reference into the prospectuses.

6

As of July 4, 2004, the relevant item of the Form N-1A has been changed from Item 16(c) to Item

15(c).
7

For a portion of 2003, the prospectuses also contained this disclosure.

8

“Willfully” as used in this Order means intentionally committing the act which constitutes the
violation. See Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000); Tager v. SEC, 344 F.2d 5, 8 (2d Cir.
1965). There is no requirement that the actor also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Act.

8


a.	

Violated Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act, which
provides that it is “unlawful for any investment adviser, by
use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of
interstate commerce, directly or indirectly . . . to engage in
any transaction, practice, or course of business which
operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or prospective
client.”

b.	

Violated Section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act,
which provides in pertinent part that it is “unlawful for any
person to make any untrue statement of a material fact in
any registration statement . . . filed or transmitted pursuant
to” the Investment Company Act and to “omit to state
therein any fact necessary in order to prevent the statements
made therein, in the light of the circumstances under which
they were made, from being materially misleading.”
Undertakings

31. 	

Putnam undertakes the following:
a.	

Putnam shall, within 90 days from the date of entry of the
Order, require a senior level employee to implement and
maintain the following written compliance policies and
procedures:
i.	

Procedures designed to ensure that when the
Putnam trading desk places trades with a brokerdealer that also sells fund shares, the person
responsible for selecting such broker-dealer does
not take into account the broker-dealer’s promotion
or sale of Putnam Fund shares, subject to
modification only in the event that the independent
members of the Putnam Board determine that such
modification is in the best interest of the Putnam
Funds;

ii.	

Putnam will establish guidelines for entering into
revenue sharing arrangements9 between Putnam or
PRM and broker-dealers and other intermediaries in

9

As used in Paragraph 31(a) herein, "revenue sharing arrangements" are arrangements by which
payments are made to broker-dealers from the assets of Putnam or PRM relating to the sale of the Putnam
Funds and/or assets maintained in the Putnam Funds other than (i) dealer concessions, 12b-1 fees,
shareholder servicing payments, or subaccounting payments or (ii) non-cash compensation arrangements as
expressly permitted by NASD Rule 2820(g)(4) or Rule 2830(l)(5) (or any successor to either such rule).

9


respect of the sale of fund shares, which shall not be
inconsistent with the terms of the Order. The
language of the guidelines must be presented to the
Putnam Board and approved by Putnam’s chief legal
officer. The guidelines shall require PRM to use its
best efforts to enter into written contracts
memorializing the revenue sharing arrangements
between PRM and the broker-dealer or other
intermediary. The documentation of each revenue
sharing arrangement in respect of fund sales will set
forth the payment arrangement and the services that
the broker-dealer or other intermediary will provide.
The documentation of each revenue sharing
arrangement shall also include a request from
Putnam or PRM that the broker-dealer or other
intermediary provide point of sale disclosure
documents consistent with then current legal
requirements;
iii.	

All revenue sharing arrangements in respect of the
sale of fund shares must be approved in writing by
Putnam’s chief legal officer, or his delegate, and the
form of such arrangements, or any material
deviation therefrom, presented to the Putnam Board
prior to implementation;

iv.	

Subject to the Putnam Board’s approval, Putnam
will prepare disclosures for the Putnam Funds to
include in their prospectuses or SAIs information
about payments made by Putnam or PRM to brokerdealers or other intermediaries in respect of the sale
of fund shares in addition to dealer concessions,
shareholder servicing payments, and payments for
services that Putnam or an affiliate otherwise would
provide, such as sub-accounting, and state that such
payments are intended to compensate brokerdealers for various services, including without
limitation, placement on the broker-dealers’
preferred or recommended fund list, access to the
broker-dealers’ registered representatives,
assistance in training and education of personnel,
marketing support, and other specified services;

v.	

At least once per year, Putnam will make
presentations to the Communication, Service and
Marketing Committee of the Putnam Board (or

10


other committee performing similar functions or
designated by the Putnam Board, or to the Putnam
Board), including an overview of Putnam's revenue
sharing arrangements and policies, any material
changes to such policies, the number and types of
such arrangements, the types of services received,
the identity of participating broker-dealers or other
intermediaries and the total dollar amounts paid to
such broker-dealers and intermediaries. Putnam
shall also provide the Committee with a summary
quarterly report setting forth amounts paid by
Putnam for such arrangements and the brokerdealers and intermediaries that received such
payments; and
vi.	

b.	

c.	

At least once per year, for at least five years,
Putnam shall provide the Brokerage and Custody
Committee of the Putnam Board (or other
committee performing similar functions) with a best
execution analysis. In such analysis, Putnam shall
include lists of: (a) the top ten executing brokerdealers used by Putnam; and (b) the top ten selling
broker-dealers conducting business with PRM.

Within 10 days of the date of entry of the Order:
i.	

Putnam shall develop a Distribution Plan to
distribute fairly and proportionately to the Putnam
Funds the total disgorgement and penalty ordered in
paragraph IV.C. below based upon the amounts of
brokerage commissions in 2000 through 2003
categorized for “Fund Sales” attributed to each
Putnam Fund. Putnam shall submit the Distribution
Plan to the Putnam Board and the Commission
staff. The Distribution Plan must be acceptable to
the Commission staff.

ii.	

Putnam shall provide a written certification to the
Commission staff of the accuracy of the
calculations relating to the Distribution Plan.

Within 20 days of the date of entry of the Order, Putnam
shall submit the Distribution Plan for the administration
and distribution of disgorgement and penalty funds
pursuant to Rule 1101 of the Commission’s Rules of
Practice.

11


d.	

Following a Commission order approving the final
Distribution Plan, as provided in Rule 1104 of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Putnam shall take all
necessary and appropriate steps to administer the final
Distribution Plan, including overseeing the actual
distribution of the monies to the Putnam Funds within 10
days of the Commission’s approval of the Distribution
Plan.

e.	

Within 5 days of the distribution of the monies to the
Putnam Funds, Putnam shall provide a written certification
to the Commission staff of the amount paid to each Putnam
Fund and the date of payment.

f.	

In In re Putnam Investment Management, LLC, Investment
Advisers Act Rel. No. 2192, 2003 WL 22683975 (Nov. 13,
2003), Putnam agreed to various undertakings including
those requiring it to retain an Independent Compliance
Consultant to conduct a comprehensive review of Putnam’s
supervisory, compliance, and other procedures designed to
prevent and detect breaches of fiduciary duty, breaches of
the Code of Ethics and federal securities law violations by
Putnam and its employees. Putnam further agrees to direct
the Consultant also to review the completeness of Putnam’s
then-current disclosures concerning revenue sharing
arrangements to the Putnam Board and Putnam
shareholders.

Extension of Time
g.	

For good cause shown, the Commission's staff may extend
any of the procedural dates set forth above.
IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public
interest to impose the sanctions specified in the Offer submitted by Putnam.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.

Putnam is 	censured.

B.
Putnam shall cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act and Section 34(b)
of the Investment Company Act.

12


C.
Putnam shall within 5 days of the entry of the Order, pay
disgorgement in the amount of $1 (“Disgorgement”) and a civil money penalty in the
amount of $40 million (“Penalty”), for a total payment of $40,000,001. Such payment
shall be: (1) made by wire transfer, United States postal money order, certified check,
bank cashier's check or bank money order; (2) made payable to the Securities and
Exchange Commission; (3) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial
Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General
Green Way, Alexandria, Stop 0-3, VA 22312; and (4) submitted in connection with a
cover letter that identifies Putnam as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number
of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and wire confirmation, money order or
check shall be sent to Ari Gabinet, District Administrator, Philadelphia District Office,
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Mellon Independence Center, 701 Market
Street, Suite 2000, Philadelphia, PA 19106.
D.
There shall be, pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, a Fair Fund established for the funds described in Section IV.C. Regardless
of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil
money penalties pursuant to the Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government
for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil
penalty, Putnam agrees that it shall not, after offset or reduction in any Related Investor
Action based on Putnam’s payment of disgorgement in this action, further benefit by
offset or reduction of any part of Putnam’s payment of a civil penalty in this action
("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty
Offset, Putnam agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the
Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
Penalty Offset to the United States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the Commission directs.
Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed
to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed against Putnam in this proceeding. For
purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a private damages action
brought against Putnam by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially
the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.
E.

Putnam shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section

III.31 above.

By the Commission.

Jonathan G. Katz
Secretary

13


