UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 3312 / November 9, 2011
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 29858 / November 9, 2011
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11393
ORDER MODIFYING ORDER
INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASEAND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 203(e),
203(f) AND 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT
OF 1940 AND SECTIONS 9(b) AND
9(f) OF THE INVESTMENT
COMPANY ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL
SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-ANDDESIST ORDER AS TO
MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL
SERVICES COMPANY

In the Matter of
MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL
SERVICES COMPANY, JOHN W.
BALLEN AND KEVIN R. PARKE
Respondents.

I.
On February 5, 2004, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“Commission”) instituted administrative and cease-and desist proceedings pursuant to
Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers
Act”) and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment
Company Act”), Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and Cease-and
Desist Order (the “2004 Order”) against Massachusetts Financial Services Co. (“MFS” or
“Respondent”), John W. Ballen and Kevin R. Parke. 1
II.

1

See Advisers Act Rel. No. IA-2213, February 5, 2004, Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11393.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, MFS consented to the 2004
Order. Among other things, the 2004 Order required MFS to cease and desist from
further violations of the federal securities laws, directed MFS to pay disgorgement and
civil money penalties, and directed MFS to comply with various undertakings.
III.
MFS has submitted an Amended Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) proposing to
relieve it of the obligations to continue to: (1) use its best efforts to cause each MFS retail
mutual fund to hold a meeting of shareholders at least every 5th calendar year to elect
trustees in accordance with paragraph III.31.c of the 2004 Order; (2) use its best efforts to
cause each MFS retail fund to designate an independent compliance officer in accordance
with paragraph III.31.d of the 2004 Order; (3) maintain an Internal Compliance Controls
Committee in accordance with paragraph IV.B.1.b. of the 2004 Order; (4) undergo a
third-party biennial compliance review in accordance with paragraph IV.F of the 2004
Order. Solely for purposes of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or
on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over
it and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, MFS consents to the
entry of this Order Modifying Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist
Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers
Act of 1940 and Sections 9(b) And 9(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, Making
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as
set forth below.
IV.
The Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to modify the
2004 Order as agreed to in MFS’s Offer.
Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:
A.

Paragraph III.31.c of the 2004 Order is modified as follows:
c. In 2005 and 2010, each MFS Retail Fund will hold a meeting of shareholders
at which the board of trustees will be elected.

B.

Paragraph III.31.d of the 2004 Order is modified as follows:
d. Until at least September 30, 2011, each MFS Retail Fund will designate an
independent compliance officer reporting to its board of trustees as being
responsible for assisting the board of trustees and any of its committees in
monitoring compliance by MFS with the federal securities laws, MFS's fiduciary
duties to fund shareholders and its Code of Ethics in all matters relevant to the
operation of the MFS Retail Funds. The duties of this person will include
reviewing all compliance reports furnished to the board of trustees or its
2

committees by MFS, attending meetings of MFS's Internal Compliance Controls
Committee to be established pursuant to MFS's undertakings set forth in
paragraph IV.B.1.b below, serving as liaison between the board of trustees and its
committees and the chief compliance officer of MFS, making such
recommendations to the board of trustees regarding MFS's compliance procedures
as may appear advisable from time to time, and promptly reporting to the board of
trustees any material breach of fiduciary duty, breach of the Code of Ethics and/or
violation of the federal securities laws of which he or she becomes aware in the
course of carrying out his or her duties.
C.

Paragraph IV.B.1.b of the 2004 Order is modified as follows:
b. Until at least September 30, 2011, MFS shall establish an Internal Compliance
Controls Committee to be chaired by MFS's chief compliance officer, which
Committee shall have as its members senior executives of MFS's operating
businesses. Notice of all meetings of the Internal Compliance Controls Committee
shall be given to the independent compliance officer of the trustees of the MFS
Retail Funds, who shall be invited to attend and participate in such meetings
provided that the involvement of the independent compliance officer shall be
limited to compliance issues relating to the MFS Retail Funds. The Internal
Compliance Controls Committee shall review compliance issues throughout the
business of MFS, endeavor to develop solutions to those issues as they may arise
from time to time, and oversee implementation of those solutions. The Internal
Compliance Controls Committee shall provide reports on internal compliance
matters to the Compliance or Audit Committee of the trustees of the MFS Retail
Funds with such frequency as the independent trustees of such funds may instruct,
and in any event at least quarterly. MFS shall also provide to the Risk Review or
Audit Committee of Sun Life Financial Inc. the same reports of the Code of
Ethics Oversight Committee and the Internal Compliance Controls Committee
that it provides to the Compliance or Audit Committee of the MFS Retail Funds.

D.

Paragraph IV.F of the 2004 Order is modified as follows:
F. Periodic Compliance Review. Commencing in 2006, and at least once every
other year thereafter through 2010, MFS shall undergo a compliance review by a
third party, who is not an interested person, as defined in the Investment
Company Act, of MFS. At the conclusion of the review, the third party shall issue
a report of its findings and recommendations concerning MFS's supervisory,
compliance, and other policies and procedures designed to prevent and detect
breaches of fiduciary duty, breaches of the Code of Ethics and federal securities
law violations by MFS and its employees in connection with their duties and

3

activities on behalf of and related to the MFS Retail Funds. Each such report shall
be promptly delivered to MFS's Internal Compliance Controls Committee and to
the Compliance or Audit Committee of the board of trustees of each MFS Retail
Fund.
E.

All other provisions of the 2004 Order remain in effect.

By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

4

