UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4379 / April 27, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17235
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
ROGER S. BLISS,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Roger S. Bliss
(“Bliss” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Sections III.2. and III.4. below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings,
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Bliss controlled Roger Bliss and Associates Equities, LLC, and other related entities.
From approximately 2008 until February 2015, Bliss, through his entities, offered and sold
investments to individuals and provided investment advice to a pooled investment vehicle that he
characterized as an investment club. Bliss, 57 years old, is a resident of Bountiful, Utah.
2.
On April 19, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against Bliss,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933,
Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Sections
206(1), 206(2), and 206(4) of the Advisers Act, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Roger S. Bliss, et al., Civil Action Number 2:15-CV-00098, in the United States
District Court for the District of Utah.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that, Bliss provided investment advice to a
pooled investment vehicle and offered and sold investments contracts to numerous investors. The
complaint further alleged that Bliss misused and misappropriated investor funds, generated false
trading records, sent out false account statements indicating that investors funds were fully
invested and earning returns, and otherwise engaged in a variety of conduct which operated as a
fraud and deceit on investors.
4.
On December 11, 2015, Bliss pled guilty to four counts of securities fraud in
violation of Utah Code Ann. §§61-1-1 and 61-1-21 before the Third Judicial District Court, Salt
Lake County, State of Utah, in Utah v. Roger S. Bliss, Case No. 151907989FS.
5.
In connection with that plea Respondent admitted that, commencing on or about
December 2013, in connection with the offer or sale of a security, directly or indirectly,
Respondent made untrue statements of material facts or omitted to state material facts necessary in
order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made,
not misleading; or engaged in an act, practice or course of business which operated or would
operate as a fraud or deceit.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Bliss’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that
Respondent Bliss be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization.
2

Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

