UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4374 / April 20, 2016
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 32089 / April 20, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17220
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 203(f) AND 203(k)
OF THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940 AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
DANIEL N. GINSPARG,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
(“Advisers Act”) and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company
Act”) against Daniel N. Ginsparg (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to Sections 203(f) and 203(k) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940,
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as
set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
Respondent
1.
Respondent, age 53, resides in Chesterfield, Missouri. Respondent was the owner,
Chief Investment Officer, and sole employee of Explorer Asset Management LLC (“Explorer”), a
Missouri-registered investment adviser based in St. Louis, Missouri. Between 2002 and 2012,
Explorer was the investment adviser to three private funds (the “Explorer Funds”).
Background
2.
Registered Investment Adviser A (“RIA”) was an investment adviser registered
with the Commission until December 2014. RIA recommended that its advisory clients invest in
the Explorer Funds. RIA placed six of its clients in the Explorer Funds. In addition, Respondent
placed additional investors in the Explorer Funds.
3.
Respondent provided RIA with passwords to a website where he posted
information about the Explorer Funds. The information included the value of the funds, the value
of each client account, and the funds’ overall performance. Respondent updated the website on a
monthly basis. RIA incorporated the information from the website into account statements
provided to RIA’s clients.
4.
In 2010, RIA’s senior advisors expressed concerns about the performance of the
Explorer Funds. RIA noticed a significant disparity between the funds’ performance and the
benchmarks for evaluating the funds’ performance. In approximately March 2011, RIA’s senior
advisors met with Respondent to discuss what needed to be done to improve performance of the
Explorer Funds.
The Violative Conduct
5.
Between May 2011 and November 2011, Respondent reported monthly account
balances for the RIA client accounts which exceeded the funds’ values, as shown on custodial
statements. RIA and its clients believed that the account values were relatively stable when, in
fact, they were significantly decreasing. In fact, the Explorer Funds suffered substantial losses
during the seven-month period, and were liquidated in January 2012.
6.

Respondent earned $11,331 in management fees during the seven-month period.

7.
Respondent, as investment adviser to the Explorer Funds, misstated account
balances and communicated the misstated balances to account holders through their agents at RIA.
Accurate account values were material; a reasonable investor would consider such information in
determining whether or not to keep his or her account open.
2

8.
Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder make it
unlawful for any investment adviser to a pooled investment vehicle to “[m]ake any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, to any
investor or prospective investor in the pooled investment vehicle” or “engage in any act, practice,
or course of business that is fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative with respect to any investor or
prospective investor in the pooled investment vehicle.” A showing of negligence is sufficient to
establish a violation of Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act or Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder. SEC v.
Steadman, 967 F.2d 636, 647 (D.C. Cir 1992). As a result of the conduct described above,
Respondent willfully1 violated Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder.
Civil Penalty
9.
Respondent has submitted a sworn Statement of Financial Condition dated July 3,
2015 and other evidence and has asserted his inability to pay the maximum civil penalty
permissible.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, in the public interest, and
for the protection of investors to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Ginsparg’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 203(f) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act and Section 9(b)
of the Investment Company Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent Ginsparg cease and desist from committing or causing any violations
and any future violations of Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 promulgated
thereunder.
B.

Respondent Ginsparg be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal
securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization; and
prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member of an
advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter for, a
registered investment company or affiliated person of such investment adviser,
depositor, or principal underwriter.

1

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty knows what he is
doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C.
Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor “‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’”
Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).

3

C.
Any reapplication for association by Respondent will be subject to the applicable
laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number
of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
D.
Respondent shall pay disgorgement of $11,331, prejudgment interest of $1,300, and
a civil penalty of $11,331 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general
fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). Payment shall be
made in the following installments:
Within 14 days of entry of Order:
6 months from entry of Order:
12 months from entry of Order:
18 months from entry of Order:
24 months from entry of Order:
30 months from entry of Order:
36 months from entry of Order:

$3,423.15
$3,423.15
$3,423.15
$3,423.15
$3,423.15
$3,423.15
$3,423.15

If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire
outstanding balance of disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalty, plus any additional
interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 and/or pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be
due and payable immediately, without further application.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
4

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Daniel N.
Ginsparg as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Timothy Warren, Associate Director,
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 175 West Jackson Boulevard,
Suite 900, Chicago, Illinois 60604.
E.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this
proceeding.
F.
Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty in
excess of $11,331 based upon Respondent's sworn representations in his Statement of Financial
Condition dated July 3, 2015 and other documents submitted to the Commission. The Division of
Enforcement ("Division") may, at any time following the entry of this Order, petition the
Commission to: (1) reopen this matter to consider whether Respondent provided accurate and
complete financial information at the time such representations were made; and (2) seek an order
directing payment of the maximum civil penalty allowable under the law. No other issue shall be
considered in connection with this petition other than whether the financial information provided
by Respondent was fraudulent, misleading, inaccurate, or incomplete in any material respect.
Respondent may not, by way of defense to any such petition: (1) contest the findings in this Order;
(2) assert that payment of a penalty should not be ordered; (3) contest the imposition of the
maximum penalty allowable under the law; or (4) assert any defense to liability or remedy,
including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations defense.

5

V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

6

