UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4479 / August 11, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17377
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
RANDALL W. MCKEE,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Randall W.
McKee (“McKee” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings and the findings contained in
Section III.2 below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings
Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
From January 2008 to December 2008, McKee was associated with a registered
investment adviser. McKee, age 57, is a resident of Sioux Falls, South Dakota.
2.
On August 5, 2015, McKee pled guilty to one count of wire fraud in violation of 18
U.S.C. §§ 1343, a felony, before the United States District Court, District of South Dakota, in U.S.

v. Randall William McKee, Case No. CR 14-50113. On December 15, 2015, a judgment in the
criminal case was entered against McKee. McKee was sentenced to serve 41 months of
incarceration and ordered to pay $684,230 in restitution.
3.
According to the criminal indictment, the wire fraud count to which McKee pled
guilty was premised on a fraudulent scheme dating back to January 2008 to steal money from a
supplemental needs trust, for which he served as trustee, to enrich himself rather than care for the
trust’s beneficiary.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent McKee’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act that
Respondent McKee be, and hereby is barred from association with any investment adviser, broker,
dealer, municipal securities dealer, or transfer agent.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

2

