UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4453 / July 14, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17343
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 203(e) AND 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
RIVERFRONT
INVESTMENT GROUP,
LLC,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections
203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), against RiverFront
Investment Group, LLC (“RiverFront” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a
Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
1.
This matter arises from materially misleading disclosures made by RiverFront in its
Forms ADV concerning the frequency that it traded in a manner that resulted in additional,
insufficiently disclosed transaction costs to advisory clients in wrap fee programs that were not
covered by the annual wrap fee. In wrap fee programs, clients pay an annual fee which is intended
to cover the cost of several services “wrapped” together, such as custody, trade execution, portfolio
management, and back office services. Wrap fee programs are typically created by a sponsoring
firm. Sponsors provide a portion of the program’s services. They also may select multiple thirdparty managers for their platforms, from which clients can choose. These third-party managers,
often called subadvisers, have discretion over the clients’ investment decisions in the programs.
2.
Most wrap fee programs contemplate that subadvisers will use a sponsor-designated
broker-dealer (often the sponsor itself) to execute the subadviser’s trades on behalf of clients. As
such, the transaction costs of the trades executed through the designated broker-dealer are included
in the wrap fee that each client pays.
3.
RiverFront, a registered investment adviser, serves as a subadviser to clients in
various wrap fee programs created by a number of different sponsors. As a subadviser, RiverFront
creates investment strategies for those wrap fee programs and executes those strategies on behalf of
the clients that select RiverFront to manage their accounts, from amongst the subadviser choices
available to a client on any particular platform. In this role, RiverFront has sole discretion over
whether to send trades to the designated broker-dealer for execution, in which case the transaction
charges are covered by the wrap fee, or to send the trades to another broker-dealer in which case
the client typically pays additional transaction costs charged by that broker-dealer. The practice of
sending trades to a non-designated broker-dealer is referred to as “trading away” and these trades
are frequently called “trade aways.” The extent to which a subadviser trades away from the
designated broker-dealer is relevant to a client selecting a wrap fee program because it entails
additional costs to the client and could influence the client’s evaluation of the reasonableness of the
wrap fee, which is often negotiable.
4.
RiverFront first began serving as a subadviser to advisory clients in wrap fee
programs in mid-2008. At that time, RiverFront disclosed that it may trade away in an effort to
obtain best execution on behalf of its clients, but that it would “generally” execute trades through
the designated broker-dealers, which it did. However, beginning in late 2009, RiverFront
substantially increased the amount it was trading away. RiverFront claims that trading away
resulted in improved execution prices. However, by trading away, RiverFront caused its clients to
pay millions of dollars’ worth of transaction costs that were not covered by the annual wrap fee,
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2

rendering its existing disclosures inaccurate. By failing to make timely and accurate disclosures to
its clients about this change to its trading practices, RiverFront violated Sections 207 and 204(a) of
the Advisers Act and Rule 204-1(a) thereunder.
Respondent
5.
RiverFront, a Delaware limited liability company based in Richmond, Virginia, is a
privately-held investment adviser. RiverFront was formed in December 2007 and has been
registered with the Commission as an investment adviser since February 2008.
RiverFront Failed to Make Timely and Accurate Disclosures
About the Extent of its Trading Away
RiverFront Started Trading Away Most of its Wrap Trading by the Beginning of 2010
6.
Investors in wrap fee programs pay an annual fee—calculated as a percentage of
assets under management—for the services performed by the program sponsor, and by the
subadviser (here, RiverFront). As a result, investors in the wrap fee programs are advisory clients
of both the sponsor and subadviser.
7.
As a subadviser, RiverFront is responsible for designing and implementing
investment strategies for certain wrap fee programs. RiverFront has developed a variety of
strategies for the money it manages for its clients in those wrap fee programs. These strategies
involve, among other things, investments in large, mid, and small cap equities, fixed income, and
exchange traded funds.
8.
RiverFront also has sole responsibility for selecting which broker-dealers will
execute its clients’ transactions. In some cases, in an effort to obtain best execution, RiverFront
may select a non-designated broker-dealer (not affiliated with the program sponsor) to execute the
trades if it deems the transaction to be in the best interests of the client.
9.
From mid-2008 until March 2009, RiverFront directed almost all wrap trades to the
designated broker-dealers for execution. Therefore, almost all transaction costs were covered by
the annual wrap fee.
10.
At the end of the first quarter of 2009, RiverFront began trading away with more
frequency. Over the next several quarters, RiverFront decided to trade away, on a security-type by
security-type basis, virtually 100% of its “portfolio trades,” i.e., trades done to implement
RiverFront’s investment decisions for its clients.
a. By the end of the first quarter of 2009, RiverFront started trading away all portfolio
trades in fixed income securities;
b. During the second quarter of 2009, RiverFront started trading away all portfolio
trades in exchange traded fund securities;

3

c. During the third quarter of 2009, RiverFront started trading away all portfolio
trades in small and mid-cap equity securities; and
d. By April 2010, RiverFront started trading away all portfolio trades in all equity
securities, including large cap equities.
11.
RiverFront continued to route virtually all “maintenance trades,” i.e., trading
initiated by individual clients, such as those occasioned by deposits or withdrawals, to the
designated broker-dealers for execution.
12.
By the beginning of 2010, RiverFront was trading away a majority of its overall
wrap trading by market value and share volume. As shown in the chart below, RiverFront traded
away approximately 74% of the market value of its overall wrap fee program trading in 2010 and
approximately 82% in 2011. In terms of the percentage of shares, rather than market value, those
percentages were approximately 68% and 73% of all wrap trading for those two years.
Time Period
1Q2010
2Q2010
3Q2010
4Q2010
2010 Total
1Q2011
2Q2011
3Q2011
4Q2011
2011 Total

Market Value
57.5%
73.7%
82.0%
79.2%
73.8%
78.0%
80.3%
85.2%
83.9%
82.2%

Shares
61.1%
54.2%
78.7%
66.8%
68.2%
65.6%
77.4%
77.7%
71.5%
73.1%

13.
RiverFront did not profit by trading away, and it claims to have obtained improved
execution prices by doing so. However, when RiverFront traded away, any applicable transaction
costs charged by the executing broker-dealer were passed through to clients on a per-share basis.
Therefore, its clients paid millions of dollars’ worth of transaction costs charged by non-designated
broker-dealers that were not covered by the wrap fee.
RiverFront Failed to Promptly Update its Form ADV When it Began Trading Away
14.
As a registered investment adviser, RiverFront was required to file a Form ADV.
Form ADV consists of two main parts. Part 1 is a questionnaire that is filed with the Commission.
Part 2, often referred to as the “brochure” portion of the Form, is the narrative portion that is filed
with the Commission and provided to advisory clients.
15.
Registered investment advisers like RiverFront are required to amend Form ADV at
least annually, within 90 days of the end of its fiscal year, and more frequently, if required by the
instructions to Form ADV. Those instructions required RiverFront to update its Form ADV
“promptly” whenever information in the brochure portion of the Form became “materially
inaccurate.”

4

16.
From September 2008 through its annual filing in March of 2011, RiverFront filed
five Forms ADV, on September 2, 2008, March 31, 2009, March 31, 2010, August 31, 2010, and
March 31, 2011.
17.
RiverFront filed Forms ADV on September 2, 2008 and March 31, 2009, prior to
engaging in significant trading away. In the brochure portion of these filings, RiverFront disclosed
to its clients that it might trade away in an effort to obtain best execution, and that in such instances
clients may pay transaction costs not covered by the annual wrap fee. However, RiverFront also
stated that (i) it would typically trade through the sponsor-designated broker-dealers, (ii) clients
would not be charged a commission on those trades, (iii) a portion of the wrap fee was considered
to be in lieu of brokerage commissions, and (iv) RiverFront therefore generally directed trades to
the designated broker-dealer “in order to enjoy the greatest cost benefits of the wrap fee program.”
18.
RiverFront significantly increased its trading away activity during 2009 and early
2010. Consequently, trading away began to constitute a majority of wrap trading by volume,
whether measured in terms of market value or shares, during this time period. However,
RiverFront did not update its Form ADV as required in light of this material change.
RiverFront Made Materially Misleading Statements in Its March 31, 2010 and August 31, 2010
Forms ADV
19.
On March 31 and August 31, 2010, RiverFront filed its next two Forms ADV,
including amended brochures. In those brochures, RiverFront made identical disclosures regarding
trade execution in wrap fee programs that it had in its prior Forms ADV. Specifically, RiverFront
repeated that wrap trading would “generally” or “customarily” be done through the sponsordesignated broker-dealers “in order to enjoy the greatest cost benefits of the wrap fee program.”
RiverFront also reiterated that wrap fee program trades “are generally effected without
commissions.”
20.
By the time RiverFront repeated these disclosures in its March 31, 2010 Form
ADV, it was trading away the majority of its wrap trading. By market value, RiverFront traded
away approximately 57% of the total wrap trades that quarter and approximately 61% by shares.
In the next quarter, those percentages were approximately 73% and 54%, respectively.
21.
By the third quarter of 2010, the quarter in which RiverFront filed the August 31,
2010 Form ADV which continued to include identical language regarding the trade away practice,
RiverFront sent approximately 82% of the market value of wrap trades to non-designated broker
dealers, representing approximately 78% of shares traded.
RiverFront Made Materially Misleading Statements in Its March 31, 2011 Form ADV
22.
On March 31, 2011, RiverFront filed its next annual amendment to Form ADV.
This amendment contained a new required section entitled “Summary of Material Changes.” This
new section required RiverFront to identify and discuss material changes from its prior brochure.
Pursuant to Rule 204-3 under the Advisers Act, RiverFront could elect to deliver to clients only the
5

Summary of Material Changes section, in lieu of the entire brochure, so long as clients were also
offered the entire brochure upon request.
23.
In the March 31, 2011 Form ADV, RiverFront made significant changes to the
language regarding execution in wrap fee programs. In most places, RiverFront had deleted the
language that indicated that wrap trading would “generally” be done through the sponsors. For
instance, in the brochure, RiverFront stated: “Although some brokerage transactions will be
executed through the Program Sponsor, RiverFront, in many cases, may choose to place trades
through broker/dealers other than the Program Sponsor.” RiverFront also disclosed that, in those
cases, “the client’s account may be charged a commission or other fees that are not included in the
wrap fee paid by the client to the Program Sponsor.”
24.
However, in the very next paragraph RiverFront stated, as it had in the 2010
versions, “if a client retains RiverFront through a wrap fee arrangement, RiverFront will generally
execute transactions for the client’s account through the client’s Program Sponsor, in order to
enjoy the greatest cost benefits of the wrap fee program.” RiverFront made this disclosure even
though, at the time, it was trading away for a majority of the volume of the wrap trading it placed
on behalf of clients, and that this would continue indefinitely by virtue of its decisions to trade
away all portfolio trades in all security types.
25.
RiverFront also failed to disclose and discuss these changes in the “Summary of
Material Changes” section of the brochure. Because RiverFront opted to deliver only the
“Summary of Material Changes” section of the March 31, 2011 brochure to clients who had
received a prior brochure, many clients did not receive the updated language.
26.
Approximately five months later, in an amended Form ADV dated August 24,
2011, RiverFront deleted the last remaining statement that indicated that it would “generally” trade
through the sponsors. In addition, it added language indicating that it would trade away “often” in
pursuit of its duty to seek best execution.
Violations
27.
As a result of the conduct described above, RiverFront willfully2 violated Section
207 of the Advisers Act which makes it “unlawful for any person willfully to make any untrue
statement of a material fact in any registration application or report filed with the Commission . . .
or willfully to omit to state in any such application or report any material fact which is required to
be stated therein.”

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty
knows what he is doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting
Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor
“‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’” Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc.
v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).
6
2

28.
As a result of the conduct described above, RiverFront willfully violated Section
204(a) of the Advisers Act and Rule 204-1(a) promulgated thereunder, which incorporates by
reference the instructions to Form ADV and therefore requires that Form ADV be amended when
“information provided in [the] brochure becomes materially inaccurate.”
RiverFront’s Remedial Efforts
29.
In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial
acts promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.
Undertakings
30.
Respondent has undertaken to disclose, on a quarterly basis, on its public website,
the volume of trades by market value executed away from sponsor firms and the associated
transaction costs charged by non-designated broker-dealers and passed onto clients. Respondent
will provide this information on an investment strategy by investment strategy basis. The
location of this data will be referenced by its URL in all of Respondent’s future Forms ADV and
Respondent’s client agreements. In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission
has considered this undertaking.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent RiverFront’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act, it is hereby
ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent RiverFront cease and desist from committing or causing any violations
and any future violations of Sections 207 and 204(a) of the Advisers Act and Rule 204-1
promulgated thereunder.
B.

Respondent RiverFront is censured.

C.
Respondent shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty in the amount of $300,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Section
21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C.
§3717.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

7

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the
SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and
hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
RiverFront Investment Group, LLC as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of
these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to G. Jeffrey
Boujoukos, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 1617 JFK Boulevard,
Suite 520, Philadelphia, PA 19103.
D.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this
proceeding.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

8

