UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4517 / August 31, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17522

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
DAVID KAYATTA,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against David Kayatta
(“Respondent”).
II.
Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and
the subject matter of these proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2 below, which are
admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings
Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:

1.
David Kayatta, 59, is a resident of Claremont, California. In December 2009,
Kayatta joined Paul Mata at investment adviser firm Logos Wealth Advisors (“LWA”) and became
the fund manager for two unregistered investment funds founded by Mata, Secured Capital
Investments, LLC (“SCI”) and Logos Real Estate Holdings, LLC (“LREH”) (collectively, the
“Funds”). In 2010, Kayatta was ordered by the Nevada Secretary of State to cease-and-desist from
soliciting Nevada investors in unregistered securities and from engaging in unlicensed investment
advisory conduct. Kayatta previously held Series 7, 65, and 66 securities licenses.
2.
On June 17, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against Kayatta,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5 and 17(a) of the Securities Act of
1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act) and Rule
10b-5 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Paul Mata, et
al., Civil Action Number 5:15-cv-01792-VAP-KK, in the United States District Court for the
Central District of California.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that, from 2008 through the present, Kayatta
and Mata raised over $14 million from over 100 investors by soliciting investments in the Funds
using online videos and investment seminars. The complaint alleged that Kayatta was responsible
for false and misleading statements in the Funds’ private placement memoranda, including falsely
promising that SCI “guaranteed” returns, misrepsenting SCI’s use of proceeds, and failing to
disclose his and Mata’s disciplinary history. The complaint alleged that Kayatta also misused and
misappropriated investor funds, and otherwise engaged in a variety of conduct that operated as a
fraud and deceit on investors. Finally, the complaint alleged that the Funds were never registered
with the SEC, as required under the registration provisions of the federal securities laws.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Kayatta’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that
Respondent Kayatta be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
2

waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

3

