ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17630
Mutual Fund Adviser Settles with SEC for Fair Valuation and Disclosure Failures
October 18, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission announced today that Bethesda,
Maryland-based mutual fund adviser Calvert Investment Management, Inc. (Calvert) has agreed
to settle charges that it improperly fair valued certain fund holdings and failed to disclose key
aspects of its attempt to remediate the resulting harm.
According to the SEC’s order, between March 18, 2008 and October 18, 2011, Calvert improperly
valued certain securities held by mutual funds that Calvert advised. This, in turn, led the mutual
funds to be priced at an incorrect net asset value (NAV). The mutual funds then executed
shareholder transactions at the wrong NAV, and stated inaccurate performance figures. In addition,
Calvert collected inflated asset-based fees.
After discovering the improper valuation, Calvert sought to remedy the harm by paying $27 million
to the mutual funds and the funds’ shareholders. However, the remediation was based, in part, on
an estimated loss amount, and Calvert did not precisely calculate fund and shareholder losses in
accordance with the funds’ NAV error correction procedures. Calvert and the funds did not disclose
to investors and prospective investors that the remediation did not conform to the NAV error
correction procedures, nor did they disclose that the process compensated shareholders differently,
depending on whether they invested directly or through an intermediary.
Also according to the SEC’s order, Calvert caused a mutual fund it advised to engage in a
securities transaction with another fund that Calvert sub-advised, without meeting the requirements
for an exemption from the prohibitions against transactions between affiliated persons.
The SEC’s order finds that Calvert violated Sections 206(2) and 206(4) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, and caused violations of Sections 17(a) and
34(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and Rules 22c-1 and 38a-1 thereunder.
Without admitting or denying the findings in the SEC’s order, Calvert agreed to the entry of a
cease-and-desist order and a censure, to pay a civil penalty of $3.9 million, and to undertake a
self-administered distribution to affected shareholders.
The SEC’s investigation in this matter was conducted by Oreste P. McClung and Brendan P.
McGlynn of the Enforcement Division’s Asset Management Unit. The SEC examination that led
to the investigation was conducted by Kelli Byrne, Matt Guthier, Erin Harrison, John Jackson,
Bill Lavin, Andrea Muller, Brian Carroll, Michelle Heid, and Steven Dittert of the Office of
Compliance Inspections and Examinations.
See also:

Order

