SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Parts 275 and 279
Release No. IA-4509; File No. S7-09-15
RIN 3235-AL75
Form ADV and Investment Advisers Act Rules
AGENCY:

Securities and Exchange Commission

ACTION:

Final rule.

SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission” or “SEC”)
is adopting amendments to Form ADV that are designed to provide additional
information regarding advisers, including information about their separately managed
account business, incorporate a method for private fund adviser entities operating a single
advisory business to register using a single Form ADV, and make clarifying, technical
and other amendments to certain Form ADV items and instructions. The Commission
also is adopting amendments to the Advisers Act books and records rule and technical
amendments to several Advisers Act rules to remove transition provisions that are no
longer necessary.
DATES: Effective [Insert date 60 days after the date of publication in the Federal
Register].
Compliance Date: See Section III of this final rule.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bridget D. Farrell, Senior Counsel,
Jennifer Songer, Senior Counsel, Betselot Zeleke, Attorney-Adviser, or Sara Cortes,
Assistant Director at (202) 551-6787 or IArules@sec.gov, Investment Adviser Regulation

Office, Division of Investment Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100
F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-8549.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission is adopting amendments to
rules 202(a)(11)(G)-1 [17 CFR 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1], 203-1 [17 CFR 275.203-1], 204-1
[17 CFR 275.204-1], 204-2 [17 CFR 275.204-2], and 204-3 [17 CFR 275.204-3] under
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80b] (“Advisers Act” or “Act”),1 and
amendments to Form ADV [17 CFR 279.1] under the Advisers Act. The Commission is
also rescinding rule 203A-5 [17 CFR 275.203A-5] under the Advisers Act.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.
II.

BACKGROUND
DISCUSSION
A.
Amendments to Form ADV
1.
Information Regarding Separately Managed Accounts
a.
Amendments to Item 5 of Part 1A and Section 5 of
Schedule D
b.
Section 5.K.(1) of Schedule D
c.
Section 5.K.(2) of Schedule D
d.
Section 5.K.(3) of Schedule D
e.
Public Disclosure of Separately Managed Account
Information
f.
Additional Comments About Reporting of Separately
Managed Accounts
2.
Additional Information Regarding Investment Advisers
a.
Additional Identifying Information
b.
Additional Information About Advisory Business
c.
Additional Information About Financial Industry
Affiliations and Private Fund Reporting
3.
Umbrella Registration
4.
Clarifying, Technical and Other Amendments to Form ADV
a.
Amendments to Item 2
b.
Amendments to Item 4

1

15 U.S.C. 80b. Unless otherwise noted, when we refer to the Advisers Act, or any paragraph of the
Advisers Act, we are referring to 15 U.S.C. 80b of the United States Code, at which the Advisers
Act is codified, and when we refer to rules under the Advisers Act, or any paragraph of these
rules, we are referring to title 17, part 275 of the Code of Federal Regulations [17 CFR 275], in
which these rules are published.

2

III.

IV.

V.

c.
Amendments to Item 7
d.
Amendments to Item 8
e.
Amendments to Section 9.C. of Schedule D
f.
Amendments to Disclosure Reporting Pages
g.
Amendments to Instructions and Glossary
B.
Amendments to Investment Advisers Act Rules
1.
Amendments to Books and Records Rule
2.
Technical Amendments to Advisers Act Rules
a.
Rule 203A-5
b.
Rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1(e)
c.
Rule 203-1(e)
d.
Rule 203-1(b), Rule 204-1(c) and Rule 204-3(g)
EFFECTIVE AND COMPLIANCE DATES
A.
Effective Date
B.
Compliance Dates
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.
Introduction
B.
Amendments to Form ADV
1.
Economic Baseline and Affected Market Participants
2.
Analysis of the Amendments to Form ADV and Alternatives
a.
Information Regarding Separately Managed Accounts
b.
Additional Information Regarding Investment Advisers
c.
Costs Applicable to Reporting Information Regarding
Separately Managed Accounts and Additional Information
on Form ADV
d.
Umbrella Registration
e.
Clarifying, Technical and Other Amendments to Form
ADV
f.
Exempt Reporting Advisers
C.
Amendments to Investment Advisers Act Rules
1.
Economic Baseline and Affected Market Participants
2.
Analysis of the Effects of the Amendments to the Advisers Act
Books and Records Rule
PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT ANALYSIS
A.
Form ADV
1.
Changes in Average Burden Estimates
a.
Estimated Change in Burden Related to Part 1A
Amendments (Not Including Private Fund Reporting)
i.
Amendments Related to Reporting of Separately
Managed Account Information
ii.
Other Additional Information Regarding Investment
Advisers
iii.
Clarifying, Technical and Other Amendments
b.
Estimated Changes in Burden Related to Private Fund
Reporting Requirements
c.
Estimated Changes in Burden Related to Exempt Reporting
Adviser Reporting Requirements
3

2.

VI.

VII.

Annual Burden Estimates
a.
Estimated Annual Burden Applicable to All Registered
Investment Advisers
i.
Estimated Initial Hour Burden (Not Including
Burden Applicable to Private Funds) For First Year
Adviser To Complete Form ADV (Part 1 and Part
2)
ii.
Estimated Initial Burden Applicable to
Registered Advisers to Private Funds
iii.
Estimated Annual Hour Burden Associated With
Amendments, New Brochure Supplements, and
Delivery Obligations
iv.
Estimated Annual Cost Burden
b.
Estimated Annual Burden Applicable to Exempt Reporting
Advisers
i.
Estimated Initial Hour Burden
ii.
Estimated Annual Burden Associated with
Amendments and Final Filings
3.
Total Revised Burden
B.
Rule 204-2
FINAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS
A.
Need for and Objectives of the Amendments
B.
Significant Issues Raised by Public Comments
C.
Small Entities Subject to the Rule and Rule Amendments
D.
Projected Reporting Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance Requirements
E.
Agency Action to Minimize Effect on Small Entities
STATUTORY AUTHORITY

APPENDIX A: FORM ADV: GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
APPENDIX B: FORM ADV: INSTRUCTIONS FOR PART 1A
APPENDIX C: FORM ADV: GLOSSARY OF TERMS
APPENDIX D: FORM ADV, PART 1A

4

I.

BACKGROUND
Form ADV is used by investment advisers to register with the Commission and

with the states.2 The information collected on Form ADV serves a vital role in our
regulatory program and our ability to protect investors. On May 20, 2015,3 we proposed
amendments to Part 1A of Form ADV in three areas: revisions to fill certain data gaps
and to provide additional information about investment advisers, including their
separately managed account business; amendments to incorporate a method for private
fund adviser entities operating a single advisory business to register with us using a single
Form ADV; and clarifying, technical and other amendments to existing items and
instructions.4
Several of the amendments to Form ADV relate to separately managed accounts.
These amendments will require advisers to provide certain aggregate information about
separately managed accounts that they advise. Other amendments to Form ADV that we
are adopting are designed to improve the depth and quality of information that we collect
on investment advisers, facilitate our risk monitoring initiatives and assist our staff in its
risk-based examination program. Moreover, because Form ADV is available to the

2

Information on Form ADV is available to the public through the Investment Adviser Public
Disclosure System (“IAPD”), which allows the public to access the most recent Form ADV filing
made by an investment adviser and is available at http://www.adviserinfo.sec.gov.

3

See Amendments to Form ADV and Investment Advisers Act Rules, Investment Advisers Act
Release No. 4091 (May 20, 2015) [80 FR 33718 (June 12, 2015)] (“Proposing Release”).

4

In general, this Release discusses the Commission’s rule and form amendments that will affect
advisers registered with the Commission. We understand that the state securities authorities
intend to consider similar changes that affect advisers registered with the states, who are also
required to complete Part 1B of Form ADV as part of their state registrations.

5

public on our website, these amendments also are intended to provide advisory clients
and the public additional information regarding registered investment advisers.
We are also adopting amendments to Part 1A that will provide a more efficient
method for the registration on one Form ADV of multiple private fund adviser entities
operating a single advisory business (“umbrella registration”). The staff has provided
guidance to private fund advisers regarding umbrella registration,5 and the amendments
to incorporate umbrella registration into Form ADV will make the availability of
umbrella registration more widely known to advisers. Uniform filing requirements for
umbrella registration in Form ADV will provide more consistent data about, and create a
clearer picture of, groups of private fund advisers that operate as a single business.
The last set of amendments to Part 1A of Form ADV includes clarifying,
technical and other amendments that are based on our staff’s experience with the form
and responding to inquiries from advisers and their service providers. These amendments
should make it easier for advisers to understand and complete the form.
Separate from Form ADV, we are adopting amendments to several Advisers Act
rules. First, we are adopting amendments to the books and records rule, rule 204-2, to
require advisers to make and keep supporting documentation that demonstrates
performance calculations or rates of return in any written communications that the
adviser circulates or distributes, directly or indirectly, to any person. Advisers also will
be required to maintain originals of all written communications received and copies of
written communications sent by them related to the performance or rate of return of any

5

See American Bar Association, Business Law Section, SEC Staff Letter (Jan. 18, 2012), available
at http://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/noaction/2012/aba011812.htm (“2012 ABA Letter”).

6

or all managed accounts or securities recommendations. As discussed in the Proposing
Release, we believe that these amendments will better protect investors from fraudulent
performance claims.6 Finally, we are adopting several technical amendments to rules
under the Advisers Act to remove transition provisions that were adopted in conjunction
with previous rulemaking initiatives, but that are no longer necessary.
We received 50 comment letters on our proposals, most of which were from
investment advisers, trade or professional organizations, law firms and consultants.7
Commenters generally supported the goals of the proposal. The majority of comments
focused on reporting of separately managed accounts and umbrella registration. Several
commenters supported collection of information on separately managed account clients,
but many raised concerns about the public availability of the information and reporting
on derivatives and borrowings. A diverse group of commenters supported umbrella
registration. Commenters also generally supported the amendments to certain Advisers
Act rules. We are adopting the proposed amendments with several modifications to
address commenters’ concerns. We discuss these modifications and concerns below.

6

See Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section I.

7

Comment letters submitted in File No. S7-09-15 are available on the Commission’s website at
http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-09-15/s70915.shtml. We also considered those comments
submitted in File No. S7-08-15 (Investment Company Reporting Modernization, Investment
Company Act Release No. 9776 (May 20, 2015) [80 FR 33589 (June 12, 2015)]) that addressed
the amendments adopted in this Release. Those comments are available on the Commission’s
website at http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-08-15/s70815.shtml. We also note that in December
2014, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) issued a notice requesting comment on
aspects of the asset management industry, which includes, among other entities, registered
investment advisers. Although this rulemaking is independent of FSOC, the notice included
requests for comment on additional data or information that would be helpful to regulators and
market participants. In response to the notice, several commenters discussed issues concerning
data that are relevant to this rulemaking, including data regarding separately managed accounts
that was cited and considered as part of the Proposing Release.

7

II.

DISCUSSION
A.

Amendments to Form ADV

1.

Information Regarding Separately Managed Accounts

Several of the amendments to Form ADV that we are adopting are designed to
collect more specific information about advisers’ separately managed accounts. For
purposes of reporting on Form ADV, we consider advisory accounts other than those that
are pooled investment vehicles (i.e., registered investment companies, business
development companies and pooled investment vehicles that are not registered
(including, but not limited to, private funds)) to be separately managed accounts. As we
discussed in the Proposing Release, we currently collect detailed information about
pooled investment vehicles that advisers manage, but little specific information about
separately managed accounts.8 We believe that collecting additional information about
separately managed accounts will enhance our staff's ability to effectively carry out our
risk-based examination program and other risk assessment and monitoring activities. We
discuss below the specific separate account reporting requirements. Commenters stated
that they generally understood our interest in collecting additional data on separately
managed accounts,9 but many raised concerns regarding separately managed account
reporting as proposed, and we discuss those concerns below.

8

See Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.1.

9

See, e.g., Comment Letter of Blackrock, Inc. (Aug. 11, 2015) (“BlackRock Letter”); Comment
Letter of Dechert LLP (Aug. 11, 2015) (“Dechert Letter”); Comment Letter of Investment Adviser
Association (Aug. 11, 2015) (“IAA Letter”); Comment Letter of Investment Company Institute
(Aug. 11, 2015) (“ICI Letter”); Comment Letter of Invesco Advisers, Inc. (Aug. 11, 2015)
(“Invesco Letter”); Comment Letter of LPL Financial LLC (Aug. 11, 2015) (“LPL Letter”);
Comment Letter of Managed Funds Association (Aug. 11, 2015) (“MFA Letter”); Comment
Letter of Money Management Institute (Aug. 11, 2015) (“MMI Letter”); Comment Letter of
Morningstar, Inc. (Aug. 12, 2015) (“Morningstar Letter”); Comment Letter of North American

8

a.

Amendments to Item 5 of Part 1A and Section 5 of Schedule D

Item 5 of Part 1A and Section 5 of Schedule D currently require advisers to
provide information about their advisory business including percentages of types of
clients and assets managed for those clients. We had proposed to collect information
specifically about separately managed accounts, including types of assets held, and the
use of derivatives and borrowings in the accounts.10 We are adopting the amendments to
Item 5 of Part 1A and Section 5 of Schedule D largely as proposed, with some
modifications in response to comments we received, as discussed below. We are
amending Item 5 of Part 1A and Section 5 of Schedule D to require advisers to provide
information on an aggregate level regarding separately managed accounts that they
manage.11 Advisers will be required to report information about the types of assets held
and the use of derivatives and borrowings in separately managed accounts. Advisers that
report that they have regulatory assets under management attributable to separately
managed accounts in response to new Item 5.K.(1) of Part 1A will be required to
complete new Section 5.K.(1) of Schedule D, and may be required to complete new
Sections 5.K.(2) and 5.K.(3) of Schedule D regarding those accounts.
Securities Administrators Association, Inc. (Aug. 11, 2015) (“NASAA Letter”); Comment Letter
of National Regulatory Services (Aug. 11, 2015) (“NRS Letter”); Comment Letter of
OppenheimerFunds, Inc. (Aug. 10, 2015) (“Oppenheimer Letter”); Comment Letter of Charles
Schwab & Co., Inc. (Aug. 11, 2015) (“Schwab & Co. Letter”); Comment Letter of Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association, Asset Management Group and Asset Managers
Forum (Aug. 11, 2015) (“SIFMA Letter”); Comment Letter of the Systemic Risk Council (Aug. 7,
2015) (“SRC Letter”); Comment Letter of T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. (Aug. 11, 2015) (“T.
Rowe Price Letter”). However, certain commenters expressed their disapproval of the collection
this data. See Comment Letter of The Alternative Investment Management Association Limited
(Aug. 6, 2015) (“AIMA Letter”) (stating that this data should not be collected unless kept
confidential).
10

See Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.1.

11

See infra Section II.A.2.b. for a discussion of other amendments to Item 5 of Part 1A.

9

b.

Section 5.K.(1) of Schedule D

In Section 5.K.(1) of Schedule D advisers will be required to report the
approximate percentage of separately managed account regulatory assets under
management that are invested in twelve broad asset categories, modified from the ten that
were proposed in response to comments received and discussed below. As proposed,
advisers with at least $10 billion in regulatory assets under management attributable to
separately managed accounts will report, on an annual basis, both mid-year and end of
year12 percentages while advisers with less than $10 billion in regulatory assets under
management attributable to separately managed accounts will report only end of year
percentages. As we stated in the Proposing Release, we believe this information will
allow us to better monitor this segment of the investment advisory industry and identify
advisers that specialize in particular asset classes.13 We are adopting the amendments to
Section 5.K.(1) of Schedule D largely as proposed, with some minor modifications in
response to comments we received, as discussed below.
While some commenters generally supported the collection of this information,14
others suggested requiring a minimum regulatory assets under management or number of
account threshold for reporting on this section to minimize burdens on small and mid-

12

As stated in Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 5.K.(1), end of year refers to the
date used by the adviser to calculate its regulatory assets under management, and mid-year is the
date six months before the end of year date.

13

See Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.1.

14

See Schwab & Co. Letter (“We support the SEC’s efforts to collect additional data seeking to
minimize as much as possible the burden on regulated entities and the investors they service while
helping the SEC to enhance their ability to conduct risk-based examinations of advisers.”);
BlackRock Letter (“We believe this information will help the Commission identify which
managers specialize in SMAs that invest in certain asset classes.”).

10

sized advisers.15 We recognize that this reporting will impose some burden on all
advisers, including smaller advisers, but we believe that gathering this information for all
registered advisers is important for us to gain a full understanding of assets held in
separately managed accounts managed by investment advisers of different sizes. This
section requires advisers, on an annual basis, to report aggregate separate account
investments across twelve categories of investments. We believe that requiring all
advisers to separately managed accounts to report this information will enable us to gain
a more fulsome picture of assets held in separately managed accounts. We have also
tailored and limited the scope of information to be reported and the frequency of such
reporting.
With respect to the categories of investments listed in Section 5.K.(1), we
proposed to require advisers to report the approximate percentage of separately managed
account regulatory assets under management invested in ten broad asset categories.16
Several commenters sought clarification on how to classify assets in certain categories17
Another commenter suggested new categories, such as “private real estate” and
“structured products.”18 In response to that commenter's suggestion19 we have included a

15

Comment Letter of Advisor Solutions Group, Inc. (Aug. 11, 2015) (“ASG Letter”); AIMA Letter
(suggesting that advisers with a small number of separately managed account clients or a small
amount of separately managed account assets under management be exempt from reporting on
separately managed accounts).

16

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.1.

17

LPL Letter; MMI Letter. See also Dechert Letter (stating that advisers may not maintain systems
that permit them to efficiently categorize assets based on asset types in the proposed amendments);
IAA Letter.

18

BlackRock Letter. BlackRock also suggested removing “derivatives” as a category, because
derivatives information for some advisers will be collected in Section 5.K.(2). We have not
removed “derivatives” as a category, because are collecting different information in Section
5.K.(2) than in Section 5.K.(1).

11

new category for “Cash and Cash Equivalents.”20 We also believe that additional
delineation of equity securities would be helpful for our staff and the public, and
accordingly, we have added a “Non-Exchange-Traded Equity Securities” category in
addition to the “Exchange-Traded Equity Securities” category, to clarify where to report
equities that are not listed on a regulated securities exchange. This information will assist
our examination staff in monitoring risks associated with advisers managing separately
managed account assets in securities that are not exchange traded.
Some commenters also sought clarification about how to report assets that may be
classified into multiple categories. 21 Commenters also suggested that advisers be
permitted to use reasonable and documented systems and methodologies for determining
appropriate asset categories.22 We acknowledge that some assets may be classified into
more than one category or require advisers to apply discretion about which category
applies to a particular asset, and agree that advisers should be permitted to use reasonable
methodologies in selecting a category in which to report such an asset, but should not
double count assets. Accordingly, in response to these comments, we are adding an

19

BlackRock Letter; MMI Letter.

20

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 5.K.(1)(a)-(b). The text proceeding Section
5.K.(1) gives examples of cash and cash equivalents, including bank deposits, certificates of
deposit, bankers’ acceptances, and similar bank instruments. We also added an instruction to the
text preceding Section 5.K.(1)(a) stating that advisers should round to the nearest percent when
reporting this information.

21

Comment Letter of Anonymous (Aug. 11, 2015) (“Anonymous Letter”) (“derivatives” category
may overlap with others); Comment Letter of JAG Capital Management LLC (June 24, 2015)
(“JAG Letter”) (convertible bonds, TIPS and ETFs); MMI Letter (convertible bonds, fixed income
securities, preferred securities); Comment Letter of Professional Compliance Assistance, Inc.
(Aug. 11, 2015) (“PCA Letter”) (balanced mutual funds). See also IAA Letter (U.S. government
agency, corporate bonds, other).

22

Dechert Letter; IAA Letter.

12

instruction to Item 5.K.1 that advisers may use their own internal methodologies and the
conventions of their service providers in determining how to categorize assets, so long as
their methodologies are consistently applied and consistent with information the advisers
report internally and to current and prospective clients, but should not double count
assets. We believe that providing this flexibility, which we modeled after an instruction
in Form PF, acknowledges that advisers may categorize the same or similar assets
differently based on different methodologies.
Some commenters expressed concerns about the proposed reporting of "Corporate
Bonds - Investment Grade" and "Corporate Bonds - Non-Investment Grade," based on
the proposed definitions of such terms, as they believed that this would require advisers
to make subjective decisions about how to classify assets and could result in inconsistent
reporting. These commenters requested that the Commission eliminate the reporting
requirement, or either provide a more objective definition or permit an adviser to follow
and rely on the classifications made by another investment adviser.23 Another
commenter noted the reference to “liquidity” in the definition and requested that the
Commission seek a consistent approach to liquidity-related concepts across reporting
regimes.24
In response to these comments, we are removing the proposed definitions of these
terms from Form ADV. Given the instruction we have added permitting advisers to use
their own consistently applied methodologies to select asset categories, we believe that
the definitions are no longer necessary. We recognize that an adviser might reasonably
23

LPL Letter; MMI Letter.

24

IAA Letter.

13

categorize the same or similar assets differently from another adviser. Even with such
differences, we believe that this categorization will provide useful information,
particularly given the Commission’s intended purpose for requiring such reporting, which
is to better understand how assets in separately managed accounts are invested across that
industry, rather than to impose a standard of creditworthiness for such assets.
Other commenters suggested we provide instructions as to whether advisers need
to look through investments in funds or ETFs, for example, and report the underlying
asset type.25 With respect to looking through an account's investments in funds, advisers
should not do so and we have clarified this in the form.26 Advisers should not look
through investments in funds because we want to understand the extent to which
separately managed account assets are invested in funds as well as other types of
investments.
c.

Section 5.K.(2) of Schedule D

We are also adopting amendments to add Section 5.K.(2) of Schedule D to Form
ADV to require advisers to separately managed accounts to report information regarding
the use of borrowings and derivatives in those accounts with modifications from the
proposal in response to commenters. These amendments are designed to provide data to
assist our staff in identifying and monitoring the use of borrowings and derivatives
exposures in separately managed accounts as part of the staff's risk assessment and
monitoring programs. Some commenters supported our proposal for the collection of
25

ASG Letter; MMI Letter; NRS Letter; Schwab & Co. Letter.

26

We have added the following sentence to the text preceding Schedule D, Section 5.K.(1)(a):
“Investments in derivatives, registered investment companies, business development companies,
and pooled investment vehicles should be reported in those categories. Do not report those
investments based on related or underlying portfolio assets.”

14

that data.27 However, as discussed below, several other commenters expressed concern
about the proposed reporting thresholds, the public disclosure of certain information,28
the use of gross notional metrics and the burden associated with reporting this
information. The specific gross notional metrics used in Section 5.K.(2) are “gross
notional value” and “gross notional exposure,” as proposed. The calculation of gross
notional exposure includes borrowings and the gross notional value of derivatives. The
definition of “gross notional value” specifies how derivatives are measured when
determining an account’s gross notional exposure.29
One commenter suggested requiring reporting on derivatives only if there is a
minimum gross notional amount of derivatives.30 Another commenter suggested as an
alternative requiring derivatives reporting only if the adviser uses leverage as part of its
investment strategy.31 We disagree with these approaches as they would give us
information only about a segment of the separately managed account industry that uses
derivatives or borrowings, and because the line between advisers that use derivatives and
borrowings strategically and those that do not can be fluid and difficult to define. While

27

NASAA Letter; SRC Letter.

28

We discuss public disclosure of separately managed account information in Section II.A.1.e.

29

Gross notional exposure of an account is “the percentage obtained by dividing (i) the sum of (a)
the dollar amount of any borrowings and (b) the gross notional value of all derivatives, by (ii) the
regulatory assets under management of the account.” Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D,
Item 5.K.(2). Gross notional value is defined in the Glossary to Form ADV as “The gross nominal
or notional value of all transactions that have been entered into but not yet settled as of the
reporting date. For contracts with variable nominal or notional principal amounts, the basis for
reporting is the nominal or notional principal amounts as of the reporting date. For options, use
delta adjusted notional value.”

30

Anonymous Letter.

31

JAG Letter.

15

we are adopting Section 5.K.(2) largely as proposed, we have modified it in certain
places in response to commenters’ concerns, as discussed below.
As proposed, advisers with at least $150 million but less than $10 billion in
regulatory assets under management attributable to separately managed accounts would
have been required to annually report in Section 5.K.(2)(b) the number of accounts and
average borrowings that corresponded to ranges of net asset values and gross notional
exposures, as of the date the adviser used to calculate its regulatory assets under
management for purposes of the adviser’s annual updating amendment. Advisers with at
least $10 billion in regulatory assets under management attributable to separately
managed accounts would have been required to annually report in Section 5.K.(2)(a) the
number of accounts, average borrowings, and average derivatives exposures across six
categories of derivatives, based on the same ranges of net asset values and gross notional
exposures in Section 5.K.(2)(b), as of the date used by the adviser to calculate its
regulatory assets under management for purposes of its annual updating amendment, and
six months before that date.
We received a diversity of views about whether the proposed reporting thresholds
of at least $150 million in regulatory assets under management attributable to separately
managed accounts, and at least $10 billion in regulatory assets under management
attributable to separately managed accounts for additional reporting, were appropriate,
and if not, what these thresholds should be.32 Certain commenters suggested thresholds

32

ASG agreed with the $150 million threshold. Oppenheimer agreed with the thresholds, but also
suggested a threshold based on number of accounts, below which the adviser would not be
required to respond to Section 5.K.(2), and permitting advisers to round number of accounts to the
nearest five in a particular range. IAA recommended increasing the $150 million threshold to
$500 million but supported the $10 billion threshold. SIFMA also agreed with the thresholds, but

16

based on number of accounts or the size of individual separately managed accounts.
However, we believe establishing thresholds based on regulatory assets under
management attributable to separately managed accounts better provides us with
comparability across advisers and appropriately advances our regulatory goal of gaining a
more complete understanding of advisers’ separately managed account business as
compared to the alternatives suggested by commenters. Several commenters
recommended that we increase the $150 million threshold to $500 million on the basis
that such a change would allow the Commission to collect 95% of the data that it would
using the $150 million threshold, while relieving approximately 3,000 advisers from
having to report derivatives and borrowings information.33 On balance, and based on our
staff's experience with small advisers, we agree with commenters that this is a sensible
accommodation that would allow us to meet our regulatory objectives while alleviating
reporting burdens on smaller advisers. As a result, we have raised the minimum
suggested changing the account-level reporting thresholds to minimize confidentiality concerns
and permitting advisers to round to the nearest 5 accounts in a particular range. AIMA noted that
the proposed thresholds at the adviser level and at the individual separately managed account level
are low for advisers with institutional clients and recommended not requiring advisers with less
than $150 million in separately managed account assets to report any separately managed account
information, including in Sections 5.K.(1) and 5.K.(3). Anonymous suggested that the reporting
threshold should be based on a minimum gross notional amount in relation to the adviser’s total
regulatory assets under management. BlackRock suggested that reporting thresholds should not
be tied to aggregate adviser separately managed account regulatory assets under management, but
rather only to individual separately managed account regulatory assets under management.
33

IAA Letter; Comment Letter of the New York State Bar Association, Business Law Section,
Securities Regulation Committee, Private Investment Funds Subcommittee (Aug. 12, 2015)
(“NYSBA Committee Letter”); PCA Letter; Schwab & Co. Letter. IAA estimated that if the
minimum threshold were $150 million, the Commission would collect data on approximately
$37.8 trillion in separately managed account assets under management from 7,257 advisers.
However, it estimated that if the threshold were raised to $500 million, the Commission would
collect data on approximately $36.8 trillion in separately managed account assets under
management from approximately 3,700 advisers. A recent analysis of Form ADV by Commission
staff filings shows that over 2,800 advisers will be relieved from the filing requirement and we
will receive information on 98% of the assets for which we would have received reporting under
the proposed $150 million threshold. IARD system data as of May 16, 2016.

17

reporting threshold to $500 million. Advisers with at least $500 million but less than $10
billion in separately managed account regulatory assets under management will be
required to report on Section 5.K.(2)(b) the amount of separately managed account
regulatory assets under management and the dollar amount (rather than the proposed
average amount) of borrowings attributable to those assets that correspond to three levels
of gross notional exposures rather than four levels as proposed. Advisers with at least
$10 billion in separately managed account regulatory assets under management will be
required to report on Section 5.K.(2)(a) the information required in Section 5.K.(2)(b) as
well as the derivative exposures across the same six derivatives categories that were
proposed. Also as proposed, advisers may limit their reporting for both (a) and (b) to
individual accounts of at least $10 million.34
Another change we are making to Section 5.K.(2) in response to commenters is to
base the reporting of borrowings and derivatives on regulatory assets under management
in separately managed accounts, rather than net asset value as proposed. One commenter
noted that advisers do not currently characterize their individual client accounts
according to net asset values.35 We agree, and accordingly advisers will be required to
report both the amount of regulatory assets under management and borrowings in their
separately managed accounts that correspond to ranges of gross notional exposure of
those accounts. Regulatory assets under management is already used throughout Form

34

Some commenters suggested making the exclusion of individual accounts under $10 million
optional because excluding those accounts might, in some cases, be more costly to firms. See
Dechert Letter; IAA Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter. We have revised the text in Section
5.K.(2) to read, “You may, but are not required to, complete the table with respect to any
separately managed account with regulatory assets under management of less than $10,000,000.”

35

IAA Letter.

18

ADV, and should be available to advisers for purposes of Section 5.K.(2). Similarly, the
reporting of borrowings in Section 5.K.(2) has been revised to require information about
the total dollar amount of borrowings that correspond to different ranges of gross notional
exposure, and not the weighted average amount (which is based on a percentage of net
asset value).36 We believe these changes will reduce burdens for advisers completing this
section, while providing our staff with additional information regarding borrowings and
derivatives exposures in separately managed accounts.
Commenters presented a range of concerns and suggestions about the use of
gross notional metrics in reporting on Section 5.K.(2). Some commenters supported the
use of gross notional metrics for assessing the use of derivatives and borrowings in
separately managed accounts,37 while others raised issues concerning the utility of gross
notional metrics.38 Several commenters stated that gross notional metrics are not
accurate measures of leverage or risk and argued that they provide little value without
context, and they could be misleading or misunderstood.39 Some commenters suggested

36

One commenter suggested that reporting of borrowing is duplicative of reporting of margin by
broker-dealer custodians to FINRA. JAG Letter. While we recognize that broker-dealers report
this information, we note that parties other than broker-dealers may serve as custodians to
separately managed accounts.

37

Comment Letter of CFA Institute (Aug. 10, 2015) (“CFA Letter”) (observing that notional
exposure metrics are valuable in conducting investment and operational analyses, but provide less
value for risk management); NASAA Letter (stating that the proposal contemplates collecting
commonly used metrics on the use of derivatives and borrowings, consistent with Form PF); and
SRC Letter (suggesting that the collection of data relating to gross notional exposure, borrowings
and gross notional value of derivatives would provide the Commission with “invaluable insight
into the use of derivatives and borrowings by advisers in separately managed accounts.”).

38

See, e.g. NYSBA Committee Letter (stating that publicly reporting gross notional exposures
without also reflecting actual exposure on the form would be misleading and potentially alarming
to investors) and MFA Letter (asserting that gross notional disclosures provide an inaccurate
representation of economic or market exposures and would not provide meaningful information,
and thus should not be required).

39

BlackRock Letter; Dechert Letter; IAA Letter; Invesco Letter.

19

reporting derivatives and borrowings in Form ADV similar to how leverage is reported in
Form PF or in the AIFMD framework.40 For example, one commenter suggested
reporting long and short dollar amounts, similar to Form PF.41 We acknowledge these
commenters' concerns and recognize that gross notional metrics may not always reflect
the way in which derivatives are used in a separately managed account and are not a risk
measure.42 We also recognize that there are other measures or additional data points that
could be used to evaluate the use of derivatives in a separately managed account, which
may depend on various considerations, such as investment strategy, types of investments,
and the specific risks that are being considered. The calculations of gross notional
exposure and gross notional value that we proposed and are adopting today rely on
measures common to all advisers: regulatory assets under management of an account;
total amount of borrowings in an account; and the notional value of derivatives. As we
noted in the Proposing Release, gross notional metrics are commonly used metrics and
are comparable to the information collected on Form PF regarding private funds. On
balance, therefore, we continue to believe that, for most types of derivatives the gross
notional metrics generally provide a measure that is sufficient for this regulatory purpose,

40

Dechert Letter (suggesting allowing additional data points, such as the ones required in Form PF,
to better provide the Commission a more comprehensive understanding of the extent to which
derivatives are used in separately managed accounts and the relevant risks associated with them);
Blackrock Letter (providing an appendix containing a comprehensive framework for calculating
leverage, similar to AIFMD’s commitment leverage approach, under which derivatives used for
hedging positions and offsetting long and short positions do not create leverage).

41

AIMA Letter.

42

For example, different derivatives transactions having the same notional amount but different
underlying reference assets—for example, an interest rate swap and a credit default swap having
the same notional amount—may expose a separately managed account to very different potential
investment risks and potential payment obligations.

20

which is to collect information about the scale of an account’s derivatives activities,
rather than to collect specific risk metrics or more granular information regarding the
ways in which derivatives are used in a separate account. Section 5.K.(2) also provides
advisers the option of including a narrative description of the strategies and/or manner in
which borrowings and derivatives are used in the management of separately managed
accounts. To the extent that advisers are concerned that disclosure of gross notional
metrics would be misleading, they could provide in the space provided in Section 5.K.(2)
an additional narrative description regarding their use of derivatives in these accounts.
Many commenters requested that the term “derivatives” be defined as part of this
rulemaking.43 Several of these commenters suggested the Commission adopt a definition
that provides flexibility to adapt to changing financial markets and instruments, such as
the characteristic-based definition of derivatives in FASB ASC 815.44 Another
commenter, however, suggested that we should not define derivatives, similar to Form
PF.45 We believe that Form ADV, which collects aggregate portfolio information, is
similar to Form PF. Thus, consistent with adviser reporting on Form PF and the
proposal, we have decided not to define the term at this time. Several commenters
requested clarification on whether interest rate derivatives should be presented in terms of
10-year bond equivalents, consistent with Form PF.46 We have added a sentence to the
definition of “interest rate derivative” in the Glossary that interest rate derivative

43

ASG Letter; Oppenheimer Letter; PCA Letter; SIFMA Letter; T. Rowe Price Letter.

44

Oppenheimer Letter; SIFMA Letter; T. Rowe Price Letter.

45

IAA Letter.

46

AIMA Letter; IAA Letter; MFA Letter.

21

information should be presented in terms of 10-year bond equivalents. Regarding the
term “equity derivative,” one commenter requested confirmation that the term “listed” as
used in Form ADV has the same meaning as in Form PF. We confirm that the term
“listed equity derivatives” refers to exposures to derivatives for which the underlying
asset is listed equities.47
Finally, we are also revising the proposal in ways that should both alleviate
concerns about confidentiality, which we discuss more fully below, and simplify
reporting of separately managed account information. First, we reduced the number of
categories of gross notional exposure that we proposed in the charts. As proposed,
Section 5.K.(2) included four categories of gross notional exposure by which accounts
and borrowings were reported. This has been reduced to three categories of gross
notional exposure: less than 10%, 10 - 149% and 150% or more. In addition to reducing
the number of categories from four to three, we changed the highest threshold from 200%
or more to 150% or more. After consideration of comments received regarding the
potential burdens of providing this information, we believe that the use of three
categories instead of four and changing the highest threshold from 200% or more to
150% or more will reduce the reporting burden on advisers while providing us with
sufficient information regarding the use of derivatives and borrowings by investment
advisers in separately managed accounts. In addition, we believe that these modifications
provide less granular information than proposed, thereby mitigating some concerns
commenters raised regarding confidentiality. We also modified Section 5.K.(2) to

47

We note that current staff guidance regarding this term in Form PF takes a similar approach. See
Form PF, Frequently Asked Questions, Question 26.1.

22

remove reporting of the number of separately managed accounts. As proposed, Section
5.K.(2) would have required advisers to report the number of accounts that corresponded
to the accounts’ net asset value and gross notional exposure. Section 5.K.(2) (a) and (b)
now require reporting of regulatory assets under management based on ranges of gross
notional exposure of accounts.48
d.

Section 5.K.(3) of Schedule D

As proposed, we are amending Form ADV to require advisers to identify any
custodians that account for at least ten percent of separately managed account regulatory
assets under management, and the amount of the adviser’s regulatory assets under
management attributable to separately managed accounts held at the custodian.49 This
information will allow our examination staff to identify advisers whose clients use the
same custodian in the event, for example, a concern is raised about a particular custodian.
As we discussed in the Proposing Release, similar disclosures are required for custodians
to pooled investment vehicles50 and registered investment companies.51
We received several comments on this aspect of the proposal. For example, a
commenter suggested that we obtain this information from other parties, including
custodians.52 However, we do not directly regulate all separately managed account
48

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 5.K.(2).

49

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 5.K.(3). We added “aggregate” before
“separately managed account regulatory assets under management” to the text preceding the
section for clarity.

50

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 7.B.(1), Question 25.

51

Form N-1A, Item 19(h)(3).

52

BlackRock Letter. See also Comment Letter of Financial Engines Advisors, LLC (Aug. 11, 2015)
(“Financial Engines Letter”) (suggesting identification of recordkeeper, rather than custodian,
where advised assets are associated with a 401(k) plan).

23

custodians and we believe this information is available to advisers because advisers
interact with custodians when placing trades on behalf of separately managed account
clients. Some commenters agreed with the ten percent of regulatory assets under
management threshold for reporting custodians of the adviser's separately managed
account client assets.53 Other commenters recommended that the Commission modify
the threshold, and raised concerns about this reporting for smaller advisers.54 We agree
with the commenters who believe that the ten percent threshold is appropriate. We
recognize that this reporting will impose some burdens on all advisers, including smaller
advisers. However, we are adopting the ten percent threshold as proposed because we
continue to believe it, rather than a higher threshold, most appropriately advances our
regulatory goal of identifying and obtaining a more complete picture regarding the
custodians serving a significant proportion of an adviser’s separately managed account
clients. Moreover, we believe we have appropriately tailored and limited the scope of
information to be reported since this requirement at most will require advisers to identify
ten custodians.
In addition, some commenters recommended deleting or clarifying the
requirement to identify the location of the custodian’s office.55 These commenters
reasoned that because of the electronic nature of custodian records, and the current
advisers’ practice of not maintaining this physical location information as a matter of

53

Anonymous Letter; CFA Letter; PCA Letter.

54

AIMA Letter (suggested a twenty percent threshold); BlackRock Letter; IAA Letter; MMI Letter;
NRS Letter (suggested a minimum separately managed account regulatory assets under
management threshold in lieu of or in addition to the ten percent threshold).

55

ASG Letter; IAA Letter; MMI Letter; Oppenheimer Letter; PCA Letter; SIFMA Letter.

24

course, disclosure of the identity of the custodian, rather than the location of the office,
would be of primary benefit to the Commission. This information is consistent with
similar questions we ask about custodians in Schedule D, Section 7.B.(1), Question 25 of
Form ADV. Location information allows us to identify the appropriate contacts when a
custodian is part of a large organization with multiple offices.56 Therefore, we are
adopting these requirements as proposed.
e.

Public Disclosure of Separately Managed Account Information

While commenters understood our reasons for collecting information on
separately managed accounts, many expressed concerns that the new reporting would
lead to disclosure of client-identifying information or confidential or proprietary
information about investment strategy.57 Commenters also expressed concern that public
disclosure of separately managed account information could put advisers with a small
number of separately managed account clients at a competitive disadvantage if clients

56

One commenter also sought clarification about reporting custodians who have multiple legal
entities. IAA Letter. Advisers do not have to determine affiliations of related custodians for
purposes of this item, but rather should report the particular legal entity that is custodian for the
adviser’s separately managed account assets.

57

Comment Letter of the American Bar Association, Section of Business Law, Federal Regulation
of Securities Committee (Sept. 3, 2015) (“ABA Committee Letter”); AIMA Letter; Anonymous
Letter; ASG Letter; BlackRock Letter; Dechert Letter; IAA Letter; Invesco Letter; MFA Letter;
NYSBA Committee Letter; Oppenheimer Letter; Comment Letter of Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP
(Aug. 11, 2015) (“Schulte Letter”); Comment Letter of Shearman & Sterling LLP (Aug. 11, 2015)
(“Shearman Letter”); SIFMA Letter; Comment Letter of Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association Asset Management Group and Asset Managers Forum (Jan. 13, 2016) (“SIFMA II
Letter”). See also Comment Letter of Private Equity Growth Capital Council (Aug. 11, 2015)
(“PEGCC Letter”).

25

were concerned about the reporting on Form ADV being linked or attributable to their
separately managed accounts.58 We address these concerns below.
Section 210(a) of the Advisers Act requires information in Form ADV to be
publicly disclosed, unless we find that public disclosure is neither necessary nor
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.59 As discussed in the
Proposing Release, we believe these amendments will enhance our staff's risk assessment
and monitoring activities, which also serve to benefit investors.60 We also believe that
aggregate information about separately managed accounts may assist the public in better
understanding advisers’ management of separately managed account clients.61 This
information may directly improve the ability of clients and potential clients of investment
advisers to make more informed decisions about the selection and retention of investment
advisers, which, in turn, may also benefit the public by increasing competition among
investment advisers for clients. For these reasons, we continue to believe that public
disclosure of information about separately managed accounts on Form ADV is
appropriate in the public interest as well as for the protection of investors. We have,

58

ABA Committee Letter; AIMA Letter; Anonymous Letter; BlackRock Letter; Dechert Letter; IAA
Letter; MFA Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter; Oppenheimer Letter; Schulte Letter; Shearman
Letter; SIFMA Letter; SIFMA II Letter.

59

Advisers Act section 210(a). Certain commenters suggested that this information be filed in a
nonpublic manner, similar to Form PF. See ABA Committee Letter; PEGCC Letter. We note that
Form PF is filed on a confidential basis under Advisers Act section 204(b), which prohibits the
Commission from disclosing Form PF information unless those disclosures are made to Congress,
other Federal agencies, or courts under certain conditions. Advisers Act section 204(b)(8).

60

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.1.

61

C.f., NASAA Letter (“These amendments would provide additional necessary information to the
SEC and state regulators, as well as members of the public, far outweighing any regulatory
burden the proposal creates.”).

26

however, made several modifications to our proposal, discussed below, in response to
commenters.
Some commenters also expressed broader concerns that public disclosure of
separately managed account holdings or borrowings and derivatives information would
reveal proprietary investment strategies.62 We do not believe that public disclosure of
aggregate information in Schedule D, Sections 5.K.(1) or (2) would lead to the revelation
of proprietary investment strategies. This information would be reported for one or two
data points per year,63 depending on the amount of regulatory assets under management
attributable to separately managed accounts, ninety days after the end of the adviser’s
fiscal year,64 and only on an aggregate basis for all the separately managed account
clients that an adviser manages. Given the limited number of data points that advisers to
separately managed accounts must report on, the fact that the information is reported both
in aggregate and in broad categories across an adviser’s separately managed accounts,
and the time lag between those data points and any public reporting, we disagree that this
62

See, e.g., ABA Committee Letter (“While individual types of securities would not be disclosed,
the percentage of the portfolio in ten different asset categories would be subject to unprecedented
public scrutiny, as would be detailed breakdowns of derivatives exposures and borrowings.”);
BlackRock Letter; Dechert Letter; MFA Letter.

63

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Sections 5.K.(1) and (2). Although two commenters
recommended against larger advisers providing both mid-year and end of year separately managed
account information, we believe this information is important to understanding advisers to the
largest separately managed accounts. LPL Letter; NRS Letter.

64

Advisers are required to update the derivatives and borrowings information annually, when filing
their annual updating amendment to Form ADV, which is consistent with the requirement for
updating other information in Item 5 of Form ADV. Advisers with at least $10 billion in
separately managed account regulatory assets under management would be required to report both
mid-year and end of year information as part of their annual filing. Many commenters supported
the annual reporting and recommended against more frequent reporting. Anonymous Letter; ASG
Letter; CFA Letter; Comment Letter of Capital Research and Management Company (Aug. 11,
2015) (“Capital Research Letter”); MMI Letter; Morningstar Letter; NRS Letter; PCA Letter;
Shearman Letter. Form ADV is required to be amended at least annually, within 90 days of the
end of the adviser's fiscal year. See rule 204-1.

27

reporting could compromise trading strategies. In addition, as discussed above, we
reduced the number of categories of gross notional exposures in Section 5.K.(2), which
means advisers will be required to report less granular information.65
We are mindful of commenters’ concerns regarding disclosure of client-specific
information and related competition concerns.66 Accordingly, we revised Item 5.D.,
which lists the number of advisory clients in categories, to include a “fewer than 5
clients” column.67 We also have modified Section 5.K.(2) to remove reporting of the
number of accounts. As proposed, Section 5.K.(2) would have required reporting of the
number of accounts that correspond to the accounts’ net asset value and gross notional
exposure. As adopted, Section 5.K.(2)(a) and (b) will require reporting solely by ranges
of gross notional exposure of accounts.68 We believe that these changes mitigate the risk
of any client-specific information being disclosed in Item 5.D. and Sections 5.K.(1) and
(2).

65

Supra Section II.A.1.c.

66

See, e.g., ABA Committee Letter; AIMA Letter; BlackRock Letter (“For a particular adviser, there
may be only one or two accounts in a particular category, potentially making this client
identifiable and its RAUM with an adviser public information.”); Dechert Letter; IAA Letter;
MFA Letter (“[A] fund manager may need to report data of a single SMA client, which is not
suitable for public disclosure.”); NYSBA Committee Letter (“In addition, if an adviser has a small
number of accounts, the disclosure of any of the information would be particularly problematic as
others may be in a position to determine the identity of the clients in any such account.”);
Oppenheimer Letter; SIFMA Letter.

67

Several commenters suggested limiting reporting for five or fewer clients, or rounding to the
nearest five clients. IAA Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter; Oppenheimer Letter; SIFMA Letter.
Other commenters suggested that advisers with a small number of separately managed account
clients be excluded from reporting on separately managed accounts. See, e.g., AIMA Letter;
SIFMA Letter. However, a small number of accounts could still include a large amount of assets
or significant use of borrowings and derivatives. For that reason, reporting will be required on
these accounts. We believe that the modifications in Item 5.D. and Schedule D, Section 5.K.(2)
will address confidentiality concerns related to those accounts.

68

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 5.K.(2).

28

f.

Additional Comments About Reporting of Separately Managed
Accounts

Additional comments regarding separately managed account reporting in
Schedule D included comments about the definition of separately managed account, the
treatment of subadvisers, and the reporting requirements when both the registered
investment adviser and the separately managed account owner are not United States
persons.
First, several commenters sought clarification of the definition of the term
“separately managed account” as used in Form ADV. 69 We do not believe that a formal
definition of this term is required because we have included instructions in the text
preceding Sections 5.K.(1) and (2) to clarify that any regulatory assets under management
reported in Item 5.D.(3)(d) (investment companies), (e) (business development
companies), and (f) (other pooled investment vehicles) should not be reported in
Schedule D, Sections 5.K.(1) or (2). Thus, regulatory assets under management reported
for those types of clients in Item 5.D.(3) should not be considered separately managed
account assets and should not be reported in Sections 5.K.(1) or (2).
Second, several commenters requested clarification about how to treat subadviser
relationships in reporting separately managed account information, including suggestions
that only advisers with discretionary authority report information in these sections.70 In

69

See, e.g., IAA Letter (noting the term has not been defined in the Advisers Act); Financial Engines
Letter (seeking the exclusion of assets within defined contribution plans from separately managed
accounts); MMI Letter (seeking clarification for sponsors, overlay managers, portfolio managers
and model providers). Commenters also sought clarification of the treatment of pooled investment
vehicles that are not private funds. See PEGCC Letter. See also IAA Letter. Pooled investment
vehicles include, but are not limited to, private funds.

70

Comment Letter of JG Advisory Services LLC (Jul. 22, 2015) (“JGAS Letter”); LPL Letter; MMI
Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter; SIFMA Letter. See also Dechert Letter; IAA Letter.

29

response to these concerns, we are clarifying the instructions in the text preceding Section
5.K.(1)(a) to expressly state, as they already do for Section 5.K.(2), that a subadviser to a
separately managed account should provide information only about the portion of the
account that it subadvises.71 We recognize that these instructions may require both
advisers and subadvisers to report on the same regulatory assets under management (i.e.,
the assets that they both manage in an account) in Sections 5.K.(1) and (2) of their
separate Form ADVs, which is consistent with the current reporting structure of
regulatory assets under management in Form ADV.
Further, in response to suggestions that only advisers with discretionary authority
should be required to report information in Sections 5.K.(1) and (2), we note that these
sections both require responses based on the regulatory assets under management an
adviser reports in Item 5.F. Per the instructions to Item 5.F., advisers are already required
to consider the role of discretionary authority when calculating regulatory assets under
management. Those instructions require that the calculation include only assets over
which advisers provide continuous and regular supervisory or management service.72
The instructions further state that an adviser “provide[s] continuous and regular
supervisory or management services with respect to an account” if: (a) the adviser has
discretionary authority over and provides ongoing supervisory or management services
with respect to the account; or (b) the adviser does not have discretionary authority over
the account, but has ongoing responsibility to select or make recommendations, based

71

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Sections 5.K.(1) and (2).

72

See Form ADV, Instructions to Part 1A, Item 5.F.

30

upon the needs of the client, as to specific securities or other investments the account may
purchase or sell and, if such recommendations are accepted by the client, the adviser is
responsible for arranging or effecting the purchase or sale.73 Thus, if an adviser does not
provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services with respect to an
account, those account’s assets should not be reported as regulatory assets under
management in Item 5.F, and would not be reported in Sections 5.K.(1) and (2).
A final suggestion from commenters was to exclude from the reporting
requirements any separately managed account held by a non-United States person and
managed by an investment adviser whose principal office and place of business is outside
the United States.74 As proposed, and consistent with the reporting of regulatory assets
under management generally, we are requiring each adviser whose principal office and
place of business is outside the United States to report information regarding separately
managed accounts for all of their clients, including clients who are not United States
persons.75 We believe that the consistent reporting of information in Item 5 will be
valuable in our and the public's understanding of the new separately managed account
items as they are a subset of the regulatory assets under management already being
reported by registered investment advisers.
Commenters suggested that we not require reporting of accounts beneficially
owned by those who are not United States persons and managed by advisers whose
73

Id.

74

AIMA Letter; PEGCC Letter; Shearman Letter. “United States person” is defined in the Glossary
to Form ADV.

75

The Form ADV Instructions to Part 1A, Item 5 that specify how regulatory assets under
management must be calculated provides that accounts of clients who are not United States
persons are accounts that must be included in the adviser's securities portfolios.

31

principal offices and places of business are outside the United States. These commenters
noted Item 7.B. of Form ADV and Form PF generally allow advisers whose principal
offices and places of business are outside the United States to exclude reporting on funds
that are not United States persons, are not offered in the United States, and are not
beneficially owned by any United States persons.76 As noted above, there is not a similar
exclusion in Item 5 regarding funds that are not United States persons advised by any
advisers, and advisers must include those clients in response to Item 5, including their
regulatory assets under management and client types. An exception like the one
suggested by commenters would hamper the utility of the data collection in Item 5, which
collects aggregate, census-type information regarding the adviser’s total business. We
are collecting this information to better inform Commission staff and the public about
this segment of the investment adviser industry.77
In the Proposing Release, we requested comment on whether to require advisers
to report on securities lending and repurchase agreements in separately managed
accounts.78 While some commenters supported collection of this information,79 others
noted that advisers may not be aware of or directly involved in securities lending activity
in separately managed accounts,80 and several commenters objected to the disclosure.81
76

AIMA Letter; PEGCC Letter; Shearman Letter.

77

See infra Section II.A.3 for a discussion of the application of the Advisers Act to non-U.S.
advisers.

78

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.1.

79

CFA Letter; SRC Letter.

80

JAG Letter; NRS Letter; Comment Letter of The Risk Management Association, Committee on
Securities Lending (Aug. 10, 2015) (“RMA Committee Letter”); Comment Letter of State Street
Corporation (Aug. 11, 2015) (“State Street Letter”).

32

In response to the comments we received, we are not requiring disclosure regarding
securities lending or repurchase agreements at this time.
2.

Additional Information Regarding Investment Advisers

In addition to the amendments outlined above regarding separately managed
accounts, we are adopting, largely as proposed, several new questions and amending
existing questions on Form ADV regarding identifying information, an adviser’s advisory
business, and affiliations. As discussed in the Proposing Release, these items were
developed through our staff’s experience in examining and monitoring investment
advisers, and are designed to enhance our understanding and oversight of investment
advisers and to assist our staff in its risk-based examination program.
a.

Additional Identifying Information

We are adopting several amendments to Item 1 of Part 1A of Form ADV as
proposed to improve certain identifying information that we obtain about advisers. Item
1 currently requires an adviser to provide a Central Index Key number (“CIK Number”)
in Item 1.N. only if the adviser is a public reporting company under Sections 12 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.82 We are removing this question from Item 1.N.
and adding a question to Item 1.D. that requires an adviser to provide all of its CIK
Numbers if it has one or more such numbers assigned,83 regardless of public reporting

81

MFA Letter: PCA Letter. See also ASG Letter.

82

Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.N.

83

The SEC assigns CIK Numbers in EDGAR not only to identify entities as public reporting
companies, but also when an entity is registered with the SEC in certain other capacities, such as a
transfer agent.

33

company status.84 As we explained in the Proposing Release, requiring registrants to
provide all of their assigned CIK Numbers, if any, will improve our staff’s ability to use
and coordinate Form ADV information with information from other sources.85 The
commenter who weighed in on the reporting of CIK Numbers did not object to this
amendment, which we are adopting as proposed.
Item 1.I. of Part 1A of Form ADV currently asks whether an adviser has one or
more websites, and Section 1.I. of Schedule D requests the addresses of each website.
We are amending Item 1.I. largely as proposed to also ask whether the adviser has one or
more accounts on social media platforms, such as Twitter, Facebook or LinkedIn, and
requesting the address of each of the adviser’s social media pages in addition to the
address of each of the adviser’s websites in Section 1.I. of Schedule D.86 As discussed in
the Proposing Release, our staff may use this information to help prepare for
examinations of investment advisers and compare information that advisers disseminate
across different social media platforms, as well as to identify and monitor new platforms.
Current and prospective clients may use this information to learn more about advisers and
make more informed decisions regarding the selection of advisers.87
Several commenters were generally supportive of our proposed approach to social
media reporting,88 but some commenters were concerned that it would be too

84

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.D.(3).

85

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.2.

86

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.I. and Section 1.I. of Schedule D.

87

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.2.

88

CFA Letter; IAA Letter; LPL Letter; Morningstar Letter; NASAA Letter. See also BlackRock
Letter (understood our rationale for requesting this information).

34

burdensome for advisers and not useful to investors.89 Several commenters requested
clarification on the types of social media platforms that trigger the reporting
requirement,90 and some commenters recommended that we limit required reporting to
accounts on social media platforms where the adviser controls the content.91 These
commenters pointed out that there may be social media platforms that reference an
adviser over which the adviser has no control and of which the adviser may not even be
aware.92 We agree, and we have revised Item 1.I. of Part 1A and Section 1.I. of Schedule
D to note that the required reporting is limited to accounts on social media platforms
where the adviser controls the content.93 Commenters generally agreed with the
proposal’s approach of not requiring information about the social media accounts of an
adviser’s employees.94
A commenter requested that we limit required reporting to accounts on publicfacing social media platforms used to promote the adviser’s business.95 We did not
intend to require reporting on information posted on an adviser’s internal social media
platform or information not intended to promote the adviser’s business to potential clients

89

Comment Letter of TMorgan Advisers, LLC (June 28, 2015) (“Morgan Letter”); NRS Letter;
NYSBA Committee Letter; Oppenheimer Letter.

90

ASG Letter; IAA Letter; MMI Letter; SIFMA Letter.

91

ASG Letter; MMI Letter; SIFMA Letter.

92

MMI Letter. See also ASG Letter.

93

An adviser may control its social media content, notwithstanding the fact that a social media
platform has a policy to edit or remove content (such as offensive content) across the platform.

94

ASG Letter; MFA Letter; MMI Letter; Morgan Letter; Morningstar Letter; NRS Letter; NYSBA
Committee Letter.

95

IAA Letter.

35

(e.g., information posted on a job board intended to attract job applicants). We have
revised the text preceding Item 1.I. of Part 1A and Section 1.I. of Schedule D to clarify
that the required reporting is limited to accounts on publicly available social media
platforms.
Another commenter requested that we limit required reporting to accounts on
social media platforms that promote the adviser’s business in the United States or are
targeted towards the adviser’s U.S. clients.96 The commenter pointed out that there are
circumstances in which an adviser might have additional accounts on social media
platforms that are not used to promote the adviser’s business in the United States or are
targeted towards the adviser’s non-U.S. clients and that reporting on such accounts would
provide little value to the Commission and could be confusing to clients or potential
clients seeking information about an adviser.97 We believe that, to the extent an account
on a social media platform is used to promote the business of an adviser registered with
the Commission, the account should be disclosed in order to better inform our staff about
the adviser’s use of social media. However, if an account on a social media platform is
used solely to promote the business of an affiliate or affiliates that are not advisers
registered with the Commission, the account does not need to be disclosed on Form
ADV.

96

SIFMA Letter.

97

Id. The commenter also mentioned that a large advisory complex that includes multiple affiliated
advisers may maintain an account on a social media platform on behalf of a parent company or
another affiliate that is not designed to promote the reporting adviser’s services and/or is targeted
towards non-U.S. clients, perhaps in a language other than English.

36

A few commenters were concerned that the burden on advisers of updating social
media information on Form ADV promptly if the information becomes inaccurate in any
way would be great, given the frequency of changes in social media platforms and
accounts.98 We believe that, by limiting the social media information required on Form
ADV to an adviser’s accounts on publicly available social media platforms where the
adviser controls the content, the burden associated with reporting and updating that
information should be limited. Because the social media environment is rapidly
evolving, we think it will be useful to the Commission and investors to have current
information on an adviser’s use of social media on Form ADV. Additionally, this
approach to updating social media reporting is consistent with our current approach to
updating the other information required in Item 1 of Part 1A, including information on
advisers’ websites.
Several commenters questioned the utility for investors of social media reporting
in Part 1A of Form ADV.99 Commenters stated that investors who are interested in an
adviser’s social media presence will most likely look to the adviser’s website or conduct
an internet search to find the adviser’s accounts on various social media platforms.100 We
recognize that this is most likely the case. However, we believe that having current
information on an adviser’s social media presence collected in one place on Form ADV
may be helpful to investors. Two commenters stated that investors generally do not read

98

BlackRock Letter; Oppenheimer Letter; SIFMA Letter.

99

Comment Letter of the Association for Corporate Growth (Aug. 11, 2015) (“ACG Letter”); ASG
Letter; JAG Letter; Morningstar Letter; PCA Letter.

100

ASG Letter; JAG Letter; Morningstar Letter; Oppenheimer Letter; PCA Letter.

37

Part 1A of Form ADV and recommended that we consider including social media
reporting in Part 2A of Form ADV instead.101 We recognize that investors may not look
to Form ADV for information on an adviser’s social media presence, but if they do, they
will likely look to Item 1.I. of Part 1A and Section 1.I. of Schedule D because those are
where we currently collect identifying information about an adviser, including
information on an adviser’s website or websites. In addition, a primary purpose of this
item is to provide the Commission and our staff with information that may be used in our
examination program and for other regulatory purposes. Accordingly, we believe it will
be useful to the Commission to have information on an adviser’s use of social media on
Form ADV, and this placement in the form is an efficient and readily identifiable location
for such information that appropriately serves our regulatory purposes.
We are amending Item 1.F. of Part 1A of Form ADV and Section 1.F. of
Schedule D largely as proposed to expand the information provided about an adviser’s
offices other than its principal office and place of business. We currently require an
adviser to provide contact and other information about its principal office and place of
business, and, if an adviser conducts advisory activities from more than one location,
about its largest five offices in terms of number of employees.102 In order to help
Commission examination staff learn more about an investment adviser’s business and
identify locations to conduct examinations, we are now requiring that advisers provide us
with the total number of offices at which they conduct investment advisory business and

101

Morningstar Letter; PCA Letter. See also Comment Letter of Jeff J. Diercks (May 22, 2015)
("Diercks Letter").

102

Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.F. and Section 1.F. of Schedule D.

38

provide information in Schedule D about their 25 largest offices in terms of number of
employees.103 As discussed in the Proposing Release, we chose 25 offices as the number
to be reported because it will provide a complete listing of offices for the vast majority of
investment advisers, and provide valuable information about the main business locations
for the few advisers that have a very large number of offices.104
In addition to providing contact information for the 25 largest offices in terms of
number of employees, we are amending Section 1.F. of Schedule D as proposed to
require advisers to report each office’s CRD branch number (if applicable) and the
number of employees who perform advisory functions from each office, identify from a
list of securities-related activities the business activities conducted from each office, and
describe any other investment-related business conducted from each office. This
information will help our staff assess risk, because it provides a better understanding of
an investment adviser’s operations and the nature of activities conducted in its top 25
offices. This information also will assist our staff in assessing offices that conduct a
combination of activities.
Two commenters provided general support for our proposed enhanced reporting
of adviser offices.105 However, several commenters expressed concern that our approach
would impose a significant burden on advisers with little or no benefit to either the

103

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1F. and Section 1.F. of Schedule D.

104

See Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.2. IAPD Investment Adviser Registered
Representative State Data as of May 2, 2016 shows that a majority of SEC-registered advisers
(approximately 98%) have 25 or fewer offices, but that many of the remaining two percent have
many multiples of 25 offices.

105

LPL Letter; NASAA Letter.

39

Commission or investors.106 Another commenter noted the substantial burden on
advisers required to report additional offices, but acknowledged that burden would ease
after the initial reporting period.107 We recognize that the burden on some large advisers
might be significant, especially in the initial reporting cycle when they are required to
report their additional offices for the first time. However, we believe that the burden will
decrease after the initial filing because in subsequent filings, advisers will only be
reporting changes to their previously reported additional office information. Two
commenters requested clarification on how often the additional office information should
be updated.108 One commenter felt that annual updating of office locations would not be
unduly burdensome but more frequent than annual updates would be burdensome.109 We
agree and are requiring that Section 1.F. of Schedule D be updated as part of an adviser’s
annual updating amendment and not more frequently.110
One commenter expressed concern about our proposal’s impact on smaller
advisers and suggested that, as an alternative, we require advisers to (a) continue to
provide information about their five largest additional offices, (b) report their total
number of additional offices, and (c) report additional information only for their
additional offices that meet a certain threshold of regulatory assets under management or

106

ACG Letter; CFA Letter; Morningstar Letter; NRS Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter.

107

Morningstar Letter.

108

ASG Letter; Morningstar Letter.

109

ASG Letter.

110

Amended Form ADV, General Instruction 4.

40

that engage in certain enumerated practices of interest to the Commission.111 We
currently require advisers to track their additional offices based upon number of
employees.112 We understand that many advisers do not currently track their additional
offices based upon the amount of regulatory assets under management attributable to
each office and we believe that requiring them to do so would place an additional burden
on advisers. For this reason, we are not changing our approach to additional office
reporting.
One commenter requested that we simplify the reporting of information about
additional offices for firms that are dually registered as investment advisers with the
Commission and as broker-dealers with FINRA by allowing them to cross-reference to
information submitted on their Uniform Branch Office Registration Form filed with
FINRA.113 We agree and we are updating the IAPD system so that by entering a
branch’s CRD number, the address, phone number, and facsimile number of all
additional offices will automatically populate on Section 1.F. of Schedule D.
Item 1.J. of Form ADV currently requires each adviser to provide the name and
contact information for the adviser’s chief compliance officer. We proposed amending
Item 1.J. to require an adviser to report whether its chief compliance officer is
compensated or employed by any person other than the adviser (or a related person of the
adviser) for providing chief compliance officer services to the adviser, and if so, to report
the name and IRS Employer Identification Number (if any) of that other person. We are
111

NRS Letter.

112

Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.F. and Section 1.F. of Schedule D.

113

MMI Letter.

41

adopting the amendments to Item 1.J. largely as proposed, but in addition to related
persons of the adviser, as discussed below, advisers will not be required to disclose the
identity of the other person compensating or employing the chief compliance officer if
that other person is an investment company registered under the Investment Company
Act of 1940 advised by the adviser.114
As discussed in the Proposing Release, our examination staff has observed a wide
spectrum of both quality and effectiveness of outsourced chief compliance officers and
firms.115 Identifying information for these third-party service providers, like others on
Form ADV,116 will allow us to identify all advisers relying on a particular service
provider and could be used to improve our ability to assess potential risks.
Two commenters expressed general support for our proposal to identify if chief
compliance officers are compensated or employed by other parties for providing chief
compliance officer services,117 and others expressed concern that the requirement would
be unduly burdensome on advisers or that the information would be of little or no use to
the Commission or investors.118 We are not persuaded that this requirement would be

114

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.J.

115

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.2.

116

For example, advisers provide the names and addresses of independent public accountants that
perform audits or surprise examinations and that prepare internal control reports on Form ADV,
Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 9.C.

117

CFA Letter; NASAA Letter.

118

ACG Letter; Comment Letter of L.A. Schnase (Jul. 2, 2015) (“Schnase Letter”) (would be
duplicative of already reported information, raises privacy concerns with the chief compliance
officer’s other clients, would become inaccurate or out-of-date quickly, and would miss the
situation of firms hiring comprehensive external compliance support with an in-house chief
compliance officer in name only). See also NRS Letter (adviser may not have access to this
information).

42

unduly burdensome because the adviser should have or be able to easily obtain the
necessary information, and we continue to believe that this information will be valuable
for the reasons discussed above.
One commenter felt that our inquiry should focus not on the chief compliance
officer’s other employment and/or compensation, but rather on the details of the
compliance program and resources committed to address compliance risk (e.g., the chief
compliance officer’s education and professional designations, the number of other
compliance employees, the estimated total hours spent on compliance, and the other
duties of the chief compliance officer).119 We agree with the commenter’s suggestion
that evaluating the overall effectiveness of an adviser’s compliance program relies
heavily on the facts and circumstances specific to that adviser.120 However, we are
adopting the amendments to Item 1.J. largely as proposed, because we believe that they
meet our regulatory objective of identifying all advisers relying on particular service
providers and may improve our ability to assess potential risks related to outsourced chief
compliance officers and firms.
One commenter expressed concern that identifying outsourced chief compliance
officers would invite additional scrutiny about an adviser’s judgment in hiring externally
versus internally.121 While we understand the commenter’s concerns, we continue to
believe that identifying information for these third-party service providers, like others on

119

Morgan Letter.

120

Id.

121

Shearman Letter.

43

Form ADV, will allow us to identify all advisers relying on a particular service provider
and to address potential risks associated with that service provider.
Two commenters agreed with our proposal to specifically exclude situations
where the chief compliance officer is paid or employed by a related person of the
adviser.122 Two other commenters recommended that we specify that a related person
includes a registered investment company advised by the adviser.123 These commenters
noted that in many instances an individual may serve as the chief compliance officer of
both an adviser and a registered investment company advised by the adviser and receive
compensation from both the adviser and the registered investment company. 124 These
commenters stated that requiring advisers to disclose these arrangements does not further
our objective of assessing the use of third party service providers.125 We agree and we
have updated Item 1.J.(2) to exclude chief compliance officers compensated or employed
by an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940
advised by the adviser.
In the Proposing Release, we asked whether we should require information about
an adviser’s use of third-party compliance auditors. Two commenters supported such
disclosure,126 but several commenters felt the disclosure would either not be useful or
lead to incorrect inferences about the decision to use, or not use, external compliance

122

MMI Letter; Morningstar Letter.

123

Dechert Letter; IAA Letter.

124

Id.

125

Id.

126

Comment Letter of Brown & Associates LLC (Aug. 10, 2015) (“Brown Letter”); NASAA Letter.

44

support.127 Several commenters expressed concern that, due to the diversity of services
provided by third-party compliance auditors, requiring an adviser to state whether or not
it uses them would not be useful to the Commission from a risk monitoring
perspective.128 Commenters also expressed concern that requiring an adviser to report on
its use of third-party compliance auditors could lead to incorrect inferences about the
adviser’s compliance program. For example, advisers hiring third-party compliance
auditors might be viewed as signaling a compliance issue, whereas advisers not hiring
them might be viewed as not sufficiently focused on compliance.129 Two commenters
expressed concern about confidentiality issues implicated by third-party compliance
auditor reporting.130 We are not requiring advisers to report information on Form ADV
regarding third-party compliance auditors at this time.
We are amending Item 1.O. as proposed to require advisers with assets of $1
billion or more to report their assets within three ranges: (1) $1 billion to less than $10
billion; (2) $10 billion to less than $50 billion; and (3) $50 billion or more.131 We added
Item 1.O. in 2011 in connection with the Dodd-Frank Act’s132 requirements concerning

127

ASG Letter; IAA Letter; MFA Letter; MMI Letter; NRS Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter;
PEGCC Letter.

128

IAA Letter; MFA Letter; NRS Letter; PEGCC Letter. See also ASG Letter (requested that we
more clearly define “auditor”); JGAS Letter; MMI Letter.

129

IAA Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter; PEGCC Letter.

130

Anonymous Letter; MMI Letter (these relationships are often confidential, such as where law
firms are involved).

131

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.O.

132

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203, 124 Stat.
1376 (2010).

45

certain incentive-based compensation arrangements.133 Advisers are currently required to
check a box to indicate if they have assets of $1 billion or more. Requiring advisers to
report their assets within one of the three specified ranges will provide more precise data
for use in Commission rulemaking arising from ongoing Dodd-Frank Act
implementation.134
Two commenters expressed general support for our proposal to require advisers to
report their own assets within specified ranges.135 Two commenters did not believe that
the information would be useful.136 However, we continue to believe that requiring
advisers to report their assets as described above will provide more accurate data for use
in Commission rulemaking arising from ongoing Dodd-Frank Act implementation.
Another commenter felt our proposal raised privacy issues for investors in an adviser
where the adviser is privately held.137 While we are sensitive to privacy concerns, we
believe that we have narrowly tailored our proposal to address these concerns. We are
only requiring that advisers with significant assets (at least $1 billion) report them and

133

See Rules Implementing Amendments to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Investment Advisers
Act Release No. 3221 (June 22, 2011) [76 FR 42950 (Jul. 19, 2011)] (“Implementing Release”) at
Section II.C.6; section 956 of the Dodd-Frank Act. We are also moving the instruction for how to
report “assets” for the purpose of Item 1.O. from the Instructions for Part 1A to Form ADV to
Item 1.O. in order to emphasize this instruction.

134

See, e.g., section 165(i) of the Dodd-Frank Act (requires the Commission and other financial
regulators to establish methodologies for the conduct of stress tests by financial companies with
consolidated assets of over $10 billion).; Incentive-based Compensation Arrangements, Exchange
Act Release No. 34-77776 (May 6, 2016) (identifies three categories of covered institutions based
on average total consolidated assets, ranging from $1 billion to $250 billion) (re-proposal of
Exchange Act Release No. 34-64140); Incentive-Based Compensation Arrangements, Exchange
Act Release No. 34-64140 (Mar. 29, 2011) [76 FR 21170 (Apr. 14, 2011)].

135

CFA Letter; PCA Letter.

136

NRS Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter.

137

Anonymous Letter.

46

even then only within one of the three specified ranges.

One commenter asked for

clarification on the timing of the calculation of assets.138 The item, as proposed and
adopted today, specifies that an adviser should use the total assets shown on the adviser’s
balance sheet for the most recent fiscal year end.139 We did not receive comments on the
specific asset ranges.
b.

Additional Information About Advisory Business

In addition to the amendments to Item 5 regarding separately managed accounts
discussed above, we are adopting a number of other amendments to Item 5. Item 5
currently requires an adviser to provide approximate ranges for three data points
concerning the adviser’s business – the number of advisory clients, the types of advisory
clients, and regulatory assets under management attributable to client types.140 As
proposed, we are amending these items to require an adviser to report the number of
clients141 and amount of regulatory assets under management attributable to each
category of clients as of the date the adviser determines its regulatory assets under
management.142 As we discussed in the Proposing Release, replacing ranges with more

138

PEGCC Letter.

139

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.O.

140

Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.C.(1), Item 5.D.(1)-(2).

141

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.D.(1)-(2). Advisers with fewer than five clients in a
particular category (other than investment companies, business development companies and other
pooled investment vehicles) may check Item 5.D.(2) indicating that fact rather than report the
actual number of clients in the particular category in Item 5.D.(1).

142

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.D.(3). The categories of clients are the same as those in
Item 5.D. of the current Form ADV, except that we are adding “sovereign wealth funds and
foreign official institutions” as a client category, and specifying that state or municipal
government entities include government pension plans, and that government pension plans should
not be counted as pension and profit sharing plans.

47

precise information will provide more accurate information about investment advisers
and will significantly enhance our ability to analyze data across investment advisers
because providing actual numbers of clients and regulatory assets under management will
allow us to see the scale and concentration of assets by client type.143 It will also allow
us to determine the regulatory assets under management attributable to separately
managed accounts. We believe that the information needed for providing the number of
clients and amount of regulatory assets under management by client type should be
readily available to advisers because advisers are producing this data to answer the
current iterations of these questions on Form ADV and advisers typically base their
advisory fees on client assets under management.
We also are adding to Item 5 as proposed a requirement for advisers to report the
number of clients for whom they provided advisory services but do not have regulatory
assets under management in order to obtain a more complete understanding of each
adviser’s advisory business.144 As we explained in the Proposing Release, this
information will assist in our risk assessment process and increase the effectiveness of
our examinations.145

143

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.2.

144

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.C.(1). An example of a situation where an adviser provides
investment advice but does not have regulatory assets under management is a nondiscretionary
account or a one-time financial plan, depending on the facts and circumstances.

145

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.2.

48

Some commenters were generally supportive of our proposal to replace ranges
with more precise information.146 Several commenters stated that advisers would need to
update computer systems to obtain this data, and raised concerns about the increased
burden that our proposal would place on advisers.147 One commenter felt that removing
an adviser’s ability to rely on estimates of the amount of regulatory assets under
management would increase the time required to prepare Item 5.D.148 We are not
convinced that the burden placed on advisers by the requirement to report precise
information will be significant. We continue to believe that the required information
should be readily available to advisers because advisers are producing this data to answer
the current iterations of these questions on Form ADV and advisers typically base their
advisory fees on client assets under management.
Some commenters suggested that our proposal to replace ranges with more
precise information would heighten the risk of inaccurate reporting on Form ADV.149
Commenters suggested that instead of requiring more precise information, we require
advisers to report only an approximate number of clients and regulatory assets under
management so as not to penalize advisers for “minor or inadvertent inaccuracies”150 and

146

NRS Letter; PCA Letter; CFA Letter (generally supportive but questions the usefulness of actual
numbers rather than ranges); NASAA Letter (supports reporting the number of clients for whom
an adviser provides advisory services but does not have regulatory assets under management).

147

ASG Letter; MMI Letter. See LPL Letter.

148

ASG Letter.

149

ASG Letter; LPL Letter; MMI Letter.

150

LPL Letter. See also IAA Letter.

49

one commenter suggested using narrower ranges.151 Our goal in collecting more precise
information is not to penalize advisers for minor inaccuracies but to enhance our ability
to analyze data across investment advisers and allow us to see the scale and concentration
of assets by client type. We collect numerical data throughout Form ADV, and we
believe that advisers have access to the information required to accurately complete Item
5.
One commenter expressed skepticism that the amendments would provide new,
meaningful information to investors.152 However, we believe that investors potentially
will benefit from having a more complete understanding of an investment adviser’s
business. In addition, we believe that investors will indirectly benefit from our enhanced
ability to analyze data across investment advisers, including the scale and concentration
of assets by client type.
One commenter expressed concern that the reporting of precise numbers might
reveal confidential client relationships or the amount of regulatory assets under
management attributable to specific clients.153 We are sensitive to these privacy
concerns, and, as noted above, we are revising Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.D. to allow
advisers with fewer than five clients in a particular category (other than investment
companies, business development companies and other pooled investment vehicles) to

151

MMI Letter.

152

ACG Letter.

153

Anonymous Letter.

50

check Item 5.D.(2) indicating that fact rather than report the actual number of clients in
the particular category in Item 5.D.(1).154
Several commenters requested clarification in situations where a client fits into
more than one client category.155 Specifically, two commenters requested that the
Commission clarify whether an adviser that has contracts with other advisers to subadvise registered investment companies, business development companies or pooled
investment vehicles should categorize those clients as either (1) “other investment
advisers” because other investment advisers hold the contracts, or as (2) “investment
companies,” “business development companies,” or “pooled investment vehicles,” as
applicable, because those entities hold the regulatory assets under management.156 We
are updating the instructions to Item 5.D. to state that, to the extent that the adviser
advises a registered investment company, business development company, or pooled
investment vehicle, the adviser should report those sub-advised assets in categories (d),
(e), or (f) as applicable.157 We also are amending the instructions in the text preceding
Item 5.D., in response to a comment that we received,158 to state that if a client fits into
more than one category, then the adviser should select the category that most accurately
represents the client in order to avoid double counting clients and assets.159

154

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.D.(1)-(2).

155

Anonymous Letter; ASG Letter; IAA Letter; SIFMA Letter.

156

ASG Letter; IAA Letter.

157

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.D.

158

SIFMA Letter.

159

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.D.

51

Some commenters requested more specific definitions for the categories of
clients.160 However, most of the categories have not changed from current Form ADV
and, based upon our experience with Form ADV, we believe that they are sufficiently
clear. At the suggestion of two commenters,161 we are moving the category labeled
“Corporations or other businesses not listed above” down in the table so that it appears
just above the category labeled “Other.”162
We are adopting, largely as proposed, several targeted additions to Item 5 and
Section 5 of Schedule D to inform our risk-based exam program and other risk
monitoring initiatives. An adviser that elects to report client assets in Part 2A of Form
ADV differently from the regulatory assets under management it reports in Part 1A of
Form ADV is now required to check a box noting that election.163 As discussed in the
Proposing Release, this information will allow our examination staff to review across
advisers the extent to which advisers report assets under management in Part 2A that

160

IAA Letter (Commission should clarify whether a “sovereign wealth fund and foreign official
institution” includes the account of any government or quasi-government entity). Morningstar
Letter (Commission should add definitions for categories, including “other,” and provide a list of
common custodian account types and how they map to the client categories).

161

IAA Letter; SIFMA Letter.

162

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.D.

163

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.J.(2). Form ADV, Part 2A, Item 4.E. requires an
investment adviser to disclose the amount of client assets it manages on a discretionary basis and
on a non-discretionary basis. The method used by an adviser to compute the amount of client
assets it manages can be different from the method used to compute regulatory assets under
management required for Item 5.F. in Part 1A. As discussed in the proposing release for Part 2,
the regulatory assets under management calculation for Part 1A is designed for a particular
purpose (i.e., for making a bright line determination about whether an adviser should register with
the Commission or with the states) and permitting a different calculation for Part 2 disclosure may
be appropriate to enable advisers to make disclosure that is more indicative to clients about the
nature of their business. See Amendments to Form ADV, Investment Advisers Act Release No.
2711 (Mar. 3, 2008) [73 FR 13958 (Mar. 14, 2008)].

52

differ from the regulatory assets under management reported in Part 1A of Form ADV.164
Having this information will allow our staff to better understand the situations in which
the calculations differ, and assist us in analyzing whether those differences require a
regulatory response.
One commenter asserted that this information would not be meaningful to
investors.165 Another commenter noted that advisers may report additional assets in Part
2A of Form ADV, rather than calculate regulatory assets under management differently
than they do in Part 1A of Form ADV.166 We continue to believe that Item 5.J.(2) will
provide the staff with helpful information regarding these calculations.
In addition, largely as proposed, we are adding a question asking the approximate
amount of an adviser’s total regulatory assets under management that is attributable to
clients that are non-United States persons167 to complement the current requirement that
each adviser report the percentage of its clients that are non-United States persons, which,
based on our experience, is not always a reliable indicator of an adviser’s relationships
with non-U.S. clients.168 As noted in the Proposing Release, our examination staff can
use this information to better understand the extent of investment advice provided to non164

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.2.

165

ACG Letter.

166

PCA Letter (stating that when advisers report different client assets in Part 2A than regulatory
assets under management in Part 1A of Form ADV, it is frequently due to additional assets being
included in the Part 2A calculation, such as non-discretionary assets that are under “advisement,”
rather than a different method of calculating assets under management).

167

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.F.(3).

168

Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.C.(2). For example, an adviser may report a significant percentage of
clients that are non-United States persons, but the regulatory assets under management attributable
to those clients is a small percentage of the adviser’s regulatory assets under management.

53

U.S. clients which will assist in our risk assessment process.169 In our proposal, we used
the term “non-U.S. client” and commenters sought clarification of the definition of “nonU.S. client.”170 In response, the amendments that we are adopting today use the term
“non-United States person” in Item 5.F.(3). The Glossary to Form ADV provides that
“United States person” has the same meaning as in rule 203(m)-1 under the Advisers Act,
which includes any natural person that is resident in the United States.
Section 5.G.(3) of Schedule D currently requires advisers to report the SEC File
Number for registered investment companies and business development companies that
they advise. Largely as proposed, we are adding to Section 5.G.(3) a requirement that
advisers report the regulatory assets under management of all parallel managed accounts
related to a registered investment company (or series thereof) or business development
company that they advise.171 As described in the Proposing Release, this information
will permit our staff to assess the accounts and consider how an adviser manages
conflicts of interest between parallel managed accounts and registered investment
companies or business development companies advised by the adviser.172 This

169

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.2.

170

Oppenheimer Letter; SIFMA Letter.

171

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 5.G.(3) of Schedule D. The Glossary to Amended Form
ADV includes “parallel managed account,” which is defined as: “With respect to any registered
investment company or series thereof or business development company, a parallel managed
account is any managed account or other pool of assets that you advise and that pursues
substantially the same investment objective and strategy and invests side by side in substantially
the same positions as the identified investment company or series thereof or business development
company that you advise.”

172

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.2.

54

information also will show the extent of any shift in assets between parallel managed
accounts and registered investment companies or business development companies.
Some commenters questioned the usefulness of collecting information on parallel
managed accounts173 or thought that disclosures about parallel managed accounts would
not produce meaningful results or could be misleading.174 We recognize that there may
be different reasons for assets to shift between parallel managed accounts and registered
investment companies or business development companies, but that does not make the
additional information less useful to the staff in considering how advisers manage
conflicts of interest and assessing the extent of any shift in assets for risk monitoring
purposes.
Some commenters noted that registered investment companies often have
multiple series, each with its own portfolio manager, investment strategy, and holdings;
and that the concept of a parallel managed account could only be applied in the registered
investment company context on a series-by-series basis.175 In response, we have updated

173

BlackRock Letter (suggesting that asking during examinations for an adviser’s policies related to
fair treatment of all accounts, and testing of compliance with those policies, would better achieve
the objective); IAA Letter; Comment Letter of Small Business Investor Alliance (Aug. 11, 2015)
(“SBIA Letter”) (opining that the proposal adds unnecessary reporting for advisers of business
development companies and is duplicative of Form N-2). We believe the information to be
collected in Section 5.G.(3) is different from the information collected on Form N-2 regarding
closed-end funds and business development companies because the information collected on Form
N-2 regarding management of other accounts focuses on individual portfolio managers, while the
information collected on Form ADV is reported at the adviser level.

174

Anonymous Letter (stating there are many reasons assets could shift between parallel managed
accounts and registered investment companies or business development companies); BlackRock
Letter.

175

IAA Letter; Oppenheimer Letter; SIFMA Letter.

55

Section 5.G.(3) to clarify that parallel managed accounts related to a registered
investment company (or a series thereof) should be reported.
One commenter felt that advisers would have difficulty interpreting the
requirement that a parallel managed account pursue “substantially the same investment
objective and strategy” as the relevant investment company or business development
company.176 Advisers should use their best judgment and make a good faith
determination as to whether the investment objectives and strategies in question are
“substantially the same.” We note that many private fund advisers already make this
determination when filling out Form PF.177
One commenter asked for confirmation that the value of derivatives held in a
parallel managed account should be calculated using the market value of the derivatives
rather than the gross notional value, if that is how the value of the account is reported to
the account holder.178 We agree that market value should be used in such a case.179

176

PCA Letter.

177

The definition of “parallel managed account,” supra footnote 171, is consistent with the Form PF
definition of “parallel managed account.” Form PF, Glossary of Terms.

178

IAA Letter.

179

This approach is consistent with the staff’s view on how the value of a parallel managed account
should be calculated on Form PF. See Form PF, Frequently Asked Questions. The staff’s
response to Question 11 on reporting value states that “When calculating the value of a parallel
managed account for purposes of either determining whether it is a dependent parallel managed
account that is aggregated with the reporting fund or reporting its value in Question 11, you should
use the market value of the derivatives held in the parallel managed account, instead of the gross
notional value, if that is how the value of the account is reported to the account holder.”

56

Finally, we are amending Item 5, largely as proposed, to obtain additional
information concerning wrap fee programs.180 Item 5.I. of Part 1A currently requires an
adviser to indicate whether it serves as a sponsor of or portfolio manager for a wrap fee
program. We are amending Item 5.I. to ask whether the adviser participates in a wrap fee
program, and if so, the total amount of regulatory assets under management attributable
to acting as a sponsor to or portfolio manager for a wrap fee program.181 One commenter
noted that many advisers act as both the sponsor of and a portfolio manager for the same
wrap fee program and that this could cause those advisers to double count their regulatory
assets under management attributable to wrap fee programs in Item 5.I.182 We agree and
have added a question to Item 5.I. that asks for the total amount of regulatory assets under
management attributable to the adviser acting as both sponsor to and portfolio manager
for the same wrap fee program. To prevent advisers from double-counting assets, we
added an instruction that assets reported in this new category should not be reported
elsewhere in Item 5.I.(2).
Section 5.I.(2) of Schedule D currently requires an adviser to list the name and
sponsor of each wrap fee program for which the adviser serves as portfolio manager. We
are amending Section 5.I.(2), as proposed, to add questions that require an adviser to
provide any SEC File Number and CRD Number for sponsors to those wrap fee

180

The Glossary to Form ADV defines a wrap fee program as “[a]ny advisory program under which a
specified fee or fees not based directly upon transactions in a client’s account is charged for
investment advisory services (which may include portfolio management or advice concerning the
selection of other investment advisers) and the execution of client transactions.” We are not
amending this definition.

181

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.I.

182

MMI Letter.

57

programs.183 As discussed in the Proposing Release, this information will help us better
understand a particular adviser’s business and assist in our risk assessment and
examination process by making it easier for our staff to identify the extent to which the
firm acts as sponsor or portfolio manager of wrap fee programs and collect information
across investment advisers involved in a particular wrap fee program.184
One commenter was generally supportive of our proposed reporting on wrap fee
programs, but questioned its usefulness to investors and market participants.185 As
discussed above, our enhanced wrap fee reporting is designed to assist our staff in its risk
assessment and examination process. Three commenters requested further clarification
regarding the existing definition of a wrap fee program.186 We are not changing or
clarifying the existing definition of a “wrap fee program” that is included in Form ADV
because, based on our experience with the Form, we believe it has been sufficiently clear.
c.

Additional Information About Financial Industry Affiliations and
Private Fund Reporting

Part 1A, Section 7.A. of Schedule D requires information on an adviser’s
financial industry affiliations and Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D requires information on
183

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 5.I.(2) of Schedule D.

184

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.2.

185

CFA Letter.

186

ASG Letter (asking whether an adviser will be deemed to participate in a wrap fee program if the
adviser negotiates an asset-based fee with a broker and pays that fee rather than having the client
pay that fee); PCA Letter (asking whether an adviser will be deemed to “participate” in a wrap fee
program as a result of placing client funds (or recommending that clients place non-discretionary
funds) in one or more programs sponsored by unaffiliated third parties, but in which the adviser
does not serve as the sponsor or a portfolio manager). See also NRS Letter (suggesting that we
require wrap fee program sponsors to report the combined regulatory assets under management for
themselves and any independent portfolio managers in their program).

58

private funds managed by the adviser. We are adopting as proposed amendments to
Sections 7.A. and 7.B.(1) of Schedule D that require an adviser to provide identifying
numbers (i.e., Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”)-assigned
numbers187 and CIK Numbers188) in response to two questions to allow us to better
compare information across data sets and understand the relationships of advisers to other
financial service providers.
Two commenters were concerned that, by requiring an adviser to report the
PCAOB-assigned number of its auditing firm (if applicable), we are suggesting that using
a PCAOB-registered auditing firm is required by the Commission.189 This is not our
intent. An auditing firm performing a surprise examination is not required to be
registered with the PCAOB unless the adviser or its related person is serving as qualified
custodian.190
In addition, we are adding a question to Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D to require
an adviser to a private fund that qualifies for the exclusion from the definition of
investment company under section 3(c)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (a
“3(c)(1) fund”) to report whether it limits sales of the fund to qualified clients, as defined
in rule 205-3 under the Advisers Act.191 As proposed, the question would have required
187

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 23(e).

188

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.A of Schedule D, Question 4(b).

189

Shearman Letter. See Comment Letter of American Institute of Certified Public Accountants,
Financial Reporting Executive Committee (Aug. 17, 2015) (“AICPA Letter”).

190

Rules 206(4)-2(a)(4) and 206(4)-2(a)(6)(i).

191

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 15(b). Current Question
15 will become Question 15(a).

59

an adviser to report, for every private fund that it advises (including any private fund that
qualifies for the exclusion from the definition of “investment company” under section
3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“3(c)(7) fund”), the approximate
percentage of the private fund beneficially owned (in the aggregate) by qualified
clients.192 One commenter supported the rationale for our proposal;193 however other
commenters questioned the value of the question and were concerned about situations
where the qualified client status of an investor is not known, or does not need to be
determined.194 We continue to believe that this information will give us a better sense of
the financial sophistication and nature of investors in private funds, but in response to
comments, we are making two changes from our proposal.
First, we are limiting the question to 3(c)(1) funds because each investor in a
3(c)(7) fund is required to meet the higher “qualified purchaser” standard.195 Second, we
are revising the question to require a simple yes or no response as to whether the adviser
limits sales of a fund to qualified clients instead of requiring advisers to report the
percentage of ownership of the fund by qualified clients. Commenters noted that many
advisers that are not registered with the Commission (e.g., exempt reporting advisers196)
192

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 15(b).

193

CFA Letter.

194

ACG Letter; Anonymous Letter; SBIA Letter.

195

“Qualified purchaser” is defined in Section 2(a)(51) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15
U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51)).

196

An exempt reporting adviser is an investment adviser that qualifies for the exemption from
registration under section 203(l) of the Advisers Act because it is an adviser solely to one or more
venture capital funds, or under rule 203(m)-1 under the Advisers Act because it is an adviser
solely to private funds and has assets under management in the United States of less than $150
million. See Form ADV, Glossary.

60

are not required to determine whether the fund’s investors are qualified clients.197 These
advisers may simply respond “No” to the revised question. Other commenters asked us
to clarify whether advisers must re-certify the qualified client status of their investors
annually.198 As long as an investor met the definition of a “qualified client” when it
entered into the advisory contract with the adviser, then the investor is considered a
“qualified client” even if it no longer meets the dollar amount thresholds of the rule. This
is consistent with our existing approach to the definition of qualified client.199
3.

Umbrella Registration

We are adopting, as proposed, amendments to Form ADV that codify umbrella
registration for certain advisers to private funds. We are adopting the amendments today
because we believe that umbrella registration should be made available to those private
fund advisers that are registered with us and operate a single advisory business through
multiple legal entities. Umbrella registration is not mandatory, but we believe it will
simplify the registration process for these advisers, and provide additional and more
consistent data about, and create a clearer picture of, groups of private fund advisers that
operate a single advisory business through multiple legal entities. The amendments also
will allow for greater comparability across private fund advisers.
197

ACG Letter; SBIA Letter. See also Anonymous Letter. Section 205(a) of the Advisers Act only
applies to advisers who are registered or required to be registered with the Commission and
generally restricts advisers from entering into, extending, renewing, or performing any advisory
contract that provides for performance-based compensation. Rule 205-3 permits advisers to
charge performance-based compensation to “qualified clients,” as defined in the rule. Advisers
who are registered or required to be registered with the Commission are otherwise prohibited from
charging performance-based compensation.

198

JGAS Letter; SBIA Letter. See also PCA Letter.

199

See Investment Adviser Performance Compensation, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 3372
(Feb. 15, 2012) [77 FR 10358 (Feb. 22, 2012)].

61

As we discussed in the Proposing Release, the Dodd-Frank Act repealed the
private adviser exemption that used to be in section 203(b)(3) of the Advisers Act.200 As
a result, many previously unregistered advisers to private funds,201 including hedge funds
and private equity funds, were required to register under the Advisers Act. Today, about
4,469 registered investment advisers provide advice on approximately $10.5 trillion in
assets to approximately 30,896 private funds clients.202
For a variety of tax, legal and regulatory reasons, advisers to private funds may be
organized as a group of related advisers that are separate legal entities but effectively
operate as - and appear to investors and regulators to be - a single advisory business.
Although these separate legal entities effectively operate as a single advisory business, 203
Form ADV was designed to accommodate the registration request of an adviser
structured as a single legal entity. As a result, private fund advisers that operated as a
single advisory business but were organized as separate legal entities may have had to file
multiple registration forms, even though the registration effectively was for the same
200

Section 403 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Section 203(b)(3) of the Advisers Act (the “private adviser
exemption”) previously exempted any investment adviser from registration if the investment
adviser (i) had fewer than 15 clients in the preceding 12 months, (ii) did not hold itself out to the
public as an investment adviser and (iii) did not act as an investment adviser to a registered
investment company or a company that elected to be a business development company.

201

Section 202(a)(29) of the Advisers Act defines the term “private fund” as “an issuer that would be
an investment company, as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15
U.S.C. 80a-3), but for section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act.”

202

Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016.

203

We treat as a single adviser two or more affiliated advisers that are separate legal entities but are
operationally integrated, which could result in a requirement for one or both advisers to register.
See Exemptions for Advisers to Venture Capital Funds, Private Fund Advisers With Less Than
$150 Million in Assets Under Management, and Foreign Private Advisers, Investment Advisers
Act Release No. 3222 (June 22, 2011) [76 FR 39646 (Jul. 6, 2011)] (“Exemptions Release”). See
also In the Matter of TL Ventures Inc., Investment Advisers Act Release No. 3859 (June 20, 2014)
(settled action).

62

advisory business. Multiple Form ADVs for a single advisory business may distort the
data we collect on Form ADV and use in our regulatory program, be less efficient and
more costly for advisers, and may be confusing to the public researching an adviser on
our website.
Our staff provided guidance to private fund advisers before the compliance date
of the Dodd-Frank Act private fund adviser registration requirements designed to address
concerns raised by advisers.204 The guidance provided conditions under which the staff
believed one adviser (the “filing adviser”) could file a single Form ADV on behalf of
itself and other advisers that were controlled by or under common control with the filing
adviser (each, a “relying adviser”), provided that they conducted a single advisory
business (collectively an “umbrella registration”).
We believe that most advisers that can rely on umbrella registration are doing so,
with approximately 743 filing advisers and approximately 2,587 relying advisers filing
umbrella registrations.205 However, the method outlined in the staff guidance for filing
an umbrella registration was limited by the fact that the form was designed for a single
legal entity. This created confusion for filers and the public. It also complicated our

204

See 2012 ABA Letter, supra footnote 5. The Division of Investment Management previously
provided no-action relief to enable a special purpose vehicle (“SPV”) that acts as a private fund’s
general partner or managing member to essentially rely upon its parent adviser’s registration with
the Commission rather than separately register. See American Bar Association Subcommittee on
Private Investment Entities, SEC Staff Letter (Dec. 8, 2005), available at
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/noaction/aba120805.htm (“2005 ABA Letter”) at
Question G1.

205

Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016.

63

staff’s data collection and analysis on umbrella registrants.206 Today’s amendments are
designed to ameliorate these issues.
We are adopting, as proposed, amendments to Form ADV’s General Instructions
that establish conditions for an adviser to assess whether umbrella registration is
available. The conditions we are adopting today are the same as the conditions set forth
in the staff’s guidance that many investment advisers have relied on since 2012 (except
that the staff’s guidance also included disclosure conditions for Form ADV, the substance
of which is covered elsewhere in this Release).207 The conditions are as follows:
1. The filing adviser and each relying adviser advise only private funds and clients
in separately managed accounts that are qualified clients (as defined in rule 205-3
under the Advisers Act) and are otherwise eligible to invest in the private funds
advised by the filing adviser or a relying adviser and whose accounts pursue
investment objectives and strategies that are substantially similar or otherwise
related to those private funds;
2. The filing adviser has its principal office and place of business in the United
States and, therefore, all of the substantive provisions of the Advisers Act and the
rules thereunder apply to the filing adviser’s and each relying adviser’s dealings
206

Under the guidance provided by the staff, for example, umbrella registration was appropriate
where a relying adviser was not prohibited from registering with the Commission by section 203A
of the Advisers Act. See 2012 ABA Letter, supra footnote 5. However, a relying adviser did not
have a way to answer Item 2 regarding the basis on which it was eligible for SEC registration. In
addition, relying advisers often had to list owners and executive officers in a confusing manner in
Schedules A and B which were not designed to accommodate multiple advisers and did not always
provide the Commission staff with useful information on the owners of each relying adviser.
Also, the filing adviser disclosed its reliance on the 2012 ABA Letter in the Miscellaneous Section
of Schedule D.

207

See 2012 ABA Letter, supra footnote 5 at Question 4.

64

with each of its clients, regardless of whether any client or the filing adviser or
relying adviser providing the advice is a United States person;208
3. Each relying adviser, its employees and the persons acting on its behalf are
subject to the filing adviser’s supervision and control and, therefore, each relying
adviser, its employees and the persons acting on its behalf are “persons associated
with” the filing adviser (as defined in section 202(a)(17) of the Advisers Act);
4. The advisory activities of each relying adviser are subject to the Advisers Act and
the rules thereunder, and each relying adviser is subject to examination by the
Commission; and
5. The filing adviser and each relying adviser operate under a single code of ethics
adopted in accordance with rule 204A-1 under the Advisers Act and a single set
of written policies and procedures adopted and implemented in accordance with
rule 206(4)-(7) under the Advisers Act and administered by a single chief
compliance officer in accordance with that rule.209
The conditions are designed to limit eligibility for umbrella registration to groups
of private fund advisers that operate as a single advisory business. For purposes of
umbrella registration, we consider the following factors as indicia of a single advisory
business: commonality of advisory services and clients; a consistent application of the
Advisers Act and the rules thereunder to all advisers in the business; and a unified
208

The Glossary to Form ADV provides that “United States person” has the same meaning as in rule
203(m)-1 under the Advisers Act, which includes any natural person that is resident in the United
States.

209

The code of ethics and written policies and procedures must be administered as if the filing adviser
and each relying adviser are part of a single entity, although they may take into account, for
example, that a relying adviser operating in a different jurisdiction may have obligations that differ
from the filing adviser or another relying adviser.

65

compliance program. The conditions that we are adopting today are designed to
demonstrate these factors. Condition 1 limits eligibility for umbrella registration to
private fund advisers with a commonality of advisory services and clients. Conditions 2
and 4 are designed to provide assurance that our staff has access to and can readily
examine the filing and relying advisers and that the Advisers Act and the rules thereunder
fully apply to all advisers under the umbrella registration and clients of those advisers.
Conditions 3 and 5 are designed to provide assurance that the filing and relying advisers
are subject to a unified compliance program. Based on our experience, we believe that
the conditions, when taken together, are a strong indication of the existence of a single
private fund advisory business operating through the use of multiple legal entities.
In addition, we are amending the General Instructions as proposed to provide
advisers using umbrella registration directions on completing Form ADV for the filing
adviser and each relying adviser, including details for filing umbrella registration requests
and the timing of filings and amendments in connection with an umbrella registration.210
To satisfy the requirements of Form ADV while using umbrella registration, the filing
adviser is required to file, and update as required, a single Form ADV (Parts 1 and 2) that
relates to, and includes all information concerning, the filing adviser and each relying
adviser, and must include this same information in any other reports or filings it must
make under the Advisers Act or the rules thereunder (e.g., Form PF). The revisions to the
form’s Instructions and Form ADV further specify those questions that should be
answered solely with respect to the filing adviser and those that require the filing adviser

210

See Form ADV, General Instruction 5.

66

to answer on behalf of itself and its relying adviser(s).211 Additionally, we are amending
the Glossary as proposed to add the following three terms: (i) “filing adviser;”212 (ii)
“relying adviser;”213 and (iii) “umbrella registration.”214
We also are adopting as proposed a new schedule to Part 1A – Schedule R – that
must be filed for each relying adviser.215 Schedule R requires identifying information,
basis for SEC registration, and ownership information about each relying adviser, some
of which was already filed by an adviser relying on the staff guidance.216 This new
schedule consolidates in one location information for each relying adviser and addresses
the problem the staff faced in its guidance that resulted in information regarding relying
advisers being submitted in response to a number of different items on the Form, in ways
not consistent across advisers, due to the fact that Form ADV was not designed to

211

See, e.g., statements added to Form ADV, Instructions and Part 1A, Items 1, 2, 3, 7, 10 and 11.

212

“Filing Adviser” means: “An investment adviser eligible to register with the SEC that files (and
amends) a single umbrella registration on behalf of itself and each of its relying advisers.” See
Form ADV, Glossary.

213

“Relying Adviser” means: “An investment adviser eligible to register with the SEC that relies on a
filing adviser to file (and amend) a single umbrella registration on its behalf.” See Form ADV,
Glossary.

214

“Umbrella Registration” means: “A single registration by a filing adviser and one or more relying
advisers who collectively conduct a single advisory business and that meet the conditions set forth
in General Instruction 5.” See Form ADV, Glossary.

215

Advisers that choose to file an umbrella registration are directed by Item 1.B. to complete a new
Schedule R for each relying adviser. Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.B.(2).

216

Schedule R requires the following information for each relying adviser: identifying information
(Section 1); basis for SEC registration (Section 2); form of organization (Section 3) and control
persons (Section 4). For basis for SEC registration (Section 2), we did not include categories that
would make the relying adviser ineligible for umbrella registration, such as serving as an adviser
to a registered investment company.

67

accommodate umbrella registration.217 We believe that certain information that we are
requiring (such as mailing address and basis for registration) is the same for nearly all
relying advisers, and the filing adviser can check a box indicating that the mailing
address of the relying advisers is the same as that of the filing adviser. Finally, we are
adding, as proposed, a new question to Schedule D that requires advisers to identify the
filing advisers and relying advisers that manage or sponsor private funds reported on
Form ADV.218 This information will allow us to identify the specific adviser managing
the private fund reported on Form ADV if it is part of an umbrella registration. We
believe that this information will help us better understand the management of private
funds, will provide information to contact relying advisers, and will help us better
understand the relationship between relying advisers and filing advisers.
We received multiple comment letters regarding our proposal to codify umbrella
registration, the vast majority of which expressed support for umbrella registration.219
Several commenters also agreed that umbrella registration should not be mandatory.220
However, several commenters urged the Commission to expand the eligibility for
umbrella registration to additional advisers including non-U.S. filing advisers, exempt
217

Under the staff’s guidance in the 2012 ABA Letter, an adviser reported in its Form ADV
(Miscellaneous Section of Schedule D) that it and its relying advisers were together filing a single
Form ADV in reliance on the position expressed in the letter and identified each relying adviser by
completing a separate Section 1.B., Schedule D, of Form ADV for each relying adviser and
identified it as such by including the notation “(relying adviser).” See 2012 ABA Letter, supra
footnote 5 at Question 4.

218

Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 3(b).

219

See, e.g., ABA Committee Letter; ACG Letter; AIMA Letter; ASG Letter; BlackRock Letter;
CFA Letter; Dechert Letter; MFA Letter; NASAA Letter; NRS Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter;
PCA Letter; PEGCC Letter; SBIA Letter; Schulte Letter; Shearman Letter; SIFMA Letter.

220

ABA Committee Letter; ASG Letter; BlackRock Letter; Dechert Letter.

68

reporting advisers, advisers to other types of clients, and advisers not independently
eligible to register with the Commission.221
Many commenters encouraged us to permit umbrella registration for non-U.S.
filing advisers.222 However, as we previously have expressed, we remain concerned that,
absent Condition 2 (which requires that the filing adviser have its principal place of
business in the United States), a group of related advisers based inside and outside of the
United States could designate a non-U.S. adviser as a filing adviser, and could assert,
based on the theory of operating a single advisory business, that the Advisers Act’s
substantive provisions generally would not apply to the U.S.-based relying advisers’
dealings with their non-U.S. clients.223 Many commenters acknowledged this concern.224
Some commenters suggested that we address the concern by requiring that advisers
indicate on their umbrella registration that they will follow applicable law.225 We believe
that Condition 2 eliminates the difficult determinations of the Advisers Act’s application
to these advisory relationships. The amendments we are adopting today do not change

221

One commenter suggested that advisers that can, but do not elect to, file an umbrella registration
be required to note that on Form ADV. CFA Letter.

222

ABA Committee Letter; AIMA Letter; Dechert Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter; Schulte Letter.
See also Shearman Letter.

223

2012 ABA Letter, supra footnote 5 at n.9; See Exemptions Release, supra footnote 203 at Section
II.D.

224

ABA Committee Letter; AIMA Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter; Schulte Letter; Shearman
Letter.

225

AIMA Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter. See also Dechert Letter; ABA Committee Letter
(suggesting that we state on Form ADV that the Advisers Act applies with respect to all U.S.
clients of every registered investment adviser, and with respect to all of the activities of registered
investment advisers that have their principal place of business in the United States).

69

the Commission’s statements with respect to the cross-border application of the Advisers
Act.226
Two commenters suggested permitting umbrella registration for an organization
where all of the advisers have their principal office and place of business outside of the
United States.227 However, umbrella registration is intended to apply only where our
staff has access to and can readily examine the filing and relying advisers and where the
Advisers Act and the rules thereunder fully apply to all advisers (and clients) under the
umbrella registration.228 This would not be the case for a group of non-U.S. advisers.
Several commenters229 argued that we should expand the concept of umbrella
registration by registered advisers to include “umbrella reporting” by exempt reporting
advisers. Many of these commenters stated, and we acknowledge, that allowing exempt
reporting advisers that operate a single advisory business through multiple legal entities
to file an “umbrella report” would provide many of the same benefits as umbrella
registration.230 However, we are not expanding the concept of umbrella registration to
include “umbrella reporting” by exempt reporting advisers at this time. Some of the
226

Certain commenters discussed our cross-border application of the Advisers Act. ABA Committee
Letter; Dechert Letter; Schulte Letter. Most of the substantive provisions of the Advisers Act are
not applied to the non-U.S. clients of a non-U.S. adviser registered with the Commission but nonU.S. advisers registered with the Commission must comply with the Advisers Act and the
Commission’s rules thereunder with respect to any U.S. clients (and any prospective U.S. clients)
they may have. See Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at n.57 and Exemptions Release, supra
footnote 203 at Section II.D.

227

Schulte Letter; Shearman Letter.

228

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.3.

229

ABA Committee Letter; ACG Letter; AIMA Letter; ASG Letter; MFA Letter; NYSBA
Committee Letter; SBIA Letter; Schulte Letter; Shearman Letter.

230

ABA Committee Letter; AIMA Letter; MFA Letter; SBIA Letter; Schulte Letter. See also ACG
Letter.

70

conditions required for umbrella registration reflect certain requirements that apply only
to registered advisers.231 Different conditions might be more appropriate for ensuring
that a group of exempt reporting advisers is operating a single advisory business and
therefore should be able to take advantage of “umbrella reporting.”
Certain commenters questioned the status of a set of Frequently Asked
Questions232 that permits certain exempt reporting advisers to file a single Form ADV on
behalf of multiple special purpose entities.233 The views of the staff as expressed in these
Frequently Asked Questions are not withdrawn as a result of today’s amendments to
Form ADV.
Two commenters disagreed with Condition 5’s requirement that the filing adviser
and each relying adviser operate under a single code of ethics adopted in accordance with
rule 204A-1 under the Advisers Act and a single set of written policies and procedures
adopted and implemented in accordance with rule 206(4)-(7) under the Advisers Act and
administered by a single chief compliance officer in accordance with that rule.234 One
commenter argued that Condition 5 was too restrictive and suggested that we allow
groups of related advisers with “substantially similar” codes of ethics and sets of policies
231

Specifically, exempt reporting advisers are not subject to the requirement for compliance policies
and procedures pursuant to rule 206(4)-7 under the Advisers Act or for a code of ethics pursuant to
rule 204A-1 under the Advisers Act. See ACG Letter.

232

Frequently Asked Questions on Form ADV and IARD, Reporting to the SEC as an Exempt
Reporting Adviser (Mar. 2012), available at
https://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/iard/iardfaq.shtml#exemptreportingadviser.

233

ABA Committee Letter; AIMA Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter.

234

Capital Research Letter. See ACG Letter (stating that Condition 5 would have the practical effect
of excluding exempt reporting advisers from eligibility for umbrella registration because exempt
reporting advisers are not required by Advisers Act rule 204A-1 to adopt a code of ethics, nor are
they required by Advisers Act rule 206(4)-7 to adopt compliance policies and procedures).

71

and procedures administered by several chief compliance officers operating under a
“common compliance regime” to file an umbrella registration.235 Based on our
experience with private fund advisers that operate a single private fund advisory business
through multiple legal entities, we believe that they commonly have a unified compliance
program which is characterized by a single code of ethics and a single set of compliance
policies and procedures administered by a single chief compliance officer. Because we
believe that the existence of a unified compliance program that meets the requirements of
Condition 5 is a meaningful indicia of a single private fund advisory business, we are not
modifying Condition 5 at this time.
Several commenters disagreed with limiting umbrella registration eligibility to
advisers operating a single private fund advisory business as described in Condition 1.236
Some commenters urged the Commission to make umbrella registration available where
the advisers operate a single advisory business for types of clients other than those
described in Condition 1, including registered investment companies and business
development companies.237 Another commenter disagreed with limiting eligibility to a
single advisory business of any kind and suggested that umbrella registration apply to all
related persons of a filing adviser.238 However, as we stated in the Proposing Release, we
do not believe umbrella registration is appropriate for advisers that are related but that
235

Capital Research Letter.

236

ASG Letter; BlackRock Letter; Capital Research Letter; Dechert Letter; Comment Letter of
Tannenbaum Helpern Syracuse & Hirschtritt LLP (Aug. 5, 2016) (“Tannenbaum Letter”)
(disagreed with “substantially similar or otherwise related” language, because advisers may
operate a single business with different investment strategies).

237

ASG Letter; Dechert Letter. See also BlackRock Letter.

238

Capital Research Letter.

72

operate separate advisory businesses as it would compromise data quality and complicate
analyses that rely on data from Form ADV.239 We believe that by adopting umbrella
registration as proposed, we are best able to accommodate the unique needs of private
fund advisers that operate a single advisory business through multiple legal entities
without compromising the data quality or analyses that rely on data from Form ADV.
Several commenters took issue with the proposal’s requirement to determine
asset-based eligibility for umbrella registration on an entity-by-entity, rather than
consolidated, basis.240 These commenters suggested that the goals of providing a clearer
picture of groups of related advisers that operate as a single business and establishing a
more efficient method for registration for separate legal entities that collectively conduct
a single advisory business would be better served by allowing the group to determine
asset-based eligibility for umbrella registration on a consolidated basis.241 Umbrella
registration was intended to consolidate the multiple registration forms that may
otherwise have been required by a single advisory business. It was not intended to alter
or modify the eligibility for registration with the Commission.242

239

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.3.

240

Dechert Letter; Morgan Letter; NRS Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter. See MFA Letter (arguing
that a registered private fund adviser that serves as a filing adviser should be able to add a relying
adviser that is an exempt reporting adviser to its umbrella registration).

241

Id.

242

See Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.3. To the extent there is concern about the
eligibility of SEC registration for newly-formed relying advisers, rule 203A-2(c) provides an
exemption for advisers that expect to be eligible for Commission registration within 120 days.

73

Some commenters disagreed with the requirement contained in Condition 1 that
separately managed accounts be owned by qualified clients.243 One commenter stated
that the qualified client requirement for separately managed accounts is not related to the
single business requirement.244 Condition 1 also requires that the qualified clients be
otherwise eligible to invest in the private funds advised by the filing adviser or a relying
adviser and that their accounts pursue investment objectives and strategies that are
substantially similar or otherwise related to those private funds. Condition 1, including
the qualified client requirement, is intended to ensure the commonality of clients that we
believe is an important indicia of a single private fund advisory business. For example, if
a group of advisers advised private funds as well as separately managed accounts held by
non-qualified clients or separately managed accounts that pursue investment objectives or
strategies that differ from the private funds they advise, we do not believe they would be
operating a single private fund advisory business. The offering of separately managed
accounts to clients other than qualified clients (such as retail clients) or separately
managed accounts that pursue investment objectives or strategies that differ from the
private funds they advise indicate that the group of advisers is engaged in lines of
business that differ from a single private fund advisory business that we intend to cover
with umbrella registration. Accordingly, at this time, we continue to believe that a group
of advisers’ ability to comply with Condition 1, including the qualified client requirement
for separately managed accounts, is a meaningful indicia of a single private fund advisory
business, and we are therefore adopting Condition 1 as proposed.
243

Morgan Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter; Tannenbaum Letter. See also PCA Letter.

244

NYSBA Committee Letter.

74

We also received several comments on the new amendments to Form ADV to
accommodate umbrella registration. Two commenters generally supported the benefits
of new Schedule R, which requires separate reporting of indirect and direct ownership for
relying advisers (similar to current Schedules A and B of Form ADV).245 One
commenter was concerned that relying advisers, which may act as special purpose
general partners or similar entities and may be owned by employees sharing in the
performance-based compensation paid by the fund, would in effect be forced to share the
details of employee compensation on a public filing.246 The ownership information
required of relying advisers is consistent with the ownership information required of
filing advisers. We believe this information will more accurately reflect the full nature
and scope of the single advisory business conducted by the group of related advisers and
will be more informative for advisory clients and private fund investors as well as the
Commission.247
4.

Clarifying, Technical and Other Amendments to Form ADV

We are adopting, largely as proposed, several amendments to Form ADV that are
designed to clarify the form and its instructions. As noted in the Proposing Release, we
believe these amendments to Form ADV will make the filing process clearer and more
efficient for advisers and increase the reliability and the consistency of information
provided by investment advisers. More reliable and consistent information will improve
our staff’s ability to interpret, understand, and place in context the information provided
245

ASG Letter; PEGCC Letter.

246

Shearman Letter.

247

See Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.3.

75

by advisers, allow our staff to make comparisons across investment advisers and improve
the risk assessment and examination program. Many of these amendments are derived
from questions frequently received by our staff. Except where noted, we did not receive
comments on these amendments.
a.

Amendments to Item 2

Item 2.A. of Part 1A of Form ADV requires an adviser to select the basis upon
which it is eligible to register with the Commission, and Item 2.A.(9) includes as a basis
that the adviser is eligible for registration because it is a “newly formed adviser” relying
on rule 203A-2(c) because it expects to be eligible for SEC registration within 120
days.248 Section 2.A.(9) of Schedule D is entitled “Newly Formed Adviser” and requests
the adviser to make certain representations. As noted in the Proposing Release, our staff
has received questions about whether the exemption from the prohibition on Commission
registration contained in rule 203A-2(c) under the Advisers Act applies only to entities
that have been “newly formed,” i.e., newly created as corporate or other legal entities. It
does not only apply to newly created entities and therefore, as proposed, we are deleting
the phrase “newly formed adviser” from Item 2.A.(9) and Section 2.A.(9) of Schedule D.
Section 2.A.(9) will be renamed “Investment Adviser Expecting to be Eligible for
Commission Registration within 120 Days.”249
b.

Amendments to Item 4

Item 4 of Part 1A of Form ADV addresses successions of investment advisers, and
the Instructions to Item 4 provide that a new organization has been created under certain
248

Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 2.A.(9) and Section 2.A.(9) of Schedule D.

249

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 2.A.(9); see rule 203A-2(c) under the Advisers Act.

76

circumstances, including if the adviser has changed its structure or legal status (e.g., form
of organization or state of incorporation). As noted in the Proposing Release, our staff
frequently receives questions from investment advisers regarding this item and, as
proposed, we are adding to Item 4 and Section 4 of Schedule D text that is currently
contained in the Instructions to Item 4 that succeeding to the business of a registered
investment adviser includes, for example, a change of structure or legal status (e.g., form
of organization or state of incorporation).250
c.

Amendments to Item 7

Item 7 of Part 1A of Form ADV and corresponding sections of Schedule D
require advisers to report information about their financial industry affiliations and the
private funds they advise. We are adopting several technical amendments to Item 7. As
proposed, we are revising Item 7.A., which requires advisers to check whether their
related persons are within certain categories of the financial industry, to clarify that
advisers should not disclose in response to this item that some of their employees perform
investment advisory functions or are registered representatives of a broker-dealer, because
this information is required to be reported on Items 5.B.(1) and 5.B.(2) of Part 1A,
respectively. Items 5.B.(1) and 5.B.(2) request information about an adviser’s employees.
Adding this text to Form ADV should assist filers in filling out the form as well as provide
more accurate data to us and the general public.251

250

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 4.A. and Section 4 of Schedule D.

251

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 7. The staff has provided this clarification and it is currently
available online at our staff’s Frequently Asked Questions on Form ADV and IARD, available at
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/iard/iardfaq.shtml.

77

Item 7.B. of Part 1A of Form ADV asks whether the adviser serves as adviser to
any private fund. Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D requires advisers to provide information
about the private funds they manage. We are adding text to Item 7.B. clarifying that
Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D should not be completed if another SEC-registered adviser
or SEC exempt reporting adviser reports the information required by Section 7.B.(1) of
Schedule D. Currently the instructions only refer to another adviser. We are also
adopting, as proposed, several amendments to Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D. Question 8
of Section 7.B.(1) currently asks whether the private fund is a “fund of funds,” and if it is,
whether the private fund invests in funds managed by the adviser or a related person of the
adviser. Below those two questions there is a note informing advisers when they should
answer yes to the first question regarding whether the private fund is a “fund of funds.”
We are moving the note to directly after Question 8.(a).252 We believe this change will
assist filers in answering Question 8.
Question 10 of Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D asks the adviser to identify the
category of the private fund. As proposed, we are deleting text in Question 10 that directs
advisers to refer to the underlying funds of a fund of funds when selecting the type of
fund, in order to reconcile differences with Form PF, which permits advisers to disregard
any private fund’s equity investments in other private funds.253 Question 19 of Section
7.B.(1) of Schedule D asks whether the adviser’s clients are solicited to invest in the
private fund. We are adding text to Question 19, as proposed, to make clear that the

252

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Questions 8.(a)-(b).

253

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 10. See Form PF, General
Instruction 7.

78

adviser should not consider feeder funds as clients of the adviser to a private fund when
answering whether the adviser’s clients are solicited to invest in the private fund.254 As
noted in the Proposing Release, this is a common question that our staff receives and the
intent of Question 19 is not to capture affiliated feeder funds. Question 21 of Section
7.B.(1) of Schedule D asks whether the private fund relies on an exemption from
registration of its securities under Regulation D of the Securities Act of 1933 and Question
22 asks for the private fund’s Form D file number. We are adopting a clarifying revision
to Question 21 as proposed to ask if the private fund has ever relied on an exemption from
registration of its securities under Regulation D, in order to better reflect the intention of
the Question.255 The current Question 21, if answered in the negative, would not require
the adviser to provide the private fund’s Form D file number in Question 22, meaning we
would not receive Form D file numbers in the event there was past reliance on Regulation
D.256
We are adopting revisions to Question 23.(a)(2) as proposed. Currently, this
question requires an adviser to check a box to indicate whether the private fund’s financial
statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
(“GAAP”).257 We are adding text instructing advisers that they are required to answer
Question 23.(a)(2) only if they answer “yes” to Question 23.(a)(1), which asks whether the

254

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 19.

255

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 21.

256

Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 21.

257

Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 23.(a)(2).

79

private fund’s financial statements are subject to an annual audit.258 This revision will
clarify when an adviser is actually required to answer Question 23.(a)(2). We are also
revising Question 23.(g) as proposed. The question currently asks whether the private
fund’s audited financial statements are distributed to the private fund’s investors. We are
adding “for the most recently completed fiscal year” to clarify the question. In addition,
we are revising Question 23.(h) as proposed. This question currently asks whether the
report prepared by the auditing firm contains an unqualified opinion.259 As noted in the
Proposing Release, this question has prompted questions from advisers regarding which
report and what timeframe the question refers to. To clarify, we are revising the question,
as proposed, to ask whether all of the reports prepared by the auditing firm since the date
of the adviser’s last annual updating amendment contain unqualified opinions.260 Finally,
as proposed, we are adding Question 25.(g), which requests the legal entity identifier, if
any, for a private fund custodian that is not a broker-dealer, or that is a broker-dealer but
does not have an SEC registration number. The legal entity identifier is a unique
identifier associated with a single entity and is intended to provide a uniform
international standard for identifying parties to financial transactions. Furthermore, the
reporting of legal entity identifier information on Form ADV facilitates the ability of
investors and the Commission to link the data reported with data from other filings or
sources that is reported elsewhere as legal entity identifiers become more widely used by

258

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 23.(a)(2).

259

Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 23.(h).

260

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 23.(h).

80

regulators and the financial industry. This information will help our examination staff
more readily identify the use of particular custodians by private funds.
d.

Amendments to Item 8

Based on inquiries from filers, we are adopting the proposed amendments to Item
8 with a modification to clarify that newly-formed advisers should answer questions in the
item based on the types of participation and interest they expect to engage in during the
next year. In the Proposing Release, we did not specify that the instruction was for
newly-formed advisers, and commenters expressed concern that the proposal would
make Item 8 the only section in Part 1A requesting forward-looking information, and
were concerned about the difficulty around gauging the likelihood of future events and
the possibility for “false positives.”261 We agree and, as adopted here, we have updated
the Item to address commenters’ concerns.
Item 8.B.(2) of Part 1A of Form ADV currently asks whether the adviser or any
related person of the adviser recommends the purchase of securities to advisory clients for
which the adviser or any related person of the adviser serves as underwriter, general or
managing partner, or purchaser representative.262 The current wording has caused
confusion regarding the treatment of purchaser representatives. As proposed, we are
rewording the question to ask whether the adviser or any related person of the adviser
recommends to advisory clients or acts as a purchaser representative for advisory clients
with respect to the purchase of securities for which the adviser or any related person of the
adviser serves as underwriter or general or managing partner. As noted in the Proposing
261

See IAA Letter; Oppenheimer Letter; SIFMA Letter.

262

Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 8.B.(2).

81

Release, this edit is designed to clarify that the question applies to any related person who
recommends to advisory clients or acts as a purchaser representative for advisory clients
with respect to the purchase of securities for which the adviser or any related person of the
adviser serves as underwriter or general or managing partner.263
Item 8.H. of Part 1A of Form ADV asks whether the adviser or any related person
of the adviser, directly or indirectly, compensates any person for client referrals. We are
revising Item 8.H. as proposed to break the question into two parts to increase our
understanding of compensation for client referrals. Revised Item 8.H.(1) will cover
compensation to persons other than employees for client referrals.264 Revised Item 8.H.(2)
will cover compensation to employees, in addition to employees’ regular salaries, for
obtaining clients for the firm.265 Item 8.I. asks whether the adviser or any related person
of the adviser directly or indirectly receives compensation from any person other than the
adviser or related person of the adviser for client referrals. We are also adding text to Item
8.I., as proposed, to clarify that advisers should not include the regular salary that the
adviser pays to an employee in responding to this item.266
Two commenters thought that the proposed amendment to Item 8.H was highly
subjective and needed additional guidance.267 In addition, one commenter suggested that

263

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 8.B.(2).

264

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 8.H.(1).

265

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 8.H.(2).

266

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 8.I.

267

See MMI Letter (Item 8.H.(2) should be modified to conform with Item 5 of Part 2B, where
economic benefits for providing advisory services are disclosed, but not regular salaries or
bonuses). See also PCA Letter.

82

Part 2B of Form ADV provided adequate disclosure of employee compensation.268
While we appreciate these comments, we are adopting these amendments as proposed.
We continue to believe Item 8.H and the accompanying instructions are sufficiently clear
and are appropriate to accommodate responses from and provide flexibility to varying
types of advisory businesses and compensation arrangements. As noted in the Proposing
Release, we are adopting these amendments to Item 8.H to better understand how advisers
compensate both their staff and third parties for client referrals. The revisions to this item
do not change the scope of the information collected, but instead provide more precise
information about compensation for client referrals.
e.

Amendments to Section 9.C. of Schedule D

Section 9.C. of Schedule D requests information about independent public
accountants that perform surprise examinations in connection with the Advisers Act
custody rule, rule 206(4)-2. We are adopting two changes to Section 9.C. of Schedule D
as proposed. First, we are adding text requiring an adviser to provide the PCAOBassigned number of the adviser’s independent public accountant. This will improve our
staff’s ability to cross-reference information submitted through other systems and evaluate
compliance with the custody rule.269 Section 9.C.(6) currently requires advisers to report
whether any report prepared by an independent public accountant that audited a pooled
investment vehicle or examined internal controls contained an unqualified opinion. We
are amending Section 9.C.(6) in a manner similar to Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D,
Question 23.(h) as described above to provide clarity to filers. Accordingly, the question
268

JAG Letter.

269

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 9.C.(3) of Schedule D.

83

will now ask whether all of the reports prepared by the independent public accountant
since the date of the last annual updating amendment have contained unqualified
opinions.270
We received requests from multiple commenters to amend Item 9 of Part 1A and
Section 9.C. of Schedule D related to custody.271 We appreciate commenters’
suggestions, but these suggested amendments to Item 9 or Section 9.C. are outside the
scope of this rulemaking and we are not amending them at this time.
f.

Amendments to Disclosure Reporting Pages

Item 11 of Part 1A of Form ADV requires registered advisers and exempt
reporting advisers to provide information about their disciplinary history and the
disciplinary history of their advisory affiliates. Those advisers who report an event for
purposes of Item 11 are directed to complete a Disclosure Reporting Page (“DRP”) to
provide the details of the event. DRPs can be removed from Form ADV under certain
circumstances, including when “the adviser is registered or applying for registration with
the SEC and the event was resolved in the adviser’s or advisory affiliate’s favor.”272 As
proposed, we are amending this text in each DRP to add “or reporting as an exempt
reporting adviser with the SEC” after “applying for registration with the SEC” to clarify
that both registered and exempt reporting advisers may remove a DRP from their Form
ADV record if a criminal, regulatory or civil judicial action was resolved in the adviser’s

270

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 9.C.(6) of Schedule D.

271

See ASG Letter; Comment Letter of Pat Hyman (June 11, 2015) (“Hyman Letter”); IAA Letter;
PCA Letter and Schwab & Co. Letter.

272

Form ADV, Part 1A, Criminal, Regulatory Action and Civil Judicial Action Disclosure Reporting
Pages.

84

(or advisory affiliate’s) favor.273 As discussed in the Proposing Release, these
amendments will make disciplinary reporting uniform across registered and exempt
reporting advisers, consistent with requiring exempt reporting advisers to report
disciplinary events on Form ADV.
g.

Amendments to Instructions and Glossary

Together with the amendments to Part 1A, we are also adopting, as proposed,
conforming amendments to the General Instructions and the Glossary for Form ADV. As
discussed above, we are amending the General Instructions to include instructions
regarding umbrella registration. As proposed, we are also removing outdated references
to “Special One-Time Dodd-Frank Transition Filing for SEC Registered Advisers” and
“recent” amendments to Form ADV Part 2 that are no longer needed. We retained one
sentence from those instructions that specifies that every application for registration must
include a narrative brochure prepared in accordance with the requirements of Part 2A of
Form ADV.274 We also added clarifying language that exempt reporting advisers
submitting other than annual amendments should update corresponding sections of
Schedules A, B, C and D,275 and provided updated mailing instructions for FINRA.276 In

273

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Criminal, Regulatory Action and Civil Judicial Action Disclosure
Reporting Pages.

274

Amended Form ADV, General Instructions, Instruction 3.

275

Amended Form ADV, General Instructions, Instruction 4.

276

Amended Form ADV, General Instructions, Instruction 9.

85

the glossary, we are updating the definition of “Legal Entity Identifier” to reflect recent
advancements in this protocol.277
Where applicable, we are making technical revisions, as proposed, to specify that
an adviser must “apply for registration” (rather than simply “register”) to more accurately
reflect the rule text. As proposed, we are also deleting text in the instructions related to
Item 1.O. because this text is going to appear directly in the corresponding section of Part
1 of Form ADV. We are adding text clarifying that a change in information related to
Item 1.O. does not necessitate a prompt other-than-annual amendment (as changes to
Item 1 otherwise do).
We have also received numerous comment letters recommending additional
amendments to clarify other sections of Form ADV.278 While we appreciate commenters
raising their concerns with us, these suggested recommendations are outside the scope of
this rulemaking and we decline to take action to further modify Form ADV based on
these comments.

277

The definition of Legal Entity Identifier is: A “legal entity identifier” assigned by a utility
endorsed by the Global LEI Regulatory Oversight Committee (ROC) or accredited by the Global
LEI Foundation (GLEIF). See Amended Form ADV, Glossary. In Item 1.P., we are removing
outdated text referring to the “legal entity identifier” as being “in development” in the first half of
2011.

278

See, e.g., ASG Letter (Items 6 and 7); JGAS Letter; PCA Letter (Item 8); NYSBA Committee
Letter (Items 5 and 8 and Schedule D); PCA Letter (Items 5 and 8); T. Rowe Price Letter
(definition of “regulatory assets under management” in subadvisory arrangements). BlackRock
also recommended we use XML format for Form ADV filings. See BlackRock Letter.

86

B.

Amendments to Investment Advisers Act Rules

1.

Amendments to Books and Records Rule

We are adopting two amendments to the Advisers Act books and records rule,
rule 204-2, largely as proposed, that will require advisers to maintain additional materials
related to the calculation and distribution of performance information.
Rule 204-2(a)(16) currently requires advisers that are registered or required to be
registered with us to maintain records supporting performance claims in communications
that are distributed or circulated to ten or more persons.279 Consistent with the proposal,
we are amending rule 204-2(a)(16) by removing the ten or more persons condition and
replacing it with “any person.” Accordingly, under the amended rule, advisers will be
required to maintain the materials listed in rule 204-2(a)(16) that demonstrate the
calculation of the performance or rate of return in any communication that the adviser
circulates or distributes, directly or indirectly, to any person.
We are also adopting amendments to rule 204-2(a)(7). Rule 204-2(a)(7) currently
requires advisers that are registered or required to be registered with us to maintain
certain categories of written communications received and copies of written

279

Rule 204-2(a)(16) requires advisers to make and keep “All accounts, books, internal working
papers, and any other records or documents that are necessary to form the basis for or demonstrate
the calculation of the performance or rate of return of any or all managed accounts or securities
recommendations in any notice, circular, advertisement, newspaper article, investment letter,
bulletin or other communication that the investment adviser circulates or distributes, directly or
indirectly, to 10 or more persons (other than persons connected with such investment adviser);
provided, however, that, with respect to the performance of managed accounts, “the retention of
all account statements, if they reflect all debits, credits, and other transactions in a client's account
for the period of the statement, and all worksheets necessary to demonstrate the calculation of the
performance or rate of return of all managed accounts shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements
of this paragraph.”

87

communications sent by such advisers.280 Consistent with the proposal, we are amending
rule 204-2(a)(7) to require advisers to also maintain originals of all written
communications received and copies of written communications sent by an investment
adviser relating to the performance or rate of return of any or all managed accounts or
securities recommendations.
Several commenters expressed general support for the proposed amendments to
the books and records rule,281 while other commenters felt the proposed amendments
would be unnecessary and a significant burden on advisers.282 Several commenters also
suggested the proposed amendments be modified to exclude one-on-one communications
that are customized responses from investors or communications with sophisticated

280

Rule 204-2(a)(7) requires advisers to make and keep: “Originals of all written communications
received and copies of all written communications sent by such investment adviser relating to (i)
any recommendation made or proposed to be made and any advice given or proposed to be given,
(ii) any receipt, disbursement or delivery of funds or securities, or (iii) the placing or execution of
any order to purchase or sell any security.”

281

See, e.g., ABA Committee Letter; CFA Letter; LPL Letter (supporting the proposed amendments
to rule 204-2(a)(7) but suggesting an exception to rule 204-2(a)(16) for communications addressed
to a single client regarding that client’s particular account or security in the account); NASAA
Letter; PCA Letter (finding the proposed rule change sufficient but expressing concern with the
Commission linking the requirement to maintain records pertaining to calculation of individual
client account performance history, which are communications and not advertising, to the
enforcement of rule 206(4)-1); Comment Letter of Wells Fargo Funds Management, LLC (Aug.
11, 2015) (“Wells Fargo Letter”).

282

See, e.g., ACG Letter; Anonymous Letter (citing specific costs of increased training needed to
implement and possible software updates); ASG Letter (asserting the amended requirement is
burdensome because advisers do not always maintain copies of individual performance provided
on an ad hoc basis); PEGCC Letter (stating the Commission significantly understates the burden
of complying with the proposed amendments); SBIA Letter (noting that while the amendments
themselves are not burdensome, when they are aggregated with other recordkeeping obligations,
they could lead to overall compliance burdens for smaller advisers); Schnase Letter (advisers may
find it difficult to discern whether particular materials are subject to the rule). One commenter
suggested that the amendments to rule 204-2(a)(7) are not necessary because other recordkeeping
provisions already require advisers to maintain those records. See IAA Letter.

88

investors or clients.283 In addition, two commenters raised concerns about the
applicability of the amendments to rule 204-2 to performance information that predated
the effective date of the amendments.284
Based on a comment we received,285 we are making one non-substantive
modification to the proposed amendments. To clarify and avoid confusion, we are
adding the new subsection (iv) of rule 204-2(a)(7) immediately following subsection (iii)
of the rule and preceding the proviso regarding unsolicited market letters and records of
names and addresses of persons to whom an adviser sent particular items. A commenter
noted that this placement of the new subsection raised questions about whether the
proviso also applied to new subsection (iv). The proviso does apply to new subsection
(iv) and we believe that, by moving subsection (iv) to immediately after subsection (iii)
and before the proviso, we have addressed the commenter’s concern.
We are adopting the rest of the amendments to rule 204-2 as proposed. While we
appreciate the concerns raised by commenters, we continue to believe the veracity of
performance information is important regardless of whether it is a personalized client
communication or in an advertisement sent to ten or more persons. As noted in the
Proposing Release, a recent enforcement action demonstrated to us the disadvantages of
not requiring investment advisers to maintain records forming the basis of performance

283

PEGCC Letter. See also Comment Letter of Michael D. Berlin (June 8, 2015) (“Berlin Letter”);
LPL Letter.

284

See Comment Letter of Arnstein & Lehr LLP (Dec. 3, 2015); NRS Letter.

285

See IAA Letter (noting that the new subsection (iv) of rule 204-2(a)(7), as it currently appears, is
unclear on whether an adviser would be required to maintain records relating to unsolicited market
letters or other communications discussing the performance of securities that the adviser
recommended to its clients).

89

calculations or performance communications sent to individuals.286 Moreover, it has
been our staff’s experience that investment advisers routinely make and preserve
communications containing performance information and records to support the
performance claims. Based on our staff’s experience and the confirmation of several
commenters, we believe that most advisers already maintain this information.287
We believe these records will be useful in examining and evaluating adviser
performance claims. Investors will benefit to the extent that the amendments reduce the
incidence of misleading or fraudulent advertising and communications. For these
reasons, we are adopting the amendments to the Adviser Act books and records rule, rule
204-2, as proposed.
These amendments will apply to communications circulated or distributed after
the compliance date of amended rule 204-2. Advisers that circulate or distribute
communications after the compliance date that include performance information,
including information on performance that predates the effective date of these
amendments, will be required to maintain materials listed in rule 204-2(a)(16) that
demonstrate the calculation of the performance.288

286

In the Matter of Michael R. Pelosi, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 3141 (Jan. 14, 2011);
Initial Decision Release No. 448 (Jan. 5, 2012); Investment Advisers Act Release No. 3805 (Mar.
27, 2014) (Commission opinion dismissing proceeding against associated person of registered
investment adviser charged with providing false and misleading performance information because
the record lacked an evidentiary basis from which to determine that the performance information
was materially false or misleading).

287

See, e.g., ABA Committee Letter; Morningstar Letter; PCA Letter. See also IAA Letter.

288

We note that to the extent this information was previously or is currently included in an
advertisement, the adviser is already required to maintain the information under rule 204-2(a)(16).

90

2.

Technical Amendments to Advisers Act Rules

We are adopting the proposed technical amendments to several rules under the
Advisers Act and withdrawing transition rule 203A-5 under the Advisers Act. Consistent
with the proposal, we are removing transition provisions from rules where the transition
process is complete. Three of the provisions were added as part of the implementation of
the Dodd-Frank Act. Two of the provisions were added when we amended Form ADV
and several Advisers Act rules to require advisers to electronically file their brochures
with the Commission. One commenter specifically supported removal of the transition
provisions.289
a.

Rule 203A-5

The Dodd-Frank Act amended section 203A of the Advisers Act to prohibit from
SEC registration “mid-sized” advisers that generally have assets under management of
between $25 million and $100 million.290 Rule 203A-5 provided a temporary exemption
from the prohibition on registration for mid-sized advisers to facilitate their transition to
state registration.291 As proposed, we are withdrawing rule 203A-5 because the transition
of mid-sized advisers from SEC to state registration was completed in June 2012.
b.

Rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1(e)

Section 409 of the Dodd-Frank Act created a new exclusion from the definition of
“investment adviser” in section 202(a)(11)(G) of the Advisers Act for family offices.

289

See NRS Letter.

290

See Section 410 of the Dodd-Frank Act.

291

See Implementing Release, supra footnote 133.

91

The Commission adopted rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1292 defining a family office and provided
two extended transition periods for family offices with certain charitable organization
clients and family offices relying on the rescinded “private adviser” exemption.293 As
proposed, we are removing paragraph (e) of rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1 because subparagraph
(1) of the transition provisions provided for by it expired on December 31, 2013, and
subparagraph (2) expired on March 30, 2012.
c.

Rule 203-1(e)

Rule 203-1 outlines the procedures for advisers to register with the Commission.
Paragraph (e) of the rule was added as part of the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act
and allowed companies that were relying on the rescinded “private adviser” exemption294
to remain exempt from registration until March 30, 2012 under certain conditions.295 As
proposed, we are removing paragraph (e) from Rule 203-1 because the transition for
private advisers is now complete.
d.

Rule 203-1(b), Rule 204-1(c) and Rule 204-3(g)

Rule 203-1 and Rule 204-1 were amended in 2010 to provide transition periods
for advisers to file narrative brochures required by Part 2A of Form ADV electronically

292

Family Offices, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 3220 (June 22, 2011) [76 FR 37983 (June
29, 2011)].

293

Section 203(b)(3) of the Advisers Act as in effect before Jul. 21, 2011, repealed by section 403 of
the Dodd-Frank Act.

294

Id.

295

See Implementing Release, supra footnote 133. The rule 203-1(e) exemption from registration
requires not only reliance on the former private adviser exemption but also that an adviser have
fifteen or fewer clients in the preceding twelve months and neither hold itself out to the public as
an investment adviser nor act as an investment adviser to a registered investment company or
business development company.

92

with the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (“IARD”).296 Rule 203-1(b),
entitled “transition to electronic filing,” requires investment advisers applying for
registration after January 1, 2011 to file their brochures electronically unless they receive
a continuing hardship exemption.297 Rule 204-1(c) requires investment advisers that are
required to file a brochure and had a fiscal year that ended on or after December 31, 2010
to electronically file a Part 2A brochure as part of their next annual updating amendment.
As proposed, we are removing paragraph (b) from rule 203-1 and paragraph (c) from rule
204-1 because the transition to electronic filing is now complete.298 We also are making
a technical, conforming additional change by removing rule 204-3(g) because it refers to
the transition provision in rule 204-1(c).299
III.

EFFECTIVE AND COMPLIANCE DATES
A.

Effective Date

The effective date of the amendments to rules 204-2, 202(a)(11)(G)-1, 203-1,
204-1 and 204-3, and the amendments to Form ADV is [EFFECTIVE DATE]. Rule
203A-5 is removed effective [EFFECTIVE DATE].
B.

Compliance Dates

1.

Amendments to Form ADV

296

Amendments to Form ADV, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 3060 (Jul. 28, 2010) [75 FR
49233 (Aug. 12, 2010)].

297

The continuing hardship exemption under rule 203-3 will not be withdrawn by these technical
amendments.

298

Current paragraphs (c) and (d) of Rule 203-1 are redesignated as (b) and (c) and current
paragraphs (d) and (e) of Rule 204-1 are redesignated as (c) and (d).

299

Current paragraph (h) of Rule 204-3 is redesignated as (g).

93

Several commenters requested a compliance date of at least one year after
adoption.300 Any adviser filing an initial Form ADV or an amendment to an existing
Form ADV on or after October 1, 2017 will be required to provide responses to the form
revisions we are adopting today. Our staff is working closely with FINRA to re-program
IARD and we understand that the system is expected to be able to accept filings of
revised Form ADV by October 1, 2017. This date is over one year from adoption. In
addition, most advisers will not be filing their annual updating amendment until the first
quarter of 2018, and therefore we believe this compliance period is appropriate.
2.

Amendments to Investment Advisers Act Rules

Our amendments to the books and records rule, 275.204-2, will apply to
communications circulated or distributed after October 1, 2017. As discussed in Section
II.B.(1), advisers that circulate or distribute communications after October 1, 2017 that
include performance information, including information on performance that predates
that date, will be required to maintain the materials listed in 275.204-2(a)(16) that
demonstrate the calculation of the performance.
IV.

ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.

Introduction

We are sensitive to the benefits and costs imposed by our rules and understand
that there will be costs associated with complying with the amendments. The following
economic analysis identifies and considers the benefits and costs—including the effects
on efficiency, competition, and capital formation—that will result from the amendments
to Form ADV and the amendments to and rescission of certain rules under the Investment
300

See Anonymous Letter; Capital Research Letter; Dechert Letter; IAA Letter; MMI Letter; SIFMA
Letter.

94

Advisers Act. The economic effects considered in adopting the amendments are
discussed below.
We are adopting amendments to Form ADV and the Advisers Act books and
records rule 204-2, and technical amendments to several other rules under the Advisers
Act. In summary, and as discussed in greater detail in Section II. above, we are adopting
the following amendments to Form ADV and Advisers Act rules:


Amendments to Form ADV designed to fill certain data gaps and enhance current
reporting provided by investment advisers in order to improve the depth and
quality of the information we collect on investment advisers and to facilitate our
risk monitoring objectives;



Amendments to Form ADV to incorporate “umbrella registration” for private
fund advisers;



Clarifying, technical and other amendments to Part 1A of Form ADV;



Amendments to the Advisers Act books and records rule to require advisers to
make and keep supporting documentation that demonstrates performance
calculations or rates of return in any written communications that the investment
adviser circulates or distributes; and



Technical amendments to several rules under the Advisers Act to remove
transition provisions that are no longer necessary.
As discussed in the Proposing Release, we rely on information reported by

investment advisers on Form ADV to monitor trends, assess emerging risks, inform
policy choices and rulemaking, and assist our staff in examination and enforcement

95

efforts.301 We believe that the amendments to Form ADV will improve the information
provided by investment advisers to the Commission, clients and prospective clients, and
may improve investor protection by informing policy choices and focusing examination
activities. We also believe that the amendments to the Advisers Act books and records
rule may improve investor protections by providing useful information to our
examination and enforcement staff in evaluating advisers’ performance claims. While, as
stated above, we believe that most that can rely on umbrella registration are doing so,
incorporating umbrella registration into Form ADV will make the existence of umbrella
registration more widely known to advisers, which may result in more eligible advisers
taking advantage of the opportunity to umbrella register. This could, make filing ADV
more efficient for such advisers, reducing their filing costs. In addition, we believe that
incorporating umbrella registration into Form ADV will benefit the Commission, clients
and prospective clients by improving the consistency and quality of the information that
private fund advisers disclose about their business.
The regulatory regime as it exists today for investment advisers serves as the
economic baseline against which the costs and benefits, as well as the impact on
efficiency, competition, and capital formation of the amendments are discussed. The
baseline includes the current requirement for investment advisers to file Form ADV, the
staff guidance regarding a filing adviser filing a single Form ADV on behalf of itself and
each relying adviser,302 the current requirements for investment advisers to maintain
books and records, and other current rules under the Advisers Act. The parties that will
301

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section III.A.

302

See 2012 ABA Letter, supra footnote 5.

96

be affected by the amendments are: investment advisers that file Form ADV, including
private fund advisers that rely on, or will rely on, umbrella registration, and investment
advisers that currently manage, or will manage, separately managed accounts; the
Commission; current and future advisory clients; and other current and future users of
investment adviser information reported on Form ADV, including third-party information
providers.
Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016, approximately 12,024
investment advisers are registered with the Commission, and 3,248 exempt reporting
advisers file reports with the Commission. Approximately 8,718 investment advisers
registered with the Commission (73%) reported assets under management attributable to
separately managed account clients. Of those 8,718 advisers, approximately 2,538
advisers reported regulatory assets under management attributable to separately managed
account clients of at least $500 million and less than $10 billion and approximately 545
advisers reported regulatory assets under management attributable to separately managed
account clients of at least $10 billion.303 Advisers with at least $10 billion in regulatory
assets under management attributable to separately managed accounts will be subject to
additional reporting on separately managed accounts on Form ADV. Approximately 743
registered advisers to private funds currently submit a single Form ADV on behalf of
themselves and 2,587 relying advisers, relying on the 2012 ABA Letter. All investment

303

Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016. These estimates are approximations because
Form ADV currently collects information about assets under management by client type and the
number of clients of each type in broad ranges. Item 5.D.(1)-(3) will require advisers to specify
their assets under management and number of clients by client type, which will benefit our ability
to understand and oversee the investment advisers that advise these accounts and recognize
potential risks.

97

advisers registered or required to be registered with the Commission are subject to the
Advisers Act books and records rule.
As we explained in the Proposing Release, we have sought, where possible, to
quantify the costs, benefits, and effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation
expected to result from the amendments to Form ADV and Investment Advisers Act
rules, and reasonable alternatives.304 In many cases, however, we are unable to quantify
the economic effects because we lack the information necessary to provide reasonable
estimates. The economic effects of the amendments also depend upon a number of
factors which we often cannot estimate. Examples include the extent to which investor
protection and our ability to oversee investment advisers will improve, and the extent to
which investors will utilize the information in Form ADV to choose or retain an
investment adviser. Therefore, some of the discussion below is qualitative in nature.
Several commenters raised concerns about the burdens and costs associated with these
amendments, and in some cases suggested that our quantitative estimates in the
Proposing Release underestimated these costs. We describe their comments below, and
have modified certain provisions in response to the comments.
B.

Amendments to Form ADV

Certain amendments to Form ADV are designed to address potential gaps in
information, such as information about advisers’ separately managed accounts, and
obtain additional information on areas such as social media, additional offices, foreign
clients, and wrap fee accounts. We believe this information will improve the depth and
quality of information that we collect on investment advisers, which will assist the
304

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section III.A.

98

Commission in our oversight activities and clients and potential clients in assessing
advisers.305 We also are adopting amendments to Form ADV to establish a more
efficient method for multiple private fund adviser entities operating a single advisory
business to register with us using a single Form ADV. Finally, we are adopting several
clarifying, technical and other amendments to Form ADV.
1.

Economic Baseline and Affected Market Participants

As noted above and in the Proposing Release, the investment adviser regulatory
regime currently in effect serves as the economic baseline against which the costs and
benefits, as well as the impact on efficiency, competition and capital formation, of the
amendments to Form ADV are discussed. Investment advisers use Form ADV to register
with the Commission and with the states. Once registered, an investment adviser is
required to file an annual amendment within 90 days of the end of its fiscal year, and
more frequently if required by the instructions to Form ADV.306 Form ADV is also used
by exempt reporting advisers to submit, and periodically update, reports to the
Commission by completing a limited subset of items on Form ADV. Information filed
on Form ADV is publicly available through the IAPD website.307 The parties that will be
affected by the amendments to Form ADV are: investment advisers that file Form ADV
with the Commission; the Commission; current and future advisory clients; and other
current and future users of information filed on Form ADV, including third-party
information providers.
305

See supra Section I.

306

See rule 204-1(a) under the Advisers Act.

307

Certain personal identifying information is not made public.

99

2.

Analysis of the Amendments to Form ADV and Alternatives

As discussed in Section II. above, we believe the amendments to Form ADV will
improve our ability to oversee investment advisers and identify potential risks by
increasing the amount, consistency, and reliability of the information disclosed by
investment advisers, which will enhance our staff’s ability to effectively carry out the
risk-based examination program and other risk monitoring activities, and may improve
investor protection by informing policy choices and focusing examination activities. The
amendments to Form ADV will address certain data gaps by requiring advisers to report
additional information. Clients and potential clients may indirectly benefit to the extent
that the amendments improve our oversight of investment advisers.
The enhanced reporting requirements also may directly improve the ability of
clients and potential clients of investment advisers to make more informed decisions
about the selection and retention of investment advisers.308 To the extent that clients and
future clients use the information investment advisers file in Form ADV to differentiate
between investment advisers, the enhanced reporting requirements may result in a limited
increase in competition among investment advisers for clients. The amendments will
likely not have a significant effect on capital formation or on the ability of investors to
efficiently allocate capital across investments because the amendments do not directly
relate to the amount of capital investors allocate to investments or their ability to allocate
capital across investments. We further identify effects on efficiency, competition, and
capital formation in the discussion below.

308

See supra Section II.A.2.a.

100

a.

Information Regarding Separately Managed Accounts

We are adopting amendments to Form ADV that will require investment advisers
to report information regarding separately managed accounts, which are managed for
clients other than pooled investment vehicles.309 Based on IARD system data,
approximately 73% of investment advisers registered with the Commission reported
assets under management attributable to separately managed accounts.310
We do not currently collect information from investment advisers specific to
separately managed accounts, but we currently collect detailed information about an
adviser’s registered investment company and private fund clients. The absence of
detailed information about separately managed accounts limits the ability of our staff to
understand, monitor and oversee the investment advisers that advise these accounts and
recognize the risk exposures relating to these accounts. The newly reported information
on Form ADV regarding separately managed accounts is intended to enhance the ability
of our staff to effectively carry out our risk-based examination program and other riskmonitoring activities, as it does with other information on ADV and other filings by the
Commission. The additional information regarding separately managed accounts will
also assist us in addressing regulatory issues and identifying areas for additional
examination and enforcement activities.
The additional information investment advisers will file relating to separately
managed accounts will be publicly available.311 As discussed above, we continue to

309

See supra Section II.A.1.

310

Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016.

311

See supra Section II.A.1.e.

101

believe that public disclosure of information about separately managed accounts on Form
ADV is appropriate in the public interest as well as for the protection of investors.
Commenters expressed concern relating to the public disclosure of the separately
managed account information and its potential impact on competition between
investment advisers. Many commenters opposing the public disclosure of separately
managed account information cited the potential cost of disclosure of confidential
information, particularly for advisers with a small number of separately managed account
clients.312 In addition, other commenters cited the potential disclosure of proprietary
investment or trading strategies as a potential cost of publicly releasing the separately
managed account information.313
We revised certain items on the form to address commenters’ concerns regarding
the potential disclosure of confidential or proprietary information. As proposed, Item
5.D. would have required investment advisers to report the number of clients even for
investment advisers that manage fewer than five accounts. In addition, under the
proposed amendments, Section 5.K.(2) of Schedule D would have required investment

312

AIMA Letter; BlackRock Letter; IAA Letter; Invesco Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter;
Oppenheimer Letter; PEGCC Letter; Shearman Letter; SIFMA Letter. One commenter suggested
that investors may instead invest in a fund structure, or forego investment opportunities with an
investment adviser altogether, rather than place assets in a separately managed account and risk
the disclosure of separately managed account information. Schulte Letter. As discussed above,
the modifications from the proposal should reduce the potential for the disclosure of private or
sensitive information relating to separately managed accounts, and should alleviate potential
investor concerns and the effect of the disclosure on their investment decisions.

313

ABA Committee Letter; Dechert Letter; IAA Letter; Invesco Letter; MFA Letter; NYSBA
Committee Letter; Oppenheimer Letter; Schulte Letter; Shearman Letter; SIFMA Letter.

102

advisers to report the number of accounts and the net asset value of the accounts.314 In
response to comments, we have revised Item 5.D. by adding a “Fewer than 5 clients”
column, which allows advisers with fewer than five clients in a particular category to
avoid reporting the exact number of clients in that category. In addition, Section 5.K.(2)
in Schedule D will not require investment advisers to report the number of separately
managed accounts. We believe that these changes mitigate the risk of any client-specific
information being disclosed. In addition, as we discussed in Section II.A., this
information would be reported for one or two data points per year, depending on the
amount of regulatory assets under management attributable to separately managed
accounts, ninety days after the end of the adviser's fiscal year, and only on an aggregate
basis for all the separately managed account clients that an adviser manages. Given the
limited number of data points that advisers to separately managed accounts must report
on, the fact that the information is reported in aggregate across an adviser’s separately
managed accounts, and the time lag between those data points and any public reporting,
we do not believe that this reporting could compromise trading strategies.
In the Proposing Release, we also discussed other alternatives. For example, we
could have required different information regarding separately managed account
regulatory assets under management such as information at different time intervals or
with different asset categories. We have determined not to require reporting at a higher
frequency or in a more granular manner, because, as discussed above, we believe that the
information we are requiring today will appropriately enhance our staff's ability to
314

Also, investment advisers will be required to report the total dollar amount of borrowings that
correspond to ranges of gross notional exposure and not the weighted average amount. See supra
Section II.A.1.c.

103

effectively carry out our risk-based examination program and other risk assessment and
monitoring activities, and that more frequent or granular reporting requirements may
increase the costs to investment advisers to report the information. One commenter
suggested as an alternative a separate form for separately managed account reporting that
would be filed on a confidential basis, but, as discussed above, we believe that given the
changes discussed above, we have mitigated concerns about client confidentiality.
We proposed to require at least some information about separately managed
accounts from all advisers, and additional information from advisers with at least $150
million in regulatory assets under management. In response to commenters who
requested modifications to alleviate potential reporting burdens on smaller advisers
relative to the proposal, we are adopting amendments that require less information about
separately managed accounts than what was proposed for investment advisers managing
at least $150 and less than $500 million in regulatory assets.315 Another alternative would
be to require, as proposed, investment advisers with at least $150 million in separately
managed account regulatory assets under management to provide this additional
information regarding these accounts. However, the higher threshold we are adopting
will reduce the number of investment advisers required to provide this additional
information by approximately 2,800 advisers, thereby reducing costs for those advisers
with at least $150 million but less than $500 million in assets under management that
would no longer have to report the additional information. As discussed in Section
II.A.1.c., the $500 million threshold was suggested by commenters and will provide us

315

See supra Section II.A.1.c.

104

information with respect to over 98% of the separately managed account assets that
would have been reported under the proposed approach.316
Another alternative would be to collect different information regarding
derivatives in separately managed accounts. For example, commenters raised concerns
about the utility of gross notional exposure as a measure of derivative risk exposures.
Several commenters stated that gross notional metrics are not accurate measures of risk
or leverage,317 and expressed concern that gross notional metrics could be misleading to
or misunderstood by investors without additional context.318 Other commenters
suggested alternative measures of derivative risk exposures.319 We recognize that gross
notional metrics do not always reflect the way in which derivatives are used in a
separately managed account and are not a risk measure, but rather they are commonly
used metrics that are comparable to information collected in Form PF regarding private
funds. On balance, therefore, we continue to believe that, for most types of derivatives
the gross notional metrics generally provide a measure of the scale of an account's
derivatives activities that is sufficient for this regulatory purpose, which is to collect
information about the scale of an account’s derivatives activities, rather than to collect
specific risk metrics or more granular information regarding the ways in which
derivatives are used in a separate account.320

316

See IAA Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter; Schwab & Co. Letter.

317

See BlackRock Letter; Dechert Letter; IAA Letter; MFA Letter.

318

See Dechert Letter; IAA Letter; Invesco Letter; MFA Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter.

319

See AIMA Letter; BlackRock Letter; Dechert Letter.

320

See supra Section II.A.1.c.

105

We are also adopting, as proposed, amendments that will require investment
advisers to report the identity of the custodians that account for at least ten percent of
each adviser’s total separately managed account regulatory assets under management,
and the amount held at such custodians. As discussed in the Proposing Release,321
alternatives to the custodian reporting requirements include collecting different
information, changing reporting thresholds, changing the frequency of reporting,
obtaining information from other parties and not requiring certain information, such as
the location of the custodian’s office.322 Although requiring less information would
decrease the reporting requirements and the costs to investment advisers to file Form
ADV, as discussed above, we believe that the reporting requirements as adopted will
provide information important to us and improve the ability of our examination staff to
identify advisers whose clients use the same custodian in the event a concern is raised
about a particular custodian. One commenter suggested that we should collect data about
custodians of separately managed accounts from the custodians themselves, but
considering that the Commission does not directly regulate all custodians (including
banks), we do not think this alternative appropriately addresses our regulatory objective.
b.

Additional Information Regarding Investment Advisers

In addition to information regarding separately managed accounts, we are also
adopting amendments to collect additional information about the business of investment
advisers and other additional identifying information. For example, we are adopting

321

See Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section II.A.1.

322

See AIMA Letter; IAA Letter; MMI Letter; NRS Letter; Oppenheimer Letter; SIFMA Letter
regarding the custodian’s office location. See also supra Section II.A.1.d.

106

amendments to require investment advisers to disclose information regarding their use of
social media platforms. We are also adopting amendments to request additional
information about an adviser’s participation in and assets under management attributable
to wrap fee programs. Other amendments include replacing ranges with more precise
information about the number of advisory clients and the amount of assets under
management, the total number of offices that conduct investment advisory business, and
information regarding each adviser’s top twenty-five largest offices in terms of numbers
of employees. For several items we are requiring additional identifying information. The
additional identifying information includes the CIK Numbers for all advisers that have
obtained one or more such numbers, PCAOB-assigned numbers for auditing firms, and
the SEC file number and the CRD number for sponsors of wrap fee programs.
We believe the additional information describing the adviser’s business and the
additional identifying information will be useful to the risk assessment, examination, and
oversight of investment advisers. For example, the information regarding social media
platforms will improve our understanding of how advisers use social media to
communicate with current and potential clients. The additional identifying information
will improve the ability of our staff and other current and future users of Form ADV
information to cross-reference information from Form ADV with information from
filings and other sources to investigate and obtain a more complete understanding of the
business and relationships of investment advisers, and improve our oversight of
investment advisers. In addition, to the extent that current and future investment advisory
clients are interested in the information, the information may improve their ability to
make informed decisions about the selection and retention of investment advisers.

107

Several commenters expressed concern that the additional information describing
the advisory business and the additional identifying information would increase the
burden on investment advisers to file Form ADV.323 In addition, commenters questioned
the benefits of the additional information and the additional identifying information to
clients or potential clients and to the Commission. For example, one commenter raised
concern regarding the usefulness of replacing ranges with the number of advisory clients
and the regulatory assets under management attributable to each client type.324 In
addition, commenters believed that information regarding social media would not be
informative to investors, who may be more likely to obtain the information through the
adviser’s website or internet searches.325 Several commenters also expressed concern
that the reporting of adviser offices would impose a significant burden on advisers with
little or no benefit to either the Commission or investors.326
Alternatives to the amendments regarding disclosure of additional information
about advisers include the disclosure of different information, more information, or less
information on topics such as social media or advisers’ offices.327 When determining the

323

Several commenters stated that advisers would need to update computer systems to obtain this
data, and raised concerns about the increased burden that our proposal would place on advisers.
ASG Letter; IAA Letter; LPL Letter; MMI Letter. Commenters also expressed concerns that
investment advisers would need to update the additional information on more than an annual basis
which would increase the burden on investment advisers. See BlackRock Letter; Morningstar
Letter; NRS Letter; SIFMA Letter. We have clarified that certain information, such as
information about additional offices, must only be updated on an annual basis, which should help
address these concerns.

324

ACG Letter.

325

ASG Letter; JAG Letter; Morgan Letter; Morningstar Letter; NRS Letter; NYSBA Committee
Letter.

326

ACG Letter; CFA Letter; Morningstar Letter; NRS Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter.

327

See supra footnote 111 and accompanying text.

108

specific amendments to Form ADV for adoption, we considered what information would
be important for our oversight activities and for advisory clients and prospective clients
to make decisions regarding the selection or retention of investment advisers against the
costs to investment advisers to report this information. We believe that the amendments
we are adopting today strike an appropriate balance of providing important information to
the Commission, advisory clients and prospective clients while mitigating the burden on
investment advisers to report the information. As noted above, however, we recognize
that the burden on some large advisers might be significant, especially in the initial
reporting cycle when they are required to report the additional information for the first
time. However, we believe that the burden will decrease after the initial filing because in
subsequent filings, advisers will only be reporting changes to their previously reported
information.
Another alternative to the amendments to Form ADV would be for us not to
require investment advisers to report additional information but instead for us to
undertake targeted examinations of investment advisers. We believe it is more efficient
to compile information about advisers that can then be utilized to identify specific
advisers for examinations. An absence of information about advisers also would reduce
our ability to identify industry trends and assess risks.
c.

Costs Applicable to Reporting Information Regarding
Separately Managed Accounts and Additional Information
on Form ADV

The amendments that will require investment advisers to provide additional
information about certain aspects of their business will impose additional costs, at least

109

initially, for investment advisers to file Form ADV, but we believe based on our
experience that much of the information we are requiring is readily available because it is
used by investment advisers to conduct their business. Costs will vary across advisers,
depending on the nature and size of an adviser’s business.328 For example, advisers that
manage a limited number of separately managed accounts or that have smaller amounts
of assets under management in those accounts will have fewer reporting requirements
than advisers that manage a large number of separately managed accounts or that have
larger amounts of assets under management in those accounts. In addition, investment
advisers with a larger number of offices will have greater reporting requirements than
investment advisers with fewer offices, particularly in the case of the initial filing. The
one-time costs to initially report the information on Form ADV will also be greater for
those investment advisers that currently do not collect or maintain the information. In
addition, some amendments to Form ADV will require information that will impose a
fixed filing cost that is not scalable with size, and therefore will have a relatively greater
impact on small investment advisers.
To the extent possible, we have attempted to quantify the costs of these
amendments to Form ADV. Certain commenters questioned the cost estimates of the
amendments to Form ADV, and some commenters noted that advisers will have to create
new systems or processes to capture the additional information required and that the

328

Several commenters expressed concern that the proposed amendments would increase the costs for
small advisers. See Comment Letter of Adrian Day Asset Management (May 21, 2015) (“Adrian
Day Letter”); AIMA Letter; Diercks Letter; IAA Letter; SBIA Letter; Schwab & Co. Letter. For a
discussion of these comments, please see the Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis in Section V
infra.

110

Commission underestimated these costs.329 We believe that much of the information,
such as regulatory assets under management, should be readily available to advisers, and
that modifications to the proposed amendments, such as the reporting requirements
relating to separately managed accounts, help mitigate the costs to investment advisers of
reporting the additional information. As discussed in Section V., for purposes of the
increased Paperwork Reduction Act (“PRA”) burden for Form ADV, we estimate that
each adviser will incur average costs in connection with the amendments to Form ADV
of approximately $1,273,330 for a total aggregate cost of $15,306,552.331
d.

Umbrella Registration

The amendments to Form ADV that will incorporate the concept of umbrella
registration and establish a method on Form ADV for certain private fund advisers to use
umbrella registration will simplify, and therefore make more efficient the filing
procedures for these advisers and provide greater certainty about the availability of
umbrella registration. The amendments will also improve the consistency and quality of
329

Adrian Day Letter; Financial Engines Letter; IAA Letter; NRS Letter; PCA Letter; SBIA Letter.
One commenter noted that it would require significant systems work to aggregate gross notional
exposure calculations at the investment adviser level. SIFMA II Letter. Other commenters also
noted that investment advisers would need to modify or update computer software systems. ASG
Letter; MMI Letter.

330

We estimate that each adviser will spend, on average, 3 hours to complete the questions regarding
separately managed accounts. We further estimate that the amendments to Part 1A that request
other additional information will take each adviser, on average, 2 hours to complete. As a result,
we estimate a 5 hour increase in the total average time burden related to the amendments to Form
ADV. We expect that the performance of this function will most likely be equally allocated
between a senior compliance examiner and a compliance manager. Data from the Securities
Industry Financial Markets Association’s Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities
Industry 2013 (“SIFMA Management and Professional Earnings Report”), modified by
Commission staff to account for an 1,800-hour work-year and inflation, and multiplied by 5.35 to
account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits, and overhead, suggest that costs for a senior
compliance examiner and a compliance manager are $221 and $288 per hour, respectively. [2.5
hours x $221 = $553] + [2.5 hours x $288 = $720] = $1,273.

331

12,024 advisers x $1,273 = $15,306,552.

111

the information that private fund advisers disclose about their business and provide a
more complete picture of groups of private fund advisers that operate as a single
business, thus allowing for greater comparability across private fund advisers that rely on
umbrella registration.332 As of May 16, 2016, approximately 743 registered advisers
indicated on Form ADV that they relied on the 2012 ABA Letter. Additional advisers
may be eligible to use umbrella registration but do not currently do so.
Several commenters suggested that the Commission expand the eligibility for
umbrella registration to even more advisers. For example, many commenters
recommended expanding eligibility for umbrella registration to non-U.S. filing
advisers,333 and other commenters suggested expanding eligibility for umbrella
registration to exempt reporting advisers.334 Other commenters recommended that we
expand the eligibility for umbrella registration to apply to all related persons of a filing
adviser.335 Although expanding the eligibility for umbrella registration to all related
persons might decrease the aggregate costs of filing Form ADV, as we discussed above,
we do not believe umbrella registration is appropriate for advisers that are related but that
operate separate advisory businesses as it would compromise data quality and complicate
analyses that rely on data from Form ADV.

332

See supra Section II.A.3.

333

ABA Committee Letter; AIMA Letter; Dechert Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter; Schulte Letter;
Shearman Letter.

334

ABA Committee Letter; ACG Letter; AIMA Letter; ASG Letter; MFA Letter; NYSBA
Committee Letter; SBIA Letter; Schulte Letter; Shearman Letter.

335

ACG Letter; Capital Research Letter; Dechert Letter; Morgan Letter; NRS Letter; NYSBA
Committee Letter.

112

For purposes of the PRA, we estimate that each adviser that files Schedule R will
incur average costs of approximately $255,336 for a total aggregate cost of $189,465.337
We do not believe the amendments to provide for umbrella registration will impose
significant costs on investment advisers because advisers currently relying on the 2012
ABA Letter are already reporting much of the information that will be reported on
Schedule R. We believe that the additional information that will be reported for relying
advisers on Schedule R, such as the basis for SEC registration and form of organization,
will be readily available to filing advisers.338
e.

Clarifying, Technical and Other Amendments to Form
ADV

The clarifying, technical and other amendments to Form ADV will make the
filing process clearer and therefore more efficient for advisers, and increase the reliability
and the consistency of information provided by investment advisers. More reliable and
consistent information will improve our staff’s ability to interpret and evaluate the
information provided by advisers, make comparisons across investment advisers, and
better identify the investment advisers that may need additional outreach or examination.

336

We estimate that for purposes of the PRA, the filing adviser will spend on average 1 hour
completing Schedule R on behalf of its relying advisers. We expect that the performance of this
function will most likely be equally allocated between a senior compliance examiner and a
compliance manager. Data from the SIFMA Management and Professional Earnings Report,
modified by Commission staff to account for an 1,800-hour work-year and inflation, and
multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead, suggest that
costs for a senior compliance examiner and a compliance manager are $221 and $288 per hour,
respectively. (.5 hours x $221 = $111) + (.5 hours x $288 = $144) = $255.

337

743 advisers x $255 = $189,465.

338

One commenter was concerned that relying advisers would in effect be forced to share the details
of employee compensation on a public filing. See Shearman Letter. The ownership information
required of relying advisers, however, is consistent with the ownership information currently
required of filing advisers.

113

To the extent the clarifying and technical amendments we adopt today would make Form
ADV easier to understand and complete, the amendments will decrease future filing
costs, especially for those investment advisers registering with us for the first time.
As proposed, we are adding questions to Form ADV that request an entity’s legal
entity identifier, if any.339 As discussed above, the legal entity identifier is a unique
identifier associated with a single entity and is intended to provide a uniform
international standard for identifying parties to financial transactions. This information
will help our examination staff more readily identify the use of particular custodians by
separately managed accounts and private funds. Furthermore, the reporting of legal
entity identifier information on Form ADV facilitates the ability of investors and the
Commission to link the data reported with data from other filings or sources that is
reported elsewhere as legal entity identifiers become more widely used by regulators and
the financial industry. For example, this could aid in the performance of market analysis
studies, surveillance activities, and systemic risk monitoring by the Commission.340
We do not believe that the clarifying, technical and other amendments to Form
ADV will result in any additional costs for investment advisers and could result in some
cost savings to the extent that advisers have fewer questions to research when completing
the form. We have identified provisions of Form ADV that have caused confusion
among filers in the past or that have resulted in inconsistent or unreliable information. As
we discussed above, we believe that the clarifications and revisions to the questions and
339

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Sections 5.K.(3)(f) (requesting the LEI, if any, for a
custodian of separately managed accounts that is not a broker-dealer or that is a broker-dealer but
does not have an SEC registration number) and 7.B.(1), Question 25g (similar question for private
fund custodians); Schedule R, Section 1.G. (requesting LEI for relying adviser).

340

We note that, as of May 31, 2016, approximately 6.80% of all registered investment advisers
report a legal entity identifier when filing Form ADV.

114

instructions of Form ADV will increase the efficiency of investment advisers to disclose
information, and our ability to oversee investment advisers. Finally, given the nature of
the clarifying, technical and other amendments to Form ADV that we are adopting today,
we do not believe that these amendments will have an impact on capital formation or
competition in the asset management industry or the markets in general.
f.

Exempt Reporting Advisers

We believe the amendments to Form ADV will have a limited economic effect on
exempt reporting advisers, including on their costs.341 Exempt reporting advisers are
currently required to complete only a limited number of items in Part 1A of Form ADV
(consisting of Items 1, 2.B., 3, 6, 7, 10, 11 and corresponding schedules). We are
adopting limited amendments to the items that exempt reporting advisers are required to
complete, including the amendments to Item 1 regarding the use of social media and the
reporting of information on up to 25 offices.342 We do not know the extent of social
media use by exempt reporting advisers, and we recognize that these advisers will incur
some costs associated with social media account reporting. We believe these costs will
be limited based on the nature of exempt reporting adviser clients, which include venture
capital funds and private funds. Approximately 15 of the approximately 3,248 exempt
reporting advisers that file information with the Commission on Form ADV reported that
they had five or more other offices. Thus, although exempt reporting advisers will incur
costs to report the additional information, based on our staff’s experience and given the

341

See supra Section II.A.2.c. for a discussion of exempt reporting advisers and Amended Form
ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 7.B.(1), Question 15(b).

342

Exempt reporting advisers will not be eligible to file new Schedule R.

115

nature of the clients these funds advise, we expect that the amendments should result in a
limited increase in reporting costs relative to other advisers.
C.

Amendments to Investment Advisers Act Rules

As discussed above, we are adopting amendments to the Advisers Act books and
records rule, and technical amendments to several other rules to remove transition
provisions where the transition process is complete. The discussion below focuses on the
amendments to the Advisers Act books and records rule, because the technical
amendments are clarifying or ministerial in nature and therefore should have little, if any,
economic effects.
The amendments to rule 204-2 will require investment advisers to maintain
additional materials related to the calculation and distribution of performance
information. The amendments to rule 204-2(a)(16) will require each adviser to maintain
the materials listed in rule 204-2(a)(16) that demonstrate the calculation of the
performance or rate of return in any communication that the adviser circulates or
distributes, directly or indirectly, to any person, rather than ten or more persons as
currently required by the rule. The amendments to rule 204-2(a)(7) will require each
adviser to maintain originals of all written communications received and copies of written
communications sent by the adviser relating to the performance or rate of return of any or
all managed accounts or securities recommendations. We believe, based on our staff’s
experience, and several commenters agreed, that most investment advisers currently
maintain the information that will be required to be maintained under amended rule 204-

116

2.343 Under the amendments, each respondent will be required to retain records in the
same manner and for the same period of time as currently required under rule 204-2.
1.

Economic Baseline and Affected Market Participants

As noted above, the regulatory regime as it exists today for investment advisers
serves as the economic baseline against which the costs and benefits, as well as the
impact on efficiency, competition, and capital formation, of the amendments to the
Advisers Act books and records rule (rule 204-2) will be evaluated. The parties that will
be directly affected by the amendments to rules under the Advisers Act include:
investment advisers registered with the Commission; the Commission; and current and
future investment advisory clients. As discussed above, approximately 12,024
investment advisers are currently registered with the Commission.
2.

Analysis of the Effects of the Amendments to the Advisers Act Books and
Records Rule

The amendments to the Advisers Act books and records rule (rule 204-2) will
benefit the clients and prospective clients of investment advisers by improving our ability
to oversee investment advisers and making available to our examination staff all records
necessary to evaluate performance information.
The amendments to the books and records rule will provide our enforcement and
examination staff with additional information to review an adviser’s performance
communications, regardless of the number of clients or prospective clients that receive
performance communications. The rule amendments may increase investor protection by
increasing the disincentive for misleading or fraudulent communications, which may
reduce incidents of fraud. In addition, investors may benefit from the amendments to the
343

ABA Committee Letter; Morningstar Letter; PCA Letter.

117

recordkeeping rule as these records will assist our staff in uncovering fraudulent or
misleading communications regarding performance.
As we discussed in the Proposing Release, to the extent that the amendments to
the rule reduce misleading or fraudulent communications, the competitive position of
investment advisers could be improved because clients and potential clients will receive
more accurate information regarding an adviser’s performance and thus will be better
able to differentiate among advisers.344 In addition, to the extent that the amendments to
the rule improve the ability of clients and potential clients to differentiate among
advisers, potential clients may be more likely to obtain investment advice from an
investment adviser, which will increase the ability of investment advisers to compete for
investor capital. The amendments could improve the ability of investors to better or more
efficiently allocate capital across investments to the extent that the current allocation of
capital is based on misleading or fraudulent information, which in turn could promote
capital formation.
An alternative suggested by several commenters would be to exclude from the
rule one-on-one communications that are “customized responses from investors or oneon-one communications with sophisticated investors or clients” about their own account
performance.345 Another alternative would be to require maintenance of records
supporting performance claims in communications that are distributed or circulated to less
than the current threshold of ten persons. As discussed above, we believe the veracity of

performance information is important regardless of whether it is a personalized client
344

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section III.C.2.

345

PEGCC Letter. See also Berlin Letter; LPL Letter.

118

communication or in an advertisement sent to ten or more persons, and the absence of
such records can reduce our ability to examine and monitor advisers.346
Several commenters felt the proposed amendments would be unnecessary and a
burden on investment advisers. Some raised concerns regarding the potential burden to
comply with the amendments to rule 204-2,347 and one commenter noted that while the
amendments were not themselves burdensome, when aggregated with other
recordkeeping obligations, could lead to overall compliance burdens for smaller
advisers.348 Based on our staff’s experience and our analysis of the comments to the
Proposing Release, however, we believe that most advisers already maintain this
information.349 We also believe that this information is useful to the examination and
oversight of advisers.350
We estimate that, for purposes of the PRA, advisers will incur an aggregate cost
of approximately $1,071,338 per year for the total hours advisory personnel will spend in
complying with the amended recordkeeping requirements.351 A possible non-quantifiable
cost as a result of the amended recordkeeping requirements will be discouraging advisers
346

See supra Section II.B.1.

347

See ACG Letter; Anonymous Letter; ASG Letter; NRS Letter; PEGCC Letter; SBIA Letter.

348

SBIA Letter.

349

ABA Committee Letter; Morningstar Letter; PCA Letter.

350

See, e.g., ABA Committee Letter; Morningstar Letter; PCA Letter. See also IAA Letter.

351

We estimate that for purposes of the PRA, the amendments to rule 204-2 will increase the burden
by 1.5 hours per adviser annually. We expect that the function of recording and maintaining
records of performance information and communications will be performed by a combination of
compliance clerks and general clerks at a cost of $65 per hour and $58 per hour, respectively. We
anticipate that compliance clerks would perform an estimated 0.3 hours of the work created by the
amendments to rule 204-2 and general clerks would perform the additional 1.2 hours. Therefore,
the total cost per adviser would be (0.3 hours x $65 = $19.50) + (1.2 hours x $58 = $69.60) =
approximately $89.10 for a total cost of $1,071,338 (12,024 advisers x $89.10).

119

from creating and communicating custom performance information to individual clients,
who will then lose the benefit of having that information available to them. Although we
believe that such a response to the rule will be unlikely, a decrease in communications
could reduce the ability of clients and potential clients to compare advisers and
potentially decrease competition.
We expect that these costs will vary among firms, depending on a number of
factors, including the degree to which advisers already maintain correspondence,
performance information, and the inputs and worksheets used to generate performance
information. Compliance costs also will vary depending on the degree to which
performance figure determination and the recordkeeping process is automated, and the
amount of updating to the adviser’s recordkeeping policy that will be required.
V.

PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT ANALYSIS
The amendments that we are adopting today contain “collection of information”

requirements within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”).352
In the Proposing Release, we solicited comment on the proposed collection of
information requirements. We also submitted the proposed collections of information to
the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) for review in accordance with 44 U.S.C.
3507 and 5 CFR 1320.11. The titles for the collections of information we are amending
are: (i) “Form ADV;” and (ii) “Rule 204-2 under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.”
An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a
collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

352

44 U.S.C. 3501-3520.

120

A.

Form ADV

Form ADV (OMB Control No. 3235-0049) is the two-part investment adviser
registration form. Part 1 of Form ADV contains information used primarily by
Commission staff, and Part 2 is the client brochure. We are not adopting changes to Part
2. We use the information to determine eligibility for registration with us and to manage
our regulatory and examination programs. Clients use certain of the information to
determine whether to hire or retain an adviser. The collection of information is necessary
to provide advisory clients, prospective clients, and the Commission with information
about the adviser and its business, conflicts of interest and personnel. Rule 203-1 under
the Advisers Act requires every person applying for investment adviser registration with
the Commission to file Form ADV. Rule 204-4 under the Advisers Act requires certain
investment advisers exempt from registration with the Commission (“exempt reporting
advisers”) to file reports with the Commission by completing a limited number of items
on Form ADV. Rule 204-1 under the Advisers Act requires each registered and exempt
reporting adviser to file amendments to Form ADV at least annually, and requires
advisers to submit electronic filings through the IARD. The paperwork burdens
associated with rules 203-1, 204-1, and 204-4 are included in the approved annual burden
associated with Form ADV and thus do not entail separate collections of information.
These collections of information are found at 17 CFR 275.203-1, 275.204-1,
275.204-4 and 275.279.1 and are mandatory. Responses are not kept confidential. The
respondents are investment advisers registered with the Commission or applying for
registration with the Commission and exempt reporting advisers. Based on IARD system

121

data as of May 16, 2016, approximately 12,024 investment advisers are registered with
the Commission, and 3,248 exempt reporting advisers file reports with the Commission.
The currently approved total annual aggregate burden estimate for all advisers
completing, amending and filing Form ADV (Part 1 and Part 2) with the Commission is
154,402 hours with a monetized cost of $36,670,427.

This collection is based on: (i)

total annual collection of information burden for SEC-registered advisers to file and
complete Form ADV (Part 1 and Part 2), including private fund reporting, plus the
burden associated with amendments to the form, preparing brochure supplements and
delivering codes of ethics to clients; and (ii) the total annual collection of information
burden for exempt reporting advisers to file and complete the required items of Part 1A
of Form ADV, including the private fund reporting, plus the burden associated with
amendments to the form.
As discussed above, we are adopting amendments to Form ADV that are designed
to provide additional information about investment advisers and their clients, including
clients in separately managed accounts, provide for umbrella registration for private fund
advisers and clarify and address technical and other issues in certain Form ADV items
and instructions. The amendments we are adopting will increase the information
requested in Part 1A of Form ADV, and we expect that this will correspondingly increase
the average burden on an adviser filing Form ADV.
As discussed in Sections II.A. and II.B. of this Release, we received several
comments that addressed whether the amendments to Form ADV and Rule 204-2 are
necessary, whether there are ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the
information to be collected, and whether we could further minimize the burden. Certain
122

commenters addressed the accuracy of our burden estimates for the proposed collections
of information, suggesting in general that our estimates were too low.353 We have
considered these comments and have made certain modifications designed to address
these and other comments received, and we are increasing our PRA burden estimates
related to the amendments.
We discuss below, in three subsections, the estimated revised collection of
information requirements for Form ADV: first, we provide estimates for the revised
burdens resulting from the amendments to Part 1A; second, we determine how those
estimates will be reflected in the annual burden attributable to Form ADV; and third, we
calculate the total revised burdens associated with Form ADV. The paperwork burdens
of filing an amended Form ADV, Part 1A will vary among advisers, depending on factors
such as the size of the adviser, the complexity of its operations, and the number or extent
of its affiliations.
1.

Changes in Average Burden Estimates

As a result of the differing burdens on advisers to complete Form ADV, we have
divided the effect of the amendments to the form into three subsections; first we address
the change to the collection of information for registered advisers as a result of our
amendments to Part 1A of Form ADV excluding those changes related to private funds;
second, we discuss the amendments to Form ADV related to registered advisers to private
funds, including the amendments to Section 7.B. of Schedule D and the new Schedule R

353

ACG Letter; Adrian Day Letter; ASG Letter; Anonymous Letter; IAA Letter; NRS Letter;
PEGCC Letter; PCA Letter; SBIA Letter. See also AIMA Letter (discussed reputational and
marketing costs associated with separately managed account reporting).

123

that will implement umbrella registration; and third, we address the amendments to Form
ADV affecting exempt reporting advisers.
a.

Estimated Change in Burden Related to Part 1A Amendments (Not
Including Private Fund Reporting)

We are adopting amendments to Part 1A, some of which are merely technical
changes or very simple in nature, and others that will require more time for an adviser to
prepare a response. Advisers should have ready access to all the information necessary to
respond to the items we are adopting today in their normal course of operations, because
they likely maintain and use the requested information in connection with managing
client assets. We anticipate that the responses to many of the questions will be unlikely
to change from year to year, which will minimize the ongoing reporting burden associated
with these questions.
i.

Amendments Related to Reporting of Separately Managed
Account Information

The amendments to Part 1A, Items 5.K.(1), 5.K.(2), 5.K.(3) and 5.K.(4) and
Schedule D, Sections 5.K.(1), 5.K.(2) and 5.K.(3) are designed to collect information
about the separately managed accounts managed by advisers. These amendments will
enhance existing information we receive and permit us to conduct more robust risk
monitoring with respect to advisers of separately managed accounts. As discussed
above, the information collected about separately managed accounts will include
regulatory assets under management reported by asset type, borrowings and
derivatives information, and the identity of custodians that hold at least ten percent of
separately managed account regulatory assets under management. We believe that
advisers to separately managed accounts may maintain and use this or similar
124

information for operational reasons (e.g., trading systems) and for customary account
reporting to clients in separately managed accounts.
Although we understand that much of the requested information may be used by
advisers for operational reasons or account reporting, we expect that these amendments
may subject advisers, particularly those that advise a large number of separately
managed accounts and engage in borrowings and derivatives transactions on behalf of
separately managed accounts, to an increased paperwork burden. We are adopting new
Items 5.K.(1) through (4) and Sections 5.K.(1) and 5.K.(3) largely as proposed with
certain modifications in response to comments we received. With respect to Section
5.K.(2), in order to minimize the burden on advisers with a smaller amount of
separately managed account assets under management, we initially proposed to
require: (1) advisers with regulatory assets under management attributable to separately
managed accounts of at least $150 million but less than $10 billion to report borrowings
and derivatives information as of the date the adviser calculates its regulatory assets under
management for purposes of its annual updating amendment; and (2) advisers with
regulatory assets under management attributable to separately managed accounts of at
least $10 billion to report information as of that date and six months before that date. As
we discussed above,354 at the suggestion of several commenters,355 we increased the
proposed $150 million reporting threshold to $500 million in order to further alleviate
the reporting burdens on smaller advisers without compromising our objectives.356 In

354

Supra Section II.A.1.

355

IAA Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter; Schwab & Co. Letter.

356

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 5.K.(2).

125

response to commenters, we modified Section 5.K.(2) to base the reporting of
borrowings and derivatives on regulatory assets under management in separately
managed accounts, rather than the net asset value of the accounts, as proposed, because
advisers may not characterize their separately managed accounts using net asset
value.357 We also eliminated the requirement to report number of accounts. We believe
that these changes will further decrease the burden on advisers to report information on
separately managed accounts.
In the Proposing Release, we estimated that each adviser would spend, on
average, 2 hours completing the questions regarding separately managed accounts in the
first year a new or existing investment adviser completes these questions.358 A number
of commenters expressed concern that our estimate of the paperwork burdens associated
with our proposed questions regarding separately managed accounts was too low.359
We are revising our estimate of the time that that it will take each adviser to complete
the questions regarding separately managed accounts in the first year a new or existing
adviser completes these questions from 2 hours to 3 hours.360 We have arrived at this

357

See IAA Letter.

358

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section IV.A.1.a.i.

359

Adrian Day Letter; ASG Letter (one adviser suggested that outsourcing the work might be costly;
another adviser reported having the required data but estimated that it would take approximately 1
hour to compile data in response to Sections 5.K.1(a) and (b)); IAA Letter. See also NYSBA
Committee Letter (the proposed amendments to Form ADV and the Advisers Act will
significantly increase the reporting obligations for many advisers); NRS Letter (burden estimate
for proposed amendments is completely unrealistic and extremely low); SIFMA II Letter (most
exposure data is gathered at the client or account level and it would require significant systems
work to aggregate these values at the adviser level).

360

Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016, approximately 8,718 registered investment
advisers, or approximately 73% of all investment advisers registered with us, reported assets under
management from clients other than registered investment companies, business development

126

burden estimate by considering the following: (1) the changes we are making to Part
1A, Items 5.K.(1), 5.K.(2), 5.K.(3) and 5.K.(4) and Schedule D, Sections 5.K.(1),
5.K.(2) and 5.K.(3); (2) our efforts to further alleviate the reporting burden on advisers
that manage a smaller amount of separately managed account regulatory assets under
management; and (3) the comments we received on our proposed burden estimate. We
recognize that burdens will vary across advisers. Advisers that advise a large number of
separately managed accounts, or that have significant regulatory assets under
management attributable to separately managed accounts, will incur a greater burden
than advisers that have no separately managed account clients or a limited number of
such clients. Based on our review of advisers’ separately managed account business and
the new reporting requirements, we believe that, on average, 3 hours is an appropriate
estimate.
ii.

Other Additional Information Regarding Investment
Advisers

We are adding several new questions and amending existing questions on Form
ADV regarding an adviser’s identifying information, advisory business, and financial
industry affiliations. The revised questions primarily refine or expand existing questions
or request information we believe that advisers already have for compliance purposes.
For example, we are requiring each adviser to provide CIK Numbers if it has one or more

companies and pooled investment vehicles, indicating that they have assets under management
attributable to separately managed accounts. Of those approximately 8,718 advisers, we estimate
that 2,538 (approximately 29%) reported at least $500 million and less than $10 billion in
regulatory assets under management from separately managed accounts and 545 (approximately
6%) reported at least $10 billion in regulatory assets under management from separately managed
account clients.

127

such numbers and to provide the address of each of the adviser’s social media pages.
Other questions require advisers to provide readily available or easily accessible
information, such as the amendment to Part IA, Item 1.O. that requires advisers to report
their assets within ranges. However, some of the revised questions may take longer for
advisers to complete, such as the amendments to Schedule D, Section 1.F that require
information about an adviser’s 25 largest offices other than its principal office and place
of business. While this information should be readily available to an adviser because it
should be aware of its offices, a clerk will be required to manually enter expanded
information about the adviser’s offices in the first year the adviser responds to the item
and then make updates in subsequent years. Some commenters thought that additional
office reporting would be a significant burden on advisers.361 As discussed above in
Section II.A.2.a., we recognize that the burden on some large advisers might be
significant, especially in the initial reporting cycle when they are required to report their
additional offices for the first time. However, we believe that the burden will decrease
after the initial filing because in subsequent filings, advisers will only be reporting
changes to their previously reported additional office information. We have clarified that
advisers will only be required to update the information in Section 1.F. on an annual
basis, which should help address some of the concerns raised by commenters about the
burden associated with this amendment.362

361

ACG Letter; CFA Letter; Morningstar Letter (for larger advisers, additional office reporting would
require substantial time, although that burden would ease after the initial reporting period);
NYSBA Committee Letter.

362

ASG Letter (updating additional office reporting more than annually would be burdensome);
Morningstar Letter (the Commission should clarify how often additional office reporting needs to
be updated).

128

We are adopting a number of amendments to Item 5 in addition to the questions
relating to separately managed accounts discussed above. Like other new or revised
items, we believe several of these new Item 5 questions will require advisers to provide
readily available information, such as the number of clients and regulatory assets under
management attributable to each category of clients during the last fiscal year. Advisers
currently provide this information in ranges, and therefore likely already have available
to them the more precise numbers to report. In addition, information such as whether the
adviser uses different assets under management numbers in Part 1A vs. Part 2A of Form
ADV should be readily available. Other revised items will likely present greater burdens
for some advisers but not others, depending on the nature and complexity of their
businesses. For instance, the burden associated with the revised disclosure regarding
wrap fee programs or non-U.S. clients will depend on whether and to what extent an
adviser allocates client assets to wrap fee programs or the extent to which the adviser has
non-U.S. clients.
In the Proposing Release, we estimated that the proposed revisions to Part 1A of
Form ADV and Schedule D would take each adviser approximately 1 hour, on average,
to complete in the first year a new or existing adviser responds to the questions.363 Some
commenters expressed concern that our burden estimate was too low,364 while others
expressed concern about the impact of the increased overall compliance burden on

363

Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section IV.A.1.a.ii.

364

ASG Letter (amendments will increase the time required to prepare response to Item 5). See
NYSBA Committee Letter (the proposed amendments to Form ADV and the Advisers Act will
significantly increase the reporting obligations for many advisers); NRS Letter (burden estimate
for proposed amendments is completely unrealistic and extremely low).

129

smaller advisers.365 We are revising our estimate of the time that these amendments to
Part 1A of Form ADV and Schedule D will take each adviser to complete in the first year
a new or existing adviser responds to these questions from 1 hour to 2 hours. We have
arrived at this revised burden estimate, in part, by considering the following: (1) the
relative complexity and availability of the information required by the revised items to
the current form and its approved burden; (2) the number and types of advisers affected by
the proposed amendments; and (3) the comments we received on our proposed burden

estimate. We understand that the burden will vary across advisers depending on their
business and the factors discussed in this section. The burden for some advisers will
exceed our estimate, and the burden for others will be less due to the nature of their
business. We believe, on balance, that 2 hours is a reasonable estimate.
iii.

Clarifying, Technical and Other Amendments

As discussed above, we are adopting several further amendments to Form ADV
that are designed to clarify the Form and its instructions and address technical issues.
These changes primarily refine existing questions. For example, we are deleting the
phrase “newly formed adviser” from Part IA, Item 2.A.(9) because of questions from
filers about whether that phrase refers to only newly formed corporate entities.
Similarly, we are amending Part IA, Item 8.B.(2) to clarify that the question applies to
any related person who recommends the adviser to advisory clients or acts as a
purchaser representative. Because these amendments do not change the scope or

365

PCA Letter (Commission grossly underestimated the potential cost for many advisers, particularly
small advisers); SBIA Letter (Commission should consider the impact of the increased overall
compliance burden on smaller private fund advisers).

130

amount of information required to be reported on Form ADV, we do not believe that
these clarifying, technical, and other amendments to Part 1A of Form ADV will increase
or decrease the average total collection of information burden for advisers in their first
year filing Form ADV. We did not receive comments regarding reporting burdens
associated with these technical and clarifying amendments.
As a result of the amendments to Form ADV Part 1A discussed above, including
the amendments related to separately managed accounts, additional items, and technical
and clarifying amendments, we estimate the average total collection of information
burden will increase 5 hours to 45.74 hours per adviser for the first year that an adviser
completes Form ADV (Part 1 and Part 2).366
b.

Estimated Changes in Burden Related to Private Fund Reporting
Requirements

We are adopting several amendments to Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 7.B. that
will refine and enhance existing information we receive about advisers to private funds.
In addition, as part of our codification of umbrella registration, we are adding a new
schedule to Part 1A – Schedule R – to be submitted by advisers to private funds that use
umbrella registration to file a single Form ADV. We believe the information required
by the amendments to Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 7.B will be readily available or
easily accessible to advisers to private funds. For example, the PCAOB assigned
number for a private fund auditor should be readily available or easily accessible to that
private fund’s adviser. As discussed in Section II.A.2.c., we modified Part 1A,
366

Currently approved estimate of the average total collection of information burden per SEC
registered adviser for the first year that an adviser completes Form ADV (40.74 hours) + 3 hours
to complete the questions about separately managed accounts + 2 hours to complete other
additional information regarding investment advisers = 45.74 hours.

131

Schedule D, Section 7.B.(1). Question 15(b) regarding sales of private funds to qualified
clients in response to commenters’ concerns. The question is now limited to 3(c)(1)
funds, and requires only a “yes” or “no” answer, rather than requiring advisers to report
the percentage of a private fund held by qualified clients. Other amendments to Section
7.B. are designed to make the questions easier to answer, but do not cause a change in
reporting burden, including moving certain “notes” to questions and changes to the
current question regarding unqualified opinions. The currently approved total annual
burden estimate for advisers making their initial filing in completing Item 7.B. and
Schedule D, Section 7.B. is 1 hour per private fund. We do not estimate that the
amendments to Schedule D, Section 7.B, including the changes from the proposal, will
increase or decrease the total annual burden because the information is readily available
to advisers. Most of the comments on the amendments to Part 1A, Schedule D, Section
7.B. concerned the qualified client question, Question 15(b), which we modified as
discussed above.
The incorporation of umbrella registration into Form ADV will codify a staff
position and provide a method for certain private fund advisers that operate as a single
advisory business to file a single registration form. Umbrella registration will only be
available if the filing adviser and each relying adviser advise only private funds and
clients in separately managed accounts that are qualified clients, as defined in rule 205-3
under the Advisers Act, that are otherwise eligible to invest in the private funds advised
by the filing or a relying adviser. The filing and relying advisers will also have to
satisfy certain requirements, including that each relying adviser is controlled by or under
common control with the filing adviser. There has been staff guidance for single

132

registration under defined circumstances since 2012,367 and the amendments to Form
ADV will provide for umbrella registration and simplify the process of umbrella
registration for advisers that operate as a single advisory business. We are adding a new
schedule to Part 1A, Schedule R, that will need to be filed with respect to each relying
adviser, as well as a new question to Schedule D, that will link a private fund reported
on Form ADV to the specific (filing or relying) adviser that advises it. Schedule R will
require identifying information, basis for Commission registration, and ownership
information about each relying adviser.
We believe that much of the information we are requiring in Schedule R will be
readily available to private fund advisers because it is information that they are already
reporting either on Form ADV filings for separate advisers or on a single Form ADV
filing, in reliance on the staff guidance. Accordingly, although these new requirements
will cause an increase in the information collected, the increased burden should largely
be attributable to data entry and not data collection. Furthermore, some advisers who
currently separately file Form ADV for each of their advisers may cumulatively have a
reduced Form ADV burden by switching to umbrella registration. We also believe that
new filing advisers using umbrella registration will readily have information available
about their relying advisers, because they are operating as a single advisory business. In
addition, filing advisers will be able to check a box indicating that the relying adviser’s
address is the same as the filing adviser, rather than provide the relying adviser’s
address. We did not receive comments on the burdens specific to Schedule R.

367

See 2012 ABA Letter, supra footnote 5.

133

There is no currently approved annual burden estimate for completing Schedule R
because it is a new Schedule. Taking into account the scope of information we are
requesting, our understanding that much of the information is readily available and
currently required on Form ADV, and the fact that private fund advisers that file an
umbrella registration in reliance on staff guidance had on average three relying
advisers,368 we continue to estimate that advisers to private funds that elect to rely on
umbrella registration will spend on average 1 hour per filing adviser completing new
Schedule R for the first time.
c.

Estimated Changes in Burden Related to Exempt Reporting
Adviser Reporting Requirements

Exempt reporting advisers are required to complete a limited number of items in
Part 1A of Form ADV (consisting of Items 1, 2.B., 3, 6, 7, 10, 11 and corresponding
schedules), are not required to complete Part 2 and will not be eligible to file new
Schedule R. The amendments to Part 1A will revise only Items 1 and 7 for exempt
reporting advisers. We believe that most exempt reporting advisers are unlikely to be
required to do additional reporting in response to the new requirements. In addition, the
information required by these revisions should be readily available to any adviser as part
of their ongoing operations and management of client assets.369 For instance, we estimate
that almost all exempt reporting advisers currently have five or fewer offices (the number

368

Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016, approximately 743 investment advisers rely on
the 2012 ABA Letter to file Form ADV on behalf of themselves and 2,587 relying advisers, an
average of approximately 3 relying advisers per filing adviser.

369

One commenter suggested that it would be burdensome for exempt reporting advisers to begin
collecting information on the qualified client status of their investors. As discussed above, we
have made revisions to address this concern. SBIA Letter.

134

of offices currently required by Form ADV) and thus will not have to provide
information on additional offices.370 Accordingly, we do not expect that the amendments
will increase or decrease the currently approved total annual burden estimate of two
hours per exempt reporting adviser initially completing these items on Form ADV, other
than Item 7.B. We also do not expect that the amendments will increase or decrease the
currently approved total annual burden estimate of 1 hour per private fund per exempt
reporting adviser initially completing Item 7.B. and Section 7.B. of Schedule D.
2.

Annual Burden Estimates
a.

Estimated Annual Burden Applicable to All Registered Investment
Advisers
i.

Estimated Initial Hour Burden (Not Including Burden
Applicable to Private Funds) For First Year Adviser To
Complete Form ADV (Part 1 and Part 2)

We estimate that, as a result of the amendments to Form ADV Part 1A discussed
above, other than those applicable to private funds, the average total collection of
information burden per respondent will increase 5 hours to 45.74 hours per adviser for the
first year that an adviser completes Form ADV (Part 1 and Part 2).
Approximately 12,024 investment advisers are currently registered with the
Commission.371 Not including private fund reporting, the estimated aggregate annual

370

Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016, approximately 15 exempt reporting advisers
reported on Form ADV that they had five or more other offices.

371

Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016. We include currently registered advisers in the
estimated initial hour burden calculation because, for purposes of estimating burdens under the
Paperwork Reduction Act, we assume that every new and existing registered adviser completes an
initial registration in a three year period, which is the period after which estimates are required to
be renewed.

135

burden applicable to these advisers will be 549,978 hours372 (60,120 hours of it
attributable to the amendments).373 As with the Commission’s prior Paperwork
Reduction Act estimates for Form ADV, we believe that most of the paperwork burden
will be incurred in advisers’ initial submission of the amended Form ADV, and that over
time this burden will decrease substantially because the paperwork burden will be limited
to updating information.374 Amortizing the burden imposed by Form ADV over a threeyear period to reflect the anticipated period of time that advisers will use the revised Form
will result in an average annual burden of an estimated 183,326 hours per year375 (20,040
hours per year of it attributable to the amendments),376 or approximately 15.25 hours per
year for each adviser currently registered with the Commission.377
Based on IARD system data, we estimate that there will be approximately 1,000
new investment advisers filing Form ADV with us annually. Therefore, we estimate that
the total annual aggregate burden estimate applicable to these advisers for the first year
that they complete Form ADV but excluding private fund reporting requirements is
45,740 hours (1,000 advisers x 45.74 hours). Amortizing the burden imposed by Form
ADV for new registrants over a three-year period to reflect the anticipated period of time
that advisers will use the revised Form will result in an average annual aggregate burden
372

45.74 hour per-adviser burden x 12,024 advisers = 549,978 hours.

373

5 hour per-adviser additional burden x 12,024 advisers = 60,120 hours.

374

We discuss the burden for advisers making annual updating amendments to Form ADV in Section
iii below.

375

549,978 hours/3 = 183,326 hours.

376

60,120 hours/3 = 20,040 hours.

377

183,326 hours/12,024 advisers = 15.25 hours.

136

estimate of 15,247 hours per year378 (1,667 of it attributable to the amendments).379 We
therefore estimate the total annual aggregate hour burden to be 198,573 hours per year.380
ii.

Estimated Initial Hour Burden Applicable to Registered
Advisers to Private Funds

The amount of time that a registered adviser managing private funds will incur to
complete Item 7.B. and Section 7.B. of Schedule D will vary depending on the number of
private funds the adviser manages. Of the advisers currently registered with us, we
estimate that approximately 4,469 registered advisers advise a total of 30,896 private
funds, and, on average, 300 Commission-registered advisers annually will make their
initial filing with us reporting approximately 1,100 private funds.381 The currently
approved annual burden estimate for advisers making their initial filing in completing
Item 7.B. and Schedule D, Section 7.B. is 1 hour per private fund. As a result, we
estimate that the private fund reporting requirements that are applicable to registered
investment advisers will add 31,996 hours to the overall annual aggregate burden estimate
applicable to registered advisers.382 As noted above, we believe most of the paperwork
burden will be incurred in connection with advisers’ initial submission of Form ADV,
and that over time the burden will decrease substantially because it will be limited to
378

45,740 hours/3 = 15,247 hours.

379

5,000 hours/3 = 1,667 hours.

380

15,247 hours for new registrants + 183,326 hours for existing registrants = 198,573 hours.

381

Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016. We include existing funds of currently
registered advisers in the estimated initial hour burden calculation because, for purposes of
estimating burdens under the Paperwork Reduction Act, we assume that every existing registered
adviser completes an initial filing completing Item 7.B. and Schedule D, Section 7.B. per fund in a
three year period, which is the period after which estimates are required to be renewed.

382

1 hour x 30,896 private funds = 30,896 hours. 1 hour x 1,100 private funds = 1,100 hours. 30,896
hours + 1,100 hours = 31,996 hours.

137

updating (instead of compiling) information. Amortizing this burden over three years, as
we did above with respect to the initial filing of the rest of the form, results in an annual
aggregate average estimated burden of 10,665 hours per year.383
We also are adding a new Schedule R to Form ADV for umbrella registration. Of
the advisers currently registered with us, we estimate based on current Form ADV filings
that approximately 743 registered advisers currently submit a single Form ADV on behalf
of themselves and approximately 2,587 relying advisers.384 Taking into account the
scope of information we are requesting and our understanding that much of the
information is readily available and is already reported by advisers, we estimate that
advisers to private funds that elect to rely on umbrella registration will spend 1 hour per
filing adviser completing new Schedule R. As a result, we estimate that umbrella
registration will add 743385 hours to the annual burden estimate applicable to registered
advisers. We estimate that, on average, 51 SEC registered advisers annually will make
their initial filing with us as filing advisers, increasing the overall annual burden for
advisers to private funds an additional 51 hours, or 794 hours in total. Amortizing these
hours for a three year period as with the rest of the burdens associated with Form ADV,
results in an annual aggregate average burden of 265 additional hours per year.386

383

31,996 hours/3 = 10,665 hours.

384

Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016.

385

743 filing advisers x 1 hour per completing Schedule R = 743 hours.

386

794 hours/3 = 265 hours.

138

iii.

Estimated Annual Burden Associated With Amendments,
New Brochure Supplements, and Delivery Obligations

The current approved collection of information burden for Form ADV has three
elements in addition to those discussed above: (1) the annual burden associated with
annual and other amendments to Form ADV; (2) the annual burden associated with
creating new Part 2 brochure supplements for advisory employees throughout the year;
and (3) the annual burden associated with delivering codes of ethics to clients as a result
of the offer of such codes contained in the brochure. We anticipate that our amendments
to Form ADV will increase the currently approved annual burden estimate associated
with annual amendments to Form ADV from 6 hours to 8 hours per adviser, but will not
impact interim updating amendments to Form ADV.387
We continue to estimate that, on average, each adviser filing Form ADV through
the IARD will likely amend its form two times during the year. We estimate, based on
IARD system data, that advisers, on average, make one interim updating amendment (at
an estimated 0.5 hours per amendment) and one annual updating amendment each year.
Our estimate for the annual updating amendment in the Proposing Release was 7 hours
per amendment each year. Based on the comments we received regarding separately

387

Certain commenters were concerned about the burden on advisers of updating social media
information via interim updating amendments. See BlackRock Letter; Oppenheimer Letter;
SIFMA Letter. As discussed in Section II.A.2.a., we clarified that we are limiting the required
social media reporting to an adviser’s accounts on publicly available social media platforms where
the adviser controls the content. We believe changes to such platforms will be less frequent than
changes, for example, to platforms where an adviser does not control the content. Therefore, we
do not believe that updating social media reporting via interim updating amendments will increase
the currently approved annual burden estimate associated with interim updating amendments.

139

managed account reporting that are discussed above,388 we are increasing the estimate to
8 hours per amendment each year.389
In addition, the currently approved annual burden estimates are that each
investment adviser registered with us will, on average, spend 1 hour per year making
interim amendments to brochure supplements,390 and an additional 1 hour per year to
prepare new brochure supplements as required by Part 2.391 The currently approved
annual burden estimate is that advisers spend an average of 1.3 hours annually to meet
obligations to deliver codes of ethics to clients upon request.392 We are not changing
these estimates as the amendments do not affect these requirements. The increase in the
annual burden estimate associated with annual amendments to Form ADV and the
increase in the number of registered investment advisers since the last approval of this
collection, increase the total annual burden for advisers registered with us attributable to
amendments, brochure supplements and obligations to deliver codes of ethics to 141,883
hours.393

388

AIMA Letter; ASG Letter; IAA Letter; SIFMA Letter. See also Adrian Day Letter; NRS Letter.

389

(12,024 advisers x 0.5 hours/other than annual amendment) + (12,024 advisers x 8 hours/annual
amendment) = 102,204 hours.

390

12,024 hours attributable to interim amendments to the brochure supplements = 12,024 advisers x
1 hour = 12,024 hours.

391

12,024 hours attributable to new brochure supplements = 12,024 advisers x 1 hour = 12,024 hours.

392

15,631 hours for the delivery of codes of ethics = 12,024 advisers x 1.3 hours = 15,631 hours.

393

102,204 hours + 12,024 hours + 12,024 hours + 15,631 hours = 141,883 hours.

140

iv.

Estimated Annual Cost Burden

The currently approved total annual collection of information burden estimate for
Form ADV has a one-time initial cost for outside legal and compliance consulting fees in
connection with the initial preparation of Part 2 of Form ADV. We do not anticipate that
the amendments we are adopting to Form ADV will affect the per adviser cost burden
estimates for outside legal and compliance consulting fees. In addition to the estimated
legal and compliance consulting fees, investment advisers of private funds incur costs
with respect to the requirement for investment advisers to report the fair value of private
fund assets. We did not receive any comments regarding these specific costs.
We expect that 1,000 new advisers will register annually with the Commission.
We estimate that the initial cost related to preparation of Part 2 of Form ADV will be
$4,400 for legal services and $5,000 for compliance consulting services, in each case, for
those advisers who engage legal counsel or consultants. We anticipate that a quarter of
these advisers will seek the help of outside legal services and half will seek the help of
compliance consulting services. Accordingly, we estimate that 250 of these advisers will
use outside legal services, for a total annual aggregate cost burden of $1,100,000,394 and
500 advisers will use outside compliance consulting services, for a total annual aggregate
cost burden of $2,500,000,395 resulting in a total annual aggregate cost burden among all

394

25% x 1000 SEC registered advisers = approximately 250 advisers. $4,400 for legal services x
250 advisers = $ 1,100,000.

395

50% x 1000 SEC registered advisers = 500 advisers. $5,000 for consulting services x 500 advisers
= $2,500,000.

141

respondents of $3,600,000 for outside legal and compliance consulting fees related to
drafting narrative brochures.396
We estimate that 6% of registered advisers have at least one private fund client
that may not be audited. These advisers therefore may incur costs to fair value their
private fund assets. Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016, 4,469 registered
advisers currently advise private funds. We therefore estimate that approximately 268
registered advisers may incur costs of $37,625 each on an annual basis, for an aggregate
annual total cost of $10,083,500.397
Together, we estimate that the total cost burden among all respondents for outside
legal and compliance consulting fees related to third party or outside valuation services
and for drafting outside legal and compliance consulting fees to be $13,683,500.398
b.

Estimated Annual Burden Applicable to Exempt Reporting
Advisers
i.

Estimated Initial Hour Burden

Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016, there are approximately 3,248
exempt reporting advisers currently filing reports with the SEC.399 The paperwork
burden applicable to these exempt reporting advisers consists of the burden attributable to

396

$1,100,000 + $2,500,000 = $3,600,000.

397

268 advisers x $37,625 = $10,083,500.

398

$3,600,000 + $10,083,500 = $13,683,500.

399

Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016. We include existing exempt reporting advisers
and their private funds in the estimated initial hour burden calculation because, for the purpose of
estimating burdens under the Paperwork Reduction Act, we assume that every new and existing
exempt reporting adviser completes an initial Form ADV in a three year period, which is the
period after which estimates are required to be renewed.

142

completing a limited number of items in Form ADV Part 1A as well as the burden
attributable to the private fund reporting requirements of Item 7.B. and Section 7.B. of
Schedule D.
The currently approved estimate of the average total collection of information
burden per exempt reporting adviser for the first year that an exempt reporting adviser
completes a limited subset of Part 1 of Form ADV, other than Item 7.B. and Section 7.B.
of Schedule D, is 2 hours. As discussed above, we do not anticipate that our amendments
to Form ADV will affect the per exempt reporting adviser burden estimate. Based on
IARD system data, we estimate that there will be 500 new exempt reporting advisers
filing Form ADV annually. Therefore, we estimate that the total aggregate annual burden
applicable to the existing and new exempt reporting advisers for the first year that they
complete Form ADV but excluding private fund reporting requirements increases to
7,496 hours.400 Amortizing the burden imposed by Form ADV over a three-year period
to reflect the anticipated period of time that advisers will use the revised Form ADV
results in an average annual aggregate burden estimate of 2,499 hours per year.401
As discussed above, we estimate the burden of completing Item 7.B. and Section
7.B. of Schedule D to be 1 hour per private fund. We do not anticipate that our
amendments to Form ADV will affect the per exempt reporting adviser burden of
completing Item 7.B. and Section 7.B. of Schedule D. Based on IARD system data as of
May 16, 2016, we estimate that, on average, the 3,248 exempt reporting advisers report
400

2 hours x (3,248 reporting exempt reporting advisers + 500 new exempt reporting advisers) =
7,496 hours.

401

7,496 hours/3 = 2,499 hours.

143

11,915 funds. In addition, we estimate that the 500 new exempt reporting advisers
making their initial filing will report approximately 1,000 funds, resulting in a total
aggregate annual burden of 12,915 hours.402 Amortizing this total burden over three
years as we did above for registered advisers results in an average annual aggregate
burden estimate of 4,305 hours per year,403 or approximately 1 hour per year, on average,
for each exempt reporting adviser.404
ii.

Estimated Annual Burden Associated With Amendments
and Final Filings

In addition to the burdens associated with initial completion and filing of the
portion of the form that exempt reporting advisers are required to prepare, we estimate
that, based on IARD system data, each exempt reporting adviser will amend its form 2
times per year. On average, these consist of one interim updating amendment (at an
estimated 0.5 hours per amendment)405 and one annual updating amendment (at an
estimated 1 hour per amendment)406 each year. In addition, we anticipate 200 final filings
by exempt reporting advisers annually (at an estimated 0.1 hours per filing).407 We do not
anticipate that our amendments to Form ADV will affect the per exempt reporting adviser
burden for amendments or final filings. However, based on the increase in the number of

402

11,915 funds + 1,000 funds = 12,915 funds. 12,915 x 1 hour = 12,915 hours.

403

12,915 hours/3 years = 4,305 hours per year.

404

4,305 hours per year/3,748 exempt reporting advisers = 1.1 hours per year.

405

3,248 exempt reporting advisers x .5 hours = 1,624 hours.

406

3,248 exempt reporting advisers x 1 hour = 3,248 hours.

407

200 final filings x 0.1 hours = 20 hours.

144

exempt reporting advisers, the total annual burden associated with exempt reporting
advisers filing amendments and final filings has increased to 4,892 hours.408
3.

Total Revised Burdens

The revised total annual aggregate collection of information burden for SEC
registered advisers to file and complete the revised Form ADV (Parts 1 and 2), including
the initial burden for both existing and anticipated new registrants, private fund reporting,
plus the burden associated with filing amendments to the form, preparing brochure
supplements and delivering codes of ethics to clients, is estimated to be approximately
351,386 hours per year, for a monetized total of approximately $89,427,737.409
The revised total annual collection of information burden for exempt reporting
advisers to file and complete the required Items of Part 1A of Form ADV, including the

408

1,624 hours + 3,248 hours + 20 hours = 4,892 hours. Exempt reporting advisers are not required
to complete Part 2 of Form ADV and so will not incur an hour burden to prepare new brochure
supplements or the cost for preparation of the brochure. Exempt reporting advisers also do not
have an obligation to deliver codes of ethics to clients when requested as required by Part 2 of
Form ADV.

409

198,573 hours per year attributable to initial preparation of Form ADV + 10,665 hours per year
attributable to initial private fund reporting requirements + 265 hours per year for initial umbrella
registration + 141,883 hours per year attributable to filing amendments, brochure supplements and
obligations to deliver codes of ethics = 351,386 hours. One commenter stated that the work of
compliance is generally carried out by the Chief Compliance Officer with limited assistance from
others. PCA Letter. However, based on our experience, we expect that at most Commission
registered advisers, the performance of this function will most likely be equally allocated between
a senior compliance examiner and a compliance manager, or persons performing similar functions.
Data from the SIFMA Management and Professional Earnings Report, modified by Commission
staff to account for an 1,800-hour work-year and inflation, and multiplied by 5.35 to account for
bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead, suggest that costs for these positions are $221
and $288 per hour, respectively. (175,693 hours x $221) + (175,693 hours x $288) = $89,427,737.

145

burdens associated with private fund reporting, amendments to the form and final filings,
will be approximately 11,696 hours per year, for a monetized total of $2,976,632.410
We estimate that with today’s amendments to Form ADV, the revised total
aggregate annual hour burden for the form will be approximately 363,082 hours and the
monetized total will be approximately $92,404,369.411 This is an increase of 208,680
hours and $55,733,942 from the currently approved annual aggregate burden estimates,412
which is attributable primarily to the currently approved burden estimates not considering
the amortized annual burden of Form ADV on existing registered advisers and exempt
reporting advisers; but also to the larger registered investment adviser and exempt
reporting adviser population since the most recent approval, adjustments for inflation, and
the amendments to Form ADV. The resulting blended average per adviser burden for
Form ADV is 23.77 hours (for a monetized total of $6,051),413 which consists of an
average annual burden of 29.22 hours414 for each of the estimated 12,024 SEC registered
advisers, and 3.60 hours415 for each of the estimated 3,248 exempt reporting advisers.

410

2,499 hours per year attributable to initial preparation of Form ADV + 4,305 hours per year
attributable to initial private fund reporting requirements + 4,892 hours per year for amendments
and final filings = 11,696 hours. We expect that the performance of this function will most likely
be equally allocated between a senior compliance examiner and a compliance manager, or persons
performing similar functions. Data from the SIFMA Management and Professional Earnings
Report, modified by Commission staff to account for an 1,800-hour work-year and inflation, and
multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead, suggest that
costs for these positions are $221 and $288 per hour, respectively. (5,848 x $221) + (5,848 x
$288) = $2,976,632.

411

351,386 hours + 11,696 hours = 363,082 hours. $89,427,737 + $2,976,632 = $92,404,369.

412

363,082 hours - 154,402 hours = 208,680 hours. $92,404,369 - $36,670,427 (currently approved
monetized burden estimate) = $55,733,942.

413

363,082 hours/(12,024 registered advisers + 3,248 exempt reporting advisers) = 23.77 hours.
$92,404,369/(12,024 registered advisers + 3,248 exempt reporting advisers) = $6,051.

414

351,386 hours/12,024 registered advisers = 29.22 hours.

146

Registered investment advisers are also expected to incur an annual cost burden of
$13,683,500, an increase of $10,083,500 from the current approved cost burden estimate
of $3,600,000. The increase in annual cost burden is attributable to the currently
approved burden not considering the cost to advisers to fair value private fund assets.
B.

Rule 204-2

Rule 204-2 (OMB Control No. 3235-0278) requires investment advisers
registered, or required to be registered under section 203 of the Act, to keep certain books
and records relating to their advisory business. The collection of information under rule
204-2 is necessary for the Commission staff to use in its examination and oversight
program. The information provided to the Commission in connection with staff
examinations, investigations and oversight programs would be kept confidential subject
to the provisions of applicable law. The collection of information is mandatory.
The amendments to rule 204-2 will require investment advisers to make and keep
the following records: (i) documentation necessary to demonstrate the calculation of the
performance the adviser distributes to any person, and (ii) all written communications
received or sent relating to the adviser’s performance.
The currently approved total annual burden for rule 204-2 is based on an estimate
of 10,946 registered advisers subject to rule 204-2 and an estimated average burden of
181.45 burden hours each year per adviser, for a total annual aggregate burden estimate
of 1,986,152 hours. Based upon updated IARD system data as of May 16, 2016, the

415

11,696 hours/3,248 exempt reporting advisers = 3.60 hours.

147

approximate number of investment advisers is 12,024. As a result of the increase in the
number of advisers registered with the Commission since the current total annual burden
estimate was approved, the total burden estimate has increased by 195,603 hours.416 We
estimate that most advisers provide, or seek to provide, performance information to their
clients. Under the amendments, each adviser will be required to retain the records in the
same manner, and for the same period of time, as other books and records under the
rule.417 We believe based on staff experience, and several commenters confirmed,418 that
the documentation necessary to support the performance calculations is customarily
maintained, or required to be maintained by advisers already in account statements or
portfolio management systems. We also believe that most advisers already maintain this
information in their books and records, in order to show compliance with the Advisers
Act advertising rule, rule 206(4)-1. In the Proposing Release, we estimated that the
proposed amendments to rule 204-2 would increase the burden by approximately .5 hours
per adviser annually. We received several comments suggesting that our estimated
burden increase was significantly too low.419 While we continue to believe that most
advisers currently maintain this information, after considering the commenters’ concerns,

416

12,024 advisers x 181.45 hours = 2,181,755 hours. 2,181,755 hours – 1,986,152 hours = 195,603
hours.

417

Specifically, the records must be maintained in an easily accessible place for at least five years
from the end of the fiscal year during which the last entry was made in such record, the first two
years in an appropriate office of the investment adviser. See rule 204-2(e)(1).

418

See, e.g., ABA Committee Letter; Morningstar Letter; PCA Letter.

419

ACG Letter; Anonymous Letter (estimates a training burden of 4-8 hours per effected employee in
the first year; estimates that there will be additional expenses for data analysis and storage);
PEGCC Letter (argues that, with respect to the proposed amendments to rule 204-2, the
Commission significantly understated the burden on advisers and presented little evidence to
support its burden estimate). See ASG Letter.

148

we now estimate that the amendments to rule 204-2 will increase the burden by
approximately 1.5 hours per adviser annually for a total annual aggregate increase of
18,036 hours.420 The revised annual aggregate burden estimate will be 2,199,791
hours.421 The revised average burden estimate of the recordkeeping requirements under
rule 204-2 per SEC-registered adviser will be approximately 183 hours per year.422 The
burden may be less than 1.5 hours for those advisers that currently maintain this
information, and we acknowledge that the burden may be greater than 1.5 hours for
advisers that frequently provide performance information to clients and do not currently
maintain this information. We believe that, on average, 1.5 hours is an appropriate
estimate for this collection of information.
Advisers will likely use a combination of compliance clerks and general clerks to
make and keep the information and records required under the rule. The currently
approved total annual aggregate cost burden is $108,708,557.10. We estimate the hourly
wage for compliance clerks to be $65 per hour, including benefits, and the hourly wage
for general clerks to be $58 per hour, including benefits.423 For each adviser, 183 annual
burden hours will be required to make and keep the information and records required
under the rule. We anticipate that compliance clerks will perform an estimated 32 hours

420

12,024 advisers x 1.5 hours = 18,036 hours.

421

1,986,152 (current approved burden) + 195,603 (burden for additional registrants) + 18,036
(burden for amendments) = 2,199,791 hours.

422

2,199,791 hours/12,024 advisers = 183 hours.

423

Our hourly wage rate estimate for a compliance clerk and general clerk is based on data from the
SIFMA Office Salaries in the Securities Industry Report 2013 (“SIFMA Office Salaries Report”),
modified by Commission staff to account for an 1,800-hour work-year and inflation, and
multiplied by 2.93, to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead.

149

of this work, and general clerks will perform the remaining 151 hours. The total annual
cost per respondent therefore will be an estimated $10,838,424 for a total annual aggregate
burden cost estimate of approximately $130,316,112,425 an increase of $21,607,555 from
the currently approved total annual aggregate cost per respondent.426 The increase in cost
is attributable to a larger registered investment adviser population since the most recent
PRA approval, an adjustment for inflation in the hourly wage estimates for a compliance
clerk and general clerk, and the rule 204-2 amendments discussed in this Release.
VI.

FINAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS
The Commission has prepared the following Final Regulatory Flexibility Act

Analysis, in accordance with section 4(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, in relation to
our amendments to Form ADV and rule 204-2 and our technical amendments to certain
other rules under the Advisers Act.427 We prepared an Initial Regulatory Flexibility
Analysis ("IRFA") in the Proposing Release.428
A.

Need for and Objectives of the Amendments

We are adopting amendments to Form ADV that are designed to provide the
Commission with additional information about registered investment advisers, including
information about separately managed accounts, provide for umbrella registration for

424

(32 hours per compliance clerk x $65) + (151 hours per general clerk x $58) = ($2,080 + $8,758) =
$10,838.

425

$10,838 per adviser x 12,024 advisers = approximately $130,316,112.

426

$130,316,112 - $108,708,557 = $21,607,555.

427

5 U.S.C. 604(a).

428

See Proposing Release, supra footnote 3 at Section V.

150

multiple investment advisers operating as a single advisory business, and provide
technical, clarifying and other amendments to certain Form ADV provisions. The
amendments to Form ADV will improve the depth and quality of the information
provided by investment advisers to the Commission and the public.
We are also amending the Advisers Act books and records rule to require advisers
to make and keep supporting documentation that demonstrates performance calculations
or rates of return in any written communications that the adviser circulates or distributes,
directly or indirectly, to any person. We believe that the amendments to the books and
records rule will improve investor protections by providing useful information in
examining and evaluating advisers’ performance claims.
Finally, we are adopting technical amendments to certain rules under the Advisers
Act to remove transition provisions where the transition process is complete.
B.

Significant Issues Raised by Public Comments

The Commission is sensitive to the burdens that the Form ADV and rule
amendments may have on small advisers. In the Proposing Release, we requested
comment on matters discussed in the IRFA. In particular, we sought comments on the
number of small entities, particularly small advisers, to which the amendments to Form
ADV and Advisers Act rules would apply, and the impact of those amendments on the
small entities, including whether the effects would be economically significant.

151

The Commission received one comment letter specifically addressing the IRFA429
in addition to several comment letters that discussed the impact of the proposed
amendments to Form ADV on smaller advisers.430 With respect to the reporting on Form
ADV regarding separately managed accounts, several commenters suggested decreasing
the burden on small advisers by increasing the threshold for reporting derivatives and
borrowings information in Schedule D, Section 5.K.(2) to $500 million from the
proposed $150 million.431 As discussed above, we are persuaded by commenters that this
is a sensible accommodation that would allow us to meet our regulatory objectives while
alleviating reporting burdens on smaller advisers, and have raised the minimum threshold
for reporting information about the use of borrowings and derivatives in separately
managed accounts to advisers with at least $500 million in separately managed account
regulatory assets under management, from the proposed threshold of $150 million.432 A
commenter also suggested not requiring advisers with less than $150 million in separately
managed account assets to report any separately managed account information, including
in Sections 5.K.(1) and 5.K.(3).433 As discussed in Section II.A.1. of this Release, we
recognize that this reporting will impose some burden on all advisers with separately
managed accounts, but we believe that gathering this information is important for us to
gain a full understanding of assets held in separately managed accounts managed by
429

PCA Letter.

430

Adrian Day Letter; AIMA Letter; Diercks Letter; IAA Letter; SBIA Letter; Schwab & Co. Letter.

431

IAA Letter; NYSBA Committee Letter; Schwab & Co. Letter.

432

See Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 5.K.(2).

433

AIMA Letter; see also ASG Letter (suggesting establishing a minimum regulatory assets under
management threshold above which reporting requirements would be imposed).

152

investment advisers of different sizes. We also have limited both the scope of
information to be reported and the frequency of reporting, which lessens the burden on
small advisers.
One commenter described more generally the burdens of the amendments to Form
ADV on smaller private fund advisers.434 Other commenters noted that smaller advisers
may not have additional staff to meet any increased burdens in reporting, and that smaller
advisers may not have the staffing that we assume in calculating monetary burdens on
advisers.435 Another commenter noted that the requirement to report information about
additional offices may have a disproportionate impact on smaller advisers.436
With respect to the amendments that we proposed to the Books and Records rule,
one commenter noted that while the amendments were not themselves burdensome, when
aggregated with other recordkeeping obligations, could lead to overall compliance
burdens for smaller advisers.437 While we acknowledge commenters’ concerns, records
from advisers of all sizes are required for our staff to be able to conduct its oversight of
advisers, including examinations and investigations. Further, based on our staff’s
experience and the information provided by several commenters,438 we believe that most
advisers already maintain this information. Thus, we are adopting the amendments
largely as proposed.
434

See SBIA Letter.

435

Adrian Day Letter; Diercks Letter; PCA Letter.

436

NRS Letter.

437

SBIA Letter.

438

See, e.g., ABA Committee Letter; Morningstar Letter; PCA Letter.

153

With respect to the amendments to Form ADV and the Advisers Act rules
generally, we believe that they will improve the depth and quality of information
provided by investment advisers to the Commission and the public and our oversight of
advisers. Information about advisers of all sizes is required for the Commission and its
staff to perform their roles in overseeing advisers. Accordingly, we are not modifying the
reporting requirements for smaller advisers.
C.

Small Entities Subject to the Rule and Rule Amendments

The amendments to Form ADV and the Advisers Act rules affect all advisers
registered with the Commission and exempt reporting advisers, including small entities.
Under Commission rules, for the purposes of the Advisers Act and the Regulatory
Flexibility Act, an investment adviser generally is a small entity if it: (1) has assets under
management having a total value of less than $25 million; (2) did not have total assets of
$5 million or more on the last day of the most recent fiscal year; and (3) does not control,
is not controlled by, and is not under common control with another investment adviser
that has assets under management of $25 million or more, or any person (other than a
natural person) that had total assets of $5 million or more on the last day of its most
recent fiscal year. 439
Our rule and Form ADV amendments will not affect most advisers that are small
entities (“small advisers”) because they are generally registered with one or more state
securities authorities and not with us. Under section 203A of the Advisers Act, most
small advisers are prohibited from registering with the Commission and are regulated by
439

Rule 0-7(a) under the Advisers Act.

154

state regulators. Based on IARD system data, we estimate that as of May 16, 2016,
approximately 526 advisers that are small entities are registered with the Commission.440
Because these advisers are registered, they, like all SEC-registered investment advisers,
will all be subject to the amendments to Form ADV, rule 204-2 and other Advisers Act
rules.
The only small entity exempt reporting advisers that are subject to the
amendments are exempt reporting advisers that maintain their principal office and place
of business in Wyoming or outside the United States. Advisers with less than $25 million
in assets under management generally are prohibited from registering with us unless they
maintain their principal office and place of business in Wyoming or outside the United
States. Exempt reporting advisers are not required to report regulatory assets under
management on Form ADV and therefore we do not have a precise number of exempt
reporting advisers that are small entities. Exempt reporting advisers are required to report
in Part 1A, Schedule D the gross asset value of each private fund they manage.441 Based
on responses to that question, we estimate that there is approximately 1 exempt reporting
adviser with its principal office and place of business in Wyoming that meets the
definition of small entity. Advisers with their principal office and place of business
outside the United States may have additional assets under management other than what
is reported in Schedule D. Based on IARD filings, approximately 14.3% of registered
investment advisers with their principal office and place of business outside the U.S. are
small entities. Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016, there are approximately
440

Based on SEC-registered investment adviser responses to Form ADV, Item 5.F and Item 12.

441

See Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 7.B.(1).A., Question 11.

155

1,428 exempt reporting advisers with their principal office and place of business outside
the U.S. We estimate that 14.3% of those advisers, approximately 204 exempt reporting
advisers, are small entities.
D.

Projected Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance
Requirements

The amendments to Form ADV and rule 204-2 impose certain reporting,
recordkeeping, and compliance requirements on all Commission-registered advisers,
including small advisers. All Commission-registered small advisers are required to file
Form ADV and include the new information required by the amendments, and all
Commission-registered small advisers are subject to the amended recordkeeping
requirements. Our technical amendments to other Advisers Act rules do not impose
different reporting, recordkeeping, or other compliance requirements on small advisers.
Form ADV Amendments
The amendments to Form ADV require registered investment advisers to report
different or additional information than what is currently required. Approximately 526
small advisers currently registered with us are subject to these requirements. We expect
these 526 small advisers to spend, on average, 5 hours to respond to the new and
amended questions, not including items relating to private fund reporting, which is

156

discussed below.442 We expect the aggregate cost to small advisers associated with this
process is $669,335.443
In addition, of these 526 small advisers, we estimate that 3 small advisers
currently rely on the 2012 ABA Letter to act as filing advisers for their relying
advisers.444 We expect that our changes to codify umbrella registration will take 3
hours445 in the aggregate, at a cost to small advisers of $764.446 We do not know how
many additional small advisers will use umbrella registration as incorporated into Form
ADV.
We do not estimate any increase or decrease in burden related to our amendments
for small private fund advisers, other than the hours related to Schedule R, or for exempt

442

See Section V. of this Release.

443

We expect that performance of this function will most likely be equally allocated between a senior
compliance examiner and a compliance manager. Data from the SIFMA Management and
Professional Earnings Report, modified by Commission staff to account for an 1,800-hour work
year and inflation, and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits,
and overhead, suggest that costs for these positions are $221 and $288 per hour, respectively. 526
small advisers x 5 hours = 2,630 hours. [1,315 hours x $221 = $290,615] + [1,315 hours x $288 =
$378,720] = $669,335.

444

Based on IARD system data as of May 16, 2016.

445

For purposes of the Paperwork Reduction Act, we estimated in Section V of this Release that
amendments to codify umbrella registration will take an additional 1 hour per filing adviser.

446

As discussed in connection with the Paperwork Reduction Act, we expect that performance of this
function will most likely be equally allocated between a senior compliance examiner and a
compliance manager. Data from the SIFMA Management and Professional Earnings Report,
modified by Commission staff to account for an 1,800-hour work year and inflation, and
multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits, and overhead, suggest that
costs for these positions are $221 and $288 per hour, respectively. 3 filing advisers x 1 hour = 3
hour. [1.5 hours x $221 = $332] + [1.5 hours x $288 = $432] = $764.

157

reporting advisers. The total estimated costs associated with our amendments to Form
ADV that we expect will be borne by small advisers is $670,099.447
Amendments to Books and Records Rule
Our amendments to rule 204-2’s performance information recordkeeping
provisions require investment advisers to make and keep the following records: (i)
documentation necessary to demonstrate the calculation of the performance the adviser
distributes to any person, and (ii) all written communications received or sent relating to
the adviser’s performance. These amendments will create reporting, recordkeeping, and
other compliance requirements for small advisers. As discussed in the Paperwork
Reduction Act Analysis in Section V. above, the amendments to rule 204-2 will increase
the burden by approximately 1.5 hours per adviser. We expect the aggregate cost to
small advisers associated with our amendments is $46,700.448
E.

Agency Action to Minimize Effect on Small Entities

The Regulatory Flexibility Act directs the Commission to consider significant
alternatives that would accomplish the stated objective, while minimizing any significant
adverse impact on small entities. In connection with the Form ADV and rule
amendments, the Commission considered the following alternatives: (i) the establishment
447

$669,335+ $764 = $670,099. These costs are discussed in Paperwork Reduction Act Analysis in
Section V. of this Release.

448

As discussed in connection with the Paperwork Reduction Act, we expect that performance of this
function will most likely be allocated between compliance clerks and general clerks with
compliance clerks performing 17% of the function and general clerks performing 83% of the
function. Data from the SIFMA Office Salaries Report modified by Commission staff to account
for an 1,800-hour work year and inflation, and multiplied by 2.93 to account for bonuses, firm
size, employee benefits, and overhead, suggest that costs for these positions are $65 per hour and
$58 per hour, respectively. 526 small advisers x 1.5 hours = 789 hours. [0.17 x 789 hours x $65 =
$8,718] + [0.83 x 789 hours x $58 = $37,982] = $46,700.

158

of differing compliance or reporting requirements that take into account the resources
available to small advisers; (ii) the clarification, consolidation, or simplification of
compliance and reporting requirements under the Form ADV and rule amendments for
such small entities; (iii) the use of performance rather than design standards; and (iv) an
exemption from coverage of the Form ADV and rule amendments, or any part thereof,
for such small entities.
Regarding the first and second alternatives, the adopted amendments require
reporting on separately managed accounts on Schedule 5.K.(2) of Form ADV only for
advisers with $500 million or more of regulatory assets under management attributable to
separately managed accounts. Further, we require semi-annual information filed annually
for those advisers with regulatory assets under management attributable to separately
managed accounts of at least $10 billion, and annual information for other advisers.449
Requiring no reporting on these items for advisers with less than $500 million, and less
detailed reporting for advisers with less than $10 billion, is designed to balance our
regulatory needs for this type of information while seeking to minimize the reporting
burden on advisers that manage a smaller amount of separately managed account assets
where appropriate.
Regarding the first and fourth alternatives for the other amendments to Form
ADV and Advisers Act rules, we do not believe that different compliance or reporting
requirements or an exemption from coverage of the Form ADV and rule amendments, or
any part thereof, for small entities, would be appropriate. Information about advisers of

449

Amended Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Sections 5.K.(1).

159

all sizes is required for the Commission and its staff to perform their role in overseeing
investment advisers. Accordingly, we are not modifying the reporting requirements for
smaller advisers.
Regarding the second alternative for the other amendments to Form ADV and the
Advisers Act rules, we considered whether further clarification, consolidation, or
simplification of the compliance requirements was feasible or necessary. In response to
commenters, we clarified certain instructions and items, which apply to all advisers filing
Form ADV. The remaining Form ADV amendments do not change that all SECregistered advisers use a single form, Form ADV, and an existing filing system, IARD,
for reporting and registration purposes, and this does not change for small entities. With
respect to the rule 204-2 amendments, we believe that the same requirements should
apply to all advisers to permit our staff to more effectively examine them.
Regarding the third alternative, we considered using performance rather than
design standards with respect to the amendments to Form ADV and rule 204-2 but, for
the Commission and its staff to perform their role in overseeing advisers, advisers must
provide certain registration information and maintain books and records in a uniform and
quantifiable manner so that it is useful to our regulatory and examination program.
VII.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY
The Commission is adopting amendments to Form ADV under section 19(a) of

the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77s(a)], sections 23(a) and 28(e)(2) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78w(a) and 78bb(e)(2)], section 319(a) of
the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 [15 U.S.C. 7sss(a)], section 38(a) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-37(a)], and section 203(c)(1), 204 and 211(a) of
160

the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80b-3(c)(1), 80b-4, and 80b-11(a)]. The
Commission is amending rule 204-2 pursuant to the authority set forth in sections 204
and 211 of the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. 80b-4 and 80b-11]. The Commission is
amending rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1 pursuant to authority in sections 202(a)(11)(G) and 206A
of the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11)(G) and 80b-6A]. The Commission is
amending rule 203-1 pursuant to authority in section 206A of the Advisers Act [15
U.S.C. 80b-6A]. The Commission is rescinding rule 203A-5 and amending rule 204-1
pursuant to authority in sections 204 and 211(a) of the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. 80b-4 and
80b-11(a)]. The Commission is amending rule 204-3 pursuant to authority in sections
204, 206(4) and 211(a) of the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. 80b-4, 80b-6(4) and 80b-11(a)].
List of Subjects in 17 CFR Parts 275 and 279
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements; Securities.
TEXT OF RULE AND FORM AMENDMENTS
For the reasons set forth in the preamble, title 17, chapter II of the Code of
Federal Regulations is amended as follows.
PART 275 – RULES AND REGULATIONS, INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940
1. The general authority citation for part 275 continues to read as follows, and
the sectional authority for § 275.230A-5 is removed.
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11)(G), 80b-2(a)(11)(H), 80b-2(a)(17), 80b-3,
80b-4, 80b-4a, 80b-6(4), 80b-6a, and 80b-11, unless otherwise noted.
*****
§ 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1 [Amended]
161

2. Amend Section 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1 by removing paragraph (e).
§ 275.203-1 [Amended]
3. Section 275.203-1 is amended by:
a. In the first sentence of paragraph (a) removing the phrase “Subject to
paragraph (b), to” and adding in its place “To”;
b. Removing paragraph (b);
c. In the NOTE TO PARAGRAPHS (a) AND (b), revising the paragraph
heading;
d. Redesignating paragraphs (c) and (d) as paragraphs (b) and (c); and
e. Removing paragraph (e).
The revision reads as follows:
§ 275.203-1 Application for investment adviser registration.
(a) * * *
NOTE TO PARAGRAPH (a): * * *
*****
§ 275.203A-5 [Removed and Reserved]
4. Section 275.203A-5 is removed and reserved.
§ 275.204-1 [Amended]
5. Section 275.204-1 is amended by:
a. In the first sentence of paragraph (b)(1) removing the phrase “Subject
to paragraph (c) of this section, you” and adding in its place “You”;
b. Removing paragraph (c); and
162

c. Redesignating paragraphs (d) and (e) as paragraphs (c) and (d).
§ 275.204-2 [Amended]
6. Section 275.204-2 is amended by:
a. Revising paragraph (a)(7); and
b. In paragraph (a)(16) removing the phrase “to 10 or more persons” and
adding in its place “to any person”.
The revision reads as follows:
§ 275.204-2

Books and records to be maintained by investment advisers

(a) * * *
(7) Originals of all written communications received and copies of all written
communications sent by such investment adviser relating to:
(i) Any recommendation made or proposed to be made and any advice given or
proposed to be given;
(ii) Any receipt, disbursement or delivery of funds or securities;
(iii) The placing or execution of any order to purchase or sell any security;
(iv) The performance or rate of return of any or all managed accounts or securities
recommendations: Provided, however:
(A) That the investment adviser shall not be required to keep any unsolicited
market letters and other similar communications of general public distribution not
prepared by or for the investment adviser, and

163

(B) That if the investment adviser sends any notice, circular or other
advertisement offering any report, analysis, publication or other investment advisory
service to more than 10 persons, the investment adviser shall not be required to keep a
record of the names and addresses of the persons to whom it was sent; except that if such
notice, circular or advertisement is distributed to persons named on any list, the
investment adviser shall retain with the copy of such notice, circular or advertisement a
memorandum describing the list and the source thereof.
*****
§ 275.204-3 [Amended]
7. Section 275.204-3 is amended by:
a. Removing paragraph (g); and
b. Redesignating paragraph (h) as paragraph (g).

PART 279 – FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS
ACT OF 1940
8.

The authority citation for Part 279 continues to read as follows:
Authority: The Investment Advisers Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80b-1, et seq.

9. Form ADV [referenced in §279.1] is amended by:
a.

In the instructions to the form, revising the sections entitled “Form ADV:

General Instructions.” The revised version of Form ADV: General Instructions is
attached as Appendix A;

164

b.

In the instructions to the form, revising the section entitled “Form ADV:

Instructions for Part 1A.” The revised version of Form ADV: Instructions for Part 1A is
attached as Appendix B;
c.

In the instructions to the form, revising the section entitled “Form ADV:

Glossary of Terms.” The revised version of Form ADV: Glossary of Terms is attached
as Appendix C;
d.

In the form, revising Part 1A. The revised version of Form ADV, Part 1A,

is attached as Appendix D.

Note: The text of Form ADV does not and the amendments will not appear
in the Code of Federal Regulations.

By the Commission.
August 25, 2016
Brent J. Fields
Secretary

165

