APPENDIX B

FORM ADV (Paper Version)



UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION
AND
REPORT BY EXEMPT REPORTING ADVISERS

Form ADV: Instructions for Part 1A
These instructions explain how to complete certain items in Part 1A of Form ADV.
1. Item 1: Identifying Information
Separately Identifiable Department or Division of a Bank. If you are a “separately
identifiable department or division” (SID) of a bank, answer Item 1.A. with the full legal name
of your bank, and answer Item 1.B. with your own name (the name of the department or
division) and all names under which you conduct your advisory business. In addition, your
principal office and place of business in Item 1.F. should be the principal office at which you
conduct your advisory business. In response to Item 1.I., the website addresses and social media
information you list on Schedule D should be those that provide information about your own
activities, rather than general information about your bank.
2. Item 2: SEC Registration and SEC Report by Exempt Reporting Advisers
If you are registered or applying for registration with the SEC, you must indicate in Item 2.A.
why you are eligible to register with the SEC by checking at least one of the boxes.
a. Item 2.A.(1): Adviser with Regulatory Assets Under Management of $100 Million
or More. You may check box 1 only if your response to Item 5.F.(2)(c) is $100 million
or more, or you are filing an annual updating amendment with the SEC and your
response to Item 5.F.(2)(c) is $90 million or more. While you may register with the SEC
if your regulatory assets under management are at least $100 million but less than $110
million, you must apply for registration with the SEC if your regulatory assets under
management are $110 million or more. If you are a SEC-registered adviser, you may
remain registered with the SEC if your regulatory assets under management are $90
million or more. See SEC rule 203A-1(a). Part 1A Instruction 5.b. explains how to
calculate your regulatory assets under management.
If you are a state-registered adviser and you report on your annual updating amendment
that your regulatory assets under management increased to $100 million or more, you
may register with the SEC. If your regulatory assets under management increased to
$110 million or more, you must apply for registration with the SEC within 90 days after
you file that annual updating amendment. See SEC rule 203A-1(b)(1) and Form ADV
General Instruction 11.
b. Item 2.A.(2): Mid-Sized Adviser. You may check box 2 only if your response to Item
5.F.(2)(c) is $25 million or more but less than $100 million, and you satisfy one of the

requirements below. Part 1A Instruction 5.b. explains how to calculate your regulatory
assets under management.
You must register with the SEC if you meet at least one of the following requirements:


You are not required to be registered as an investment adviser with the state securities
authority of the state where you maintain your principal office and place of business
pursuant to that state’s investment adviser laws. If you are exempt from registration
with that state or are excluded from the definition of investment adviser in that state,
you must register with the SEC. You should consult the investment adviser laws or
the state securities authority for the particular state in which you maintain your
principal office and place of business to determine if you are required to register in
that state. See General Instruction 1.



You are not subject to examination by the state securities authority of the state where
you maintain your principal office and place of business. To determine whether such
state securities authority does not conduct such examinations, see:
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/midsizeadviserinfo.htm.

See section 203A(a)(2) of the Advisers Act.
c. Item 2.A.(5): Adviser to an Investment Company. You may check box 5 only if you
currently provide advisory services under an investment advisory contract to an
investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the
investment company is operational (i.e., has assets and shareholders, other than just the
organizing shareholders). See sections 203A(a)(1)(B) and 203A(a)(2)(A) of the Advisers
Act. Advising investors about the merits of investing in mutual funds or recommending
particular mutual funds does not make you eligible to check this box.
d. Item 2.A.(6): Adviser to a Business Development Company. You may check box 6
only if your response to Item 5.F.(2)(c) is $25 million or more of regulatory assets under
management, and you currently provide advisory services under an investment advisory
contract to a company that has elected to be a business development company pursuant to
section 54 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, that has not withdrawn the election,
and that is operational (i.e., has assets and shareholders, other than just the organizing
shareholders). See section 203A(a)(2)(A) of the Advisers Act. Part 1A Instruction 5.b.
explains how to calculate your regulatory assets under management.
e. Item 2.A.(7): Pension Consultant. You may check box 7 only if you are eligible for
the pension consultant exemption from the prohibition on SEC registration.


You are eligible for this exemption if you provided investment advice to employee
benefit plans, governmental plans, or church plans with respect to assets having an
aggregate value of $200 million or more during the 12-month period that ended
within 90 days of filing this Form ADV. You are not eligible for this exemption if

2

you only advise plan participants on allocating their investments within their pension
plans. See SEC rule 203A-2(a).


To calculate the value of assets for purposes of this exemption, aggregate the assets of
the plans for which you provided advisory services at the end of the 12-month period.
If you provided advisory services to other plans during the 12-month period, but your
employment or contract terminated before the end of the 12-month period, you also
may include the value of those assets.

f. Item 2.A.(8): Related Adviser. You may check box 8 only if you are eligible for the
related adviser exemption from the prohibition on SEC registration. See SEC rule 203A2(b). You are eligible for this exemption if you control, are controlled by, or are under
common control with an investment adviser that is registered with the SEC, and you have
the same principal office and place of business as that other investment adviser. Note
that you may not rely on the SEC registration of an Internet adviser under rule 203A-2(e)
in establishing eligibility for this exemption. See SEC rule 203A-2(e)(1)(iii). If you
check box 8, you also must complete Section 2.A.(8) of Schedule D.
g. Item 2.A.(9): Adviser Expecting to be Eligible for Registration within 120 Days.
You may check box 9 only if you are eligible for the exemption from the prohibition on
SEC registration available to advisers expecting to be eligible for SEC registration within
120 days, such as a newly formed adviser. See SEC rule 203A-2(c). You are eligible for
this exemption if immediately before you file your application for registration with the
SEC:


you were not registered or required to be registered with the SEC or a state securities
authority; and



you have a reasonable expectation that you will be eligible to register with the SEC
within 120 days after the date that your registration with the SEC becomes effective.

If you check box 9, you also must complete Section 2.A.(9) of Schedule D.
You must file an amendment to Part 1A of your Form ADV that updates your response to
Item 2.A. within 120 days after the SEC declares your registration effective. You may
not check box 9 on your amendment; since this exemption is available only if you are not
registered, you may not “re-rely” on this exemption. If you indicate on that amendment
(by checking box 13) that you are not eligible to register with the SEC, you also must file
a Form ADV-W to withdraw your SEC registration no later than 120 days after your
registration was declared effective. You should contact the appropriate state securities
authority to determine how long it may take to become state-registered sufficiently in
advance of when you are required to file Form ADV-W to withdraw from SEC
registration.

3

Note: If you expect to be eligible for SEC registration because of the amount of your
regulatory assets under management, that amount must be $100 million or more no later
than 120 days after your registration is declared effective.
h. Item 2.A.(10): Multi-State Adviser. You may check box 10 only if you are eligible for
the multi-state adviser exemption from the prohibition on SEC registration. See SEC rule
203A-2(d). You are eligible for this exemption if you are required to register as an
investment adviser with the state securities authorities of 15 or more states. If you check
box 10, you must complete Section 2.A.(10) of Schedule D. You must complete Section
2.A.(10) of Schedule D in each annual updating amendment you submit.
If you check box 10, you also must:
 create and maintain a list of the states in which, but for this exemption, you would be
required to register;
 update this list each time you submit an annual updating amendment in which you
continue to represent that you are eligible for this exemption; and
 maintain the list in an easily accessible place for a period of not less than five years
from each date on which you indicate that you are eligible for the exemption.
If, at the time you file your annual updating amendment, you are required to register in
less than 15 states and you are not otherwise eligible to register with the SEC, you must
check box 13 in Item 2.A. You also must file a Form ADV-W to withdraw your SEC
registration. See Part 1A Instruction 2.j.
i. Item 2.A.(11): Internet Adviser. You may check box 11 only if you are eligible for the
Internet adviser exemption from the prohibition on SEC registration. See SEC rule
203A-2(e). You are eligible for this exemption if:


you provide investment advice to your clients through an interactive website. An
interactive website means a website in which computer software-based models or
applications provide investment advice based on personal information each client
submits through the website. Other forms of online or Internet investment advice do
not qualify for this exemption;



you provide investment advice to all of your clients exclusively through the
interactive website, except that you may provide investment advice to fewer than 15
clients through other means during the previous 12 months; and



you maintain a record demonstrating that you provide investment advice to your
clients exclusively through an interactive website in accordance with these limits.

j. Item 2.A.(13): Adviser No Longer Eligible to Remain Registered with the SEC.
You must check box 13 if:


you are registered with the SEC;

4




you are filing an annual updating amendment to Form ADV in which you indicate in
response to Item 5.F.(2)(c) that you have regulatory assets under management of less
than $90 million; and
you are not eligible to check any other box (other than box 13) in Item 2.A. (and are
therefore no longer eligible to remain registered with the SEC).

You must withdraw from SEC registration within 180 days after the end of your fiscal
year by filing Form ADV-W. Until you file your Form ADV-W, you will remain subject
to SEC regulation, and you also will be subject to regulation in the states in which you
register. See SEC rule 203A-1(b)(2).
k. Item 2.B.: Reporting by Exempt Reporting Advisers. You may check box 2.B.(1) only
if you qualify for the exemption from SEC registration as an adviser solely to one or
more venture capital funds. See SEC rule 203(l)-1. You may check box 2.B.(2) only if
you qualify for the exemption from SEC registration because you act solely as an adviser
to private funds and have assets under management in the United States of less than $150
million. See SEC rule 203(m)-1. You may check both boxes to indicate that you qualify
for both exemptions. You should check box 2.B.(3) if you act solely as an adviser to
private funds but you are no longer eligible to check box 2.B.(2) because you have assets
under management in the United States of $150 million or more. If you check box
2.B.(2) or (3), you also must complete Section 2.B. of Schedule D.
3. Item 3: Form of Organization
If you are a “separately identifiable department or division” (SID) of a bank, answer Item 3.A.
by checking “other.” In the space provided, specify that you are a “SID of” and indicate the
form of organization of your bank. Answer Items 3.B. and 3.C. with information about your
bank.
4. Item 4: Successions
a. Succession of an SEC-Registered Adviser. If you (1) have taken over the business of
an investment adviser or (2) have changed your structure or legal status (e.g., form of
organization or state of incorporation), a new organization has been created, which has
registration obligations under the Advisers Act. There are different ways to fulfill these
obligations. You may rely on the registration provisions discussed in the General
Instructions, or you may be able to rely on special registration provisions for “successors”
to SEC-registered advisers, which may ease the transition to the successor adviser’s
registration.
To determine if you may rely on these provisions, review “Registration of Successors to
Broker-Dealers and Investment Advisers,” Investment Advisers Act Release No. 1357
(Dec. 28, 1992). If you have taken over an adviser, follow Part 1A Instruction 4.a.(1),
Succession by Application. If you have changed your structure or legal status, follow
Part 1A, Instruction 4.a.(2), Succession by Amendment. If either (1) you are a
“separately identifiable department or division” (SID) of a bank that is currently
5

registered as an investment adviser, and you are taking over your bank’s advisory
business; or (2) you are a SID currently registered as an investment adviser, and your
bank is taking over your advisory business, then follow Part 1A Instruction 4.a.(1),
Succession by Application.
(1) Succession by Application. If you are not registered with the SEC as an adviser,
and you are acquiring or assuming substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the
advisory business of an SEC-registered adviser, file a new application for registration
on Form ADV. You will receive new registration numbers. You must file the new
application within 30 days after the succession. On the application, make sure you
check “yes” to Item 4.A., enter the date of the succession in Item 4.B., and complete
Section 4 of Schedule D.
Until the SEC declares your new registration effective, you may rely on the
registration of the adviser you are acquiring, but only if the adviser you are acquiring
is no longer conducting advisory activities. Once your new registration is effective, a
Form ADV-W must be filed with the SEC to withdraw the registration of the acquired
adviser.
(2) Succession by Amendment. If you are a new investment adviser formed solely as a
result of a change in form of organization, a reorganization, or a change in the
composition of a partnership, and there has been no practical change in control or
management, you may amend the registration of the registered investment adviser to
reflect these changes rather than file a new application. You will keep the same
registration numbers, and you should not file a Form ADV-W. On the amendment,
make sure you check “yes” to Item 4.A., enter the date of the succession in Item 4.B.,
and complete Section 4 of Schedule D. You must submit the amendment within 30
days after the change or reorganization.
b. Succession of a State-Registered Adviser. If you (1) have taken over the business of an
investment adviser or (2) have changed your structure or legal status (e.g., form of
organization or state of incorporation), a new organization has been created, which has
registration obligations under state investment adviser laws. There may be different ways
to fulfill these obligations. You should contact each state in which you are registered to
determine that state’s requirements for successor registration. See Form ADV General
Instruction 1.
5. Item 5: Information About Your Advisory Business
a. Newly-Formed Advisers: Several questions in Item 5 that ask about your advisory
business assume that you have been operating your advisory business for some time.
Your response to these questions should reflect your current advisory business (i.e., at the
time you file your Form ADV), with the following exceptions:


base your response to Item 5.E. on the types of compensation you expect to accept;

6




base your response to Item 5.G. and Item 5.J. on the types of advisory services you
expect to provide during the next year; and
skip Item 5.H.

b. Item 5.F.: Calculating Your Regulatory Assets Under Management. In determining
the amount of your regulatory assets under management, include the securities portfolios
for which you provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services as of
the date of filing this Form ADV.
(1) Securities Portfolios. An account is a securities portfolio if at least 50% of the total
value of the account consists of securities. For purposes of this 50% test, you may
treat cash and cash equivalents (i.e., bank deposits, certificates of deposit, bankers
acceptances, and similar bank instruments) as securities. You must include securities
portfolios that are:
(a) your family or proprietary accounts;
(b) accounts for which you receive no compensation for your services; and
(c) accounts of clients who are not United States persons.
For purposes of this definition, treat all of the assets of a private fund as a securities
portfolio, regardless of the nature of such assets. For accounts of private funds,
moreover, include in the securities portfolio any uncalled commitment pursuant to
which a person is obligated to acquire an interest in, or make a capital contribution to,
the private fund.
(2) Value of Portfolio. Include the entire value of each securities portfolio for which
you provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services. If you
provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services for only a
portion of a securities portfolio, include as regulatory assets under management only
that portion of the securities portfolio for which you provide such services. Exclude,
for example, the portion of an account:
(a) under management by another person; or
(b) that consists of real estate or businesses whose operations you “manage” on
behalf of a client but not as an investment.
Do not deduct any outstanding indebtedness or other accrued but unpaid liabilities.
(3) Continuous and Regular Supervisory or Management Services.
General Criteria. You provide continuous and regular supervisory or management
services with respect to an account if:

7

(a) you have discretionary authority over and provide ongoing supervisory or
management services with respect to the account; or
(b) you do not have discretionary authority over the account, but you have ongoing
responsibility to select or make recommendations, based upon the needs of the
client, as to specific securities or other investments the account may purchase or
sell and, if such recommendations are accepted by the client, you are responsible
for arranging or effecting the purchase or sale.
Factors. You should consider the following factors in evaluating whether you
provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services to an account.
(a) Terms of the advisory contract. If you agree in an advisory contract to provide
ongoing management services, this suggests that you provide these services for
the account. Other provisions in the contract, or your actual management
practices, however, may suggest otherwise.
(b) Form of compensation. If you are compensated based on the average value of
the client’s assets you manage over a specified period of time, that suggests that
you provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services for the
account. If you receive compensation in a manner similar to either of the
following, that suggests you do not provide continuous and regular supervisory or
management services for the account -(i) you are compensated based upon the time spent with a client during a client
visit; or
(ii) you are paid a retainer based on a percentage of assets covered by a financial
plan.
(c) Management practices. The extent to which you actively manage assets or
provide advice bears on whether the services you provide are continuous and
regular supervisory or management services. The fact that you make infrequent
trades (e.g., based on a “buy and hold” strategy) does not mean your services are
not “continuous and regular.”
Examples. You may provide continuous and regular supervisory or management
services for an account if you:
(a) have discretionary authority to allocate client assets among various mutual
funds;
(b) do not have discretionary authority, but provide the same allocation services, and
satisfy the criteria set forth in Instruction 5.b.(3);

8

(c) allocate assets among other managers (a “manager of managers”), but only if you
have discretionary authority to hire and fire managers and reallocate assets
among them; or
(d) you are a broker-dealer and treat the account as a brokerage account, but only if
you have discretionary authority over the account.
You do not provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services for
an account if you:
(a) provide market timing recommendations (i.e., to buy or sell), but have no ongoing
management responsibilities;
(b) provide only impersonal investment advice (e.g., market newsletters);
(c) make an initial asset allocation, without continuous and regular monitoring and
reallocation; or
(d) provide advice on an intermittent or periodic basis (such as upon client request, in
response to a market event, or on a specific date (e.g., the account is reviewed and
adjusted quarterly)).
(4) Value of Regulatory Assets Under Management. Determine your regulatory assets
under management based on the current market value of the assets as determined
within 90 days prior to the date of filing this Form ADV. Determine market value
using the same method you used to report account values to clients or to calculate
fees for investment advisory services.
In the case of a private fund, determine the current market value (or fair value) of the
private fund’s assets and the contractual amount of any uncalled commitment
pursuant to which a person is obligated to acquire an interest in, or make a capital
contribution to, the private fund.
(5) Example. This is an example of the method of determining whether an account of a
client other than a private fund may be included as regulatory assets under
management.
The client’s portfolio consists of the following:
$6,000,000
stocks and bonds
$1,000,000
cash and cash equivalents
$3,000,000
non-securities (collectibles, commodities, real estate, etc.)
$10,000,000 Total Assets
First, is the account a securities portfolio? The account is a securities portfolio
because securities as well as cash and cash equivalents (which you have chosen to

9

include as securities) ($6,000,000 + $1,000,000 = $7,000,000) comprise at least 50%
of the value of the account (here, 70%). (See Instruction 5.b.(1)).
Second, does the account receive continuous and regular supervisory or
management services? The entire account is managed on a discretionary basis and
is provided ongoing supervisory and management services, and therefore receives
continuous and regular supervisory or management services. (See Instruction
5.b.(3)).
Third, what is the entire value of the account? The entire value of the account
($10,000,000) is included in the calculation of the adviser’s total regulatory assets
under management.
6. Item 7: Financial Industry Affiliations and Private Fund Reporting
Item 7.A. and Section 7.A. of Schedule D ask questions about you and your related persons’
financial industry affiliations. If you are filing an umbrella registration, you should not check
Item 7.A.(2) with respect to your relying advisers, and you do not have to complete Section 7.A.
in Schedule D for your relying advisers. You should complete Schedule R with respect to your
relying advisers. Item 7.B. and Section 7.B. of Schedule D ask questions about the private funds
that you advise. You are required to complete a Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D for each private
fund that you advise, except in certain circumstances described under Item 7.B. and below.
a. If your principal office and place of business is outside the United States, for purposes of
Item 7 and Section 7.B. of Schedule D you may disregard any private fund that, during
your last fiscal year, was not a United States person, was not offered in the United States,
and was not beneficially owned by any United States person.
b. When filing Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D for a private fund, you must acquire an
identification number for the fund by logging onto the IARD website and using the
private fund identification number generator. You must continue to use the same
identification number whenever you amend Section 7.B.(1) for that fund. If you file a
Section 7.B.(1) for a private fund for which an identification number has already been
acquired by another adviser, you must not acquire a new identification number, but must
instead utilize the existing number. If you choose to complete a single Section 7.B.(1) for
a master-feeder arrangement under Instruction 6.d. below, you must acquire an
identification number also for each feeder fund.
c. If any private fund has issued two or more series (or classes) of equity interests whose
values are determined with respect to separate portfolios of securities and other assets,
then each such series (or class) should be regarded as a separate private fund. In Section
7.B.(1) and 7.B.(2) of Schedule D, next to the name of the private fund, list the name and
identification number of the specific series (or class) for which you are filing the sections.
This only applies with respect to series (or classes) that you manage as if they were
separate funds and not a fund’s side pockets or similar arrangements.

10

d. In the case of a master-feeder arrangement (see questions 6-7 of Section 7.B.(1) of
Schedule D), instead of completing a Section 7.B.(1) for each of the master fund and each
feeder fund, you may complete a single Section 7.B.(1) for the master-feeder
arrangement under the name of the master fund if the answers to questions 8, 10, 21 and
23 through 28 are the same for all of the feeder funds (or, in the case of questions 24 and
25, if the feeder funds do not use a prime broker or custodian). If you choose to complete
a single Section 7.B.(1), you should disregard the feeder funds, except for the following:
(1) Question 11: State the gross assets for the master-feeder arrangement as a whole.
(2) Question 12: List the lowest minimum investment commitment applicable to any of
the master fund and the feeder funds.
(3) Questions 13-16: Answer by aggregating all investors in the master-feeder
arrangement (but do not count the feeder funds themselves as investors).
(4) Questions 19-20: For purposes of these questions, the private fund means any of the
master fund or the feeder funds. In answering the questions, moreover, disregard the
feeder funds’ investment in the master fund.
(5) Question 22: List all of the Form D SEC file numbers of any of the master fund and
feeder funds.
e. Additional Instructions:
(1) Question 9: Investment in Registered Investment Companies: For purposes of
this question, disregard any open-end management investment company regulated as
a money market fund under rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act if the
private fund invests in such a company in reliance on rule 12d1-1 under the same Act.
(2) Question 10: Type of Private Fund: For purposes of this question, the following
definitions apply:
“Hedge fund” means any private fund (other than a securitized asset fund):
(a) with respect to which one or more investment advisers (or related persons of
investment advisers) may be paid a performance fee or allocation calculated
by taking into account unrealized gains (other than a fee or allocation the
calculation of which may take into account unrealized gains solely for the
purpose of reducing such fee or allocation to reflect net unrealized losses);
(b) that may borrow an amount in excess of one-half of its net asset value
(including any committed capital) or may have gross notional exposure in
excess of twice its net asset value (including any committed capital); or

11

(c) that may sell securities or other assets short or enter into similar transactions
(other than for the purpose of hedging currency exposure or managing
duration).
A commodity pool is categorized as a hedge fund solely for purposes of this question.
For purposes of this definition, do not net long and short positions. Include any
borrowings or notional exposure of another person that are guaranteed by the private
fund or that the private fund may otherwise be obligated to satisfy.
“Liquidity fund” means any private fund that seeks to generate income by
investing in a portfolio of short-term obligations in order to maintain a stable net
asset value per unit or minimize principal volatility for investors.
“Private equity fund” means any private fund that is not a hedge fund, liquidity
fund, real estate fund, securitized asset fund, or venture capital fund and does not
provide investors with redemption rights in the ordinary course.
“Real estate fund” means any private fund that is not a hedge fund, that does not
provide investors with redemption rights in the ordinary course, and that invests
primarily in real estate and real estate related assets.
“Securitized asset fund” means any private fund whose primary purpose is to
issue asset backed securities and whose investors are primarily debt-holders.
“Venture capital fund” means any private fund meeting the definition of venture
capital fund in rule 203(l)-1 under the Advisers Act.
“Other private fund” means any private fund that is not a hedge fund, liquidity
fund, private equity fund, real estate fund, securitized asset fund, or venture
capital fund.
(3) Question 11: Gross Assets. Report the assets of the private fund that you would
include in calculating your regulatory assets under management according to
Instruction 5.b. above.
(4) Questions 19-20: Other clients’ investments: For purposes of these questions,
disregard any feeder fund’s investment in its master fund. (See questions 6-7 for
the definition of “master fund” and “feeder fund”).
7. Item 10: Control Persons
If you are a “separately identifiable department or division” (SID) of a bank, identify on
Schedule A your bank’s executive officers who are directly engaged in managing, directing, or
supervising your investment advisory activities, and list any other persons designated by your
bank’s board of directors as responsible for the day-to-day conduct of your investment advisory
activities, including supervising employees performing investment advisory activities.
12

8. Additional Information
If you believe your response to an item in Form ADV Part 1A requires further explanation, or if
you wish to provide additional information, you may do so on Schedule D, in the Miscellaneous
section. Completion of this section is optional.

13

