CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Parts 275 and 279
Release No. IA-4091; File No. S7-09-15
RIN 3235-AL75
AMENDMENTS TO FORM ADV AND INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT RULES
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Proposed rule.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission is proposing amendments to Form
ADV that are designed to provide additional information regarding advisers, including
information about their separately managed account business; incorporate a method for private
fund adviser entities operating a single advisory business to register using a single Form ADV;
and make clarifying, technical and other amendments to certain Form ADV items and
instructions. The Commission also is proposing amendments to the Advisers Act books and
records rule and technical amendments to several Advisers Act rules to remove transition
provisions that are no longer necessary.
DATES: Comments should be received on or before August 11, 2015.
ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic comments:


Use the Commission’s Internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml); or

1

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION



Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File No. S7-09-15 on the
subject line; or



Use the Federal eRulemaking Portal (http://www.regulations.gov). Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.

Paper comments:


Send paper comments to Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.

All submissions should refer to File Number S7-09-15. This file number should be included on
the subject line if e-mail is used. To help the Commission process and review your comments
more efficiently, please use only one method. The Commission will post all comments on the
Commission’s website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Comments are also available
for website viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
All comments received will be posted without change; the Commission does not edit personal
identifying information from submissions. You should submit only information that you wish to
make available publicly.
Studies, memoranda or other substantive items may be added by the Commission or staff
to the comment file during this rulemaking. A notification of the inclusion in the comment file
of any such materials will be made available on the Commission’s website. To ensure direct
electronic receipt of such notifications, sign up through the “Stay Connected” option at
www.sec.gov to receive notifications by e-mail.

2

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bridget D. Farrell, Senior Counsel, Sarah A.
Buescher, Branch Chief, or Daniel S. Kahl, Assistant Director, at (202) 551-6787 or
IArules@sec.gov, Investment Adviser Regulation Office, Division of Investment Management,
Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-8549.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission is proposing amendments to rules
204-2 [17 CFR 275.204-2], 202(a)(11)(G)-1 [17 CFR 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1], 203-1 [17 CFR
275.203-1], and 204-1 [17 CFR 275.204-1] under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 [15
U.S.C. 80b] (“Advisers Act” or “Act”),1 and amendments to Form ADV [17 CFR 279.1] under
the Advisers Act. The Commission is also proposing to rescind rule 203A-5 [17 CFR 275.203A5] under the Advisers Act.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.
II.

III.

1

BACKGROUND
DISCUSSION
A.
Proposed Amendments to Form ADV
1.
Information Regarding Separately Managed Accounts
2.
Additional Information Regarding Investment Advisers
3.
Umbrella Registration
4.
Proposed Clarifying, Technical and Other Amendments to Form
ADV
B.
Proposed Amendments to Investment Advisers Act Rules
1.
Proposed Amendments to Books and Records Rule
2.
Proposed Technical Amendments to Advisers Act Rules
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.
Introduction
B.
Proposed Amendments to Form ADV
1.
Economic Baseline and Affected Market Participants
2.
Benefits
3.
Costs

15 U.S.C. 80b. Unless otherwise noted, when we refer to the Advisers Act, or any paragraph of the
Advisers Act, we are referring to 15 U.S.C. 80b of the United States Code, at which the Advisers Act is
codified, and when we refer to rules under the Advisers Act, or any paragraph of these rules, we are
referring to Title 17, Part 275 of the Code of Federal Regulations [17 CFR 275], in which these rules are
published.

3

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

IV.

V.

VI.
VII.

4.
Alternatives
C.
Proposed Amendments to Advisers Act Rules
1.
Economic Baseline and Affected Market Participants
2.
Benefits
3.
Costs
4.
Alternatives
D.
Request for Comment
PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT ANALYSIS
A.
Form ADV
1.
Changes in Average Burden Estimate and New Burden Estimates
2.
Annual Burden Estimates
3.
Total Revised Burdens
B.
Rule 204-2
C.
Request for Comment
INITIAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS
A.
Reason for the Proposed Action
B.
Objectives and Legal Basis
C.
Small Entities Subject to the Rule and Rule Amendments
D.
Reporting, Recordkeeping and Other Compliance Requirements
E.
Duplicative, Overlapping or Conflicting Federal Rules
F.
Significant Alternatives
G.
Solicitation of Comments
CONSIDERATION OF IMPACT ON THE ECONOMY
STATUTORY AUTHORITY

TEXT OF RULE AND FORM AMENDMENTS
APPENDIX A: Form ADV: General Instructions
APPENDIX B: Form ADV: Instructions for Part 1A
APPENDIX C: Form ADV: Glossary of Terms
APPENDIX D: Form ADV, Part 1A
I.

BACKGROUND
Form ADV is used by investment advisers to register with the Commission and with the

states. The information collected on Form ADV serves a vital role in our regulatory program
and our ability to protect investors. Our staff uses Form ADV data to prepare for, conduct, and
implement our risk-based examination program of investment advisers, and that data also assists
our staff in conducting investigations and bringing enforcement actions. In addition to providing
information about each investment adviser, Form ADV data is also aggregated by our staff
4

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

across investment advisers to obtain census data and to monitor industry trends. Census data and
industry trend information inform our regulatory program and the assessment of emerging risks.
Importantly, Form ADV also benefits clients and prospective clients because the information
filed by advisers is available to the public on our website.2
We have amended Form ADV several times to improve our ability to oversee investment
advisers. Most recently we significantly enhanced reporting requirements for advisers to private
funds in connection with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act’s
(“Dodd-Frank Act’s”)3 private fund adviser registration requirements.4 Today, we are proposing
a more limited set of amendments to Part 1A of Form ADV in three areas: revisions to fill certain
data gaps and to enhance current reporting requirements; amendments to incorporate “umbrella
registration” for private fund advisers; and clarifying, technical and other amendments to
existing items and instructions.5
Several of the proposed amendments to Form ADV relate to separately managed
accounts. Investment advisers manage assets of pooled investment vehicles, including registered
and unregistered funds. Advisers also manage assets of other clients, such as pension plans,

2

Information on Form ADV is available to the public through the Investment Adviser Public Disclosure
System (“IAPD”), which allows the public to access the most recent Form ADV filing made by an
investment adviser and is available at http://www.adviserinfo.sec.gov.

3

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376
(2010).

4

See Rules Implementing Amendments to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Investment Advisers Act
Release No. 3221 (June 22, 2011), [76 FR 42950 (July 19, 2011)] (“Implementing Release”).

5

In general, this release discusses the Commission’s proposed rule and form amendments that would affect
advisers registered with the Commission. We understand that the state securities authorities intend to
consider similar changes that affect advisers registered with the states, who are also required to complete
Form ADV Part 1B as part of their state registrations. We will accept any comments and forward them to
the North American Securities Administrators Association (“NASAA”) for consideration by the state
securities authorities. We request that you clearly indicate in your comment letter which of your comments
relate to these items. Commenters alternatively may send comments relating to these items directly to
NASAA at the following e-mail address: NASAAcomments@nasaa.org.

5

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

endowments, foundations, other institutional clients and retail clients, through separately
managed accounts. We currently collect detailed information about pooled investment vehicles,6
but little specific information regarding separately managed accounts. The proposed
amendments to Form ADV would require an adviser to provide certain aggregate information on
separately managed accounts it advises, including information on regulatory assets under
management, investments and use of derivatives and borrowings.7 Other examples of
information we propose to collect from advisers include information on the use of social media
and information on an adviser’s other offices.8 These items, and others discussed below, are
designed to improve the depth and quality of the information we collect on investment advisers
and to facilitate our risk monitoring initiatives.
We also are proposing amendments to Part 1A that would establish a more efficient
method for the registration of multiple private fund adviser entities operating a single advisory
business on one Form ADV (“umbrella registration”). Form ADV was designed to
accommodate the typical registration of an investment adviser that is a single legal entity.
Advisers of private funds frequently are organized using multiple legal entities, and the staff has
provided guidance to private fund advisers regarding umbrella registration within the confines of
the current form.9 The proposed amendments to incorporate umbrella registration into Form
ADV would make the availability of umbrella registration more widely known to advisers.
Uniform filing requirements for umbrella registration in Form ADV also would provide more
6

See, e.g., Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D; and Form PF [17 CFR 279.9].

7

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.K.(1)-(4) and Section 5.K.(1)-(3) of Schedule D.

8

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Items 1.I. and 1.F and Sections 1.I. and 1.F .of Schedule D.

9

See American Bar Association, Business Law Section, SEC Staff Letter (Jan. 18, 2012), available at
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/noaction/2012/aba011812.htm (the “2012 ABA Letter”).

6

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

consistent data about, and create a clearer picture of, groups of advisers that operate as a single
business by grouping Form ADV data for each legal entity registered under the umbrella.
Uniform filing requirements also would allow for greater comparability across private fund
advisers.
The last group of amendments we are proposing to Part 1A are clarifying, technical, and
other amendments that are informed by our staff’s experience with the form and responding to
inquiries by advisers and their service providers. Among other things, these amendments should
assist filers and their service providers by making the form easier to understand and complete.
We also are proposing several amendments to Advisers Act rules unrelated to the
revisions to Form ADV described above. First, we are proposing amendments to the books and
records rule, rule 204-2, that would require advisers to make and keep supporting documentation
that demonstrates performance calculations or rates of return in any written communications that
the adviser circulates or distributes, directly or indirectly, to any person. The proposed
amendments also would require advisers to maintain originals of all written communications
received and copies of written communications sent by an investment adviser related to the
performance or rate of return of any or all managed accounts or securities recommendations.10
As discussed more fully below, we believe that these proposed amendments would better protect
investors from fraudulent performance claims. Finally, we are proposing several technical
amendments to rules under the Advisers Act to remove transition provisions that were adopted in
conjunction with previous rulemaking initiatives, but that are no longer necessary.

10

Rule 204-2 under the Advisers Act.

7

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

We note that in December 2014, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”)
issued a notice requesting comment on aspects of the asset management industry, which
includes, among other entities, registered investment advisers. Although this rulemaking
proposal is independent of FSOC, the notice included requests for comment on additional data or
information that would be helpful to regulators and market participants. In response to the
notice, several commenters discussed issues concerning data that are relevant to this proposal,
including data regarding separately managed accounts and are cited in the discussion below.11
II.

DISCUSSION
A.

Proposed Amendments to Form ADV
1.

Information Regarding Separately Managed Accounts

Several of the amendments to Form ADV that we are proposing today are designed to
collect more specific information about advisers’ separately managed accounts.12 For purposes
of reporting on Form ADV, we consider advisory accounts other than those that are pooled
investment vehicles (i.e., registered investment companies, business development companies,
and pooled investment vehicles that are not investment companies (i.e., private funds)) to be
separately managed accounts. We currently collect detailed information about pooled
investment vehicles that advisers manage, but little specific information regarding separately

11

See Notice Seeking Comment on Asset Management Products and Activities, 79 FR 77488 (Dec. 24, 2014)
(“FSOC Request for Comment”).

12

In response to the FSOC Request for Comment, supra note 11, some commenters expressed support for
collecting additional information regarding separately managed accounts. See, e.g., Comment Letter of
Americans for Financial Reform (March 27, 2015); Comment Letter of State Street Corporation (March 25,
2015); and Comment Letter of The Systemic Risk Council (March 25, 2015). Other commenters did not
support additional reporting regarding separately managed accounts. See, e.g., Comment Letter of Money
Management Institute (March 25, 2015) and Comment Letter of Wellington Management Group LLP
(March 25, 2015).

8

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

managed accounts.13 The proposed amendments are designed to enhance our staff’s ability to
effectively carry out our risk-based examination program and other risk assessment and
monitoring activities with respect to these separately managed accounts and their investment
advisers.
The proposed amendments regarding separately managed accounts would require more
detailed information than we currently receive in response to Item 5 of Part 1A and Section 5 of
Schedule D.14 Item 5 and Section 5 currently require advisers to provide information about their
advisory business including percentages of types of clients and assets managed for those clients.
We propose to collect information specifically about separately managed accounts, including
types of assets held, and the use of derivatives and borrowings in the accounts. Advisers that
report that they have regulatory assets under management attributable to separately managed
accounts in response to Item 5.K.(1) would be required to complete several questions in Sections
5.K.(1), 5.K.(2) and 5.K.(3) of Schedule D regarding those accounts.
First, we propose to require advisers to report the approximate percentage of separately
managed account regulatory assets under management invested in ten broad asset categories,
such as exchange-traded equity securities and U.S. government/agency bonds.15 These

13

Registered investment companies and business development companies report information about their
portfolio holdings and investment strategies on reports filed with the Commission, including in their
registration statements and shareholder reports. Today, in a contemporaneous release, we are proposing
rule and form amendments for registered investment companies that are designed to modernize the
reporting of information to the Commission. See Investment Company Reporting Modernization,
Investment Company Act Release No. 31610, May 20, 2015. Investment advisers to private funds file
reports with the Commission on Form PF. Form PF also collects information about private fund parallel
managed accounts.

14

See section II.A.2. for a discussion of other proposed amendments to Item 5 of Part 1A.

15

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 5.K.(1)(a)-(b). The Glossary to Proposed Form ADV
includes “Sovereign Bonds,” “Investment Grade” and “Non-Investment Grade,” which are terms used in
the list of asset categories. The definitions are consistent with those in Form PF.

9

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

categories are designed to collect general information about the broad categories of assets held in
separately managed accounts. We believe that collecting information about the types of assets
held in these accounts would allow us to better monitor this segment of the investment advisory
industry by, for instance, allowing us to identify advisers that specialize in certain asset classes.
Advisers would report this information annually. For advisers with at least $10 billion in
regulatory assets under management attributable to separately managed accounts, we propose to
collect both mid-year and year-end data on an annual basis.
Second, we propose to require advisers with at least $150 million in regulatory assets
under management attributable to separately managed accounts to report information on the use
of borrowings and derivatives in those accounts.16 For advisers with at least $150 million but
less than $10 billion in regulatory assets under management attributable to separately managed
accounts, we propose reporting of the number of accounts that correspond to certain categories
of gross notional exposure, and the weighted average amount of borrowings (as a percentage of
net asset value) in those accounts.17 For purposes of this proposed item, gross notional exposure

16

The $150 million threshold is consistent with Form PF, which requires investment advisers registered with
the Commission that advise one or more private funds and have at least $150 million in private fund assets
under management to file Form PF.

17

The Glossary to Proposed Form ADV includes “gross notional value”, “borrowings” and “net asset value.”
The Glossary to Proposed Form ADV defines “borrowings” as “[S]ecured borrowings and unsecured
borrowings, collectively. Secured borrowings are obligations for borrowed money in respect of which the
borrower has posted collateral or other credit support and should include any reverse repos (i.e., any sale of
securities coupled with an agreement to repurchase the same (or similar) securities at a later date at an
agreed price). Unsecured borrowings are obligations for borrowed money in respect of which the borrower
has not posted collateral or other credit support.” The Glossary to Proposed Form ADV defines “gross
notional value” as “The gross nominal or notional value of all transactions that have been entered into but
not yet settled as of the reporting date. For contracts with variable nominal or notional principal amounts,
the basis for reporting is the nominal or notional principal amounts as of the reporting date. For options,
use delta adjusted notional value.” The Glossary to Proposed Form ADV defines “net asset value” as
“With respect to any client, the gross assets of the client’s accounts minus any outstanding indebtedness or
other accrued but unpaid liabilities.” These definitions are consistent with those in Form PF.

10

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

is the percentage obtained by dividing (i) the sum of (a) the dollar amount of any borrowings and
(b) the gross notional value of all derivatives, by (ii) the net asset value of the account.
Reporting on the use of borrowings and derivatives would only be required with respect to
separately managed accounts with a net asset value of at least $10 million. Advisers with at least
$10 billion in regulatory assets under management attributable to separately managed accounts
would have to report the gross notional exposure and borrowing information described above, as
well as the weighted average gross notional value of derivatives (as a percentage of the net asset
value) in each of six different categories of derivatives.18 We are proposing to collect
information about gross notional exposure, borrowings, and gross notional value of derivatives
because we believe it is important for us to better understand the use of derivatives and
borrowings by advisers in separately managed accounts.19 We are proposing to use these
measures because they are commonly used metrics in assessing the use of derivatives and are
comparable to information collected on Form PF regarding private funds. This reporting would
be required for advisers managing at least $150 million in regulatory assets under management
attributable to separately managed accounts, but all advisers to separately managed accounts
would be required to report in Section 5.K.(1) the percentage of separately managed account
assets held in derivatives.
Advisers would be required to update the derivatives and borrowings information
annually when filing their annual updating amendment to Form ADV, which is consistent with
18

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 5.K.(2)(a).

19

In response to the FSOC Request for Comment, supra note 11, several commenters discussed a variety of
measures for reporting leverage (which includes derivatives and borrowings). See, e.g., Comment Letter of
the Asset Management Group of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association and the
Investment Adviser Association (March 25, 2015); Comment Letter of BlackRock, Inc. (March 25, 2015);
Comment Letter of Fidelity Investments (March 25, 2015); and Comment Letter of Managed Funds
Association (March 25, 2015).

11

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

the requirement for updating other information in Item 5 of Form ADV. In addition, advisers
with at least $10 billion in separately managed account regulatory assets under management
would be required to report both mid-year and year-end information as part of their annual
filing.20 Note that we are not proposing that advisers file information semi-annually. Rather,
when filing an annual amendment, the adviser would be required to provide information as of
each semi-annual period. Requiring less detailed reporting for advisers that manage less than
$10 billion in separately managed account assets, and requiring reporting on borrowings and
derivatives only with respect to separately managed accounts with a net asset value of at least
$10 million, are designed to balance our regulatory need for this information while seeking to
minimize the reporting burden on smaller advisers where appropriate. Our staff estimates that
approximately six percent of advisers that manage separately managed accounts would be
required to provide the more detailed semi-annual information.21 The proposed amendments are
designed to provide mid-year and end of year data points to assist our staff in identifying the use
of borrowings and derivative exposures in large separately managed accounts as part of the
staff’s risk assessment and monitoring programs, and to allow Commission staff to identify and
monitor trends in borrowings and derivatives transactions in separately managed accounts.
Finally, we propose to require advisers to identify any custodians that account for at least
ten percent of separately managed account regulatory assets under management, and the amount
20

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 5.K.(2)(a).

21

We propose to focus the proposed semi-annual reporting requirements on the top five to ten percent of
registered investment advisers to separately managed accounts. Based on IARD data as of April 1, 2015,
of the 8,500 registered investment advisers that reported regulatory assets under management from clients
other than registered investment companies, business development companies and pooled investment
vehicles (indicating that they have assets under management attributable to separately managed accounts)
approximately 535 (approximately 6.3%) reported at least $10 billion in regulatory assets under
management attributable to separately managed account clients. Having additional information about these
larger advisers assists the staff in risk assessment.

12

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

of the adviser’s regulatory assets under management attributable to separately managed accounts
held at the custodian.22 Information about assets held, custodians and the use of borrowings and
derivatives in separately managed accounts is similar to information collected about pooled
investment vehicles, and it would significantly improve our understanding of this segment of
advisers’ accounts. This information would allow examination staff to identify advisers whose
clients use the same custodian in the event, for example, a concern is raised about a particular
custodian.23 Advisers frequently have client accounts at many custodians as a result of client
requirements. Accordingly, we are proposing a ten percent threshold in order to focus the
proposed reporting requirements on the identification of custodians that serve a significant
number of advisers’ separately managed account clients.
We request comment on the changes we propose to make to Form ADV regarding
separately managed accounts.


Advisers would be required to update separately managed account information annually.
Should we require more frequent reporting, such as quarterly reporting? Should an
adviser be required to update information on separately managed accounts any time the
adviser files an other-than-annual amendment to Form ADV? Is it appropriate to require

22

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.K.(4) and Schedule D, Section 5.K.(3). We acknowledge that
advisers that have custody (or whose related persons have custody) of client assets also currently report the
number of persons who act as qualified custodians for their clients in connection with advisory services
provided to clients in response to Part 1A, Item 9.F. The proposed item would provide the Commission
with more detailed information about custodians by requiring advisers to separately managed accounts to
identify all custodians, not just qualified custodians, that service ten percent or greater of separately
managed account client assets, and would require a response whether or not the adviser or the adviser’s
related person has custody of assets in separately managed accounts.

23

Information about custodians of separately managed accounts also would complement similar information
that we obtain for pooled investment vehicles. See Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 7.B.(1),
Question 25. Registered investment companies are required to identify their custodians, see, e.g., Form N1A, Item 19(h)(3) [17 CFR 274.11A].

13

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

semi-annual data in annual reporting instead of semi-annual reporting for advisers that
manage at least $10 billion in separately managed accounts? Why or why not?


In order to better understand the use of derivatives in separately managed accounts,
would we need more data points from each adviser than the annual and semi-annual
proposed data points? Why or why not?



Are the $10 million, $150 million and $10 billion thresholds appropriate? Why or why
not? Should we require advisers that manage less than $150 million in assets under
management attributable to separately managed accounts to report additional information
about those accounts or report semi-annual information?



Should we ask about the investment strategies used in separately managed accounts as
opposed or in addition to asset types? If so, how should we define the investment
strategies so that information reported to us is meaningful? Should we use some or all of
the investment strategies listed in Form PF for private funds?24 Is there other information
about separately managed accounts that we should consider instead?



Is there any overlap among the proposed asset types? If so, which particular types? Are
there any additional asset types that should be included?



Would disclosure of aggregate holdings, derivatives and borrowings in separately
managed accounts raise concerns, in light of Section 210(c) of the Advisers Act,
regarding the identity, investments, or affairs of any clients owning those accounts when
clients are not identified? If so, please explain, and address whether there are ways in
which the Commission could address these concerns and still request comparable
information.

24

See, e.g., Form PF, Section 1c, Item B., Question 20.

14

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION



Would the disclosure of information about separately managed accounts in the aggregate
be useful for risk monitoring and data analysis purposes? Why or why not?



Are the proposed definitions related to Schedule D, Section 5.K.(1) and (2) sufficiently
clear to allow advisers to provide the requested information? If not, please explain why
and provide alternative definitions or suggestions. Would a definition of “derivatives”
improve the reporting requirements? If so, how should that term be defined? For
instance, should it be defined broadly to include instruments whose price is dependent on
or derives from one or more underlying assets? Alternatively, should it be defined to
mean futures and forward contracts, options, swaps, security-based swaps, combinations
of the foregoing, or any similar instruments, or should it be defined in some other
manner? If, so, how?



Are gross notional exposures and gross notional values appropriate measures of the use
of derivatives? Are there alternative or additional measures that we should consider?



Would the disclosure of information about separately managed accounts affect or
influence business or other decisions by advisers?



Is ten percent an appropriate threshold for information on custodians that serve a
significant number of separately managed accounts? Should it be higher or lower? If so,
why?



Should we require advisers to report information about the use of securities lending and
repurchase agreements in separately managed accounts? If so, is there specific
information we should collect, and should we require information only from advisers that
manage a large amount of separately managed account assets? Are securities lending
arrangements and repurchase agreements used by separately managed accounts to such

15

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

an extent that we should require all advisers that manage separately managed accounts to
report this information?


Is there additional information we should collect that would assist us in learning more
about separately managed accounts?



Is the information required to answer these proposed questions readily available to
advisers? If not, why?
2.

Additional Information Regarding Investment Advisers

In addition to the proposals outlined above regarding separately managed accounts, we
are proposing to add several new questions and amend existing questions on Form ADV
regarding identifying information, an adviser’s advisory business, and affiliations. These items,
developed through our staff’s experience in examining and monitoring investment advisers, are
designed to enhance our understanding and oversight of investment advisers and to assist our
staff in its risk-based examination program.
Additional Identifying Information:
We propose several amendments to Item 1 of Part 1A of Form ADV to improve certain
identifying information that we obtain. Item 1 currently requires an adviser to provide a Central
Index Key number (“CIK Number”) in Item 1.N only if the adviser is a public reporting
company under Sections 12 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.25 We propose to
remove this question from Item 1.N. and add a question to Item 1.D. that would require an
adviser to provide all of its CIK Numbers if it has one or more such numbers assigned,26

25

Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.N.

26

The SEC assigns CIK numbers in EDGAR not only to identify entities as public reporting companies, but
also when an entity is registered with the SEC in another capacity, such as a transfer agent.

16

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

regardless of public reporting company status.27 Requiring registrants to provide all of their
assigned CIK numbers, if any, would improve our staff’s ability to use and coordinate Form
ADV information with information from other sources to investigate relationships relating to
investment advisers.
Item 1.I of Part 1A of Form ADV currently asks whether an adviser has one or more
websites, and Section 1.I. of Schedule D requests the website address. We propose to amend
Item 1.I. to ask whether the adviser has one or more websites or websites for social media
platforms, such as Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn, and request the social media addresses in
addition to the adviser’s website address in Section 1.I. of Schedule D.28 Along with websites,
advisers increasingly utilize social media to communicate and it would be useful for this
information to be available to us and the general public. Our staff could use this information to
help prepare for examinations of investment advisers and compare information that advisers
disseminate across different social media platforms as well as identifying and monitoring new
platforms. Current and prospective clients could use this information to learn more about
advisers and make more informed decisions regarding the selection of advisers.
We propose amending Item 1.F of Part 1A of Form ADV and Section 1.F. of Schedule D
to expand the information provided about an adviser’s offices other than its principal office and
place of business. We currently require an adviser to provide contact and other information
about its principal office and place of business, and, if an adviser conducts advisory activities

27

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.D.(3).

28

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.I. and Section 1.I. of Schedule D.

17

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

from more than one location, about its largest five offices in terms of number of employees.29 In
order to assist Commission examination staff to learn more about an investment adviser’s
business and identify locations to conduct examinations, we are now proposing that advisers
provide us with the total number of offices at which they conduct investment advisory business
and provide information in Schedule D about their 25 largest offices in terms of number of
employees.30 We propose 25 offices as the number to be reported because it would provide a
complete listing of offices for the vast majority of investment advisers, and provide valuable
information about the main business locations for the few advisers that have a very large number
of offices.31
In addition to providing contact information for the 25 largest offices, we propose to
amend Section 1.F. of Schedule D to require advisers to report each office’s CRD branch number
(if applicable) and the number of employees who performed advisory functions from each office,
identify from a list of securities-related activities the business activities conducted from each
office, and describe any other investment-related business conducted from each office. This
information would help our staff assess risk, because it provides a better understanding of an
investment adviser’s operations and the nature of activities conducted in its top 25 offices. In
addition, if the staff wanted to focus on offices that conducted a combination of activities, such
as those that engaged in municipal advisory activities as well as investment advisory activities, it
would have that information readily available.
29

Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.F. and Section 1.F. of Schedule D.

30

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.F. and Section 1.F. of Schedule D.

31

IAPD Investment Adviser Registered Representative State Data as of April 1, 2015 shows that a majority
of SEC-registered advisers (approximately 98%) have 25 or fewer offices, but that many of the remaining
two percent have many multiples of 25 offices.

18

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

Item 1.J. of Form ADV currently requires each adviser to provide the name and contact
information for the adviser’s chief compliance officer. We propose to amend Item 1.J. to
require an adviser to report whether its chief compliance officer is compensated or employed by
any person other than the adviser (or a related person of the adviser) for providing chief
compliance officer services, and, if so, to report the name and IRS Employer Identification
Number (if any) of that other person. Our examination staff has observed a wide spectrum of
both quality and effectiveness of outsourced chief compliance officers and firms. Identifying
information for these third-party service providers, like others on Form ADV,32 would allow us
to identify all advisers relying on a particular service provider and could be used to improve our
ability to assess potential risks.
We propose to amend Item 1.O. to require advisers to report their own assets within a
range.33 We added this item in 2011, and it currently requires an adviser to check a box to
indicate if it has assets of $1 billion or more, in connection with the Dodd-Frank Act’s
requirements concerning certain incentive-based compensation arrangements.34 Requiring
advisers to report assets within a given range would provide more accurate data for use in
Commission rulemaking arising from ongoing Dodd-Frank Act implementation.35

32

For example, advisers provide the names and addresses of independent public accountants that perform
audits or surprise examinations and that prepare internal control reports on Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule
D, Section 9.C.

33

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.O.

34

See Implementing Release, supra note 4; Section 956 of the Dodd-Frank Act. We also propose to move the
instruction for how to report “assets” for the purpose of Item 1.O. from the Instructions for Part 1A to Form
ADV to Item 1.O. in order to emphasize this instruction.

35

See, e.g., Section 165(i) of the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires the Commission and other financial
regulators to establish methodologies for the conduct of stress tests required by section 165 of the Act.

19

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

We request comment on the proposed changes to Item 1 of Part 1A and Section 1 of
Schedule D.


Are there concerns with providing all CIK numbers assigned to an adviser? If so, please
explain those concerns.



Are there concerns with providing social media information for advisers? If so, please
explain those concerns. Are there ways that we could address these concerns and still
request comparable information?



Would the proposed social media information be useful to investors? Why or why not?



Is there additional social media information that we should collect? Should we ask
advisers whether they permit employees to have social media accounts associated with
the advisers’ business? And, if so, should we ask advisers to identify the number or
percentage of employees that have those accounts? How burdensome would it be for
advisers to report that information?



As proposed, information would be required regarding an adviser’s 25 largest offices.
We selected 25 in order to balance the burden to investment advisers with providing this
information with our need for information about additional offices. If instead we were to
require all offices to be reported, would the burden on advisers be significant? Should we
decrease the number of offices or provide another standard to identify the offices that
should be reported?



Would additional information about an adviser’s offices be helpful to investors? Why or
why not?



Are there concerns related to disclosure of information regarding outsourced chief
compliance officers? If so, please explain those concerns.
20

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION



In addition to the identification of outsourced chief compliance officers, should we also
request information about advisers’ use of third-party compliance auditors? If so, what
information should we request?



Are there any concerns related to disclosing the range of an adviser’s own assets? If so,
please explain those concerns. Should the ranges be different than proposed? Why or
why not?



Are the proposed requirements clearly stated?



Do advisers readily have access to the data and information requested by these proposed
changes?

Additional Information About Advisory Business:
In addition to the proposed amendments to Item 5 regarding separately managed accounts
discussed above, we are proposing a number of other amendments to Item 5. Item 5 currently
requires an adviser to provide approximate ranges for three important data points concerning the
adviser’s business – the number of advisory clients, the types of advisory clients, and regulatory
assets under management attributable to client types.36 We propose to amend these items to
require an adviser to report the number of clients and amount of regulatory assets under
management attributable to each category of clients as of the date the adviser determines its
regulatory assets under management.37 Replacing ranges with more precise information would
provide more accurate information about investment advisers and would significantly enhance
36

Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.C.(1), Item 5.D.(1)-(2).

37

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.D.(1)-(2). The categories of clients are the same as those in Item
5.D. of the current Form ADV, except that we propose adding “sovereign wealth funds and foreign official
institutions” as a client category, and specifying that state or municipal government entities include
government pension plans, and that government pension plans should not be counted as pension and profit
sharing plans.

21

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

our ability to analyze data across investment advisers because providing actual numbers of
clients and regulatory assets under management allows us to see the scale and concentration of
assets by client type. It will also allow us to determine the regulatory assets under management
attributable to separately managed accounts. We believe that the information needed for
providing the number of clients and amount of regulatory assets under management should be
readily available to advisers because, among other reasons, advisers are producing this data to
answer the current iterations of these questions on Form ADV, and advisers typically base their
advisory fees on client assets under management. We also propose to require reporting on the
number of clients for whom an adviser provided advisory services but does not have regulatory
assets under management in order to obtain a more complete understanding of the adviser’s
advisory business.38 This information also would assist in our risk assessment process and
increase the effectiveness of our examinations.
We are proposing several targeted additions to Item 5 and Section 5 of Schedule D to
inform our risk-based exam program and other risk monitoring initiatives. An adviser that elects
to report client assets in Part 2A of Form ADV differently from the regulatory assets under
management it reported in Part 1A of Form ADV would be required to check a box noting that
election.39 This information would allow our examination staff to review across advisers the

38

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.C.(1). An example of a situation where an adviser provides
investment advice but does not have regulatory assets under management is a nondiscretionary account or a
one-time financial plan, depending on the facts and circumstances.

39

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.J.(2). Form ADV, Part 2A, Item 4.E. requires an investment adviser
to disclose the amount of client assets it manages on a discretionary basis and on a non-discretionary basis.
The method used by an adviser to compute the amount of client assets it manages can be different from the
method used to compute regulatory assets under management required for Item 5.F. in Part 1A. As
discussed in the proposing release for Part 2, the regulatory assets under management calculation for Part
1A is designed for a particular purpose (i.e., for making a bright line determination about whether an
adviser should register with the Commission or with the states) and permitting a different calculation for
Part 2 disclosure may be appropriate to enable advisers to make disclosure that is more indicative to clients

22

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

extent to which advisers report assets under management in Part 2A that differ from the
regulatory assets under management reported in Part 1A of Form ADV. Having this information
would allow our staff to better understand the situations in which the calculations differ, and
assist us in analyzing whether those differences require a regulatory response. In addition, we
propose to add a question asking the approximate amount of an adviser’s regulatory assets under
management that is attributable to non-U.S. clients40 to complement the current requirement that
each adviser report the percentage of its clients that are non-U.S. persons, which, based on our
experience, is not always a reliable indicator of an adviser’s relationships with non-U.S. clients.41
Our examination staff could use this information to better understand the extent of investment
advice provided to non-U.S. clients which would assist us in our risk assessment process.
Section 5.G.(3) of Schedule D currently requires the SEC File Number for registered
investment companies and business development companies advised by the adviser. We propose
adding to Section 5.G.(3) a requirement that advisers report the regulatory assets under
management of all parallel managed accounts related to a registered investment company or
business development company that is advised by the adviser.42 This information would be
helpful because it would permit our staff to assess the accounts and consider how an adviser
about the nature of their business. See Amendments to Form ADV, Investment Advisers Act Release No.
2711 (March 3, 2008) [73 FR 13958 (March. 14, 2008)].
40

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.F.(3).

41

Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.C.(2). For example, an adviser may report a significant percentage of clients
that are non-U.S. persons, but the regulatory assets under management attributable to those clients is a
small percentage of the adviser’s regulatory assets under management.

42

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 5.G.(3) of Schedule D. The Glossary to Proposed Form ADV
includes “parallel managed account,” which would be defined as: “With respect to any registered
investment company or business development company, a parallel managed account is any managed
account or other pool of assets that you advise and that pursues substantially the same investment objective
and strategy and invests side by side in substantially the same positions as the identified investment
company or business development company that you advise.”

23

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

manages conflicts of interest between parallel managed accounts and registered investment
companies or business development companies advised by the adviser. This information also
would show the extent of any shift in assets between parallel managed accounts and registered
investment companies or business development companies.
Finally, we propose to amend Item 5 to obtain additional information concerning wrap
fee programs.43 Item 5.I. of Part 1A currently requires an adviser to indicate whether it serves as
a sponsor of or portfolio manager for a wrap fee program. We propose to amend Item 5.I. to
require an adviser to report the total amount of regulatory assets under management attributable
to acting as a sponsor and/or portfolio manager of a wrap fee program.44 Section 5.I.(2) of
Schedule D currently requires advisers to list the name and sponsor of each wrap fee program for
which the adviser serves as portfolio manager. We propose amending Section 5.I.(2) to add
questions that would require an adviser to provide any SEC File Number and CRD Number for
sponsors to those wrap fee programs.45 This information would help us better understand a
particular adviser’s business and assist in our risk assessment and examination process by
making it easier for our staff to identify the extent to which the firm acts as sponsor or portfolio
manager of wrap fee programs and collect information across investment advisers involved in a
particular wrap fee program. Wrap fee accounts are held by a large number of retail clients, and
we believe additional information about the capacity in which advisers serve these accounts
would help us better protect investors.
43

Form ADV, Glossary defines a wrap fee program as “[a]ny advisory program under which a specified fee
or fees not based directly upon transactions in a client’s account is charged for investment advisory services
(which may include portfolio management or advice concerning the selection of other investment advisers)
and the execution of client transactions.” We are not proposing any change to this definition.

44

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 5.I.

45

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 5.I.(2) of Schedule D.

24

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

We request comment on the additional changes we propose to make to Item 5 and related
sections of Schedule D.


Please describe any benefits or concerns with using more precise numbers in Item 5,
rather than ranges.



Is there any overlap among the categories of clients, and if so, among which particular
categories? How could we address any overlaps?



Please describe any concerns with providing information on: (a) the number of clients
for whom investment advisers provide advisory services but do not have regulatory assets
under management; (b) the regulatory assets under management attributable to non-U.S.
clients; or (c) parallel managed accounts. Are there other types of information advisers
could report that would meet our goals?



Would the additional information on wrap fee programs be helpful to investors and other
market participants? Should any additional information be required?



Would advisers readily have access to the data requested?



Are the proposed requirements clearly stated?

Additional Information about Financial Industry Affiliations and Private Fund Reporting:
Part 1A, Section 7.A. of Schedule D requires information on an adviser’s financial
industry affiliations and Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D requires information on private funds
managed by the adviser. We are proposing amendments to Sections 7.A. and 7.B.(1) of
Schedule D that would require advisers to provide identifying numbers (e.g., Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) registration numbers46 and CIK numbers47) in several

46

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 23(e).

25

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

questions to allow us to better compare information across data sets and understand relationships
of advisers to other financial service providers. We are also proposing a new question that
would require advisers to report the percentage of a private fund owned by qualified clients, as
defined in rule 205-3 under the Advisers Act.48 This information would help us better
understand the nature of investors in private funds.
We request comment on the proposed changes to Sections 7.A. and 7.B.(1) of Schedule
D.


Would advisers readily have access to the data requested?



Please describe any concerns with providing: (a) identifying numbers; or (b) the
percentage of a private fund owned by qualified clients.



Are the requirements clearly stated?
3.

Umbrella Registration

The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, repealed the private adviser exemption that
used to be in section 203(b)(3) of the Advisers Act.49 As a result, many previously unregistered
advisers to private funds,50 including hedge funds and private equity funds, were required to

47

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.A of Schedule D, Question 4(b).

48

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 15(b).

49

Section 403 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Section 203(b)(3) of the Advisers Act (the “private adviser
exemption”) previously exempted any investment adviser from registration if the investment adviser (i) had
fewer than 15 clients in the preceding 12 months, (ii) did not hold itself out to the public as an investment
adviser and (iii) did not act as an investment adviser to a registered investment company or a company that
elected to be a business development company.

50

Section 202(a)(29) of the Advisers Act defines the term “private fund” as “an issuer that would be an
investment company, as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3),
but for section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act.”

26

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

register under the Advisers Act. Today, about 4,364 registered investment advisers provide
advice on approximately $10.1 trillion in assets to approximately 28,532 private funds clients.51
For a variety of tax, legal and regulatory reasons, advisers to private funds may be
organized as a group of related advisers that are separate legal entities but effectively operate
as - and appear to investors and regulators to be - a single advisory business. Although these
separate legal entities effectively operate as a single advisory business,52 Form ADV is designed
to accommodate the registration request of an adviser structured as a single legal entity. As a
result, a private fund adviser organized as a group of related advisers could have to file multiple
registration forms for the same advisory business. Multiple Form ADVs for a single advisory
business may distort the data we collect on Form ADV and use in our regulatory program, be
less efficient and more costly for advisers, and may be confusing to the public researching an
adviser on our website.
Our staff provided guidance to private fund advisers before the compliance date of the
Dodd-Frank Act private fund adviser registration requirements designed to address concerns
raised by advisers.53 The guidance provided conditions under which the staff believed one

51

Based on IARD data as of April 1, 2015.

52

We will treat as a single adviser two or more affiliated advisers that are separate legal entities but are
operationally integrated, which could result in a requirement for one or both advisers to register. See
Exemptions for Advisers to Venture Capital Funds, Private Fund Advisers With Less Than $150 Million in
Assets Under Management, and Foreign Private Advisers, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 3222
(June 22, 2011) [76 FR 39646 (July 6, 2011)] (“Exemptions Release”); see also In the Matter of TL
Ventures Inc., Investment Advisers Act Release No. 3859 (June 20, 2014) (settled action).

53

See 2012 ABA Letter. The Division of Investment Management previously provided no-action relief to
enable a special purpose vehicle (“SPV”) that acts as a private fund’s general partner or managing member
to essentially rely upon its parent adviser’s registration with the Commission rather than separately register.
See American Bar Association Subcommittee on Private Investment Entities, SEC Staff Letter (Dec. 8,
2005), Question G1, available at http://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/noaction/aba120805.htm (the
“2005 ABA Letter”).

27

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

adviser (the “filing adviser”) may file a single Form ADV on behalf of itself and other advisers
that are controlled by or under common control with the filing adviser (each, a “relying
adviser”), provided that they conduct a single advisory business (collectively an “umbrella
registration”). We believe that the staff’s position has been successful in addressing the
registration concerns that can arise from the legal structures of private fund advisers. Most
advisers that can rely on umbrella registration are doing so, with approximately 750 filing
advisers and approximately 2,500 relying advisers filing umbrella registrations.54
The method outlined in the staff guidance for filing Form ADV on behalf of multiple
entities is limited, however, by the form being designed for a single legal entity, and in some
cases complicates data collection and analysis on umbrella registrants and can confuse filers and
the public.55 The amendments to Part 1A that we propose would yield additional and more
consistent data about, and create a clearer picture of, groups of private fund advisers that operate
as a single business, while codifying the concept of umbrella registration and simplifying the
process of registration for such advisers. The amendments also would allow for greater
comparability across private fund advisers.
Under the amendments we are proposing, umbrella registration would be available where
a filing adviser and one or more relying advisers conduct a single private fund advisory business

54

Based on IARD data as of April 1, 2015.

55

Under the guidance provided by the staff, for example, umbrella registration is appropriate where a relying
adviser is not prohibited from registering with the Commission by section 203A of the Advisers Act. See
2012 ABA Letter, supra note 9. However, a relying adviser does not currently have a way to answer Item
2 regarding the basis on which it is eligible for SEC registration. In addition, relying advisers often must
list owners and executive officers in a confusing manner in Schedules A and B which were not designed to
accommodate multiple advisers and do not always provide the Commission staff with useful information
on the owners of each relying adviser. Also, the filing adviser currently discloses its reliance on the 2012
ABA Letter in the Miscellaneous Section of Schedule D.

28

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

and each relying adviser is controlled by or under common control with the filing adviser. As
proposed, umbrella registration would only be available in the scenario of a private fund adviser
operating as a single business through multiple legal entities. At this time, we do not believe
umbrella registration would be appropriate for advisers that are related but that operate separate
advisory businesses as it would compromise data quality and complicate analyses that rely on
data from Form ADV.56 In addition, providing for disparate businesses to register on a single
Form ADV as it is designed today would limit investors’ ability to assess information on
investment advisers because, based on our experience, reporting information about multiple
advisers’ businesses together on a single form would make Part 1A difficult to understand.
Accordingly, we are proposing amendments to Form ADV’s General Instructions that
would establish conditions for an adviser to assess whether umbrella registration is available.
The conditions, which are indicia of a single advisory business, include the following:
1. The filing adviser and each relying adviser advise only private funds and clients in
separately managed accounts that are qualified clients (as defined in rule 205-3 under the
Advisers Act) and are otherwise eligible to invest in the private funds advised by the
filing adviser or a relying adviser and whose accounts pursue investment objectives and
strategies that are substantially similar or otherwise related to those private funds;

56

The filing of a single Form ADV for exempt reporting advisers in a manner similar to the filing of an
umbrella registration for registered advisers also would not be available as the conditions of a single
advisory business are designed, in part, to reflect requirements that only apply to registered advisers,
including the requirement for compliance policies and procedures pursuant to rule 206(4)-7 under the
Advisers Act and for a code of ethics pursuant to rule 204A-1 under the Advisers Act. An exempt
reporting adviser is an investment adviser that qualifies for the exemption from registration under section
203(l) of the Advisers Act because it is an adviser solely to one or more venture capital funds, or under rule
203(m)-1 under the Advisers Act because it is an adviser solely to private funds and has assets under
management in the United States of less than $150 million. See Form ADV Glossary.

29

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

2. The filing adviser has its principal office and place of business in the United States and,
therefore, all of the substantive provisions of the Advisers Act and the rules thereunder
apply to the filing adviser’s and each relying adviser’s dealings with each of its clients,
regardless of whether any client or the filing adviser or relying adviser providing the
advice is a United States person; 57
3. Each relying adviser, its employees and the persons acting on its behalf are subject to the
filing adviser’s supervision and control and, therefore, each relying adviser, its employees
and the persons acting on its behalf are “persons associated with” the filing adviser (as
defined in section 202(a)(17) of the Advisers Act);
4. The advisory activities of each relying adviser are subject to the Advisers Act and the
rules thereunder, and each relying adviser is subject to examination by the Commission;
and
5. The filing adviser and each relying adviser operate under a single code of ethics adopted
in accordance with rule 204A-1 under the Advisers Act and a single set of written
policies and procedures adopted and implemented in accordance with rule 206(4)-(7)
under the Advisers Act and administered by a single chief compliance officer in
accordance with that rule.58

57

As we have previously stated, we do not apply most of the substantive provisions of the Advisers Act to the
non-U.S. clients of a non-U.S. adviser registered with the Commission. See Exemptions Release, supra
note 52, at section II.D. The Glossary to Form ADV provides that “United States person” has the same
meaning as in rule 203(m)-1 under the Advisers Act, which includes any natural person that is resident in
the United States.

58

Under this approach, the code of ethics and written policies and procedures must be administered as if the
filing adviser and each relying adviser are part of a single entity, although they may take into account, for
example, that a relying adviser operating in a different jurisdiction may have obligations that differ from
the filing adviser or another relying adviser.

30

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

The conditions are drawn from our experience with examining investment advisers and
are designed to capture advisers to private funds that operate as a single business through
commonality of the application of the Advisers Act and rules to all entities, implementation of
compliance requirements, and advisory services. They are designed to include advisers to
private funds (as discussed in condition 1) that operate as a single business. Conditions 2 and 4
provide assurance that our staff has access to and can readily examine the filing and relying
advisers and that the Advisers Act and the rules thereunder fully apply to all advisers under the
umbrella registration and clients of those advisers. Conditions 3 and 5 are designed to address
the requirement that the filing and relying advisers operate as a single business. Advisers that
operate under common supervision and control and have a single set of compliance policies and
procedures and code of ethics are likely to operate as a single business. Finally, the conditions
are the same as those in the staff’s guidance that many investment advisers have relied on since
2012 (except that the staff’s guidance also included disclosure conditions for Form ADV, the
substance of which is covered elsewhere in this proposal).59
In addition, we propose to amend the General Instructions to provide advisers using
umbrella registration directions on completing Form ADV for the filing adviser and each relying
adviser, including details for filing umbrella registration requests and the timing of filings and
amendments in connection with an umbrella registration.60 To satisfy the requirements of Form
ADV while using umbrella registration, the filing adviser would be required to file, and update
as required, a single Form ADV (Parts 1 and 2) that relates to, and includes all information
concerning, the filing adviser and each relying adviser, and must include this same information
59

See 2012 ABA Letter, supra note 9, Question 4.

60

See Proposed Form ADV General Instruction 5.

31

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

in any other reports or filings it must make under the Advisers Act or the rules thereunder (e.g.,
Form PF). The proposed revisions to the form’s Instructions and Form ADV would further
specify those questions that should be answered solely with respect to the filing adviser and
those that require the filing adviser to answer on behalf of itself and its relying adviser(s).61
Additionally, we propose amending the Glossary to add the following three terms: (i) “filing
adviser;”62 (ii) “relying adviser;”63 and (iii) “umbrella registration.”64
We also are proposing a new schedule to Part 1A – Schedule R – that would have to be
filed for each relying adviser.65 Schedule R would require identifying information, basis for SEC
registration, and ownership information about each relying adviser, some of which is already
filed by an adviser relying on the staff guidance.66 This new schedule would consolidate in one
location important information for each relying adviser and address the problem the staff faced in
its guidance that resulted in information regarding relying advisers being submitted in response
to a number of different items on the Form, in ways not consistent across advisers, due to the fact
61

See, e.g., statements added to Proposed Form ADV, Instructions and Part 1A, Items 1, 2, 3, 7, 10 and 11.

62

“Filing Adviser” would mean: “An investment adviser eligible to register with the SEC that files (and
amends) a single umbrella registration on behalf of itself and each of its relying advisers.” See Proposed
Form ADV Glossary.

63

“Relying Adviser” would mean: “An investment adviser eligible to register with the SEC that relies on a
filing adviser to file (and amend) a single umbrella registration on its behalf.” See Proposed Form ADV
Glossary.

64

“Umbrella Registration” would mean: “A single registration by a filing adviser and one or more relying
advisers who collectively conduct a single advisory business and that meet the conditions set forth in
General Instruction 5.” See Proposed Form ADV Glossary.

65

Advisers that choose to file an umbrella registration would be directed by Item 1.B. to complete a new
Schedule R for each relying adviser. Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 1.B.(2).

66

Schedule R would require the following information for each relying adviser: identifying information
(Section 1); basis for SEC registration (Section 2); form of organization (Section 3) and control persons
(Section 4). For basis for SEC registration (Section 2), we do not include categories that would make the
relying adviser ineligible for umbrella registration, such as serving as an adviser to a registered investment
company.

32

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

that Form ADV was not designed to accommodate umbrella registration.67 Finally, we propose
to add a new question to Schedule D that would require advisers to identify the filing advisers
and relying advisers that manage or sponsor private funds reported on Form ADV. This
information would allow us to identify the specific adviser managing the private fund reported
on Form ADV if it is part of an umbrella registration.68
Advisers registering in reliance on the staff’s umbrella registration approach outlined in
the 2012 ABA Letter do not provide information about each relying adviser’s address, CRD,
unique identifier numbers, basis for registration or form of organization. Our proposal would
require this information to be reported. We believe that certain information that we propose
requiring as part of umbrella registration (such as mailing address and basis for registration)
would be the same for nearly all relying advisers, and the filing adviser could check a box
indicating that the mailing address of the relying advisers is the same as that of the filing adviser.
Advisers relying on the 2012 ABA Letter do not currently identify the filing adviser or relying
adviser that advises private funds reported on Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, and our proposal
would require this information to be reported. We believe that this information would help us
better understand the management of private funds, would provide information to contact relying
advisers, and would help us better understand the relationship between relying advisers and filing
advisers.

67

Under the staff’s guidance in the 2012 ABA Letter, an adviser reports in its Form ADV (Miscellaneous
Section of Schedule D) that it and its relying advisers are together filing a single Form ADV in reliance on
the position expressed in the letter and identifies each relying adviser by completing a separate Section
1.B., Schedule D, of Form ADV for each relying adviser and identifying it as such by including the
notation “(relying adviser).” See 2012 ABA Letter, supra note 9, Question 4.

68

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 3(b).

33

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

We request comment on the changes we propose to make to Form ADV regarding
umbrella registration.


Should we amend Form ADV to accommodate umbrella registration? Why or why not?



Would these amendments be helpful for private fund advisers and investors?



Is umbrella registration appropriate or should we require separate registration by each
adviser?



Would umbrella registration provide more consistent and clear information about groups
of private fund advisers that operate as a single business? Why or why not?



Are there additional or different conditions we should consider for umbrella registration?



Should we require that the availability of umbrella registration be expanded to include
advisers with clients that are not primarily private funds, and if so, what are the legal
structures that it should accommodate and are the proposed conditions sufficient to
capture only single advisory businesses?



We are not proposing to make filing an umbrella registration mandatory, because we
believe it is appropriate to permit advisers to file a separate Form ADV for each relying
adviser if they choose to do so.69 Should umbrella registration be required? Should firms
indicate if they could, but chose not to, rely on umbrella registration?



Are the proposed amendments to the instructions and Form ADV sufficient to implement
umbrella registration? If not, what amendments are necessary?



Should we require more, less or different information on proposed Schedule R? What
information should be added or deleted?

69

Under the proposed amendments, multiple private advisers operating a single advisory business may elect
to apply separately for registration.

34

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

4.

Proposed Clarifying, Technical and Other Amendments to Form ADV

We are proposing several amendments to Form ADV that are designed to clarify the form
and its instructions. We believe these proposed amendments to Form ADV would make the
filing process clearer and therefore more efficient for advisers, and increase the reliability and
the consistency of information provided by investment advisers. More reliable and consistent
information would improve our staff’s ability to interpret, understand, and place in context the
information provided by advisers, and also would allow our staff to make comparisons across
investment advisers, and improve the risk assessment and examination program. Many of these
proposed amendments are derived from questions frequently received by our staff.
Proposed Amendments to Item 2:
Item 2.A. of Part 1A of Form ADV requires an adviser to select the basis upon which it is
eligible to register with the Commission, and Item 2.A.(9) includes as a basis that the adviser is
eligible for registration because it is a “newly formed adviser” relying on rule 203A-2(c) because
it expects to be eligible for SEC registration within 120 days.70 Section 2.A.(9) of Schedule D. is
entitled “Newly Formed Adviser” and requests the adviser to make certain representations. Our
staff has received questions about whether the exemption from the prohibition on Commission
registration contained in rule 203A-2(c) under the Advisers Act applies only to entities that have
been “newly formed,” i.e., newly created as corporate or other legal entities. It does not only
apply to newly created entities and therefore we propose to delete the phrase “newly formed
adviser” from Item 2.A.(9) and Section 2.A.(9) of Schedule D. Section 2.A.(9) would be

70

Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 2.A.(9) and Section 2.A.(9) of Schedule D.

35

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

renamed “Investment Advisers Expecting to be Eligible for Commission Registration within 120
Days.” 71
Proposed Amendments to Item 4:
Item 4 of Part 1A of Form ADV addresses successions of investment advisers, and the
Instructions to Item 4 provide that a new organization has been created under certain
circumstances, including if the adviser has changed its structure or legal status (e.g., form of
organization or state of incorporation). Our staff frequently receives questions from investment
advisers regarding this item and we propose adding to Item 4 and Section 4 of Schedule D text
that is currently contained in the Instructions to Item 4 that succeeding to the business of a
registered investment adviser includes, for example, a change of structure or legal status (e.g.,
form of organization or state of incorporation).72
Proposed Amendments to Item 7:
Item 7 of Part 1A of Form ADV and corresponding sections of Schedule D require
advisers to report information about their financial industry affiliations and the private funds they
advise. We propose several technical amendments to Item 7. We propose to revise Item 7.A.,
which requires advisers to check whether their related persons are within certain categories of the
financial industry, to clarify that advisers should not disclose in response to this item that some
of their employees perform investment advisory functions or are registered representatives of a
broker-dealer, because this information should instead be reported on Items 5.B.(1) and 5.B.(2)
of Part 1A, respectively. Items 5.B.(1) and 5.B.(2) request information about an adviser’s

71

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 2.A.(9); see rule 203A-2(c) under the Advisers Act.

72

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 4.A.

36

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

employees. Adding this text to Form ADV should assist filers in filling out the form as well as
provide more accurate data to us and the general public.73
Item 7.B. of Part 1A of Form ADV asks whether the adviser serves as adviser to any
private fund. Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D requires advisers to provide information about the
private funds they manage. We propose adding text to Item 7.B. clarifying that Section 7.B.(1)
of Schedule D should not be completed if another SEC-registered adviser or SEC exempt
reporting adviser reports the information required by Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D. Currently
the instructions only refer to another adviser. We also propose several amendments to Section
7.B.(1) of Schedule D. Question 8 of Section 7.B.(1) currently asks whether the private fund is a
“fund of funds,” and if it is, whether the private fund invests in funds managed by the adviser or
a related person of the adviser. Below those two questions there is currently a note informing
advisers when they should answer yes to the first question regarding whether the private fund is a
“fund of funds.” We propose renaming the first question as Question 8(a), moving the note to
directly after Question 8(a), and making the second question Question 8(b).74 We believe these
proposed changes would assist filers in answering Question 8.
Question 10 of Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D asks the adviser to identify the category of
the private fund. We propose to delete text in Question 10 that directs advisers to refer to the
underlying funds of a fund of funds when selecting the type of fund, in order to reconcile
differences with Form PF, which permits advisers to disregard any private fund’s equity

73

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 7. The staff has provided this clarification and it is currently available
online at our staff’s Frequently Asked Questions on Form ADV and IARD, available at
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/iard/iardfaq.shtml.

74

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Questions 8(a)-(b).

37

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

investments in other private funds.75 Question 19 of Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D asks whether
the adviser’s clients are solicited to invest in the private fund. We propose to add text to
Question 19 to make clear that the adviser should not consider feeder funds as clients of the
adviser to a private fund when answering whether the adviser’s clients are solicited to invest in
the private fund.76 This is a common question that our staff receives and the intent of Question
19 is not to capture affiliated feeder funds. Question 21 of Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D asks
whether the private fund relies on an exemption from registration of its securities under
Regulation D of the Securities Act of 1933 and Question 22 asks for the private fund’s Form D
file number. We propose a clarifying revision to Question 21 to ask if the private fund has ever
relied on an exemption from registration of its securities under Regulation D, in order to better
reflect the intention of the Question.77 The current Question 21, if answered in the negative,
would not require the adviser to provide the private fund’s Form D file number in Question 22,
meaning we would not receive Form D file numbers in the event there was past reliance on
Regulation D.78
We propose a revision to Question 23(a)(2). Currently, this question requires an adviser
to check a box to indicate whether the private fund’s financial statements are prepared in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).79 We propose to add
text instructing advisers that they are required to answer Question 23(a)(2) only if they answer
75

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 10. See General Instruction 7 to
Form PF.

76

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 19.

77

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 21.

78

Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 21.

79

Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 23(a)(2).

38

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

“yes” to Question 23(a)(1), which asks whether the private fund’s financial statements are
subject to an annual audit.80 This revision will clarify when an adviser is actually required to
answer Question 23(a)(2). We also propose to revise Question 23(g). The question currently
asks whether the private fund’s audited financial statements are distributed to private fund
investors. We propose adding “for the most recent fiscal year” to clarify the question. In
addition, we propose to revise Question 23(h). This question currently asks whether the report
prepared by the auditing firm contains an unqualified opinion.81 This question has prompted
questions from advisers regarding which report and what timeframe the question refers to. We
propose to clarify the question to ask whether all of the reports prepared by the auditing firm
since the date the adviser last filed its annual updating amendment contain unqualified
opinions.82 Finally, we propose adding Question 25(g), which would request the legal entity
identifier, if any, for a private fund custodian that is not a broker-dealer, or that is a broker-dealer
but does not have an SEC registration number. This information would help our examination
staff more readily identify the use of particular custodians by private funds.
Proposed Amendments to Item 8:
In order to address a frequent question from filers, we propose to clarify that advisers
should answer Item 8 based on the types of participation and interest the adviser expects to
engage in during the next year. Item 8.B.(2) of Part 1A of Form ADV currently asks whether the
adviser or any related person of the adviser recommended purchase of securities to advisory
clients for which the adviser or any related person of the adviser serves as underwriter, general or
80

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 23(a)(2).

81

Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 23(h).

82

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question 23(h).

39

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

managing partner, or purchaser representative.83 The current wording has caused confusion
regarding the treatment of purchaser representatives. We are proposing to reword the question to
ask whether the adviser or any related person of the adviser recommends to advisory clients or
acts as a purchaser representative for advisory clients with respect to the purchase of securities
for which the adviser or any related person of the adviser serves as underwriter or general or
managing partner. This proposed edit is designed to clarify that the question applies to any
related person who recommends to advisory clients or acts as a purchaser representative for
advisory clients with respect to the purchase of securities for which the adviser or any related
person of the adviser serves as underwriter, general or managing partner.84
Item 8.H. of Part 1A of Form ADV asks whether the adviser or any related person of the
adviser, directly or indirectly, compensates any person for client referrals. We are proposing
revisions to Item 8.H. to break the question into two parts to increase our understanding of
compensation for client referrals. Proposed Item 8.H.(1) would cover compensation to persons
other than employees for client referrals.85 Proposed Item 8.H.(2) would cover compensation to
employees, in addition to employees’ regular salaries, for obtaining clients for the firm. 86 Item
8.I. asks whether the adviser or any related person of the adviser directly or indirectly receives
compensation from any person for client referrals. We have also proposed wording to clarify that
Item 8.I. is not designed to include the regular salary that the adviser pays to an employee. 87 We
83

Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 8.B.(2).

84

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 8.B.(2).

85

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 8.H.(1).

86

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 8.H.(2).

87

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Item 8.I.

40

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

have proposed these edits to better understand how advisers compensate both their staff and third
parties for client referrals. The proposed revisions to this item do not change the scope of the
information collected, but instead provide more precise information about compensation for
client referrals.
Proposed Amendments to Section 9.C. of Schedule D:
Section 9.C. of Schedule D requests information about independent public accountants
that perform surprise examinations in connection with the Advisers Act custody rule, rule
206(4)-2. We propose two changes to Section 9.C. of Schedule D. First, we propose to add text
requiring an adviser to provide the PCAOB registration number of the adviser’s independent
public accountant to improve our staff’s ability to cross-reference information submitted through
other systems and monitor compliance with the custody rule.88 Section 9.C.(6) currently requires
advisers to report whether any report prepared by an independent public accountant that audited
a pooled investment vehicle or examined internal controls contained an unqualified opinion. We
propose to amend Section 9.C.(6) in a manner similar to Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D, Question
23(h) as described above to provide clarity to filers. Accordingly, the question would now ask
whether all of the reports prepared by the independent public accountant since the date of the last
annual updating amendment have contained unqualified opinions.89
Proposed Amendments to Disclosure Reporting Pages:
Item 11 of Part 1A of Form ADV requires registered advisers and exempt reporting
advisers to provide information about their disciplinary history and the disciplinary history of
88

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 9.C.(3) of Schedule D.

89

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Section 9.C.(6) of Schedule D.

41

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

their advisory affiliates. Those advisers who report an event for purposes of Item 11 are directed
to complete a Disclosure Reporting Page (“DRP”) to provide the details of the event. DRPs can
be removed from Form ADV under certain circumstances, including when “the adviser is
registered or applying for registration with the SEC and the event was resolved in the adviser’s
or advisory affiliate’s favor.”90 We propose amending this text in each DRP to add “or reporting
as an exempt reporting adviser with the SEC” after “applying for registration with the SEC” to
clarify that both registered and exempt reporting advisers may remove a DRP from their Form
ADV record if a criminal, regulatory or civil judicial action was resolved in the adviser’s (or
advisory affiliate’s) favor.91 This proposal would make disciplinary reporting uniform across
registered and exempt reporting advisers, consistent with requiring exempt reporting advisers to
report disciplinary events on Form ADV.
Proposed Amendments to Instructions and Glossary:
Together with the proposed amendments to Part 1A, we are also proposing conforming
amendments to the General Instructions and the Glossary for Form ADV. As discussed above,
we propose to amend the General Instructions to include instructions regarding umbrella
registration. We also propose to remove outdated references to “Special One-Time Dodd-Frank
Transition Filing for SEC Registered Advisers” and “recent” amendments to Form ADV Part 2

90

Form ADV, Part 1.A., Criminal, Regulatory Action and Civil Judicial Action Disclosure Reporting Pages.

91

Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Criminal, Regulatory Action and Civil Judicial Action Disclosure Reporting
Pages.

42

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

that are no longer needed.

We propose to update the definition of “Legal Entity Identifier” to

reflect recent advancements in this protocol.92
Where applicable, we propose to make technical revisions to specify that an adviser must
“apply for registration” (rather than simply “register”) to more accurately reflect the rule text.
We also propose to delete text in the instructions related to Item 1.O. because this text is
proposed to appear directly in the corresponding section of Part 1 of Form ADV. We propose to
add text clarifying that a change in information related to Item 1.O. does not necessitate a prompt
other-than-annual amendment (as changes to Item 1 otherwise do).
We request comment on our proposed clarifying, technical and other amendments.


Are the proposed amendments necessary? Should we consider different or additional
amendments? If so, please specify.



Are there any ambiguities or concerns that we should address in the form, instructions or
glossary?



Should we ask additional questions in Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D regarding an
adviser’s reliance on Regulation D? If so, what additional information should we
request?



Are the proposed amendments regarding payment for client referrals in Item 8 clear?
Why or why not?

92

The proposed definition of Legal Entity Identifier is: A “legal entity identifier” assigned or recognized by
the Global LEI Regulatory Oversight Committee (ROC) or the Global LEI Foundation (GLEIF). See
Proposed Form ADV: Glossary. In Item 1, we propose removing outdated text referring to the “legal entity
identifier” as being “in development” in the first half of 2011.

43

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

B.

Proposed Amendments to Investment Advisers Act Rules
1.

Proposed Amendments to Books and Records Rule

We are proposing two amendments to the Advisers Act books and records rule,
rule 204-2, that would require investment advisers to maintain additional materials related to the
calculation and distribution of performance information.
Rule 204-2(a)(16) currently requires advisers that are registered or required to be
registered with us to maintain records supporting performance claims in communications that are
distributed or circulated to ten or more persons.93 Although it has been our staff’s experience
that investment advisers routinely make and preserve communications containing performance
information and records to support the performance claims, the books and records rule requires
such records only when the communication is distributed to ten or more persons. We are
proposing to amend rule 204-2(a)(16) by removing the ten or more persons condition and
replacing it with “any person.” Accordingly, advisers would be required to maintain the
materials listed in rule 204-2(a)(16) that demonstrate the calculation of the performance or rate
of return in any communication that the adviser circulates or distributes, directly or indirectly, to
any person. The veracity of performance information is important regardless of whether it is a
personalized client communication or in an advertisement sent to ten or more persons.

93

Rule 204-2(a)(16) requires advisers to make and keep “All accounts, books, internal working papers, and
any other records or documents that are necessary to form the basis for or demonstrate the calculation of
the performance or rate of return of any or all managed accounts or securities recommendations in any
notice, circular, advertisement, newspaper article, investment letter, bulletin or other communication that
the investment adviser circulates or distributes, directly or indirectly, to 10 or more persons (other than
persons connected with such investment adviser); provided, however, that, with respect to the performance
of managed accounts, “the retention of all account statements, if they reflect all debits, credits, and other
transactions in a client's account for the period of the statement, and all worksheets necessary to
demonstrate the calculation of the performance or rate of return of all managed accounts shall be deemed to
satisfy the requirements of this paragraph.”

44

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

Rule 204-2(a)(7) currently requires advisers that are registered or required to be
registered with us to maintain certain categories of written communications received and copies
of written communications sent by such advisers.94 We are proposing to amend rule 204-2(a)(7)
to require advisers to also maintain originals of all written communications received and copies
of written communications sent by an investment adviser relating to the performance or rate of
return of any or all managed accounts or securities recommendations. We believe these records
would be useful in examining and evaluating adviser performance claims. A recent enforcement
action demonstrated to us the disadvantages of not requiring investment advisers to maintain
records forming the basis of performance calculations or performance communications sent to
individuals.95
Based on our staff’s experience, we believe that most advisers already maintain this
information as part of their compliance with rule 206(4)-1 under the Advisers Act, which
regulates advertisements by investment advisers. The proposed amendments would provide our
examination staff with additional information to review an adviser’s compliance with rule
206(4)-1 and would assist us in enforcing rule 206(4)-1 in cases of fraudulent advertising.
Investors would benefit to the extent that the proposed amendments reduce the incidence of
misleading or fraudulent advertising.

94

Rule 204-2(a)(7) requires advisers to make and keep: “Originals of all written communications received
and copies of all written communications sent by such investment adviser relating to (i) any
recommendation made or proposed to be made and any advice given or proposed to be given, (ii) any
receipt, disbursement or delivery of funds or securities, or (iii) the placing or execution of any order to
purchase or sell any security.”

95

In the Matter of Michael R. Pelosi, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 3141 (Jan. 14, 2011); Initial
Decision Release No. 448 (Jan. 5, 2012); Investment Advisers Act Release No. 3805 (Mar. 27, 2014)
(Commission opinion dismissing proceeding against associated person of registered investment adviser
charged with providing false and misleading performance information because the record lacked an
evidentiary basis from which to determine that the performance information was materially false or
misleading).

45

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

We request comment on the proposed amendments to rule 204-2.


Do investment advisers currently maintain these records? If so, are there concerns with
making these required records?



Are there alternate means that would be sufficient to collect performance information and
client communications regarding performance?



Are there exceptions that we should consider?
2.

Proposed Technical Amendments to Advisers Act Rules

We are proposing technical amendments to several rules under the Advisers Act and the
withdrawal of transition rule 203A-5 under the Advisers Act. The proposed amendments would
remove transition provisions from rules where the transition process is complete. Three of the
provisions were added as part of the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. Two provisions
were added when we amended Form ADV and several Advisers Act rules to require advisers to
electronically file their brochures with the Commission.
Rule 203A-5
The Dodd-Frank Act amended section 203A of the Advisers Act to prohibit from SEC
registration “mid-sized” advisers that generally have assets under management of between $25
million and $100 million.96 Rule 203A-5 provided a temporary exemption from the prohibition
on registration for mid-sized advisers to facilitate their transition to state registration.97 We
propose withdrawing rule 203A-5 because the transition of mid-sized advisers from SEC to state
registration was completed in June 2012.
96

See Section 410 of the Dodd-Frank Act.

97

See Implementing Release, supra note 4.

46

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

Rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1(e)
Section 409 of the Dodd-Frank Act created a new exclusion from the definition of
“investment adviser” in section 202(a)(11)(G) of the Advisers Act for family offices. The
Commission adopted rule 202(a)(11)(G)-198 defining a family office and provided two extended
transition periods for family offices with certain charitable organization clients and family
offices relying on the rescinded “private adviser” exemption.99 We propose removing paragraph
(e) of rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1 because subparagraph (1) of the transition provisions provided for by
it expired on December 31, 2013 and subparagraph (2) expired on March 30, 2012.
Rule 203-1(e)
Rule 203-1 outlines the procedures for advisers to register with the Commission.
Paragraph (e) of the rule was added as part of the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and
allowed companies that were relying on the rescinded “private adviser” exemption100 to remain
exempt from registration until March 30, 2012 under certain conditions.101 We propose
removing paragraph (e) from Rule 203-1 because the transition for private advisers is now
complete.

98

Family Offices, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 3220 (June 22, 2011) [76 FR 37983 (June 29,
2011)].

99

Section 203(b)(3) of the Advisers Act as in effect before July 21, 2011, repealed by section 403 of the
Dodd-Frank Act.

100

Id.

101

See Implementing Release, supra note 4. The rule 203-1(e) exemption from registration requires not only
reliance on the former private adviser exemption but also that an adviser have fifteen or fewer clients in the
preceding twelve months and neither hold itself out to the public as an investment adviser nor act as an
investment adviser to a registered investment company or business development company.

47

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

Rule 203-1(b) and Rule 204-1(c)
Rule 203-1 and Rule 204-1 were amended in 2010 to provide transition periods for
advisers to file narrative brochures required by Part 2A of Form ADV electronically with the
Investment Adviser Registration Depository (“IARD”).102 Rule 203-1(b), entitled “transition to
electronic filing,” requires investment advisers applying for registration after January 1, 2011 to
file their brochures electronically unless they receive a continuing hardship exemption.103 Rule
204-1(c) requires investment advisers that are required to file a brochure and had a fiscal year
that ended on or after December 31, 2010 to electronically file a Part 2A brochure as part of their
next annual updating amendment. We propose removing paragraph (b) from rule 203-1 and
paragraph (c) from rule 204-1 because the transition to electronic filing is now complete.104
We request comment on these proposed changes.

III.

Is there any benefit to keeping any of these provisions?
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.

Introduction

The Commission is sensitive to the benefits and costs of its rules. The following
economic analysis identifies and considers the benefits and costs—including the effects on
efficiency, competition, and capital formation—that would result from the proposed amendments
to Form ADV and the proposed amendments to and rescission of certain rules under the

102

Amendments to Form ADV, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 3060 (July 28, 2010) [75 FR 49233
(Aug. 12, 2010)].

103

The continuing hardship exemption under rule 203-3 will not be withdrawn by these technical amendments.

104

We propose redesignating current paragraphs (c) and (d) of Rule 203-1 as (b) and (c) and redesignating
current paragraphs (d) and (e) of Rule 204-1 as (c) and (d).

48

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

Investment Advisers Act. The economic effects of the proposed amendments are discussed
below and have informed the policy choices described in this release.
We are proposing amendments to Form ADV and the Advisers Act books and records
rule 204-2, and technical amendments to several other rules under the Advisers Act. In
summary, and as discussed in greater detail in section II. above, we are proposing the following
amendments to Form ADV and Advisers Act rules:


Amendments to Form ADV that are designed to fill certain data gaps and enhance current
reporting provided by investment advisers in order to improve the depth and quality of
the information we collect on investment advisers and to facilitate our risk monitoring
objectives;



Amendments to Form ADV to incorporate “umbrella registration” for private fund
advisers;



Clarifying, technical and other amendments to Part 1A of Form ADV;



Amendments to the Advisers Act books and records rule that would require advisers to
make and keep supporting documentation that demonstrates performance calculations or
rates of return in any written communications that the investment adviser circulates or
distributes; and



Technical amendments to several rules under the Advisers Act to remove transition
provisions that are no longer necessary.
We rely on information reported by investment advisers to us on Form ADV to monitor

trends, assess emerging risks, inform policy choices and rulemaking, and assist Commission staff
in examination and enforcement efforts. We believe that the proposed amendments to Form
ADV would improve the information provided by investment advisers to the Commission,

49

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

clients and prospective clients and would improve investor protection by informing policy
choices and focusing examination activities. We also believe that the proposed amendments to
the Advisers Act books and records rule would improve investor protections by providing useful
information to evaluate advisers’ performance claims.
The regulatory regime as it exists today for investment advisers serves as the economic
baseline against which the costs and benefits, as well as the impact on efficiency, competition,
and capital formation of the proposed amendments are discussed. The baseline includes the
current requirement for investment advisers to file Form ADV, the staff guidance that permits
filing advisers to file a single Form ADV on behalf of itself and each relying adviser,105 the
current requirements for investment advisers to maintain books and records, and other current
rules under the Advisers Act. The parties that would be affected by the proposed amendments
are investment advisers that file Form ADV, including private fund advisers that rely on, or will
rely on, umbrella registration, and investment advisers that currently manage, or will manage,
separately managed accounts, the Commission, current and future advisory clients and other
current and future users of investment adviser information reported on Form ADV, including
third-party information providers.
Based on IARD system data as of April 2015, approximately 11,600 investment advisers
are registered with the Commission, and 2,914 exempt reporting advisers file reports with the
Commission. Approximately 8,500 investment advisers registered with us (73%) reported assets
under management attributable to separately managed account clients. Of those 8,500 advisers,
approximately 5,366 advisers reported regulatory assets under management attributable to
separately managed account clients of at least $150 million but less than $10 billion and
105

See 2012 ABA Letter, supra note 9.

50

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

approximately 535 advisers reported regulatory assets under management attributable to
separately managed account clients of at least $10 billion.106 Advisers with at least $10 billion in
regulatory assets under management attributable to separately managed accounts would be
subject to proposed additional reporting on separately managed accounts on Form ADV.
Approximately 750 registered advisers to private funds currently submit a single Form ADV on
behalf of themselves and 2,500 relying advisers, relying on the 2012 ABA Letter. All
investment advisers registered or required to be registered with us are subject to the Advisers Act
books and records rule.
We have sought, where possible, to quantify the costs, benefits, and effects on efficiency,
competition, and capital formation expected to result from the proposed amendments to Form
ADV and Investment Advisers Act rules, and reasonable alternatives. As discussed below, in
certain cases, we are unable to quantify the economic effects because we lack the information
necessary to provide reasonable estimates. The economic effects of the proposal also depend
upon a number of factors some of which we cannot estimate, such as the extent to which investor
protection and our ability to oversee investment advisers will improve, and the extent to which
investors would utilize the information in Form ADV to choose or retain an investment adviser.
Therefore, some of the discussion below is qualitative in nature. We request comment on all
aspects of the economic effects of the amendments that we are proposing, such as the costs and
benefits, effects on efficiency, competition and capital formation, and reasonable alternatives to
the proposed amendments. We request that commenters identify sources of data and information

106

Based on IARD data as of April 1, 2015. These estimates are approximations because Form ADV
currently collects information about assets under management by client type and the number of clients of
each type in broad ranges. Proposed Item 5.D.(1)-(2) would require advisers to specify their assets under
management and number of clients by client type, which will benefit our ability to understand and oversee
the investment advisers that advise these accounts and recognize potential risks.

51

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

as well as provide data and information to assist us in analyzing the economic consequences of
the proposed rulemaking.
B.

Proposed Amendments to Form ADV

Some of the proposed amendments to Form ADV are designed to address certain gaps in
information, such as information about advisers’ separately managed accounts. We are also
proposing to collect additional information on Form ADV on topics such as social media,
offices, foreign clients, and wrap fee accounts. These items are designed to improve the depth
and quality of information that we collect on investment advisers, which would be important for
oversight activities. We are also proposing amendments to Form ADV to establish a more
efficient method for advisers to private funds that are organized as multiple legal entities to
register with us using a single Form ADV (“umbrella registration”). Finally, we are proposing a
number of clarifying, technical and other amendments to Form ADV.
1.

Economic Baseline and Affected Market Participants

As noted above, the investment adviser regulatory regime currently in effect serves as the
economic baseline against which the costs and benefits, as well as the impact on efficiency,
competition, and capital formation, of the proposed amendments to Form ADV are discussed.
Form ADV is used by investment advisers to register with the SEC and with the states. Once
registered, an investment adviser is required to file an annual amendment within 90 days of the
end of its fiscal year end, and more frequently if required by the instructions to Form ADV.107
Form ADV is also used by exempt reporting advisers to submit, and periodically update, reports
to us by completing a limited subset of items on Form ADV. Information filed on Form ADV is

107

See Rule 204-1(a) under the Advisers Act.

52

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

publicly available through the IAPD website.108 The parties that would be directly affected by
the proposed amendments to Form ADV are: investment advisers that file Form ADV with the
Commission; the Commission; current and future advisory clients; and other current and future
users of information filed on Form ADV, including third-party information providers.
2.

Benefits

As discussed in section II. above, the proposed amendments to Form ADV would
improve our ability to oversee investment advisers and identify potential risks by increasing the
amount, usefulness, consistency, and reliability of the information disclosed by investment
advisers, which would enhance our staff’s ability to effectively carry out the risk-based
examination program and other risk monitoring activities, and could improve investor protection
by informing policy choices and focusing examination activities. The enhanced reporting
requirements should also improve the ability of clients and potential clients of investment
advisers to make more informed decisions about the selection and retention of investment
advisers.
We are proposing that advisers report additional information on Form ADV regarding
separately managed accounts, which are clients other than registered investment companies,
business development companies and other pooled investment vehicles, such as private funds,
and are designed to meet the needs of institutional and individual investors. Based on IARD
data, more than 73% of investment advisers registered with us indicate that they manage assets
of separately managed accounts.109 We do not currently collect additional information specific
to separately managed accounts managed by investment advisers. We currently collect detailed
108

Certain personal identifying information is not made public.

109

Based on IARD data as of April 1, 2015.

53

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

information about registered investment companies and private funds, but only limited
information regarding the management of separately managed accounts. The absence of
information about separately managed accounts, such as information about investments,
compared to the information we receive describing registered investment companies and private
funds, limits our ability to understand, monitor and oversee the investment advisers that advise
these accounts, and recognize the potential risks relating to these accounts.110
The proposed amendments are intended to enhance our ability to effectively carry out our
risk-based examination program and other risk-monitoring activities in relation to advisers of
separately managed accounts. The additional information regarding separately managed
accounts would assist us in addressing regulatory issues, anticipating the implications of various
regulatory actions that we may consider, and identifying areas for additional examination and
enforcement activities. The proposed amendments are also intended to improve our ability to
monitor risks related to those advisers that manage greater amounts of regulatory assets under
management in separately managed accounts, while reducing the potential reporting burden for
those advisers that manage lesser amounts of regulatory assets under management in these
accounts.
In addition to information regarding separately managed accounts, the proposed
amendments to Form ADV include requests for additional information that we believe would be
useful to our risk assessment, examination and oversight of investment advisers. For example,
we propose requesting information regarding social media platforms used by investment
advisers. This information would assist our staff with examinations and provide them with better
awareness of an adviser’s social media activities and how advisers use social media to

110

See, e.g., Form N-1A for investment companies and Form PF for private funds.

54

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

communicate with their clients and prospective clients. We also are proposing to request
additional information about an adviser’s participation in and assets under management
attributable to wrap fee programs. These programs are widely used by individual retail clients,
and we believe it would be useful for us and the public to learn more about an adviser’s
participation in these programs. For example, if our staff identifies an issue with a particular
wrap fee program, then this information also would assist the staff in identifying other advisers
associated with the program. Other proposed items that would assist our examination activities
include replacing ranges with more precise information about the number of advisory clients and
related assets under management, the total number of offices that conduct investment advisory
business, and information regarding each adviser’s top 25 largest offices in terms of employees.
For several items, we are proposing additional identifying information, such as the CIK
numbers for all advisers that have obtained one or more of them, PCAOB registration numbers
for auditing firms, and the SEC file number and the CRD number for sponsors of wrap fee
programs. The identifiers will improve our ability and that of other current and future users of
Form ADV information to cross-reference information from Form ADV with information from
other sources to investigate and obtain a more complete understanding of the business and
relationships of investment advisers.
The proposed amendments to Form ADV that would incorporate the concept of umbrella
registration and establish a method on Form ADV for certain private fund advisers to use
umbrella registration would clarify, simplify, and therefore make more efficient the filing
procedures for these advisers and provide greater certainty about the availability of umbrella
registration. The proposed amendments also would improve the consistency and quality of the
information that private fund advisers disclose about their business and provide a more complete

55

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

picture of groups of private fund advisers that operate as a single business, thus allowing for
greater comparability across private fund advisers. As of April 1, 2015, approximately 750
registered advisers indicated on Form ADV that they relied on the 2012 ABA Letter. Additional
advisers may be eligible to use umbrella registration but do not currently do so.
The proposed clarifying, technical and other amendments to Form ADV would make the
filing process clearer and therefore more efficient for advisers, and increase the reliability and
the consistency of information provided by investment advisers. More reliable and consistent
information would improve our staff’s ability to interpret and evaluate the information provided
by advisers, make comparisons across investment advisers, and better identify the investment
advisers that may need additional outreach or examination. To the extent the proposed clarifying
and technical amendments would make Form ADV easier to understand and complete, the
proposed amendments would decrease future costs, especially for those investment advisers
registering with us for the first time.
As discussed above, an improvement in our ability to oversee the business and assess the
risks of investment advisers would benefit clients and prospective clients of investment advisers.
To the extent that these proposed amendments would allow our staff to identify potential risks at
investment advisers before any clients are disadvantaged, clients and potential clients would
benefit. In addition, an increase in the amount, consistency and usefulness of information
disclosed by investment advisers would allow advisory clients and potential advisory clients to
make more informed decisions about the selection and retention of investment advisers. For
example, these proposed amendments should allow prospective clients to review, either directly
from Form ADV or through third-party information providers, additional or more precise
information about the number of clients and amount of regulatory assets under management

56

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

attributable to various client types which may provide useful information about an adviser’s
experience and business practices. As another example, the proposed amendments should allow
clients and potential clients to identify the social media platforms of an investment adviser from
which additional information about the adviser may be available. An increase in the ability of
clients and potential clients to differentiate investment advisers could result in a limited increase
in competition among investment advisers for clients. The proposed amendments would likely
not have a significant effect on capital formation or on the ability of investors to efficiently
allocate capital across investments because the proposed amendments do not directly relate to the
amount of capital investors allocate to investments or their ability to allocate capital across
investments.
3.

Costs

The proposed amendments to Form ADV would require investment advisers to provide
additional information about certain aspects of their business, including separately managed
accounts, social media platforms, wrap fee programs and offices. Reporting this additional
information would impose additional costs on investment advisers, but we believe that much of
the information we propose requesting on Form ADV would be readily available because, based
on our experience, we understand that it is information used by advisers to conduct their
business.
Costs would vary across advisers, depending on the nature of an adviser’s business and
its business model. For example, advisers that manage a limited number of separately managed
accounts or that manage smaller amounts of assets under management in those accounts would
have fewer reporting requirements than advisers that manage a large number of or assets in such
accounts. In addition, advisers with a large number of offices would be required to report more

57

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

information on a greater number of offices than what is currently required in Form ADV. To the
extent possible, we have attempted to quantify these costs. As discussed in section IV., for
purposes of the increased Paperwork Reduction Act burden for Form ADV, we estimate that
each adviser would incur average costs in connection with the proposed amendments to Form
ADV of approximately $750,111 for a total aggregate cost of $8,700,000.112
The proposed amendments regarding the reporting of information about separately
managed accounts may have a limited impact on competition between advisers that manage a
significant number of separately managed accounts and those that manage a small number of
such accounts. If disclosure of aggregate information about separately managed accounts
resulted in public disclosure of sensitive information about a small number of clients’ derivative
exposures because an adviser has only one or a very small number of separately managed
account clients, then that adviser could be competitively disadvantaged compared with an
adviser with numerous separately managed account clients because of concerns that the public
disclosure of derivatives exposures would indirectly reveal sensitive information about a
particular separately managed account client. We believe that this possible concern is mitigated
by the fact that the proposed item does not require the disclosure or reporting of positions or
specific exposures or of client identities.
111

We estimate that each adviser will spend, on average, 2 hours to complete the proposed questions regarding
separately managed accounts. We further estimate that the proposed amendments to Part 1A that request
other additional information would take each adviser, on average, 1 hour to complete. As a result, we
estimate a three hour increase in the total average time burden related to the proposed amendments to Form
ADV. We expect that the performance of this function would most likely be equally allocated between a
senior compliance examiner and a compliance manager. Data from the Securities Industry Financial
Markets Association’s Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013 (“SIFMA
Management and Professional Earnings Report”), modified to account for an 1,800-hour work-year and
multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead, suggest that costs for
a senior compliance examiner and a compliance manager are $217 and $283 per hour, respectively. [1.5
hours x $217 = $325.5] + [1.5 hours x $283 = $424.5] = $750.

112

11,600 advisers x $750 = $8,700,000.

58

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

Regarding the proposed amendments to Form ADV that would codify umbrella
registration, we estimate that each adviser that files Schedule R would incur average costs of
approximately $250,113 for a total aggregate cost of $187,500.114 We do not believe the proposed
amendments to provide for umbrella registration would impose significant costs on investment
advisers because advisers currently relying on the 2012 ABA Letter are already reporting much
of the information that would be reported on proposed Schedule R. The additional information
that would be reported for relying advisers on Schedule R, such as basis for SEC registration and
form of organization, should be readily available to filing advisers.
We do not believe that the proposed clarifying, technical and other amendments to Form
ADV would result in any additional costs for investment advisers and could result in some cost
savings to the extent that advisers have fewer questions to research when completing the form.
We have identified provisions of Form ADV that have caused confusion among filers in the past
or that have resulted in inconsistent or unreliable information. Discussed above, the proposed
clarifications and revisions to the questions and instructions of Form ADV would increase the
efficiency of investment advisers to disclose information, and our ability to oversee investment
advisers. We do not anticipate that the proposed clarifying, technical and other amendments
would have a significant impact on competition or capital formation because they do not directly
relate to investors’ ability to differentiate among investment advisers or the amount of capital

113

We estimate that for purposes of the PRA, the filing adviser would spend on average 1 hour completing the
proposed Schedule R on behalf of its relying advisers. We expect that the performance of this function
would most likely be equally allocated between a senior compliance examiner and a compliance manager.
Data from the SIFMA Management and Professional Earnings Report, modified to account for an 1,800hour work-year and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead,
suggest that costs for a senior compliance examiner and a compliance manager are $217 and $283 per hour,
respectively. [.5 hours x $217 = $108.5] + [.5 hours x $283 = $141.5] = $250.

114

750 advisers x $250 = $187,500.

59

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

that investors allocate to investments or their ability to efficiently allocate capital across
securities.
We do not believe the proposed amendments to Form ADV would increase costs for
exempt reporting advisers. Exempt reporting advisers are required to complete only a limited
number of items in Part 1A of Form ADV (consisting of Items 1, 2.B., 3, 6, 7, 10, 11 and
corresponding schedules) and would not be eligible to file proposed Schedule R. We are
proposing limited amendments to the items that exempt reporting advisers are required to
complete, including the proposed amendments to Item 1 regarding the use of social media and
the reporting of information on up to 25 offices. Of the approximately 2,914 exempt reporting
advisers that file information with us on Form ADV, approximately 17 reported that they had
five or more other offices. Therefore, there would be a minimal increase in costs for these
advisers to report this information.
4.

Alternatives

Alternatives to the proposed amendments to Form ADV include the disclosure of
different additional information from investment advisers. For example, with respect to
separately managed accounts, we could have proposed requiring information as of each quarter,
proposed other reporting thresholds to differentiate smaller and larger amounts of regulatory
assets under management, or proposed narrower asset categories. Other examples include
additional information describing an adviser’s use of social media platforms, and additional
information about the size and operations of offices.
When determining the specific proposed amendments to Form ADV for purposes of this
proposal, we considered what information would be important for our oversight activities and for
advisory clients and prospective clients, and the costs to investment advisers to provide this

60

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

information. Additional information could improve our ability to oversee investment advisers
and protect advisory clients and potential advisory clients, and increase clients’ ability to make
more informed decisions about the selection and retention of investment advisers. However, we
currently believe the one-time and ongoing reporting costs for investment advisers to provide
this information in addition to what we have proposed could be significant when compared to its
potential benefits. Another alternative to the proposed amendments to Form ADV would be for
us not to require investment advisers to report additional information but instead for us to
undertake targeted examinations of investment advisers. We believe it is more efficient to
compile information about advisers that can then be utilized to identify specific advisers for
examination. An absence of information about advisers would reduce our ability to identify
industry trends and assess risks.
C.

Proposed Amendments to Investment Advisers Act Rules

As discussed above, we are proposing amendments to the Advisers Act books and
records rule, and technical amendments to several other rules to remove transition provisions
where the transition process is complete. The discussion below focuses on the proposed
amendments to the Advisers Act books and records rule, because the technical amendments are
clarifying or ministerial in nature and therefore should have little, if any, economic effects.
The proposed amendments to rule 204-2 would require investment advisers to maintain
records supporting performance claims in communications that are distributed or circulated to
any person. Advisers also would be required to maintain originals of all written communications
received and copies of all written communications sent relating to the performance or rate of
return of any or all managed accounts or securities recommendations. The proposal would
require investment advisers to maintain records that they have already created, rather than create

61

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

new records. We believe that most investment advisers currently maintain the information
proposed to be required under the rule, as part of their compliance with the Advisers Act
advertising rule (rule 206(4)-1) or as a result of their implementation of recordkeeping controls
to comply with the current requirements of rule 204-2. Under the proposed amendments, each
respondent would be required to retain records in the same manner and for the same period of
time as currently required under rule 204-2.
1.

Economic Baseline and Affected Market Participants

As noted above, the investment adviser regulatory regime currently in effect serves as the
economic baseline against which the costs and benefits, as well as the impact on efficiency,
competition, and capital formation, of the proposed amendments to the Advisers Act books and
records rule (rule 204-2). The parties that would be directly affected by the proposed
amendments to rules under the Advisers Act include: investment advisers registered with the
Commission; the Commission; and current and future investment advisory clients. As discussed
above, approximately 11,600 investment advisers are currently registered with the Commission.
2.

Benefits

The proposed amendments to the Advisers Act books and records rule (rule 204-2) would
benefit the clients and prospective clients of investment advisers by improving our ability to
oversee investment advisers and making available to our examination staff all records necessary
to evaluate performance information.
The proposed amendments to the books and records rule would provide our enforcement
and examination staff with additional information to review an adviser’s compliance with the
Advisers Act advertising rule, rule 206(4)-1, regardless of the number of clients or prospective
clients that receive performance communications. The increased efficiency in examining and

62

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

enforcing the rule may increase investor protection by increasing the disincentive for misleading
or fraudulent communications, which may reduce the incidence of fraud. In addition, investors
may benefit from the proposed amendments to the books and records rule as these records would
assist us in enforcing rule 206(4)-1 against, for example, fraudulent performance advertising.
To the extent that the proposed amendments to the rule reduce misleading or fraudulent
communications, the competitive position of investment advisers could be improved because
clients and potential clients would receive more accurate information regarding an adviser’s
performance and thus would be better able to differentiate advisers based on skill. In addition, to
the extent that the proposed amendments to the rule improve the ability of clients and potential
clients to differentiate advisers based on skill, potential clients may be more likely to obtain
investment advice from an investment adviser, which would increase the ability of investment
advisers to compete for investor capital. The proposed amendments could improve the ability of
investors to better or more efficiently allocate capital across investments to the extent that the
current allocation of capital is based on misleading or fraudulent information, which in turn
could promote capital formation.
3.

Costs

We estimate that for purposes of the PRA, advisers would incur an aggregate cost of
approximately $324,800 per year for the total hours advisory personnel would spend in
complying with the proposed recordkeeping requirements.115 A possible non-quantifiable cost as
a result of the proposed recordkeeping requirements would be discouraging advisers from
115

We estimate that for purposes of the PRA, the proposed amendments to rule 204-2 would increase the
burden by 0.5 hours per adviser annually. We expect that the function of recording and maintaining
records of performance information and communications would be performed by a combination of
compliance clerks and general clerks at a cost of $64 per hour and $53 per hour, respectively. We
anticipate that compliance clerks will perform an estimated 0.1 hours of this work and clerical staff will
perform the remaining 0.4 hours. Therefore the total cost per adviser would be (0.1 hours x $64 per hour =
$6.4) + (0.4 hour x $53 = $21.2) = approximately $28 for a total cost of $324,800 (11,600 advisers x $28).

63

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

creating and communicating custom performance information to individual clients, who would
then lose the benefit of having that information available to them. Although we believe that such
a response to the rule would be unlikely, a decrease in communications could reduce the ability
of clients and potential clients to compare advisers and potentially decrease competition.
Included in this cost estimate is our expectation that these costs would vary among firms,
depending on a number of factors, including the degree to which advisers already maintain
correspondence, performance information, and the inputs and worksheets used to generate
performance information. Compliance costs also would vary depending on the degree to which
performance figure determination and the recordkeeping process is automated, and the amount of
updating to the adviser’s recordkeeping policy that would be required.
4.

Alternatives

An alternative to the proposed amendments to rule 204-2 would be to not propose the
amendments. The proposed amendments are designed to address a potential recordkeeping gap
that could limit our ability to examine and oversee advisers and ultimately protect investors. The
proposed amendment to require maintenance of the performance calculations and
communications regardless of the number of clients or potential clients that receive the
information would address this issue. An alternative that would require maintenance of records
supporting performance claims in communications that are distributed or circulated to less than
the current threshold of ten persons could reduce our ability to examine and oversee advisers.
We believe that the limited costs of these amendments are appropriate given its benefits.

64

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

D.

Request for Comment

We request comment on our estimates and assumptions regarding the costs and benefits
of the proposed amendments to Form ADV and certain rules under the Investment Advisers Act.
Commenters are requested to provide empirical data to support their views. In addition to our
general request for comment on the costs and benefits of the proposed amendments, we request
the following specific comment on certain aspects of our economic analysis.


To what extent would clients and prospective clients use information reported in Form
ADV to select or retain investment advisers? Are there other benefits to clients and
prospective clients or to other interested parties not outlined above?



To what extent would advisers benefit from incorporation of umbrella registration into
Form ADV?



Do commenters expect that advisers would incur costs in addition to, or that differ from,
the costs we outlined above? In particular, do commenters expect that advisers would
incur costs different from the costs we outline above with respect to the collection or
retention of additional information?



What are the benefits and costs of the proposed reporting thresholds for separately
managed account information? Are there other thresholds that would increase benefits
and be just as costly or provide similar benefits and be more cost effective? Please
explain.



Would any of the effects of these proposed amendments be large enough to affect the
behavior of investment advisers or their clients? For instance, would the public
disclosure of aggregate separately managed account information raise confidentiality

65

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

concerns, and would disclosure impact a client’s selection of an investment adviser?
Please explain.
IV.

PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT ANALYSIS
Certain provisions of our proposal contain “collection of information” requirements

within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”),116 and we are submitting
the proposed collections of information to the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) for
review in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507 and 5 CFR 1320.11. The titles for the collections of
information we are proposing to amend are: (i) “Form ADV;” and (ii) “Rule 204-2 under the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940.” An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not
required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB
control number.
A.

Form ADV

Form ADV (OMB Control No. 3235-0049) is the two-part investment adviser registration
form. Part 1 of Form ADV contains information used primarily by Commission staff, and Part 2
is the client brochure. We are not proposing changes to Part 2 at this time. We use the
information to determine eligibility for registration with us and to manage our regulatory and
examination programs. Clients use certain of the information to determine whether to hire or
retain an adviser. The collection of information is necessary to provide advisory clients,
prospective clients, and the Commission with information about the adviser and its business,
conflicts of interest and personnel. Rule 203-1 under the Advisers Act requires every person
applying for investment adviser registration with the Commission to file Form ADV. Rule 204-4

116

44 U.S.C. 3501-3520.

66

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

under the Advisers Act requires certain investment advisers exempt from registration with the
Commission (“exempt reporting advisers”) to file reports with the Commission by completing a
limited number of items on Form ADV. Rule 204-1 under the Advisers Act requires each
registered and exempt reporting adviser to file amendments to Form ADV at least annually, and
requires advisers to submit electronic filings through the IARD. The paperwork burdens
associated with rules 203-1, 204-1, and 204-4 are included in the approved annual burden
associated with Form ADV and thus do not entail separate collections of information.
These collections of information are found at 17 CFR 275.203-1, 275.204-1, 275.204-4
and 275.279.1 and are mandatory. Responses are not kept confidential. The respondents are
investment advisers registered with the Commission or applying for registration with the
Commission and exempt reporting advisers. Based on IARD system data as of April 2015,
approximately 11,600 investment advisers are registered with the Commission, and 2,914
exempt reporting advisers file reports with the Commission.
The currently approved total annual burden estimate for all advisers of completing,
amending and filing Form ADV (Part 1 and Part 2) with the Commission is 154,402 hours. This
burden is based on an average total hour burden of 40.74 hours per Commission-registered
adviser for the first year that an adviser completes Form ADV but excluding private fund
reporting.117
As discussed above, we are proposing amendments to Form ADV that are designed to
provide additional information about investment advisers and their clients, including clients in
separately managed accounts, provide for umbrella registration for private fund advisers and
117

The currently approved one-time initial cost burden for outside legal and compliance consulting fees in
connection with initial preparation of Part 2 of Form ADV is $3,600,000. We are not proposing any
amendments to Part 2 of Form ADV and therefore we are not modifying this estimate.

67

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

clarify and address technical and other issues in certain Form ADV items and instructions. The
amendments we are proposing would increase the information requested in Part 1A of Form
ADV, and we expect that this would correspondingly increase the average burden to an adviser
filing Form ADV.
We discuss below, in three subsections, the estimated revised collection of information
requirements for Form ADV: first, we provide estimates for the revised and new burdens
resulting from the proposed amendments to Part 1A; second, we determine how those estimates
will be reflected in the annual burden attributable to Form ADV; and third, we calculate the total
revised burdens associated with Form ADV.
1.

Changes in Average Burden Estimates and New Burden Estimates

As a result of the differing burdens on advisers to complete Form ADV, we have divided
the effect of the proposed amendments to the form into three subsections; first we address the
change to the collection of information for registered advisers as a result of our proposed
amendments to Part 1A of Form ADV excluding those changes related to private funds; second,
we discuss the proposed amendments to Form ADV related to registered advisers to private
funds, including the proposed amendments to Section 7.B. of Schedule D and the proposed new
Schedule R that would implement umbrella registration; and third, we address the proposed
amendments to Form ADV affecting exempt reporting advisers.
a.

Estimated Change in Burden Related to Part 1A Proposed
Amendments (Not Including Private Fund Reporting)

We are proposing amendments to Part 1A, some of which are merely technical changes
or very simple in nature, and others that would require more time for an adviser to prepare a
response. The paperwork burdens of filing an amended Form ADV, Part 1A would vary among
68

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

advisers, depending on factors such as the size of the adviser, the complexity of its operations,
and the number or extent of its affiliations. Advisers should have ready access to all the
information necessary to respond to the proposed items in their normal course of operations
because, among other things, they likely maintain and use the proposed requested information in
connection with managing client assets. We anticipate that the responses to many of the
questions would be unlikely to change from year to year, which would minimize the ongoing
reporting burden associated with these questions.
i.

Proposed Amendments Related to Reporting of Separately
Managed Account Information

The proposed amendments to Part 1A, Items 5.K.(1), 5.K.(2), 5.K.(3) and 5.K.(4) and
Schedule D, Sections 5.K.(1), 5.K.(2) and 5.K.(3) are designed to collect information about the
separately managed accounts managed by advisers. Those proposed amendments would
enhance existing information we receive and permit us to conduct more robust risk monitoring
with respect to advisers of separately managed accounts. As discussed above, the information
collected about separately managed accounts would include regulatory assets under
management reported by asset type, borrowings and derivatives information, and the identity
of custodians that account for at least ten percent of separately managed account regulatory
assets under management. We believe much of this information is readily available to advisers
to separately managed accounts because, among other things, they may maintain and use this or
similar information for operational reasons (e.g., trading systems) and for customary account
reporting to clients in separately managed accounts.
Although we understand that much of the proposed information is readily available to
advisers to separately managed accounts, we expect that these amendments could subject
69

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

advisers, particularly those that advise a large number of separately managed accounts and
engage in borrowings and derivatives transactions on behalf of separately managed accounts, to
an increased paperwork burden. For this and other reasons, as we explained above, we propose
to minimize the burden on advisers with a smaller amount of separately managed account
assets under management by proposing to require advisers with regulatory assets under
management attributable to separately managed accounts of at least $150 million but less than
$10 billion to report borrowings and derivatives information as of the date the adviser calculates
its regulatory assets under management for purposes of its annual updating amendment, while
those advisers with regulatory assets under management attributable to separately managed
accounts of at least $10 billion would report information as of that date and six months before that
date.
Considering the proposed changes in Part 1A, Items 5.K.(1), 5.K.(2), 5.K.(3) and 5.K.(4)
and Schedule D, Sections 5.K.(1), 5.K.(2) and 5.K.(3) as well as our efforts to mitigate the
reporting burden to advisers that manage a smaller amount of separately managed account
regulatory assets under management, we estimate that each adviser will spend, on average, 2
hours to complete the questions regarding separately managed accounts in the first year a new or
existing investment adviser completes these questions.118

118

Based on IARD data, as of April 1, 2015, approximately 8,500 registered investment advisers, or
approximately 73% of all investment advisers registered with us, reported assets under management from
clients other than registered investment companies, business development companies and pooled
investment vehicles, indicating that they have assets under management attributable to separately managed
accounts. Of those approximately 8,500 advisers, we estimate approximately 535 (approximately 6.3%)
reported at least $10 billion in regulatory assets under management from separately managed account
clients.

70

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

ii.

Other Additional Information Regarding Investment Advisers

We are proposing to add several new questions and amend existing questions on Form
ADV regarding identifying information, an adviser’s advisory business, and affiliations. The
proposed questions primarily refine or expand existing questions or request information we
believe that advisers already have for compliance purposes. For example, we propose to require
each adviser to provide Central Index Key (CIK) numbers if it has one or more such numbers
and to provide identifying information for social media platforms that it uses. Other proposed
questions would require advisers to provide readily available or easily accessible information,
such as the proposed amendment to Part IA, Item 1.O. that would require advisers to report their
assets within ranges. However, some of the proposed questions may take longer for advisers to
complete, such as the proposed amendments to Schedule D, Section 1.F that would require
information about an adviser’s 25 largest offices other than its principal office and place of
business. While this information is readily available to an adviser because it should be aware of
its offices, a clerk would be required to manually enter expanded information about the adviser’s
offices in the first year the adviser responds to the proposed item and then make updates in
subsequent years.
We are proposing a number of amendments to Item 5 in addition to the questions relating
to separately managed accounts discussed above. Like other new or revised items, we believe
several of these new Item 5 questions would merely require advisers to provide readily available
or easily accessible information, such as the number of clients and regulatory assets under
management attributable to each category of clients during the last fiscal year. Advisers
currently provide this information in ranges, and therefore likely already have available to them
the more precise numbers to report. In addition, information such as whether the adviser uses
71

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

different assets under management numbers in Part 1A vs. Part 2A of Form ADV should be
readily available. Other proposed items would likely present greater burdens for some advisers
but not others, depending on the nature and complexity of their businesses. For instance, the
burden associated with the proposed disclosure regarding wrap fee programs or non-U.S. clients
would depend on whether and to what extent an adviser allocates client assets to wrap fee
programs or the extent to which the adviser has non-U.S. clients.
We estimate that these proposed amendments to Part 1A of Form ADV and Schedule D
would take each adviser approximately 1 hour, on average, to complete in the first year a new or
existing adviser responds to these proposed questions. We have arrived at this estimate, in part,
by comparing the relative complexity and availability of the information required by the
proposed amended items to the current form and its approved burden, and by considering the
advisers affected by the proposed amendments.
iii. Proposed Clarifying, Technical and Other Amendments
We are proposing several further amendments to Form ADV that are designed to clarify
the Form and its instructions and address technical issues. These proposed changes primarily
refine existing questions, such as deleting the phrase “newly formed adviser” from Part IA,
Item 2.A.(9) because of questions from filers about whether that phrase refers to only newly
formed corporate entities, and the proposed amendments to Part IA, Item 8.B.(2) to clarify that
the question applies to any related person who recommends the adviser to advisory clients or
acts as a purchaser representative. Because these proposed changes do not change the scope or
amount of information required to be reported on Form ADV, we do not believe that these
proposed clarifying, technical and other amendments to Part 1A of Form ADV would increase

72

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

or decrease the average total collection of information burden for advisers in their first year
filing Form ADV.
As a result of the proposed amendments to Form ADV Part 1A discussed above,
including the proposed amendments related to separately managed accounts, additional items and
technical and clarifying amendments, we estimate the average total collection of information
burden would increase 3 hours to 43.74 hours per adviser for the first year that an adviser
completes Form ADV (Part 1 and Part 2).119
b.

Estimated Changes in Burden Related to Private Fund Reporting
Requirements

We propose several amendments to Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 7.B. that refine and
enhance existing information we receive about advisers to private funds. In addition, as part of
our proposal to provide for umbrella registration, we propose a new schedule to Part 1A –
Schedule R – to be submitted by advisers to private funds that use umbrella registration to file a
single Form ADV.
We believe the information required by the few proposed amendments to Part 1A,
Schedule D, Section 7.B would be readily available or easily accessible to advisers to private
funds, such as information about the percentage of a private fund owned by qualified clients,
and the PCAOB registration number for a private fund auditor. Other amendments to Section
7.B. are designed to make the questions easier to answer, but do not cause a change in reporting
burden, including moving certain “notes” to questions and changes to the current question
119

Currently approved estimate of the average total collection if information burden per SEC registered
adviser for the first year that an adviser completes Form ADV (40.74 hours) + 2 hours to complete the
proposed questions about separately managed accounts + 1 hour to complete other additional information
regarding investment advisers = 43.74 hours.

73

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

regarding unqualified opinions. The currently approved total annual burden estimate for
advisers making their initial filing in completing Item 7.B. and Schedule D, Section 7.B. is 1
hour per private fund. We do not estimate that the proposed amendments to Schedule D,
Section 7.B would increase or decrease the total annual burden because the information is
readily available to advisers.
The proposal to incorporate umbrella registration into Form ADV would codify a staff
position and provide a method for certain private fund advisers that operate as a single advisory
business to file a single registration form. Umbrella registration would only be available if the
filing adviser and each relying adviser advise only private funds and clients in separately
managed accounts that are qualified clients, as defined in rule 205-3 under the Advisers Act,
that are otherwise eligible to invest in the private funds advised by the filing or a relying
adviser. The filing and relying advisers would also have to satisfy certain requirements,
including that each relying adviser is controlled by or under common control with the filing
adviser. There has been staff guidance for single registration under defined circumstances since
2012,120 and the proposed amendments to Form ADV would provide for umbrella registration
and simplify the process of umbrella registration for advisers constituting a single advisory
business. We are proposing a new schedule to Part 1A, Schedule R, that would have to be filed
with respect to each relying adviser, as well as a new question to Schedule D that would link
private funds reported on Form ADV to the specific (filing or relying) adviser that advises it.
Schedule R would require identifying information, basis for SEC registration, and ownership
information about each relying adviser.

120

See 2012 ABA Letter, supra note 9.

74

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

We believe that much of the information we are proposing to include in Schedule R
should be readily available to private fund advisers because it is information that they are
already reporting either on Form ADV filings for separate advisers or on a single Form ADV
filing, in reliance on the staff guidance. Accordingly, although these proposed requirements
would be an increase in the information collected, the increased burden should largely be
attributable to data entry and not data collection. Furthermore, some advisers who currently
separately file Form ADV for each of their advisers may cumulatively have a reduced Form
ADV burden by switching to umbrella registration should the new process be codified and
Schedule R available. We also believe that new filing advisers using umbrella registration
would readily have information available about relying advisers, because they are operating as
a single advisory business.
There is no currently approved annual burden estimate of completing Schedule R because
it is a new Schedule. Taking into account the scope of information we propose to request, our
understanding that much of the information is readily available and currently required on Form
ADV, and our belief that many private fund advisers that file an umbrella registration will have
only a small number of relying advisers,121 we estimate that advisers to private funds that elect to
rely on umbrella registration will spend on average 1 hour per filing adviser completing new
Schedule R for the first time.

121

Based on IARD data as of April1, 2015, approximately 750 investment advisers rely on the 2012 ABA
Letter to file Form ADV on behalf of themselves and 2,500 relying advisers, an average of approximately 3
relying advisers per filing adviser.

75

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

c.

Estimated Changes in Burden Related to Exempt Reporting Adviser
Reporting Requirements

Exempt reporting advisers are required to complete a limited number of items in Part 1A
of Form ADV (consisting of Items 1, 2.B., 3, 6, 7, 10, 11 and corresponding schedules), and are
not required to complete Part 2 and would not be eligible to file proposed Schedule R. The
proposed amendments to Part 1A would revise only Items 1 and 7 for exempt reporting advisers.
We believe the information required by these proposed revisions should be readily available to
any adviser as part of their ongoing operations and management of client assets, and, moreover,
are unlikely to require additional reporting for most exempt reporting advisers. For instance, we
estimate that almost all exempt reporting advisers currently have five or fewer offices (the
number of offices currently required by Form ADV) and thus would not have to provide
information on additional offices.122 Accordingly, we do not expect that the proposed
amendments would increase or decrease the currently approved total annual burden estimate per
exempt reporting adviser initially completing these items in Form ADV, other than Item 7.B., of
2 hours. We also do not expect that the proposed amendments would increase or decrease the
currently approved total annual burden estimate per exempt reporting adviser initially
completing Item 7.B. and Section 7.B. of Schedule D of 1 hour per private fund.

122

Based on IARD data as of April 1, 2015, only 17 ERAs reported on Form ADV that they had five or more
other offices.

76

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

2.

Annual Burden Estimates
a.

Estimated Annual Burden Applicable to All Registered Investment
Advisers
i. Estimated Initial Hour Burden (Not Including Burden Applicable to
Private Funds) For First Year Adviser Completes Form ADV (Part 1 and
Part 2)

We estimate that, as a result of the proposed amendments to Form ADV Part 1A
discussed above, other than those applicable to private funds, the average total collection of
information burden per respondent would increase 3 hours to 43.74 hours per adviser for the first
year that an adviser completes Form ADV (Part 1 and Part 2).
Approximately 11,600 investment advisers are currently registered with the
Commission.123 Not including private fund reporting, the estimated aggregate annual burden
applicable to these advisers would be 507,384 hours124 (34,800 hours of it attributable to the
proposed amendments).125 As with the Commission’s prior Paperwork Reduction Act estimates
for Form ADV, we believe that most of the paperwork burden would be incurred in advisers’
initial submission of the amended Form ADV, and that over time this burden would decrease
substantially because the paperwork burden would be limited to updating information.126

123

Based on IARD data as of April 1, 2015. We include currently registered advisers in the estimated initial
hour burden calculation because, for purposes of estimating burdens under the Paperwork Reduction Act,
we assume that every new and existing registered adviser completes an initial registration in a three year
period, which is the period after which estimates are required to be renewed.

124

43.74 hour per-adviser burden x 11,600 advisers = 507,384 hours.

125

3 hour per-adviser additional burden x 11,600 advisers = 34,800 hours.

126

We discuss the burden for advisers making annual updating amendments to Form ADV in section iii below.

77

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

Amortizing the burden imposed by Form ADV over a three-year period to reflect the anticipated
period of time that advisers would use the revised Form would result in an average annual burden
of an estimated 169,128 hours per year127 (11,600 hours per year of it attributable to the proposed
amendments),128 or 14.58 hours per year for each adviser currently registered with the
Commission.129
Based on IARD system data, we estimate that there will be approximately 1,000 new
investment advisers filing Form ADV with us annually. Therefore, we estimate that the total
annual burden applicable to these advisers for the first year that they complete Form ADV but
excluding private fund reporting requirements is 43,740 hours (1,000 advisers x 43.74 hours).
Amortizing the burden imposed by Form ADV for new registrants over a three-year period to
reflect the anticipated period of time that advisers would use the revised Form would result in an
average annual burden of an estimated 14,580 hours per year130 (1,000 of it attributable to the
proposed amendments).131 We therefore estimate the total hour burden to be 183,708 hours per
year.132

127

507,384 hours/3 = 169.128 hours.

128

34,800 hours/3 = 11,600 hours.

129

169,128 hours/11,600 advisers = 14.58 hours.

130

43,740 hours/3 = 14,580 hours.

131

3,000 hours/3 = 1,000 hours.

132

14,580 hours for new registrants + 169,128 hours for existing registrants = 183,708 hours.

78

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

ii. Estimated Initial Hour Burden Applicable to Registered Advisers to
Private Funds
The amount of time that a registered adviser managing private funds would incur to
complete Item 7.B. and Section 7.B. of Schedule D will vary depending on the number of private
funds the adviser manages. Of the advisers currently registered with us, we estimate that
approximately 4,364 registered advisers advise a total of 28,532 private funds, and, on average,
300 SEC-registered advisers annually would make their initial filing with us reporting
approximately 1,100 private funds.133 The currently approved annual burden estimate for
advisers making their initial filing in completing Item 7.B. and Schedule D, Item 7.B. is 1 hour
per private fund. As a result, we estimate that the private fund reporting requirements that are
applicable to registered investment advisers would add 29,632 hours to the overall annual burden
applicable to registered advisers.134 As noted above, we believe most of the paperwork burden
would be incurred in connection with advisers’ initial submission of Form ADV, and that over
time the burden would decrease substantially because it would be limited to updating (instead of
compiling) information. Amortizing this burden over three years, as we did above with respect to
the initial filing of the rest of the form, results in an average estimated burden of 9,877 hours per
year.135

133

Based on IARD data as of April 1, 2015. We include existing funds of currently registered advisers in the
estimated initial hour burden calculation because, for purposes of estimating burdens under the Paperwork
Reduction Act, we assume that every existing registered adviser completes an initial filing completing Item
7.B and Schedule D, Item 7.B per fund in a three year period, which is the period after which estimates are
required to be renewed.

134

1 hour x 28,532 private funds = 28,532 hours. 1 hour x 1,100 private funds = 1,100 hours. 28,532 hours +
1,100 hours = 29,632 hours.

135

29,632 hours/3 = 9,877 hours.

79

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

We also propose a new Schedule R to Form ADV for umbrella filing. Of the advisers
currently registered with us, we estimate based on current Form ADV filings that approximately
750 registered advisers currently submit a single Form ADV on behalf of themselves and
approximately 2,500 relying advisers.136 Taking into account the scope of information we
propose to request and our understanding that much of the information is readily available and is
already reported by advisers, we estimate that advisers to private funds that elect to rely on
umbrella registration will spend 1 hour per filing adviser completing new Schedule R. As a
result, we estimate that umbrella registration would add 750137 hours to the annual burden
applicable to registered advisers. We estimate that, on average, 65 SEC registered advisers
annually would make their initial filing with us as filing advisers, increasing the overall annual
burden for advisers to private funds an additional 65 hours, or 815 hours in total. Amortizing
these hours for a three year period as with the rest of the burdens associated with Form ADV,
results in 272 additional hours per year.138
iii. Estimated Annual Burden Associated With Amendments, New Brochure
Supplements, and Delivery Obligations
The current approved collection of information burden for Form ADV has three elements
in addition to those discussed above: (1) the annual burden associated with annual and other
amendments to Form ADV; (2) the annual burden associated with creating new Part 2 brochure
supplements for advisory employees throughout the year; and (3) the annual burden associated

136

Based on IARD data as of April 1, 2015.

137

750 filing advisers x 1 hour per completing Schedule R = 750 hours.

138

815 hours/3 = 271.66 hours.

80

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

with delivering codes of ethics to clients as a result of the offer of such codes contained in the
brochure. We anticipate that our proposed amendments to Form ADV would increase the
currently approved annual burden estimate associated with annual amendments to Form ADV
from 6 hours to 7 hours per adviser, but would not impact interim updating amendments to Form
ADV.
We continue to estimate that, on average, each adviser filing Form ADV through the
IARD will likely amend its form two times during the year. We estimate, based on IARD data,
that advisers, on average, make one interim updating amendment (at an estimated 0.5 hours per
amendment) and one annual updating amendment (at an estimated 7 hours per amendment) each
year. 139
In addition, the currently approved annual burden estimates are that each investment
adviser registered with us will, on average, spend 1 hour per year making interim amendments to
brochure supplements, 140 and an additional 1 hour per year to prepare new brochure supplements
as required by Part 2. 141 The currently approved annual burden estimate is that advisers spend an
average of 1.3 hours annually to meet obligations to deliver codes of ethics to clients. 142 We are
not changing these estimates as the proposed amendments do not affect these requirements.
Therefore we estimate the total annual burden for advisers registered with us attributable to

139

(11,600 advisers x 0.5 hours/other than annual amendment) + (11,600 advisers x 7 hours/annual
amendment) = 87,000 hours.

140

11,600 hours attributable to interim amendments to the brochure supplements = 11,600 advisers x 1 hour =
11,600 hours.

141

11,600 hours attributable to new brochure supplements = 11,600 advisers x 1 hour = 11,600 hours.

142

15,080 hours for the delivery of codes of ethics = 11,600 advisers x 1.3 hours = 15,080 hours.

81

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

amendments, brochure supplements and obligations to deliver codes of ethics to be 125,280
hours.143
iv. Estimated Annual Cost Burden
The currently approved total annual collection of information burden estimate for Form
ADV has a one-time initial cost for outside legal and compliance consulting fees in connection
with the initial preparation of Part 2 of Form ADV. We do not anticipate that the amendments
we are proposing to Form ADV will affect the per adviser cost burden estimates for outside legal
and compliance consulting fees. In addition to the estimated legal and compliance consulting
fees, investment advisers of private funds incur costs with respect to the requirement for
investment advisers to report the fair value of private fund assets.
We expect that 1,000 new advisers will register annually with the Commission. We
estimate that the initial cost related to preparation of Part 2 of Form ADV would be $4,400 for
legal services and $5,000 for compliance consulting services, in each case, for those advisers
who engaged legal counsel or consultants. We anticipate that a quarter of these advisers would
seek the help of outside legal services and half would seek the help of compliance consulting
services. Accordingly, we estimate that 250 of these advisers would use outside legal services,
for a total cost burden of $1,100,000,144 and 500 advisers would use outside compliance
consulting services, for a total cost burden of $2,500,000,145 resulting in a total cost burden

143

87,000 hours + 11,600 hours + 11,600 hours + 15,080 hours = 125,280 hours.

144

25% x 1000 SEC registered advisers = approximately 250 advisers. $4,400 for legal services x 250
advisers = $ 1,100,000.

145

50% x 1000 SEC registered advisers = 500 advisers. $5,000 for consulting services x 500 advisers =
$2,500,000.

82

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

among all respondents of $3,600,000 for outside legal and compliance consulting fees related to
drafting narrative brochures.146
We estimate that 3% of registered advisers have at least one private fund client that may
not be audited. These advisers therefore may incur costs to fair value their private fund assets.
Based on current IARD data, 4,364 registered advisers currently advise private funds. We
therefore estimate that approximately 131 registered advisers may incur costs of $37,625 each on
an annual basis, for an aggregate annual total cost of $4,928,875.147
Together, we estimate that the total cost burden among all respondents for outside legal
and compliance consulting fees related to third party or outside valuation services and for
drafting outside legal and compliance consulting fees to be $8,528,875.148
b. Estimated Annual Burden Applicable to Exempt Reporting Advisers
i. Estimated Initial Hour Burden
Based on IARD system data, there are approximately 2,914 exempt reporting advisers
currently filing reports with the SEC.149 The paperwork burden applicable to these exempt
reporting advisers consists of the burden attributable to completing a limited number of items in

146

$1,100,000 + $2,500,000 = $3,600,000.

147

131 advisers x $37,625 = $4,928,875.

148

$3,600,000 + $4,928,875 = $8,528,875.

149

Based on IARD data as of April 1, 2015. We include existing exempt reporting advisers and their private
funds in the estimated initial hour burden calculation because, for the purpose of estimating burdens under
the Paperwork Reduction Act, we assume that every new and existing exempt reporting adviser completes
an initial Form ADV in a three year period, which is the period after which estimates are required to be
renewed.

83

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

Form ADV Part 1A as well as the burden attributable to the private fund reporting requirements
of Item 7.B. and Section 7.B. of Schedule D.
The currently approved estimate of the average total collection of information burden per
exempt reporting adviser for the first year that an exempt reporting adviser completes a limited
subset of Part 1 of Form ADV, other than Item 7.B. and Section 7.B. of Schedule D, is 2 hours.
As discussed above, we do not anticipate that our proposed amendments to Form ADV would
affect the per exempt reporting adviser burden estimate. Based on IARD system data, we
estimate that there will be 500 new exempt reporting advisers filing Form ADV annually.
Therefore, we estimate that the total annual burden applicable to the existing and new exempt
reporting advisers for the first year that they complete Form ADV but excluding private fund
reporting requirements is 6,828 hours.150 Amortizing the burden imposed by Form ADV over a
three-year period to reflect the anticipated period of time that advisers would use the revised
Form ADV results in an average annual burden of an estimated 2,276 hours per year.151
As discussed above, we estimate the burden of completing Item 7.B. and Section 7.B. of
Schedule D to be 1 hour per private fund. We do not anticipate that our proposed amendments to
Form ADV would affect the per exempt reporting adviser burden of completing Item 7.B. and
Section 7.B. of Schedule D. Based on IARD data, we estimate that, on average, the 2,914
current exempt reporting advisers will report 9,896 funds and the projected 500 new exempt
reporting advisers making their initial filing will report approximately 1,000 funds, resulting in a

150

2 hours x (2,914 reporting exempt reporting advisers + 500 new exempt reporting advisers) = 6,828 hours.

151

6,828 hours / 3 = 2,276 hours.

84

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

total annual burden of 10,896 hours.152 Amortizing this total burden over three years as we did
above for registered advisers results in an average burden of an estimated 3,632 hours per year,153
or approximately 1 hour per year, on average, for each exempt reporting adviser.154
ii. Estimated Annual Burden Associated With Amendments and Final Filings
In addition to the burdens associated with initial completion and filing of the portion of
the form that exempt reporting advisers are required to prepare, we estimate that, based on IARD
data, each exempt reporting adviser would amend its form 2 times per year. On average, these
consist of one interim updating amendment (at an estimated 0.5 hours per amendment)155 and one
annual updating amendment (at an estimated 1 hour per amendment)156 each year. In addition,
we anticipate 200 final filings by exempt reporting advisers annually (at an estimated 0.1 hours
per filing).157 We do not anticipate that our proposed amendments to Form ADV would affect
the per exempt reporting adviser burden. The total annual burden associated with exempt
reporting advisers filing amendments and final filings is 4,391 hours.158

152

9,896 funds + 1,000 funds = 10,896 funds. 10,896 x 1 hour = 10,896 hours.

153

10,896 hours /3 years = 3,632 hours per year.

154

3,632 hours per year/3,414 exempt reporting advisers = 1 hour per year.

155

2,914 x .5 hours = 1,457 hours.

156

2,914 x 1 hour = 2,914 hours.

157

200 x 0.1 hours = 20 hours.

158

1,457 hours + 2,914 hours + 20 hours = 4,391 hours. Exempt reporting advisers are not required to
complete Part 2 of Form ADV and so will not incur an hour burden to prepare new brochure supplements
or the cost for preparation of the brochure. Exempt reporting advisers also do not have an obligation to
deliver codes of ethics to clients as required by Part 2 of Form ADV.

85

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

3.

Total Revised Burdens

The revised total annual collection of information burden for SEC registered advisers to
file and complete the revised Form ADV (Parts 1 and 2), including the initial burden for both
existing and anticipated new registrants, private fund reporting, plus the burden associated with
amendments to the form, preparing brochure supplements and delivering codes of ethics to
clients, is estimated to be approximately 319,137 hours per year, for a monetized total of
$79,784,000.159
The revised total annual collection of information burden for exempt reporting advisers to
file and complete the required Items of Part 1A of Form ADV, including the burdens associated
with private fund reporting, amendments to the form and final filings, would be approximately
10,299 hours per year, for a monetized total of $2,574,500. 160
We estimate that if the proposed amendments to Form ADV are adopted, the total annual
hour burden for the form would be 329,436 hours and a monetized total of $82,358,500.161 This
159

183,708 hours per year attributable to initial preparation of Form ADV + 9,877 hours per year attributable
to initial private fund reporting requirements + 272 hours per year for initial umbrella registration +
125,280 hours per year for attributable to amendments, brochure supplements and obligations to deliver
codes of ethics = 319,137 hours. We expect that the performance of this function would most likely be
equally allocated between a senior compliance examiner and a compliance manager, or persons performing
similar functions. Data from the SIFMA Management and Professional Earnings Report, modified to
account for an 1,800-hour work year and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee
benefits and overhead, suggest that costs for these positions are $217 and $283 per hour, respectively.
(159,568 hours x $217) + (159,568 hours x 283) = $79,784,000.

160

2,276 hours per year attributable to initial preparation of Form ADV + 3,632 hours per year attributable to
initial private fund reporting requirements + 4,391 hours per year for amendments and final filings =
10,299 hours. We expect that the performance of this function would most likely be equally allocated
between a senior compliance examiner and a compliance manager, or persons performing similar functions.
Data from the SIFMA Management and Professional Earnings Report, modified to account for an 1,800hour work year and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead,
suggest that costs for these positions are $217 and $283 per hour, respectively. (5,149 x $217) + (5,149 x
$283) = $2,574,500.

161

319,137 hours + 10,299 hours = 329,436 hours. $79,784,000 + $2,574,500 = $82,358,500.

86

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

is an increase of 175,034 hours and $45,688,073 from the currently approved burden
estimates,162 which is attributable primarily to the currently approved burden estimates not
considering the amortized annual burden of Form ADV on existing registered advisers and
exempt reporting advisers. The resulting blended average per adviser burden for Form ADV is
22.69 hours (for a monetized total of $5,674.42),163 which consists of an average annual burden
of 27.51 hours164 for each of the estimated 11,600 SEC registered advisers, and 3.53 hours165 for
each of the estimated 2,914 exempt reporting advisers.
Registered investment advisers are also expected to incur an annual cost burden of
$8,528,875, an increase of $4,928,875 from the current approved cost burden estimate of
$3,600,000. The increase in annual cost burden is attributable to the currently approved burden
not considering the cost to advisers to fair value private fund assets.
B.

Rule 204-2

Rule 204-2 (OMB Control No. 3235-0278) requires investment advisers registered, or
required to be registered under section 203 of the Act, to keep certain books and records relating
to their advisory business. The collection of information under rule 204-2 is necessary for the
Commission staff to use in its examination and oversight program, and the information is
generally kept confidential.166 The collection of information is mandatory.

162

329,436 hours - 154,402 hours = 175,034 hours. $82,358,500 - $36,670,427 = $45,688,073.

163

329,436 hours / (11,600 registered advisers + 2,914 exempt reporting advisers) = 22.69 hours. $82,358,500
/ (11,600 registered advisers + 2,914 exempt reporting advisers) = $5,674.42.

164

319,137 hours / 11,600 registered advisers = 27.51 hours.

165

10,299 hours / 2,914 exempt reporting advisers = 3.53 hours.

166

See section 210(b) of the Advisers Act.

87

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

The proposed amendments to rule 204-2 would require investment advisers to make and
keep the following records: (i) documentation necessary to demonstrate the calculation of the
performance the adviser distributes to any person, and (ii) all written communications received
or sent relating to the adviser’s performance.
The currently approved total annual burden for rule 204-2 is based on an estimate of
10,946 registered advisers subject to rule 204-2 and an estimated average burden of 181.45
burden hours each year per adviser, for a total of 1,986,152 hours. Based upon updated IARD
data, the current approximate number of investment advisers is 11,600. As a result in the
increase in the number of advisers registered with the Commission since the current total annual
burden estimate was approved, the total burden estimate has increased by 118,668 hours.167 We
estimate that most advisers provide, or seek to provide, performance information to their clients.
Under the proposed amendments, each adviser would be required to retain the records in the
same manner, and for the same period of time, as other books and records under rule. We
believe that the documentation necessary to support the performance calculations is customarily
maintained, or required to be maintained by advisers already in account statements or portfolio
management systems. We also believe that most advisers already maintain this information in
their books and records, in order to show compliance with the Advisers Act advertising rule, rule
206(4)-1. Accordingly, the proposed amendments to rule 204-2 are estimated to increase the
burden by approximately 0.5 hours per adviser annually for a total increase of 5,800 hours.168

167

11,600 advisers x 181.45 hours = 2,104,820 hours. 2,104,820 hours – 1,986,152 hours = 118,668 hours.

168

11,600 advisers x 0.5 hours = 5,800 hours.

88

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

The revised annual aggregate burden would be 2,110,620 hours.169 The revised average burden
per adviser would be approximately 182 hours per year.170
Advisers would likely use a combination of compliance clerks and general clerks to make
and keep the information and records required under the rule. The currently approved total cost
burden is $108,708,557.10. We estimate the hourly wage for compliance clerks to be $64 per
hour, including benefits, and the hourly wage for general clerks to be $53 per hour, including
benefits.171 For each adviser, 182 burden hours would be required to make and keep the
information and records required under the rule. We anticipate that compliance clerks will
perform an estimated 32 hours of this work, and clerical staff will perform the remaining 150
hours. The total cost per respondent therefore will be an estimated $9,998,172 for a total burden
cost of approximately $115,976,800,173 an increase of $7,268,243 from the currently approved
total cost per respondent.174 The increase in cost is attributable to a larger registered investment
adviser population since the most recent approval as well as the proposed rule 204-2
amendments discussed in this release.

169

1,986,152 (current approved burden) + 118,668 (burden for additional registrants) + 5,800 (burden for
proposed amendments) = 2,110,620 hours.

170

2,110,620 hours/11,600 advisers = 181.9 hours.

171

Our hourly wage rate estimate for a compliance manager and compliance clerk is based on data from the
SIFMA Office Salaries in the Securities Industry Report 2013, modified by Commission staff to account
for an 1800-hour work-year and multiplied by 5.35, for compliance clerks to account for bonuses, firm size,
employee benefits and overhead.

172

(32 hours per compliance clerk x $64) + (150 hours per clerical staff x $53) = ($2,048 + $7,950) = $9,998.

173

$9,998 per adviser x 11,600 advisers = approximately $115,976,800.

174

$115,976,800 - $108,708,557 = $7,268,243.

89

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

C.

Request for Comment

We request comment on whether our estimates for the change in burden hours and
associated costs described above are reasonable. Pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(B), the
Commission solicits comments in order to: (i) evaluate whether the proposed collections of
information are necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the Commission,
including whether the information will have practical utility; (ii) evaluate the accuracy of the
Commission’s estimate of the burden of the proposed collections of information; (iii) determine
whether there are ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be
collected; and (iv) determine whether there are ways to minimize the burden of the collections of
information on those who are to respond, including through the use of automated collection
techniques or other forms of information technology.
The agency has submitted the proposed collection of information to OMB for approval.
Persons wishing to submit comments on the collection of information requirements of the
proposed amendments should direct them to the Office of Management and Budget, Attention
Desk Officer for the Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of Information and
Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC 20503, and should send a copy to Brent J. Fields, Secretary,
Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090, with
reference to File No. S7-09-15. As OMB is required to make a decision concerning the
collections of information between 30 and 60 days after publication, a comment to OMB is best
assured of having its full effect if OMB receives it within 30 days of publication. Requests for
materials submitted to OMB by the Commission with regard to these collections of information
should be in writing, refer to File No. S7-09-15, and be submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Office of FOIA Services, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-2736.

90

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

V.

INITIAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS
The Commission has prepared the following Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis

(“IRFA”) in accordance with section 3(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act 175 regarding our
proposed amendments to Form ADV and rule 204-2 and our proposed technical amendments to
certain other rules under the Advisers Act.
A.

Reason for the Proposed Action

The proposed amendments to Form ADV are designed to provide the Commission with
additional information about registered investment advisers, including information about
separately managed accounts, provide for umbrella registration for multiple investment advisers
operating as a single advisory business, and provide technical, clarifying and other amendments
to certain Form ADV provisions. The proposed amendments to Form ADV would improve the
information provided by investment advisers to the Commission and the public.
We are also proposing amendments to the Advisers Act books and records rule that
would require advisers to make and keep supporting documentation that demonstrates
performance calculations or rates of return in any written communications that the adviser
circulates or distributes, directly or indirectly, to any person. We believe that the proposed
amendments to the books and records rule would improve investor protections by providing
useful information in examining and evaluating advisers’ performance claims.
Finally, we are proposing technical amendments to certain rules under the Advisers Act
to remove transition provisions where the transition process is complete.

175

5 U.S.C. 603(a).

91

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

B.

Objectives and Legal Basis

The proposed amendments to Form ADV would address certain data gaps and enhance
current reporting provided by investment advisers, particularly about separately managed
accounts, in order to increase our ability to effectively oversee and monitor their activities, and to
incorporate umbrella registration for private fund advisers that operate as a single advisory
business. The proposed amendments to the Advisers Act books and records rule would require
advisers to make and keep supporting documentation that demonstrates performance calculations
or rates of return in any written communications that the adviser circulates or distributes, directly
and indirectly, to any persons.
The Commission is proposing amendments to Form ADV under section 19(a) of the
Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77s(a)], sections 23(a) and 28(e)(2) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78w(a) and 78bb(e)(2)], section 319(a) of the Trust Indenture Act of
1939 [15 U.S.C. 7sss(a)], section 38(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a37(a)], and sections 203(c)(1), 204, and 211(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 [15
U.S.C. 80b-3(c)(1), 80b-4, and 80b-11(a)]. The Commission is proposing to amend rule 204-2
pursuant to the authority set forth in sections 204 and 211 of the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. 80b-4
and 80b-11]. The Commission is proposing to amend rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1 pursuant to authority
in sections 202(a)(11)(G) and 206A of the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11)(G) and 80b6A]. The Commission is proposing to amend rule 203-1 pursuant to authority in section 206A of
the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. 80b-6A]. The Commission is proposing to rescind rule 203A-5 and
amend rule 204-1 pursuant to authority in sections 204 and 211(a) of the Advisers Act [15
U.S.C. 80b-4 and 80b-11(a)].

92

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

C.

Small Entities Subject to the Rule and Rule Amendments

In developing these proposals, we have considered their potential impact on small entities
that would be subject to the proposed amendments. The proposed amendments would affect all
advisers registered with the Commission and exempt reporting advisers, including small entities.
Under Commission rules, for the purposes of the Advisers Act and the Regulatory Flexibility
Act, an investment adviser generally is a small entity if it: (1) has assets under management
having a total value of less than $25 million; (2) did not have total assets of $5 million or more
on the last day of the most recent fiscal year; and (3) does not control, is not controlled by, and is
not under common control with another investment adviser that has assets under management of
$25 million or more, or any person (other than a natural person) that had total assets of $5
million or more on the last day of its most recent fiscal year. 176
Our proposed rule and Form ADV amendments would not affect most advisers that are
small entities (“small advisers”) because they are generally registered with one or more state
securities authorities and not with us. Under section 203A of the Advisers Act, most small
advisers are prohibited from registering with the Commission and are regulated by state
regulators. Based on IARD data, we estimate that as of April 1, 2015, approximately 489
advisers that are small entities are registered with the Commission.177 Because these entities are
registered, they, like all SEC-registered investment advisers, would all be subject to the proposed
amendments to Form ADV, rule 204-2 and other Advisers Act rules.

176

Rule 0-7(a) under the Advisers Act.

177

Based on SEC-registered investment adviser responses to Form ADV, Item 5.F and Item 12.

93

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

The only small entity exempt reporting advisers that would be subject to the proposed
amendments would be exempt reporting advisers that maintain their principal office and place of
business in Wyoming or outside the United States. Advisers with less than $25 million in assets
under management generally are prohibited from registering with us unless they maintain their
principal office and place of business in Wyoming or outside the United States. Exempt
reporting advisers are not required to report regulatory assets under management on Form ADV
and therefore we do not have a precise number of exempt reporting advisers that are small
entities. Exempt reporting advisers are required to report in Part 1A, Schedule D the gross asset
value of each private fund they manage.178 Based on responses to that question, we estimate that
there is approximately 1 exempt reporting adviser with its principal office and place of business
in Wyoming that meets the definition of small entity. Advisers with their principal office and
place of business outside the United States may have additional assets under management other
than what is reported in Schedule D. Based on IARD filings, approximately 18% of registered
investment advisers with their principal office and place of business outside the U.S. are small
entities. There are approximately 1,148 exempt reporting advisers with their principal office and
place of business outside the U.S. We estimate that 18% of those advisers, approximately 206,
are small entities.
D.

Reporting, Recordkeeping and Other Compliance Requirements

The proposed amendments to Form ADV and rule 204-2 would impose certain reporting,
recordkeeping, and compliance requirements on all Commission-registered advisers, including
small advisers. All Commission-registered small advisers would be required to file Form ADV,

178

See Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Section 7.B.(1).A , Question 11.

94

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

including the proposed amendments, and all Commission-registered small advisers would be
subject to the proposed amended recordkeeping requirements. We do not believe that our
proposed technical amendments to other Advisers Act rules would impose different reporting,
recordkeeping, or other compliance requirements on small advisers.
Proposed Form ADV Amendments
The proposed amendments to Form ADV would require registered investment advisers to
report different or additional information than what is currently required. Approximately 489
small advisers currently registered with us would be subject to these requirements. We expect
these 489 small advisers to spend, on average, 3 hours to respond to the proposed new and
amended questions, not including items relating to private fund reporting.179 We expect the
aggregate cost to small advisers associated with this process would be $366,500.180
In addition, of these 489 small advisers, we estimate that 4 small advisers currently rely
on the 2012 ABA Letter to act as filing advisers for their relying advisers.181 We expect that our
proposed changes to codify umbrella registration would take 4 hours182 in the aggregate, at a cost
to small advisers of $1,000. 183 We do not know how many additional small advisers would use

179

See supra section IV. of this release.

180

We expect that performance of this function will most likely be equally allocated between a senior
compliance examiner and a compliance manager. Data from the SIFMA Management and Professional
Earnings Report, modified to account for an 1,800-hour work year and multiplied by 5.35 to account for
bonuses, firm size, employee benefits, and overhead, suggest that costs for these positions are $217 and
$283 per hour, respectively. 489 small advisers x 3 hours = 1,467 hours. [733 hours x $217 = $159,061] +
[733 hours x $283 = $207,439] = $366,500.

181

Based on IARD data as of April 1, 2015.

182

For purposes of the Paperwork Reduction Act, we estimated in section IV. of this release that amendments
to codify umbrella registration would take an additional 1 hour per filing adviser.

183

As discussed in connection with the Paperwork Reduction Act, we expect that performance of this function
will most likely be equally allocated between a senior compliance examiner and a compliance manager.

95

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

umbrella registration if it was incorporated into Form ADV. We estimate for purposes of the
Paperwork Reduction Act that they would also have a burden of 1 hour per filing adviser.
We do not estimate any increase or decrease in burden related to our proposed
amendments for private fund advisers, other than the hours related to proposed Schedule R or for
exempt reporting advisers. The total estimated labor costs associated with our amendments that
we expect will be borne by small advisers is $367,500.184
Proposed Amendments to Books and Records Rule
Our proposed amendments to rule 204-2’s performance information recordkeeping
provisions are meant to require investment advisers to make and keep the following records: (i)
documentation necessary to demonstrate the calculation of the performance the adviser
distributes to any person, and (ii) all written communications received or sent relating to the
adviser’s performance. These amendments would create reporting, recordkeeping, and other
compliance requirements for small advisers. As discussed in the Paperwork Reduction Act
Analysis in section IV. above, the proposed amendments to rule 204-2 would increase the burden
by approximately 0.5 hours per adviser. We expect the aggregate cost to small advisers
associated with our proposed amendments would be $13,415.185

Data from the SIFMA Management and Professional Earnings Report, modified to account for an 1,800hour work year and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits, and overhead,
suggest that costs for these positions are $217 and $283 per hour, respectively. 4 filing advisers x 1 hour =
4 hours. [2 hours x $217 = $434] + [2 hours x $283 = 566] = $1,000.
184

$366,500 + $1,000 = $367,500. These costs are discussed in Paperwork Reduction Act Analysis in section
IV. of the release.

185

As discussed in connection with the Paperwork Reduction Act, we expect that performance of this function
will most likely be allocated between compliance clerks and general clerks with compliance clerks
performing 17% of the function and general clerks performing 83% of the function. Data from the SIFMA
Office Salaries in the Securities Industry Report 2013, modified to account for an 1,800-hour work year
and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits, and overhead, suggest that

96

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

E.

Duplicative, Overlapping, or Conflicting Federal Rules

We believe there are no federal rules that duplicate, overlap, or conflict with the proposed
rule and form amendments.
F.

Significant Alternatives

The Regulatory Flexibility Act directs the Commission to consider significant
alternatives that would accomplish the stated objective, while minimizing any significant adverse
impact on small entities. In connection with the proposed Form ADV and rule amendments, the
Commission considered the following alternatives: (i) the establishment of differing compliance
or reporting requirements that take into account the resources available to small entities; (ii) the
clarification, consolidation, or simplification of compliance and reporting requirements under the
proposed Form ADV and rule amendments for such small entities; (iii) the use of performance
rather than design standards; and (iv) an exemption from coverage of the proposed Form ADV
and rule amendments, or any part thereof, for such small entities.
Regarding the first and second alternatives, for certain proposed reporting requirements
regarding separately managed accounts on Form ADV, we propose to require semi-annual
information filed annually for advisers with regulatory assets under management attributable to
separately managed accounts of $10 billion or more and annual information for other advisers.186
Requiring less detailed reporting on these items for advisers with less than $10 billion is
designed to balance our regulatory needs for this type of information while seeking to minimize

186

costs for these positions are $64 and $53, respectively. 489 small advisers x 0.5 hours = 244.5 hours. [0.17
x 244.5 hours x $64 = $2,660] + [0.83 x 244.5 hours x $53 = $10,755] = $13,415.
Proposed Form ADV, Part 1A, Schedule D, Sections 5.K.(1).

97

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

the reporting burden on advisers that manage a smaller amount of separately managed account
assets where appropriate.
Regarding the first and fourth alternatives for the other proposed amendments to Form
ADV and Advisers Act rules, we do not believe that different compliance or reporting
requirements or an exemption from coverage of the Form ADV and rule amendments, or any
part thereof, for small entities, would be appropriate. Because the protections of the Advisers
Act are intended to apply equally to clients of both large and small advisers, it would be
inconsistent with the purposes of the Act to specify differences for small entities under the
proposed amendments.
Regarding the second alternative for the other proposed amendments to Form ADV and
the Advisers Act rules, we will continue to consider whether further clarification, consolidation,
or simplification of the compliance requirements is feasible or necessary, but we believe that the
current proposal is clear.

The remaining Form ADV amendments do not change that all SEC-

registered advisers use a single form, Form ADV, and an existing filing system, IARD, for
reporting and registration purposes, and this would not change for small entities. With respect to
the rule 204-2 amendments, we believe that the same requirements should apply to all advisers to
permit our staff to more effectively examine them.
Regarding the third alternative, we consider using performance rather than design
standards with respect to the proposed amendments to Form ADV and rule 204-2 to be
inconsistent with our statutory mandate to protect investors, as advisers must provide certain
registration information and maintain books and records in a uniform and quantifiable manner so
that it is useful to our regulatory and examination program.

98

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

G. Solicitation of Comments
We encourage written comments on matters discussed in this IRFA. We solicit comment
on the number of small entities subject to the proposed Form ADV and rule amendments; and
whether the proposed Form ADV and rule amendments discussed in this release could have an
effect on small entities that has not been considered. We request that commenters describe the
nature of any impact on small entities and provide empirical data to support the extent of such
impact.
VI.

CONSIDERATION OF IMPACT ON THE ECONOMY
For purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, or

“SBREFA,”187 we must advise OMB whether a proposed regulation constitutes a “major” rule.
Under SBREFA, a rule is considered “major” where, if adopted, it results in or is likely to result
in (1) an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more; (2) a major increase in costs or
prices for consumers or individual industries; or (3) significant adverse effects on competition,
investment or innovation.
We request comment on the potential impact of the proposed amendments on the
economy on an annual basis. Commenters are requested to provide empirical data and other
factual support for their views to the extent possible.
VII.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY
The Commission is proposing amendments to Form ADV under section 19(a) of the

Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77s(a)], sections 23(a) and 28(e)(2) of the Securities Exchange

187

Public Law 104-121, Title II, 110 Stat. 857 (1996) (codified in various sections of 5 U.S.C., 15 U.S.C. and
as a note to 5 U.S.C. 601).

99

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78w(a) and 78bb(e)(2)], section 319(a) of the Trust Indenture Act of
1939 [15 U.S.C. 7sss(a)], section 38(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a37(a)], and sections 203(c)(1), 204, and 211(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 [15
U.S.C. 80b-3(c)(1), 80b-4, and 80b-11(a)]. The Commission is proposing to amend rule 204-2
pursuant to the authority set forth in sections 204 and 211 of the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. 80b-4
and 80b-11]. The Commission is proposing to amend rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1 pursuant to authority
in sections 202(a)(11)(G) and 206A of the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11)(G) and 80b6A]. The Commission is proposing to amend rule 203-1 pursuant to authority in section 206A of
the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. 80b-6A]. The Commission is proposing to rescind rule 203A-5 and
amend rule 204-1 pursuant to authority in sections 204 and 211(a) of the Advisers Act [15
U.S.C. 80b-4 and 80b-11(a)].
List of Subjects in 17 CFR Parts 275 and 279
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements; Securities.
TEXT OF RULE AND FORM AMENDMENTS
For the reasons set forth in the preamble, Title 17, Chapter II of the Code of Federal
Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows.
PART 275 – RULES AND REGULATIONS, INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
1. The authority citation for Part 275 continues to read in part as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11)(G), 80b-2(a)(11)(H), 80b-2(a)(17), 80b-3, 80b-4,
80b-4a, 80b-6(4), 80b-6a, and 80b-11, unless otherwise noted.
2. Amend § 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1 by removing paragraph (e).
100

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

3. Amend § 275.203-1 by:
a. In paragraph (a) removing the phrase “Subject to paragraph (b), to” and
adding in its place “To”;
b. Removing paragraphs (b);
c. Removing the text “NOTE TO PARAGRAPHS (a) AND (b)” and adding in
its place “Note To Paragraph (a)”;
d. Redesignating paragraphs (c) and (d) as paragraphs (b) and (c); and
e. Removing paragraph (e).
4. § 275.203A-5 is removed and reserved.
5. Amend § 275.204-1 by:
a. In paragraph (b)(1) removing the phrase “Subject to paragraph (c) of this
section, you” and adding in its place “You”;
b. Removing paragraph (c); and
c. Redesignating paragraphs (d) and (e) as paragraphs (c) and (d).
6. Amend § 275.204-2 by:
a. Revision paragraph (a)(7); and
b. In paragraph (a)(16) by removing the phrase “ to 10 or more persons” and
adding in its place “to any person”.
§ 275.204-2

Books and records to be maintained by investment advisers

(a) ***
(7) Originals of all written communications received and copies of all written
communications sent by such investment adviser relating to:
(i) Any recommendation made or proposed to be made and any advice given or proposed
to be given;
101

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

(ii) Any receipt, disbursement or delivery of funds or securities;
(iii) The placing or execution of any order to purchase or sell any security: Provided,
however:
(A) That the investment adviser shall not be required to keep any unsolicited market
letters and other similar communications of general public distribution not prepared by or
for the investment adviser; and
(B) That if the investment adviser sends any notice, circular or other advertisement
offering any report, analysis, publication or other investment advisory service to more
than 10 persons, the investment adviser shall not be required to keep a record of the
names and addresses of the persons to whom it was sent; except that if such notice,
circular or advertisement is distributed to persons named on any list, the investment
adviser shall retain with the copy of such notice, circular or advertisement a
memorandum describing the list and the source thereof; or
(iv) The performance or rate of return of any or all managed accounts or securities
recommendations.
*****

PART 279 – FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940
7. The authority citation for Part 279 continues to read in part as follows:
Authority: The Investment Advisers Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80b-1, et seq.
8. Form ADV [referenced in §279.1] is amended by:
a.

In the instructions to the form, revising the section entitled “Form ADV: General

Instructions.” The revised version of Form ADV: General Instructions is attached as Appendix
A;

102

CORRECTED TO CONFORM TO FEDERAL REGISTER VERSION

b.

In the instructions to the form, revising the section entitled “Form ADV:

Instructions for Part 1A.” The revised version of Form ADV: Instructions for Part 1A is
attached as Appendix B;
c.

In the instructions to the form, revising the section entitled “Form ADV:

Glossary of Terms.” The revised version of Form ADV: Glossary of Terms is attached as
Appendix C;
d.

In the form, revising Part 1A. The revised version of Form ADV, Part 1A, is

attached as Appendix D.

Note: The text of Form ADV does not and the amendments will not appear in the
Code of Federal Regulations.

By the Commission.
May 20, 2015
Robert W. Errett
Deputy Secretary

103

