UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4503 / August 25, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17499
ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT
TO SECTION 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDER

In the Matter of
EXECUTIVE MONETARY
MANAGEMENT, LLC,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 203(k) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Executive Monetary
Management, LLC (“Respondent” or “EMM”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order
Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers
Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth
below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1 that:

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

Summary
1.
This matter arises from misstatements made by registered investment adviser
EMM to certain of its advisory clients, including clients with separately managed accounts
invested in F-Squared Investments, Inc.’s (“F-Squared”) strategy through a non-affiliated subadvisor. EMM advertised the strategy by negligently relying on F-Squared’s materially
inflated, and hypothetical and back-tested, performance track record that F-Squared
misrepresented.
2.
AlphaSector is a sector rotation strategy based on an algorithm that yields a signal
indicating whether to buy or sell nine industry exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”) that together
made up the industries in the S&P 500 Index. Between August 2011 and October 2013, EMM
offered the AlphaSector strategy to its clients.
3.
From August 1, 2011 through October 1, 2013, in reliance on F-Squared’s false
statements, EMM’s AlphaSector advertisements falsely stated that: (a) assets had been invested
in the AlphaSector strategy from April 2001 to September 2008; and (b) the track record had
significantly outperformed the S&P 500 Index from April 2001 to September 2008. In fact, no
client assets had tracked the strategy from April 2001 through September 2008. In addition, FSquared miscalculated the historical performance of AlphaSector from April 2001 to September
2008 by incorrectly implementing signals in advance of when such signals actually could have
occurred.
4.
Although it conducted due diligence in some areas, EMM took insufficient steps
to confirm the accuracy of F-Squared’s historical data and other information contained in the
materials. In addition, EMM did not obtain sufficient documentation that substantiated FSquared’s advertising claims in the materials. As a result of this inaccurate compilation of
historical data by F-Squared, EMM advertised the AlphaSector strategy by using hypothetical
and back-tested historical performance that was inflated substantially over what performance
would have been if F-Squared had applied the signals accurately.
5.
As a result, EMM violated Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)1(a)(5) thereunder by publishing, circulating, and distributing advertisements that contained
untrue statements of material fact. EMM likewise did not make and keep true, accurate and
current records or documents necessary to form the basis for or demonstrate the calculation of
the performance or rate of returns that it circulated and distributed, as required by Section
204(a) of the Advisers Act and Rule 204-2(a)(16) thereunder.
Respondent
6.
Executive Monetary Management, LLC (SEC File No. 801-69791) is an
investment adviser registered with the Commission since 2008 upon continuing the business of a
predecessor adviser that had been established in 1968, and is headquartered in New York, New

2

York. As of March 2015, EMM had regulatory assets under management of approximately
$2.7 billion. 2
Other Relevant Persons
7.
F-Squared Investments, Inc. (“F-Squared”) (SEC File No. 801-69937) is an
investment adviser that was registered with the Commission from March 2009 until
January 2016, and is headquartered in Wellesley, Massachusetts. In October 2008, F-Squared
launched its first AlphaSector index. F-Squared sub-licensed its approximately 75 AlphaSector
indexes to unaffiliated third parties who managed assets pursuant to these indexes. On
December 22, 2014, the Commission instituted a settled fraud action against F-Squared in which
F-Squared admitted, among other things, to making the materially false claims that (a) the
signals that formed the basis of the AlphaSector index returns had been used to manage client
assets from April 2001 to September 2008; and (b) the signals resulted in a track record that
significantly outperformed the S&P 500 Index from April 2001 to September 2008. See In the
Matter of F-Squared Investments, Inc., Admin. Proceeding No. 3-16325 (Dec. 22, 2014).
8.
Howard Brian Present (“Present”), age 55, resides in Wellesley, Massachusetts.
In 2006, Present co-founded F-Squared and was the President and CEO until his separation in
2014. On December 22, 2014, the Commission filed a civil complaint alleging fraud charges
against Present in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, which is
pending. See SEC v. Present, No. 1:14-cv-14692 (D. Mass. filed Dec. 22, 2014).
Facts
EMM’s Relationship With F-Squared
9.
In April 2010, F-Squared introduced EMM to its AlphaSector strategies. EMM
began considering whether it would recommend an investment strategy to be implemented by a
non-affiliated model manager based on F-Squared’s AlphaSector sector rotation strategy. This
strategy would be used as part of an equity strategy for certain EMM clients, which eventually
amounted to less than 2% of EMM’s total client assets. F-Squared marketed AlphaSector to
EMM as an ETF sector rotation strategy that was based on an algorithm that yields a “signal”
indicating whether to buy or sell nine industry ETFs. 3 If the algorithm produced buy signals for
2

Regulatory assets under management include the securities portfolios for which EMM provides
continuous and regular supervisory or management services.

3

F-Squared created several AlphaSector strategies and sub-licensed approximately 75 AlphaSector
indexes. The AlphaSector indexes that are the subject of this matter, including the AlphaSector Premium
Index and the AlphaSector Rotation Index, are based on investments in U.S. equity ETFs. As with all
indexes, the performance of the AlphaSector Premium Index and AlphaSector Rotation Index is
inherently hypothetical in the sense that the indexes do not purport to reflect the performance of any
particular client or account. However, the AlphaSector Premium Index and AlphaSector Rotation Index
were advertised as being based on a strategy that had been in place since 2001 and therefore the
performance of these indexes was advertised as “not backtested” when in fact the performance was back-

3

three or fewer sector ETFs, the AlphaSector strategy provided for some or all of the assets to be
invested in cash equivalents.
10.
F-Squared described the strategy falsely to EMM by, among other things,
representing that: (a) the AlphaSector strategy had been used to manage client assets from April
2001 to September 2008, often calling it a “live” track record; and (b) the track record had
significantly outperformed the S&P 500 Index from April 2001 to September 2008. In reality,
no assets tracked the strategy until 2008 and the back-tested track record was substantially
overstated. F-Squared’s AlphaSector sales and marketing materials shared with EMM claimed
that clients actually achieved these performance returns for the April 2001 to September 2008
time period. In turn, EMM took portions of F-Squared’s advertisements, including claims
concerning the live nature of the track record and the significant outperformance claim, and
disseminated its own advertisements to its clients and prospective clients without having a
reasonable basis to conclude that F-Squared’s exceptional performance claims were true.
EMM’s Advertisements Contained Misstatements
11.
From August 1, 2011 to October 1, 2013, EMM, in advertising its own advisory
services, disseminated AlphaSector performance advertisements for its own separately managed
account strategies that failed to disclose the AlphaSector track record for the period April 2001
to September 2008 was hypothetical and back-tested. EMM typically distributed these
advertisements through one-on-one meetings or via electronic mail to its clients and prospective
clients. As described above, by relying on data provided by F-Squared, EMM’s AlphaSector
advertisements also substantially overstated the performance of the back-tested track record
during this period based on the false information provided by F-Squared.
12.
EMM took some remedial steps to protect its clients. On October 4, 2013, FSquared notified EMM that F-Squared was removing all performance track records for the time
period April 2001 to September 2008 from advertising materials. EMM immediately placed the
AlphaSector strategy on hold to any new investments and ceased advertising the strategy. On
October 21, 2013 EMM removed the AlphaSector strategy from its approved list of client
investments and advised all clients to terminate their relationship with F-Squared.
EMM Failed to Have A Reasonable Basis to Believe the Accuracy of the Performance and
Performance-Related Claims in the Advertisements
13.
EMM knew or should have known that it did not have a reasonable basis to
believe that AlphaSector’s advertising claims were accurate. EMM knew or should have known
that F-Squared’s AlphaSector strategy purported performance contained in EMM’s advertising
materials was exceptional over the 2001-2008 period in that it significantly outperformed the
S&P 500 Index and purported to involve actual results notwithstanding that the AlphaSector
strategy was not launched until 2008. With regard to the performance claims, EMM included in
tested.

4

its AlphaSector advertisements a general statement indicating that third parties were the source
of the performance data and that EMM did not guarantee the accuracy.
14.
In its due diligence process, EMM relied on documents and discussions making
performance claims that were prepared and provided by F-Squared without independent
substantiation. One of the documents EMM relied on was a Morningstar report provided by FSquared that stated the information in the report was obtained from third-party sources and had
not been independently verified by Morningstar. EMM also reviewed performance returns
calculated by NASDAQ on Bloomberg of the AlphaSector Rotation Index, and tested those
against the performance returns provided by F-Squared, although the input data that NASDAQ
used to calculate the returns also came from F-Squared. Having taken insufficient steps to
confirm the accuracy of the AlphaSector performance data and not having obtained sufficient
documentation that would have substantiated F-Squared’s advertised performance and
performance-related claims in EMM’s advertising materials, EMM failed to have a reasonable
basis to believe that AlphaSector’s performance was accurate when included in its own
advertisements for clients considering the strategy.
EMM Failed to Maintain Adequate Books and Records
15.
EMM was required to make and keep true, accurate and current records or
documents necessary to form the basis for or demonstrate the calculation of the performance or
rate of return that it circulated or distributed to ten or more persons. In marketing its own
advisory services, EMM circulated and distributed the F-Squared 2001-2008 historical
performance of the AlphaSector strategy in client presentations and marketing materials and
other communications to numerous clients, investors, and potential investors. However, EMM
never made or kept sufficient records or documents to form the basis for or demonstrate the
calculation of the historical performance or rate of return of the AlphaSector strategy for the
period from April 2001 through September 2008.
Violations
16.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent violated Section 206(4) of
the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-1(a)(5) thereunder, which make it a fraudulent, deceptive, or
manipulative act, practice, or course of business within the meaning of Section 206(4) of the
Advisers Act to, among other things, directly or indirectly publish, circulate, or distribute an
advertisement which contains any untrue statement of material fact, or which is otherwise false
or misleading. A violation of Section 206(4) and the rules thereunder does not require scienter.
SEC v. Steadman, 967 F.2d 636, 647 (D.C. Cir. 1992).
17.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent violated Section 204(a) of
the Advisers Act and Rule 204-2(a)(16) thereunder. Section 204(a) of the Advisers Act requires
investment advisers to make and keep certain records as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe
as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. Rule 204-2
under the Advisers Act requires investment advisers registered or required to be registered to
make and keep true, accurate and current various books and records relating to their investment
advisory business, including all accounts, books, internal working papers, and any other records
5

or documents that are necessary to form the basis for or demonstrate the calculation of the
performance or rate of return of any or all managed accounts or securities recommendations in
any notice, circular, advertisement, newspaper article, investment letter, bulletin or other
communication that the investment adviser circulates or distributes, directly or indirectly, to 10
or more persons.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, Respondent shall cease and desist
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 204(a) and
206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rules 204-2(a)(16), and 206(4)-1(a)(5) thereunder.
B.
Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) to the Securities and Exchange Commission
for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section
21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C.
3717. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through
the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission
and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Executive
Monetary Management, LLC as the Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of
these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Jeffrey B.
Finnell, Assistant Director, Asset Management Unit, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100
F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549-5010.

6

C.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall
be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such
a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount
of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil
penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action”
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

7

