UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4115 / June 15, 2015
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 31668 / June 15, 2015
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16590

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT
TO SECTIONS 203(f) AND 203(k) OF
THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT
OF 1940 AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF
1940

In the Matter of
BRIAN J. OURAND,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be,
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 203(f) and (k) of the Investment Advisers
Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940
(“Investment Company Act”) against Brian J. Ourand (“Respondent” or “Ourand”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
Respondent
1.
Brian J. Ourand, age 53, is a resident of Miami, Florida. Ourand was SFX
Financial Advisory Management Enterprises, Inc.’s (“SFX”) Vice President from 2003 to
2007 and President until August 2011, when he was terminated. Ourand holds a Series 65
license.
Related Entity
2.
SFX Financial Advisory Management Enterprises, Inc. is a Delaware
corporation headquartered in Washington, District of Columbia. SFX became registered

with the Commission as an investment adviser on September 21, 1992, but withdrew its
registration on September 12, 2012. SFX is currently registered in the District of Columbia.
In its most-recent Form ADV filing in March 2014, SFX disclosed that it managed $15
million on a discretionary basis.
Background
3.
SFX provides advisory and financial management services to high networth individuals, primarily current and former professional athletes. SFX offers a range
of services including investment portfolio management, bill payment, financial planning,
and tax consultation and support.
4.
Several of SFX’s clients had bank and brokerage accounts over which SFX
had the power to withdraw and deposit assets.
5.
Ourand was a relationship manager for several clients. Ourand provided
bill-paying services for these clients, and had authority over client bank accounts to pay
bills, transfer money, and deposit checks. Ourand also had unauthorized access to some
client credit card accounts.
6.
Ourand was given discretionary authority to trade in client brokerage
accounts and gave clients advice with respect to investing in securities.
7.
In July 2011, an SFX employee learned that Ourand had misappropriated
assets when a client complained that he could not use one of his credit cards. SFX and the
employee promptly conducted an internal investigation. Ultimately, SFX terminated
Ourand and reported his conduct to the criminal authorities.
8.
From 2006 to 2011, Ourand misappropriated at least $670,000 from clients.
During this time, Ourand wrote unauthorized checks from client bank accounts payable to
cash or himself and wired unauthorized amounts to himself for his own personal use. He
also wired money using client credit cards for unauthorized amounts to others for their
personal use. In addition, Ourand forged a client’s name and engaged in other deceptive
conduct.
Violations
9.
As a result of the conduct described above, Ourand willfully violated, or, in
the alternative, willfully aided and abetted and caused violations of Sections 206(1) and (2)
of the Advisers Act, which make it unlawful for an adviser to employ any device, scheme,
or artifice to defraud any client or prospective client; or to engage in any transaction,
practice, or course of business which operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or
prospective client.
III.

2

In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission
deems it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and
cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in
connection therewith, to afford Respondent an opportunity to establish any defenses to such
allegations;
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondent pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act including, but not limited to,
disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 203 of the Advisers Act;
C.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondent pursuant to Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act including, but not
limited to, disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 9 of the Investment
Company Act; and
D.
Whether, pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, Respondent should
be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any future
violations of Sections 206(1) and (2) of the Advisers Act, whether Respondent should be
ordered to pay a civil penalty pursuant to Section 203(i) of the Advisers Act and Section
9(d) of the Investment Company Act, and whether Respondent should be ordered to pay
disgorgement pursuant to Section 203 of the Advisers Act and Section 9 of the Investment
Company Act.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not
later than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by
Rule 220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after
being duly notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be
determined against him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be
deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent as provided for in the
Commission’s Rules of Practice.

3

This Order shall be served upon Respondent as provided for in Rule 141(a)(2)(iv)
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R § 201.141(a)(2)(iv), by any method
specified in paragraph (a)(2) of that rule, or by any other method reasonably calculated to
give notice, provided that the method of service used is not prohibited by the law of the
foreign country where Respondents may be found.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
initial decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter,
except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is
not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it
is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any
final Commission action.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

4

