UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4552 / October 17, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17627
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
MATTHEW D. HAAB,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Matthew D. Haab
(“Respondent” or “Haab”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in paragraph III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section
203(f) of The Investment Advisers Act Of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
Haab was the President, Treasurer, over 40% shareholder, a director, and Chief
Compliance Officer of Veros Partners, Inc. (“Veros”), an investment adviser that was registered
with the Commission from July 2006 until December 31, 2015. Haab, 43 years old, is a resident of
Indianapolis, Indiana.
2.
On September 14, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against Haab,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”), Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and
Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act, in the civil action
entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Veros Partners, Inc. et al., Civil Action Number
1:15-CV-659, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana.
3.
The Commission’s Amended Complaint alleged that in 2013 and 2014 Haab
fraudulently raised at least $15 million in two separate farm loan private offerings from at least 80
investors, most of whom were clients of Veros. The Amended Complaint also alleged that Haab
used money from certain offerings to pay investors in other offerings.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Haab’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that
Respondent Haab be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served

2

as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

