UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4449 / July 11, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17334

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

WILLIAM EMERY
MATTHEWS,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against William Emery
Matthews (“Respondent” or “Matthews”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section
203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Matthews was the chief investment officer and an 8% shareholder of
MayfieldGentry Realty Advisors, LLC (“MGRA”), an investment adviser registered with the
Commission from 2004 through July 2013. Matthews, 43 years old, is a resident of Detroit,
Michigan.
2.
On June 23, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against
Matthews, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the
Advisers Act, in the civil action entitled United States Securities and Exchange Commission v.
MayfieldGentry Realty Advisors, LLC, et al., Civil Action Number 13-CV-12520, in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that, in early 2008, MGRA and its
CEO, Chauncey C. Mayfield (“Mayfield”), misappropriated approximately $3.1 million belonging
to one of the Detroit public employee pension funds and used the money to purchase two retail
shopping centers on behalf of MGRA affiliates.
4.
The complaint alleged that Matthews learned of the misappropriation in
May 2011. The complaint further alleged that, despite his fiduciary obligations, Matthews kept the
misappropriation a secret from the pension fund, and devised a plan with MGRA’s other principals
to secretly pay back the pension fund without the pension fund ever learning of the theft.
5.
The complaint alleged that Matthews and the other MGRA principals
affirmatively misled the pension fund through financial reporting and an extensive budget
presentation. The complaint further alleged that MGRA eventually disclosed the misappropriation
to the pension fund in late April 2012, after which the pension fund promptly fired MGRA.
6.
The complaint alleged that Matthews’ actions aided and abetted MGRA’s
and Mayfield’s violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act that
Respondent Matthews be, and hereby is, barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization, with the right to apply for reentry after three (3) years to
the appropriate self-regulatory organization, or if there is none, to the Commission.

2

Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

