UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Investment Advisers Act of 1940
Release No. 4338 / February 23, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17127
ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT
TO SECTION 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDER

In the Matter of
CANTELLA & CO.,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and
in the public interest that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted
pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against
Cantella & Co. (“Respondent” or “Cantella”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order
Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers
Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth
below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
1

Summary
1.
This matter arises from misstatements made by registered investment adviser
Cantella to certain of its advisory clients, including clients with separately managed accounts
invested in F-Squared Investments, Inc.’s (“F-Squared”) strategy. Cantella advertised the
strategy by negligently relying on F-Squared’s materially inflated, and hypothetical and backtested, performance track record that F-Squared misrepresented.
2.
AlphaSector is a sector rotation strategy based on an algorithm that yields a signal
indicating whether to buy or sell nine industry exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”) that together
made up the industries in the S&P 500 Index. Between October 2012 and May 2015, Cantella
offered the AlphaSector strategy to its clients.
3.
From October 2012 to September 2013, in reliance on F-Squared’s false
statements, Cantella’s AlphaSector advertisements falsely stated that: (a) assets had been
invested in the AlphaSector strategy from April 2001 to September 2008; and (b) the track
record had significantly outperformed the S&P 500 Index from April 2001 to September 2008.
In fact, no client assets had tracked the strategy from April 2001 through September 2008. In
addition, F-Squared miscalculated the historical performance of AlphaSector from April 2001 to
September 2008 by incorrectly implementing signals in advance of when such signals actually
could have occurred. Cantella took insufficient steps to confirm the accuracy of F-Squared’s
historical data and other information contained in the materials. In addition, Cantella did not
obtain sufficient documentation that substantiated F-Squared’s advertising claims in the
materials. As a result of this inaccurate compilation of historical data by F-Squared, Cantella
advertised the AlphaSector strategy by using hypothetical and back-tested historical
performance that was inflated substantially over what performance would have been if FSquared had applied the signals accurately.
4.
As a result, Cantella violated Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)1(a)(5) thereunder by publishing, circulating, and distributing advertisements that contained
untrue statements of material fact. Cantella likewise did not make and keep true, accurate and
current records or documents necessary to form the basis for or demonstrate the calculation of
the performance or rate of returns that it circulated and distributed, as required by Section
204(a) of the Advisers Act and Rule 204-2(a)(16) thereunder.
Respondent
5.
Cantella & Co., (SEC File No. 801-60841) is an investment adviser and brokerdealer registered with the Commission since June 1979 (as a broker-dealer) and March 2002 (as
an investment adviser) and is headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts. As of September 2015,
Cantella had regulatory assets under management of approximately $941 million.2

2

Regulatory assets under management include the securities portfolios for which Cantella provides
continuous and regular supervisory or management services.

Other Relevant Entities
6.
F-Squared Investments, Inc. (“F-Squared”) (SEC File No. 801-69937) is an
investment adviser registered with the Commission since March 2009 and is headquartered in
Wellesley, Massachusetts. In October 2008, F-Squared launched its first AlphaSector index. FSquared sub-licenses its approximately 75 AlphaSector indexes to unaffiliated third parties who
manage assets pursuant to these indexes. On December 22, 2014, the Commission instituted a
settled fraud action against F-Squared in which F-Squared admitted, among other things, to
making the materially false claims that (a) the signals that formed the basis of the AlphaSector
index returns had been used to manage client assets from April 2001 to September 2008; and (b)
the signals resulted in a track record that significantly outperformed the S&P 500 Index from
April 2001 to September 2008. See In the Matter of F-Squared Investments, Inc., Admin.
Proceeding No. 3-16325 (Dec. 22, 2014).
7.
Howard Brian Present (“Present”), age 54, resides in Wellesley, Massachusetts.
In 2006, Present co-founded F-Squared and was the President and CEO until his separation in
2014. Present owns approximately 22% of F-Squared Investment Management, LLC, of which
F-Squared is a wholly-owned subsidiary. On December 22, 2014, the Commission filed a civil
complaint alleging fraud charges against Present in the United States District Court for the
District of Massachusetts, which is pending. See SEC v. Present, No. 1:14-cv-14692 (D. Mass.
filed Dec. 22, 2014).
Facts
Cantella’s Relationship With F-Squared
8.
In February 2012, F-Squared introduced Cantella to its AlphaSector strategies.
Cantella began considering whether it would enter into a model manager agreement with FSquared whereby Cantella would establish an investment product based on F-Squared’s
AlphaSector sector rotation strategy. F-Squared marketed AlphaSector to Cantella as an ETF
sector rotation strategy that was based on an algorithm that yields a “signal” indicating whether
to buy or sell nine industry ETFs.3 If the algorithm produced buy signals for three or fewer
sector ETFs, the AlphaSector strategy provided for some or all of the assets to be invested in
cash equivalents. On or about March 14, 2012, Cantella entered into a model manager
agreement with F-Squared and used the AlphaSector model portfolios to create Cantella’s
“Tactical Gold” and “Tactical Silver” sector rotation strategies.

3

F-Squared has created several AlphaSector strategies and sub-licenses approximately 75 AlphaSector
indexes. The AlphaSector indexes that are the subject of this matter, including the AlphaSector Premium
Index and the AlphaSector Rotation Index, are based on investments in U.S. equity ETFs. As with all
indexes, the performance of the AlphaSector Premium Index and AlphaSector Rotation Index are
inherently hypothetical in the sense that the indexes do not purport to reflect the performance of any
particular client or account. However, the AlphaSector Premium Index and AlphaSector Rotation Index
were advertised as being based on a strategy that had been in place since 2001 and therefore the
performance of these indexes was advertised as “not backtested” when in fact the performance was backtested.

9.
F-Squared described the strategy falsely to Cantella by, among other things,
representing that: (a) the AlphaSector strategy had been used to manage client assets from April
2001 to September 2008, often calling it a “live” track record; and (b) the track record had
significantly outperformed the S&P 500 Index from April 2001 to September 2008. In reality,
no assets tracked the strategy until 2008 and the back-tested track record was substantially
overstated. F-Squared’s AlphaSector sales and marketing materials shared with Cantella claimed
that clients actually achieved these performance returns for the April 2001 to September 2008
time period. In turn, Cantella took portions of F-Squared’s advertisements, including claims
concerning the live nature of the track record and the significant outperformance claim, and
disseminated its own advertisements to its clients and prospective clients without having a
reasonable basis to conclude that F-Squared’s exceptional performance claims were true.
Cantella’s Advertisements Contained Misstatements
10.
From October 2012 through September 2013, Cantella, in advertising its own
advisory services, disseminated AlphaSector performance advertisements for its Tactical Gold
and Tactical Silver strategies that failed to disclose the AlphaSector track record for the period
April 2001 to September 2008 was hypothetical and back-tested. Cantella typically distributed
these advertisements through electronic mail to its clients and prospective clients. As described
above, Cantella’s AlphaSector advertisements also substantially overstated the performance of
the back-tested track record during this period based on the false information provided by FSquared.
Cantella Failed to Have A Reasonable Basis to Believe the Accuracy of the Performance
and Performance-Related Claims in the Advertisements
11.
Cantella knew or should have known that it did not have a reasonable basis to
believe that AlphaSector’s advertising claims were accurate. Cantella knew or should have
known that F-Squared’s AlphaSector strategy purported performance contained in Cantella’s
advertising materials was exceptional over the 2001 – 2008 period in that it significantly
outperformed the S&P 500 Index and purported to involve actual results notwithstanding that the
AlphaSector strategy was not launched until 2008. With regard to the performance claims,
Cantella included in its AlphaSector advertisements a general statement indicating that thirdparties were the source of the performance data and that Cantella did not guarantee the accuracy.
Cantella relied solely on documents making performance claims that were prepared and provided
by F-Squared without any other substantiation. One of the documents Cantella relied on was a
Morningstar report provided by F-Squared that stated the information in the report was obtained
from third party sources and had not been independently verified by Morningstar. Having taken
insufficient steps to confirm the accuracy of the AlphaSector performance data and not having
obtained sufficient documentation that would have substantiated F-Squared’s advertised
performance and performance-related claims in Cantella’s advertising materials, Cantella failed
to have a reasonable basis to believe that AlphaSector’s performance was accurate when
included in its own advertisements for clients considering the strategy.

Cantella Failed to Maintain Adequate Books and Records
12.
Cantella was required to make and keep true, accurate and current records or
documents necessary to form the basis for or demonstrate the calculation of the performance or
rate of return that it circulated or distributed to ten or more persons. In marketing its own
advisory services, Cantella circulated and distributed the 2001-2008 historical performance of
the AlphaSector strategy in client presentations and marketing materials and other
communications to numerous clients, investors and potential investors. However, Cantella never
made or kept sufficient records or documents to form the basis or demonstrate the calculation of
the historical performance or rate of return of the AlphaSector strategy.
Violations
13.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent violated Section 206(4) of
the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-1(a)(5) thereunder, which makes it a fraudulent, deceptive, or
manipulative act, practice, or course of business within the meaning of Section 206(4) of the
Advisers Act to, among other things, directly or indirectly publish, circulate, or distribute an
advertisement which contains any untrue statement of material fact, or which is otherwise false
or misleading.
14.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent violated Section 204(a) of
the Advisers Act and Rule 204-2(a)(16) thereunder. Section 204(a) of the Advisers Act requires
investment advisers to make and keep certain records as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe
as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. Rule 204-2
under the Advisers Act requires investment advisers registered or required to be registered to
make and keep true, accurate and current various books and records relating to their investment
advisory business, including all accounts, books, internal working papers, and any other records
or documents that are necessary to form the basis for or demonstrate the calculation of the
performance or rate of return of any or all managed accounts or securities recommendations in
any notice, circular, advertisement, newspaper article, investment letter, bulletin or other
communication that the investment adviser circulates or distributes, directly or indirectly, to 10
or more persons.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, it is hereby ORDERED
that:
A.
Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and
any future violations of Sections 204(a), and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rules 204-2(a)(16),
and 206(4)-1(a)(5) thereunder.
B.

Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money

penalty of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) to the Securities and Exchange Commission
for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section
21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C.
3717. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through
the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission
and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Cantella
as the Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the
cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Robert B. Baker, Assistant Director, Asset
Management Unit, Securities and Exchange Commission, 33 Arch Street, 23rd Floor, Boston,
MA 02110.

C.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall
be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such
a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount
of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil
penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action”
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

