UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4549/ October 12, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17623
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF
THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
NICHOLAS S. SAVVA,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Nicholas S. Savva
(“Savva” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings and the
findings contained in paragraph III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry
of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth
below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Savva, age 41, is a resident of New York, N.Y. Since 2014, he has been the owner
and managing partner of Five Star Capital Fund LP (“Five Star”), an investment adviser.
2.
On October 5, 2016, a judgment was entered by consent against Savva
permanently enjoining him from violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, Section
10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder and Sections 206(1),
206(2) and 206(4) of the Investment Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, in the civil action
entitled SEC v. Savva, Civil Action Number 16-CV-5432 (AMD), in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of New York.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that from May 2015 through February 2016,
Savva convinced at least 12 investors to invest approximately $1.4 million in Five Star, a hedge
fund he advised, through various misrepresentations and other fraudulent conduct, including failing
to disclose that he was statutorily disqualified from association with any FINRA member firm, and
then proceeded to misappropriate over $38,000 in fund assets.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Savva’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act that
Respondent Savva be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.
Brent J. Fields
Secretary
2

