UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4361 / April 5, 2016

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17195
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 203(e) AND
203(k) OF THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS
ACT OF 1940, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A
CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
CAMBRIDGE INVESTMENT
RESEARCH ADVISORS, INC.
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
(“Advisers Act”) against Cambridge Investment Research Advisors, Inc. (“Respondent” or
“CIRA”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section IV, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-And-Desist Proceedings
Pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings,
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-And-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
1.
This failure to supervise case arises out of a fraudulent scheme by Richard P. Sandru
(“Sandru”), the principal of a CIRA Office of Supervisory Jurisdiction (“OSJ”) and investment
adviser representative associated with CIRA, to misappropriate investment advisory client funds.
From at least December 2009 through March 2011, Sandru misappropriated at least $308,850 in
purported financial planning fees from at least 47 advisory clients.2 Beginning in at least June 2010,
Sandru also engaged in unsuitable options trading in the accounts of certain advisory clients.
2.
From November 2009 through March 2011, Respondent failed reasonably to
supervise Sandru with a view to preventing his violations of the federal securities laws. In
November 2009, Respondent determined that Sandru should be placed on heightened supervision.
Sandru was supposed to have been on heightened supervision from November 2009 through early
June 2010. However, Respondent failed to have systems that would reasonably be expected to
ensure that Sandru’s heightened supervision plan was disclosed to and implemented by his
supervisors. As a result, Sandru’s heightened supervision was not implemented. Respondent also
failed to have policies and procedures that would reasonably be expected to prevent fraudulent
activities in connection with financial planning services offered by investment adviser
representatives. In addition, Respondent lacked systems that would reasonably be expected to
implement its policies to prevent unsuitable options trading in advisory client accounts.
Respondent
3.
Respondent is an Iowa corporation with its principal place of business in Fairfield,
Iowa, and has been registered with the Commission as an investment adviser since February 3,
2005. Respondent reported approximately $23.5 billion in assets under management as of March
2015.
Sandru’s Violations of the Federal Securities Laws
4.
From at least December 2009 through March 2011, while associated with CIRA,
Sandru misappropriated at least $308,850 in purported “financial planning” fees from 47
advisory clients, by forging their signatures on or adding costs to Financial Planning Engagement
agreements (“FPEs”) after the clients had already signed them and without his clients’
knowledge or authorization. Sandru failed to provide the financial planning services described in
the FPEs.
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

See Richard P. Sandru, Advisers Act Rel. No. 3646 (August 12, 2013).
2

5.
After Sandru either obtained or forged his clients’ signatures on the FPEs, he
faxed or sent the FPEs to CIRA. After the FPEs were reviewed and approved by CIRA’s
Compliance department, CIRA’s corporate accounting department debited the financial planning
fees from the client’s account.3 CIRA then paid Sandru ninety-one percent of these financial
planning fees as part of his compensation by directly depositing the funds into Sandru’s account.
6.
During the relevant period, the fees Sandru charged to clients for the purported
financial planning services ranged from $500 to $5,000 per FPE. Sandru submitted at least 107
fraudulent FPEs to Respondent. Some clients were charged four or five times over several
months for unauthorized and unperformed financial planning services. Some clients were charged
as much as ten percent of the value of the assets that they held at Respondent as a result of the
fraudulent FPEs. Sandru also reversed financial planning fees on numerous occasions, beginning
as early as April 2010.
7.
Sandru also submitted FPEs showing asset and net worth information that was
materially in excess of what was contained on certain clients’ new account forms, account
statements, and in some cases, earlier FPEs.
8.
Beginning in at least June 2010 through March 2011, Sandru engaged in
unsuitable options trading in several advisory client accounts. Specifically, Sandru purchased
risky call options in certain accounts that left the accounts heavily concentrated in one option
investment. These option investments were unsuitable to the needs of those clients. Further,
Sandru made misrepresentations about option trades and strategies to certain of these clients.
Sandru solicited some of the clients to purchase options by representing that he intended to use a
straddle strategy using both a call and a put. For certain of these clients, however, contrary to his
representations, Sandru purchased only call options, holding them for long periods when the
stock price was going down, resulting in large losses. In some instances, Sandru also made
misrepresentations about which options he would buy for the clients, and about the value or risk of
loss on the options he purchased for the clients.
Respondent’s Supervision of Sandru
9.
Sandru was an investment adviser representative associated with Respondent from
July 1, 2009 until he was permitted to resign on April 29, 2011. While at CIRA, Sandru acted as a
principal of a CIRA OSJ, where he supervised two other CIRA investment adviser representatives
along with some administrative assistants. Sandru worked in the Perrysburg, Ohio branch office.
10.
By the time Sandru left CIRA at the end of April 2011, he was managing
approximately $47 million in assets for about 180 advisory clients who collectively held about
480 accounts. Most of these accounts were discretionary, and funds were maintained in
custodial accounts by a custodian.
3

These fees subsequently appeared on each client’s account statement as a financial
planning fee debit.
3

11.
Sandru began negotiating to join CIRA in the spring of 2009. In its background
check of Sandru, CIRA found that Sandru had poor credit, including a home in foreclosure. For
this reason, CIRA’s Department of Advocacy and Supervision recommended that the decision to
hire Sandru be presented to a special committee. CIRA ultimately decided to allow Sandru to
associate with CIRA, and he started working as a CIRA investment adviser representative on
July 1, 2009.
12.
Most CIRA investment adviser representatives are located in branch offices and are
supervised directly by a field OSJ supervisor. OSJ principals and certain other representatives
(usually in solo offices), are supervised by Regional Directors in the Home Office. As the
principal of a CIRA OSJ, Sandru’s direct supervisors were Regional Directors.
13.
During the relevant period, because of the large number of offices and
representatives that they supervised, the Regional Directors had numerous designees to assist in
many supervisory tasks.4 Those designees included the Trade Desk staff, who reviewed trading
activity and exception reports. The Advisory Services group within Respondent’s Compliance
Department reviewed financial planning engagements of investment adviser representatives
supervised by Regional Directors.
14.
In October 2009, Sandru’s previous broker-dealer filed an amended Form U5
disclosing that Sandru had not voluntarily resigned but in fact had been terminated for attempting
to settle a complaint directly with a customer. Shortly thereafter, Respondent was notified that
FINRA was investigating the matter. As a result, Respondent decided to place Sandru on
heightened supervision until the FINRA investigation was completed, with the understanding
that Sandru would be terminated if he were suspended by FINRA.
15.
Respondent’s Compliance department drafted a heightened supervision or
Protective Documentation Plan (“PDP”) for Sandru in November 2009. Compliance sent the
PDP to Sandru’s first Regional Director and supervisor at Respondent on November 5, 2009.
Among other things, the PDP required the supervisor to review new accounts daily, review
correspondence weekly, and contact five of Sandru’s clients quarterly.
16.
The Regional Director was supposed to sign the PDP, transmit a copy to Sandru,
and return the signed PDP to Compliance. However, that supervisor did not perform these tasks
and did not place Sandru under heightened supervision. The PDP was not recorded on the
spreadsheet kept by Compliance listing the investment adviser representatives who were on
heightened supervision, was not included in CIRA’s Customer Relationship Management (CRM)
system, and no one at CIRA followed up at that time to determine whether Sandru had been
placed on heightened supervision.

4

In 2010, Respondent had six Regional Directors who each supervised approximately 80-100
offices.
4

17.
Sandru’s first Regional Director was terminated in December 2009, and
Respondent assigned a new supervisor for Sandru. At that time, the new supervisor was not
informed that Sandru had poor credit, had been terminated by his previous broker-dealer for
attempting to settle a complaint directly with a customer, was being investigated by FINRA, or
was supposed to be under heightened supervision.
18.
In February 2010, Sandru’s second Regional Director learned of the FINRA
investigation when the State of Utah demanded that, because of the FINRA investigation, Sandru
be put on heightened supervision in order to become licensed in Utah. However, Sandru withdrew
his application to become licensed with Utah, and Sandru was not placed on heightened
supervision at that time.
19.
On March 8, 2010, Compliance reported to the second Regional Director that
Compliance had concerns about Sandru’s financial planning engagements because Sandru was
calling Compliance to get it to “push through” certain FPEs for processing on an expedited basis
and was also charging between $2500 and $5000 for “ongoing portfolio review,” which amounts
were higher than what was typically seen, and Compliance questioned the reasonableness of the
fees. Compliance also informed the Regional Director about Sandru’s credit problems. Later that
same day, Compliance suggested that the Regional Director contact some of Sandru’s financial
planning clients as part of his heightened supervision of Sandru.
20.
After discovering that Sandru had not been placed under heightened supervision,
on March 10, 2010, Compliance sent the Regional Director a new PDP. The PDP required the
Regional Director to review and approve each new product application or order; review and
approve each new investment adviser client agreement; review all incoming mail and outgoing
correspondence weekly; review client account activity monthly; review outside business activities
quarterly; contact at least five clients each quarter; review Sandru’s credit report, financial
statements and personal checking account after six months; and, after six months, prepare a memo
regarding the nature and findings of his review for Compliance, which was to be considered along
with the status of the FINRA inquiry to help determine whether the heightened supervision would
be continued.
21.
The second Regional Director, however, never signed the PDP, never sent a copy
to Sandru, never returned the PDP to Compliance and failed to implement any of the heightened
supervisory procedures set forth in the PDP that were not part of his normal supervisory duties.
Among other things, the Regional Director did not contact any of Sandru’s clients, even after
being furnished with a list of sixteen financial planning clients that were the subject of an April
2010 Compliance review. Had the second Regional Director implemented the supervisory
procedures set out in the PDP, and contacted five of the clients on that list - thirteen of whom had
already been fraudulently billed for financial planning fees - Sandru’s fraudulent conduct would
likely have been discovered at this time.
22.
In addition to the heightened supervision, because of Compliance’s concerns
regarding Sandru’s financial planning engagements, Respondent conducted an announced audit of
Sandru’s branch office in March 2010. However, little additional information relating to Sandru’s
5

FPEs was obtained during the audit, and the auditor was not asked to contact any of Sandru’s
clients. The audit found no deficiencies with regard to Sandru’s investment advisory activities, but
noted that Compliance would be following up regarding Sandru’s financial planning services
outside of the audit.
23.
In April 2010, the Compliance Department conducted a random review of the FPEs
of 16 of Sandru’s financial planning clients. During that review, Compliance requested that Sandru
provide it with certain full written financial plans that Sandru had not previously submitted as he
was required to do under Respondent’s then existing policies. Compliance did not request or
review any documents other than the 16 FPEs and any full written financial plans prepared by
Sandru.
24.
During its review, Compliance did not check to see whether any of the 16 clients
had been previously billed for financial planning services. Had Compliance conducted such a
check, it would have discovered that, by April 21, 2010, one of the 16 clients had been already
charged twice for such services. Compliance also did not check to see whether Sandru had
reversed any of the financial planning fees for these clients. Had it done so, Compliance would
have learned that within weeks of the initiation of its review, Sandru reversed the financial
planning fees that he had charged to three of the 16 clients.
25.
Compliance also did not contact any of the clients that were the subject of its
review. Compliance understood that the Regional Director would make such calls as part of his
heightened supervision of Sandru.
26.
Compliance did not discover the fraudulent financial planning fees at this time.
Rather, after speaking with Sandru, Compliance concluded that Sandru was not filling out the FPE
form correctly and was not indicating all of the services he was providing on the form. Compliance
and Sandru’s Regional Director informed Sandru in a telephone conversation that the fees he was
charging were higher than those typically charged by other representatives and that he should
include all of the services that he was performing on the FPE. They also told Sandru that if he was
charging upfront fees for full written financial plans, he needed to submit those plans to
Compliance within six months.
27.
On June 7, 2010, FINRA sent Sandru a letter indicating that its investigation was
concluding with no charges. Sandru then forwarded that letter to his supervisor. Based on the
letter, Respondent decided to terminate the heightened supervision, which, in fact, had never been
implemented.
28.
In June 2010, supervision of Sandru was transferred to a third Regional Director.
Although Regional Directors had a practice of discussing their supervisees when they were
transferred to a new Regional Director, CIRA had no written policies requiring such a
communication or requiring that the new Regional Director be provided with any information
regarding his or her new supervisees. CIRA lacked policies that would reasonably be expected to
ensure that Sandru’s new supervisor was notified about the risks associated with Sandru, including
that he had poor credit, had been terminated by his previous broker-dealer for attempting to settle a
6

complaint directly with a customer, had been investigated by FINRA, and had been subject to
heightened supervision, and the third Regional Director was not informed about all of these risks.
29.
Sandru began engaging in unsuitable options trading in advisory clients’ accounts
beginning in at least June 2010, and he continued to fraudulently bill clients for financial planning
services that he had not performed until March 2011.
30.
In March, 2011, while investigating a client complaint against Sandru, Respondent
discovered that Sandru had been communicating with an advisory client from an unauthorized
hotmail address, had misrepresented the client’s account balance, signed a promissory note
agreeing to compensate the client for a $100,000 loss in the client’s options account, and failed to
forward correspondence to Respondent from the client’s attorney. Based on this information, as
well as Sandru’s history of attempting to settle a complaint directly with a customer while
working at his previous broker-dealer, Respondent decided to terminate Sandru.
31.
Around the time Respondent decided to terminate Sandru, Respondent received
several requests from Sandru’s office to reverse financial planning fees and learned that clients
were claiming that they had not received the financial planning services they had been billed for.
Respondent then conducted an internal investigation and discovered that Sandru had
misappropriated at least $308,850 in “financial planning” fees from advisory clients and had
misled certain advisory clients into believing that they had more money in their accounts than they
actually had.
32.
During the course of the internal investigation, Respondent brought Sandru’s
conduct to the staff’s attention in August 2011, and, on its own initiative, began refunding
misappropriated financial planning fees to affected clients. Respondent cooperated and provided
assistance to the staff in the staff’s investigation of Sandru. Respondent ultimately paid a total of
$308,850 to the clients from whom Sandru had misappropriated financial planning fees.
Respondent Lacked Systems that Would Reasonably Be Expected to Ensure that
Heightened Supervision Plans were Disclosed to and Implemented by Supervisors
33.
Under Respondent’s policies and procedures, it was the responsibility of
Respondent’s Compliance and Advocacy and Supervision departments to identify investment
adviser representatives for potential heightened supervision. The Compliance department, in
consultation with the supervisor, was to determine the scope of the heightened supervision.
Compliance was to notify the representative’s supervisor of the heightened supervision
requirements and prepare a PDP outlining the steps that the supervisor should take in performing
the heightened supervision.
34.
The supervisor was required to sign and return a copy of the PDP to Compliance.
The supervisor was required to conduct the increased supervision and prepare and send any
certifications required in the PDP to Compliance. Regional Directors were responsible for
conducting heightened supervision of OSJ principals in accordance with the terms of the PDP.
7

35.
During the relevant period, Respondent lacked systems for applying its heightened
supervision policies that would reasonably be expected to ensure that Sandru’s PDP was signed by
his supervisors and provided to Sandru. Respondent also lacked systems to ensure that Sandru,
whose PDP was not executed, was in fact placed on heightened supervision. Respondent also
failed to adopt written policies or procedures that would reasonably be expected to ensure that new
supervisors and their designees were notified that their supervisees were on heightened supervision
or about all of the risks associated with their new supervisees.
36.
During the relevant period, Respondent kept track of which representatives were
subject to heightened supervision using a spreadsheet prepared by the Compliance Department.
Compliance, however, did not add a representative to the spreadsheet unless it received a signed
PDP back from the supervisor. Because Sandru’s first Regional Director did not return the signed
PDP to Compliance, Sandru was not put on Compliance’s spreadsheet of representatives subject to
heightened supervision. As a result, no one followed up with the first Regional Director to find out
whether Sandru had been placed under heightened supervision; Sandru’s second Regional Director
was not informed for several months that Sandru was supposed to be on heightened supervision;
and the terms of Sandru’s heightened supervision were not implemented from November 2009
through March 2010.
37.
Respondent also failed to have systems that would reasonably be expected to ensure
that Sandru’s heightened supervision plan, which lasted less than six months, was implemented.
Although Respondent had a procedure requiring Compliance to contact supervisors every six
months and require them to return a form reporting on the results of the heightened supervision,
Compliance never asked Sandru’s second Regional Director to complete the form because the
heightened supervision that was supposed to be performed by the second Regional Director lasted
less than six months. As a result, Respondent was not aware that the terms of Sandru’s heightened
supervision were not being implemented from March through June 2010.
Respondent Failed to have Policies and Procedures that Would Reasonably Be
Expected to Prevent Fraudulent Activities in Connection with Financial Planning
Services
38.
Under Respondent’s policies and procedures, its investment advisory
representatives could bill clients for three types of financial planning services: Full Financial Plan;
Review and Update Financial Plan; and Limited Scope Planning Services. In order to bill clients
for these services, investment adviser representatives were required to complete and submit an FPE
to Respondent’s Compliance Department. The FPE indicated the type of services to be performed,
the fee, and contained certain information about the client, including income, net worth and
investable net worth. The FPE was to be initialed and signed by the client.
39.
Respondent permitted advisory representatives to bill clients up front for financial
planning services that had not yet been performed for the clients. Respondent’s policies required
that the representative complete the performance of any financial planning services within six
months of the signing of the FPE. If full financial planning services were performed, a written
8

financial plan was required to be submitted to Compliance within six months of the signing of
the FPE.
40.
For OSJ principals like Sandru, FPEs were reviewed and approved by the Advisory
Services section of the Compliance Department. Compliance’s review of FPEs consisted of
determining whether the information provided on the FPE was complete and the amount being
charged appeared reasonable based on the services that were being provided.
41.
As discussed above, Sandru submitted fraudulent FPEs to bill numerous clients
multiple times for financial planning services. Some clients were fraudulently billed multiple
times just weeks apart. Sandru also submitted some fraudulent FPEs containing asset and net worth
information that was significantly in excess of what was contained on the clients’ new account
forms, account statements, and in some cases, earlier FPEs, and he billed several clients more than
ten percent of the value of the assets they actually held at Respondent. On some occasions, Sandru
also reversed financial planning fees that he had previously charged. Many of the fraudulently
billed financial planning fees were for the purported review and updating of financial plans or
other limited scope financial planning services.

42.
During the relevant period, Respondent failed to have policies or procedures for
supervising the financial planning services activities of OSJ supervisors that would reasonably be
expected to prevent their fraudulent conduct. Respondent did not have surveillances, reports, or
reviews that were reasonably designed to detect suspicious activity with regard to an advisory
representative’s financial planning activities. Respondent also did not require OSJ supervisors
such as Sandru to provide any information to Respondent evidencing their performance of
updating of financial plans or limited scope financial planning services, even though advisory
representatives who were supervised by OSJ supervisors were required to submit documentation
evidencing their performance of such services to their direct supervisors. In addition,
Respondent’s review of FPEs submitted by OSJ supervisors was limited to reviewing information
on the face of the FPE and speaking with the investment adviser representatives or their staff if
there were questions.
43.
As a result of the deficient procedures described above, no one at CIRA
discovered Sandru’s fraudulent financial planning fees until March 2011.
Respondent Lacked Systems that Would Reasonably be Expected to Implement its
Policies to Prevent Unsuitable Options Trading in Client Accounts.
44.
During the relevant period, Respondent’s compliance manual stated that “[c]lients
may receive approval to trade options within a [CIRA] managed account using a conservative
option strategy” and limited representatives to using covered calls, long calls and long puts. The
manual also stated that “[o]ption contracts are permitted only as a nominal percentage of the
client’s managed account.” Respondent failed to have procedures or surveillances that would
reasonably be expected to detect concentrated options positions or large losses on options
positions in managed accounts.
9

45.
As discussed in paragraph 8 above, Sandru engaged in unsuitable options trading
in some client accounts by investing large percentages of the accounts in call options on a single
security. Sandru’s options trading activities were not detected, however, because Respondent
lacked systems that would reasonably be expected to implement the options trading policies in its
compliance manual.
Violations
46.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent failed reasonably to
supervise Sandru, within the meaning of Section 203(e)(6) of the Advisers Act, with a view to
preventing Sandru’s violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act.
47.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully violated Section
206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, which requires registered investment
advisers to adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent
violations of the Advisers Act.
Respondent’s Remedial Efforts
In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly
undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. Among other things,
during the staff’s investigation, Respondent discovered the fraud perpetrated by Sandru,
disclosed the conduct to the Commission, and on its own initiative began refunding
misappropriated financial planning fees to clients. Additionally, Respondent conducted a review
of and made improvements to its compliance and supervision policies and procedures and
systems to implement such policies and procedures with regard to heightened supervision plans;
financial planning services; and options trading in managed accounts. Respondent also hired a
compliance consultant (the “Consultant”) to conduct a comprehensive review of Respondent’s
compliance and supervision policies and procedures and systems to implement such policies and
procedures with regard to heightened supervision plans; financial planning services; and options
trading in managed accounts.
Undertakings
50.

Respondent has undertaken to:
a.
Continued Retention of Compliance Consultant. The Consultant
has completed his initial work and submitted a report detailing his work,
findings, and recommendations to Respondent, which Respondent shared
with the staff. Respondent has followed those recommendations.
Respondent shall continue to retain, at its expense, the Consultant, to
conduct a review of the implementation of Respondent’s revised
compliance and supervision policies and procedures and with regard to
heightened supervision plans; financial planning services; and options
10

trading in managed accounts, which shall be completed no later than three
months from the date of the issuance of this Order.
b.
At the end of the review, which in no event shall be more than
three months after the date of the issuance of this Order, Respondent shall
require the Consultant to submit a Report to Respondent and to the
Commission staff. The Report shall describe the review performed, the
conclusions reached, and shall include any recommendations deemed
necessary to make the policies and procedures and their implementation
adequate. Respondent may suggest an alternative procedure designed to
achieve the same objective or purpose as that of the recommendation of
the Consultant. The Consultant shall evaluate any alternative procedure
proposed by Respondent. However, Respondent shall abide by the
Consultant’s final recommendation.
c.
Within six months after the date of issuance of this Order,
Respondent shall, in writing, advise the Consultant and the Commission
staff of the recommendations it is adopting.
d.
Within nine months after the date of issuance of this Order,
Respondent shall require the Consultant to complete its review and submit
a written final report to Commission staff. The Final Report shall describe
the review made of Respondent’s compliance policies and procedures; set
forth the conclusions reached and the recommendations made by the
Consultant, as well as any proposals made by Respondent; and describe
how Respondent is implementing the Consultant’s final recommendations.
e.
Respondent shall take all necessary and appropriate steps to adopt
and implement all recommendations contained in the Consultant’s Final
Report to the extent it has not already done so.
f.
For good cause shown and upon timely application by the
Consultant or Respondent, the Commission’s staff may extend any of the
deadlines set forth in these undertakings.
51.
Respondent shall certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s)
set forth above. The certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide written
evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient
to demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for
further evidence of compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide such evidence. The
certification and supporting material shall be submitted to Timothy J. Warren, with a
copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty days
from the date of the completion of the undertakings

11

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it in the public interest to impose the
sanctions agreed to in Respondent CIRA’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act, it is hereby
ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any
future violations of Section 206(4) and Rule 206(4)-7 promulgated thereunder.
B.

Respondent is censured.

C.
Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty in the amount of $225,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. Payment must be
made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Cambridge Investment Research Advisors, Inc. as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file
number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to
Timothy J. Warren, Associate Regional Director, Chicago Regional Office, Division of
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 175 W. Jackson Boulevard Suite 900,
Chicago, Illinois 60604.
D.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall
be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
12

Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such
a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil
penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action"
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.
E.

Respondent shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section III above.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

13

