UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4472 / August 8, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17289
ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

In the Matter of
ALAN H. GOLD,
Respondent.

I.
On June 14, 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted
proceedings against Alan H. Gold (“Gold” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”).
II.
Gold has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent
admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the
findings contained in paragraphs III.4 and III.6 below, and consents to the entry of this Order
Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Gold, age 61, is a resident of Wilmette, Illinois. Beginning in or around 2008
through June 2015, Gold, doing business as Alan Gold & Associates, provided advisory services to
clients. Alan Gold & Associates was never registered with the Commission. From 1983 through
1989, Gold was a registered representative of five different brokerage firms that are or were
registered with the Commission. In 1989, he became a registered representative of, and in 2002 an
investment adviser representative of, a dually-registered broker-dealer and investment adviser. In
September 2007, he was terminated by that firm for cause. In 1993, Gold was disciplined by the

New York Stock Exchange for unauthorized options trading in a client’s account and for improperly
agreeing to share in a client’s losses. In 2009, he was disciplined by FINRA for borrowing funds
from a client.
2.
On June 17, 2015, the State of Illinois Secretary of State Securities Department
issued a Temporary Order of Prohibition In the Matter of Alan Howard Gold and Alan Gold and
Associates (the “Temporary Order”), No. 1500136, temporarily prohibiting Gold from rendering
investment advice, from acting as a securities broker, and from acting as a securities sales person in
or from the State of Illinois until further order of the State of Illinois Secretary of State.
3.
The Temporary Order further provided that failure by Gold to request a hearing
within 30 calendar days of its entry would constitute an admission of the facts alleged in the
Temporary Order and would constitute a sufficient basis to make the Temporary Order final. Gold
did not request a hearing concerning the Temporary Order within the 30 day time period.
4.
On July 22, 2015, the State of Illinois Secretary of State Securities Department
issued an Order of Prohibition In the Matter of Alan Howard Gold and Alan Gold and Associates,
(the “Illinois Order”), prohibiting Gold from rendering investment advice and from offering or
selling securities in or from the State of Illinois until further order of the State of Illinois Secretary
of State.
5.
The Illinois Order found that Gold failed to disclose to investors that he had been
terminated from his position as a registered securities sales person. The Illinois Order also found
that Gold defrauded investors by telling them he would purchase securities on their behalf through
Alan Gold & Associates, when he instead spent their funds for his personal expenses and to cover
his gambling expenses. The Illinois Order found that this conduct violated Sections 12.F, 12.G, and
12.I of the Illinois Securities Law of 1953 (the “Illinois Securities Law”), which prohibit fraudulent
activities in connection with the purchase or sale of securities. The Illinois Order also found that
Gold acted as a dealer, salesperson, and investment adviser as defined in the Illinois Securities Law,
and that he failed to register as such in violation of Sections 12.C and 12.D of the Illinois Securities
Law.
6.
On January 29, 2016, Gold pleaded guilty to five counts of wire fraud in violation of
Title 18 United States Code, Section 1343 before the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois, in United States v. Alan Gold, Case No. 15-CR-330. Gold is awaiting
sentencing.
7.
The indictment to which Gold pleaded guilty alleged, inter alia: that Gold provided
investment advice to clients and also invested their funds; that Gold engaged in a scheme to defraud
his clients by falsely stating he would invest their funds in stocks, real estate funds, futures
contracts, and other investment products, when he instead used client funds for his personal benefit,
including for gambling expenses; and that Gold prepared and provided clients false account
statements that misrepresented client investments and the value of those investments.

2

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Gold’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that
Respondent Gold be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization;
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

