ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17264
Fund Adviser Settles Charges Relating to Oversight of Consultant Relationships
May 27, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that Federated
Global Investment Management Corp. (FGIMC), a registered investment adviser to the
Federated Kauffman Funds, has agreed to pay a $1.5 million penalty to settle charges that it
failed to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to
prevent the misuse of material, nonpublic information in connection with FGIMC’s use of
outside consultants as part of its securities research and analysis services.
An SEC investigation found that from approximately 2001 to 2010, FGIMC used third-party
consultants and research services, including one particular consultant who worked closely with
FGIMC and periodically provided analysis and buy, sell, and hold recommendations with respect
to pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks. Throughout the period of the consulting
relationship, unbeknownst to the firm’s senior management and compliance department, the
consultant also served on the boards of four public companies. At times, the consultant had
access to nonpublic information regarding those companies, as well as information about the
holdings of funds advised by FGIMC. While FGIMC had written policies and procedures
regarding the use of material nonpublic information, none established or enforced a mechanism
for identifying consultant relationships that created the risk of misusing material nonpublic
information. As such, there was a gap in FGIMC’s compliance program.
The SEC’s order instituting a settled administrative proceeding finds that FGIMC violated
Section 204A of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Without admitting or denying the
findings, FGIMC agreed to cease-and-desist order.
The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Kristina Littman, Patrick McCluskey, and Scott
Thompson of the Enforcement Division’s Market Abuse Unit in Philadelphia, under the
supervision of unit co-Chief Joseph Sansone.
See also: Order

