UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4384 / May 9, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17245
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
DAVID BROCHU,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against David F. Brochu
(“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section
203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Respondent, 52 years old, is a resident of Wells, Maine. Beginning in June 2010,
Respondent was registered as an investment adviser representative with Kleossum, Inc.
(“Kleossum”), a registered investment advisory firm that Respondent owned. Kleossum was
registered with the Commission from September 2010 until June 2012, and then became registered
with the state of New Hampshire. The New Hampshire Bureau of Securities Regulation
(“NHBSR”) summarily suspended Respondent and Kleossum on June 4, 2014. Respondent was
previously registered with another registered investment advisory firm and an affiliated brokerdealer. In 2009, FINRA fined Respondent $20,000 and suspended him for fifteen business days
from association with any FINRA member firm, in connection with selling a private placement
offering pursuant to an inaccurate private placement memorandum.
2.
On February 17, 2016, the NHBSR entered a consent order against Respondent in
an administrative action entitled David F. Brochu (CRD #1164857), INV2014-00020 (the
“Consent Order”). NHBSR found that Kleossum was an investment adviser and that Respondent
was an investment adviser representative under New Hampshire law. NHBSR found that
Respondent violated New Hampshire’s statutory prohibition on fraudulent conduct by persons who
receive consideration for advising others as to the value of securities or their purchase or sale. The
Consent Order (i) required Respondent to permanently cease and desist from further violations of
the New Hampshire Uniform Securities Act; (ii) permanently barred Respondent from any
securities licensure in any capacity in New Hampshire; (iii) permanently barred Respondent from
issuing securities in New Hampshire; (iv) ordered Respondent to pay restitution to investors
totaling $1,365,000; and (v) ordered Respondent to pay a fine of $100,000 and costs of $25,000 to
NHBSR.
3.
In the Consent Order, NHBSR made findings that Respondent sold shares in
Kleossum to five individuals, four of whom were Kleossum clients. NHBSR found that
Respondent falsely represented to investors that funds would be reinvested in Kleossum and used
to grow its business. NHBSR also found that Respondent solicited Kleossum clients to invest in
other of Respondent’s business ventures – including a family farm, a tree farm, and a firewood
business. NHBSR determined that Respondent (i) failed to disclose in writing material conflicts of
interest in soliciting advisory clients to invest in his various businesses; (ii) made
misrepresentations with respect to the use of investment funds; (iii) misappropriated investor
funds; (iv) withdrew investor funds in cash with little or no accounting for the intended purpose;
(v) made misrepresentations regarding the viability, business dealings, and projected revenues of
his various enterprises; (vi) made unsuitable investment recommendations; and (vii) unlawfully
borrowed funds from advisory clients. In total, NHBSR found that Respondent defrauded twentytwo investors of $1,365,000.

2

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Brochu’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that
Respondent Brochu be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

