UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4394 / May 26, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17261

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

JACQUELINE J. STANFILL
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Jacqueline Stanfill
(“Respondent” or “Stanfill”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Sections III.1., III.2., and III.3. below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
Stanfill was the owner and operator of Stanfill Wealth Management, LLC, a
currently inactive Tennessee limited liability company formed in 2004. Stanfill Wealth
Management, LLC, which provided investment advisory services, was not registered with the
Commission. From approximately 1997 to 2005 Stanfill was a registered representative
associated with broker-dealers registered with the Commission. Stanfill, 58 years old, is a
former resident of Knoxville, Tennessee.
2.
On January 11, 2016, Stanfill pled guilty to one count of wire fraud, one count of
mail fraud, and one count of money laundering in violation of Title 18 United States Code,
Sections 1343, 1341, and 1957 respectively, before the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Tennessee, in United States v. Jacqueline Stanfill, Criminal Docket No. 3:15CR-108 (2015). On April 4, 2016, Stanfill was sentenced to serve 108 months in federal prison
and ordered to pay over $8 million in restitution.
3.
The counts of criminal information to which Stanfill pled guilty alleged, inter alia
that between 2008 and January 20, 2015, through Stanfill Wealth Management, LLC, Stanfill
purported to invest money on behalf of clients with legitimate investment companies. Instead of
investing the money however, Stanfill converted the clients’ funds to her own personal use. In
order to maintain the confidence of her clients, Stanfill created phony documents that had the
appearance of account statements and correspondence from a nationally-known registered
broker-dealer. Stanfill further attempted to maintain the confidence of her clients by making
payments, either to clients under the guise of returning invested funds and accumulated earnings,
and/or by sending funds to the Internal Revenue Service to maintain the illusion that the clients’
fictitious investments were tax-deferred.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Stanfill's Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act , that
Respondent Stanfill be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization.

2

Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

