UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4465 / July 28, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17364
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
LOUIS MARTIN BLAZER
III,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Louis Martin
Blazer III (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in paragraphs III.B.2 below, which are admitted,
Respondent consents to the entry of this (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that1
1.
Respondent, age 45, resides in Clinton, Pennsylvania. Starting in 2008, Respondent
was an officer and partial owner of Blazer Investment Advisors, LLC (“Blazer Advisors”), which
was registered with the Commission from February 23, 2010 through March 29, 2012. From
September 2011 through September 2013, Respondent was an officer and partial owner of
“Investment Advisory Firm 1”, which has been registered with the Commission as an investment
advisory firm since January 2012.
2.
On May 18, 2016, a partial final judgment was entered by consent against
Respondent, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities
Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and
Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Louis Martin Blazer III, Civil Action Number 1:16-CV-3384 (JPO), in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that Respondent misused and misappropriated
client funds to invest in risky ventures that Respondent had a financial interest in, to invest on
Respondent’s behalf, or to pay back other clients from whom Respondent took money without
authorization for such investments.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Blazer’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act that
Respondent Blazer be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization;
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2
1

customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

