UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4363 / April 5, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17199
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
DANIEL RIVERA,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Daniel Rivera
(“Respondent” or “Daniel Rivera”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in Sections III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section
203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
From July 2014 through July 2015, Respondent was affiliated with Horter
Investment Management, LLC, an investment adviser registered with the Commission.
Respondent, age 46, is a resident of Staten Island, New York. Respondent maintains an office in
New Jersey.
2.
On March 28, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against Daniel Rivera,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”) and Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5
thereunder, which are antifraud provisions, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Rivera, et al., Civil Action Number 3:16-cv-01636-MLC-DEA, in the United
States District Court for the District of New Jersey.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that, from 2008 through at least 2014, the
Respondent and his brother engaged in a fraudulent Ponzi scheme, where Respondent falsely
promised investors they would share in the profits of a real estate venture that bought, redeveloped,
and sold properties. In fact, the real estate venture was a sham, and Respondent and his brother
misappropriated investor funds for their personal benefit.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that
Daniel Rivera be, and hereby is barred from association with any investment adviser, broker,
dealer, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a

2

customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

