ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17263
SEC Charges Former Miami-based Investment Adviser and Its Principals With Failure to
Disclose Multiple Conflicts of Interest to Clients
May 27, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today filed fraud charges against
Biscayne Capital International LLC (BCI), formerly a Miami-based U.S. registered investment
adviser, based on its recommendation and sale of proprietary products to non-U.S. clients
between August 2010 and March 2012. Four BCI principals, Roberto G. Cortes, Ernesto H.
Weisson, Juan Carlos Cortes, and Frank R. Chatburn also were charged in the matter. All settled
without admitting or denying the findings in the SEC’s order.
An SEC investigation found that:
•

Roberto Cortes, Weisson, and Juan Cortes formed private offshore investment companies
that issued securities to finance South Bay Holdings LLC, a Florida-based residential real
estate developer beneficially owned by Roberto Cortes and Weisson that in turn
beneficially owned BCI.

•

Roberto Cortes, Weisson and Juan Cortes marketed the securities through their financial
advisors, five of whom, including Chatburn, they knew were employed by both BCI and
the affiliated offshore entities.

•

Roberto Cortes, Weisson and Juan Cortes each failed to prohibit the sales of the proprietary
products through BCI or, in the alternative, failed to train BCI investment adviser
representatives to make adequate disclosures concerning the conflicts of interest and South
Bay’s financial condition when recommending proprietary products to BCI clients.

•

BCI failed to disclose Roberto Cortes’, Weisson’s, and Juan Cortes’ beneficial ownership
interest and role in the creation of the offshore proprietary products issuers, and material
information concerning South Bay’s financial condition.

•

Chatburn, an investment adviser representative for BCI and an investment adviser for the
offshore affiliated entities, recommended and sold approximately $3.5 million in
proprietary products to 29 non-U.S. BCI clients without making adequate disclosures or
investigating red flags regarding the proprietary product issuers and South Bay’s financial
condition. BCI, Roberto Cortes, and Juan Cortes each failed reasonably to supervise
Chatburn.

The SEC’s order finds that BCI violated Sections 206(1), 206(2), and 207 of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940, and Section 206(4) of the Advisors Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, also
known as the “Compliance Rule”; Roberto Cortes, Weisson, and Juan Cortes each aided and
abetted and caused BCI’s violations of Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act; Juan Cortes aided and
abetted and caused BCI’s violations of the Compliance Rule; Roberto Cortes and Juan Cortes
aided and abetted and caused BCI’s Form ADV violations of Section 207 of the Advisers Act; and

Chatburn aided and abetted and caused BCI’s violations of Section 206(1) and 206(2) of the
Advisers Act.
BCI agreed to settle the charges by paying a $125,000 penalty, disgorgement of $30,024 and
prejudgment interest of $3,063. BCI also was censured and ordered to cease and desist from
committing or causing any future violations of the securities laws. Chatburn agreed to settle the
charges by paying a $100,000 penalty, disgorgement of $78,924, and prejudgment interest of
$8,052. Chatburn also was barred from working as an investment adviser or with an investment
company with a right to reapply in four years and was ordered to cease and desist from
committing or causing any future violations of the securities laws. Roberto Cortes, Weisson and
Juan Cortes agreed to settle the charges by each paying a $50,000 penalty. Each also was barred
from working as an investment adviser or with an investment company with a right to reapply in
three years and was ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing any future violations
of the securities laws.
See also: Order

