UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4526 / September 8, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17532
ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 203(k) OF THE INVESTMENT
ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
ROBERT W. BAIRD & CO.
INCORPORATED,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that ceaseand-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), against Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated (“Baird” or
“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Ceaseand-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
Summary
1.
This matter arises from Baird’s failure to adopt and implement adequate policies
and procedures to track and disclose trading away practices by certain of the subadvisors
participating in Baird’s wrap fee programs. Baird, in its advisory capacity, offers its advisory
clients the opportunity to invest in separately managed wrap fee programs. Through these
programs, Baird’s advisory clients pay an annual fee in exchange for receiving access to select
subadvisors and trading strategies, advice from Baird’s financial advisors, and trade execution
services through Baird at no additional cost. However, if a subadvisor chooses not to direct the
execution of particular equity trades through Baird and the executing broker charges a commission
or fee, Baird’s advisory clients often are charged additional commissions or fees for those
transactions. This practice is referred to as “trading away” and these types of trades are frequently
called “trade aways.” Historically, Baird did not track or monitor which subadvisors were trading
away from Baird, how often those subadvisors were trading away, or the specific costs associated
with those trade aways. In August 2013, Baird began collecting cost information from subadvisors
who were trading away but failed to adopt or implement any policies and procedures designed to
provide information to Baird’s clients and financial advisors about the amount of the additional
costs of trading away. Without the availability of such information, Baird’s financial advisors
could not separately consider the costs associated with trading away practices in conducting their
initial and periodic suitability analyses for advisory clients in wrap fee programs whose funds were
managed by certain subadvisors. By failing to adopt and implement such policies and procedures,
Baird violated Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder.
Respondent
2.
Baird, a Wisconsin corporation based in Milwaukee, is a privately-held, financial
services company providing brokerage and investment advisory services to individual, corporate,
and institutional investors. Baird has been registered with the Commission as a broker-dealer since
1936 and as an investment adviser since 1971.
Baird’s Wrap Fee Programs
3.
Among other services, Baird offers its advisory clients the opportunity to invest in
several separately managed wrap fee programs sponsored by Baird. These programs include the
Client Selected Managers, Recommended Managers, Referred Managers and Riverfront Managed
Portfolios. Each of Baird’s wrap fee programs allow Baird’s clients to have their accounts
managed on a discretionary basis by one or more third party investment managers acting as
subadvisors.
4.
Baird charges its wrap fee advisory clients a single fee for investment advisory
services, trade execution services, custody and other standard brokerage services. One of the
2

benefits of investing in Baird’s wrap fee programs is that wrap fee clients do not pay commissions
to Baird when Baird acts as broker-dealer and executes the clients’ trades.
Baird’s Advisory Clients Incurred Additional Costs
5.
In addition to having discretion over investment decisions, the subadvisors
participating in Baird’s wrap fee programs have sole discretion in selecting which broker-dealers
will execute equity trades on behalf of Baird’s clients. According to the wrap fee program
brochures provided to Baird’s clients, the subadvisors “generally will initiate securities transactions
through Baird . . . subject to the [subadvisor’s] duty to achieve best execution.” The subadvisory
agreements require the subadvisors to maintain records “necessary to establish that the terms of
[trade away] transactions are in the best interest of the Client” and make the records available to
Baird upon request. To date, Baird has not requested these files.
6.
When a subadvisor selects Baird as the broker-dealer to execute an equity trade,
Baird’s clients do not pay commissions on the trade. However, when a subadvisor selects a
broker-dealer other than Baird to execute an equity trade, Baird’s wrap fee clients may incur
additional trading costs such as commissions and fees that are paid to the executing broker-dealer.
7.
The additional costs incurred as a result of the subadvisors trading away are
embedded in the price of the security on the periodic account statements that Baird provides to its
clients. Baird does not otherwise inform its clients when they have incurred these additional
trading away costs or provide its clients with the amount of the additional trading away costs.
8.
Baird discloses in its Form ADV Part 2A Appendix 1 Wrap Fee Brochures and in
client agreements that subadvisors may trade away from Baird and that clients may incur
additional costs associated with those trade aways. However, prior to August 2013, Baird did not
collect any information from the subadvisors about the costs associated with trading away, and,
prior to April 2014, it did not collect any information from the subadvisors about the frequency
with which the subadvisors traded away. Consequently, Baird did not and could not inform its
financial advisors or clients about the amount of the additional trading away costs, and its financial
advisors lacked information to separately take the additional costs into consideration in assessing
whether use of a particular subadvisor in the wrap fee program was, and continued to be, suitable
for a particular client.
9.
By April 2014, Baird was collecting information from the subadvisors regarding
both the costs associated with and frequency of the subadvisors’ trading away practices. In doing
so, Baird found that a number of subadvisors placed nearly all client trades with broker-dealer
firms other than Baird for execution, including some subadvisors who traded away more than 90%
of the time while incurring additional trading costs.
10.
Despite collecting this information, Baird has not informed its clients how much
they paid in additional trading away costs, beyond the amounts paid for participation in the wrap
fee program. Additionally, Baird has not informed the clients’ financial advisors how much each
client is paying in additional trading away costs so that the financial advisors could consider the
3

information when determining whether the use of a particular subadvisor was, and continued to be,
suitable for a particular client.
11.
By April 2014, Baird began posting trading away information on its public website
regarding the trading practices of the subadvisors (the “Disclosure Statement”). The Disclosure
Statement contained the percentage of time each subadvisor traded away and the average cost
associated with those trades for the prior calendar year. Baird also updated its Brochures and client
agreements, directing its advisory clients to review the Disclosure Statement. The updated
Brochures and agreements alerted clients that they could contact Baird or the subadvisor if they
wanted specific information about additional costs they may be incurring as a result of trade aways.
12.
Prior to September 2015, Baird did not adopt or implement written policies or
procedures designed to review information received from the subadvisors in wrap fee programs
regarding their trading away practices or provide cost and frequency information regarding
subadvisors’ trading away practices to Baird’s clients or financial advisors. Without adequate
policies or procedures, Baird did not inform its clients or their financial advisors what additional
costs individual clients actually paid for trade aways, beyond the amounts clients paid for
participation in the wrap fee program. In addition, the financial advisors did not separately
consider additional transaction costs and fees when assessing whether use of a particular
subadvisor in the wrap fee programs was, and continued to be, suitable for a particular client.
Violation
13.
As a result of the conduct described above, Baird violated Section 206(4) of the
Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, which require investment advisers to adopt and
implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the
Advisers Act and the rules thereunder.
Baird’s Remedial Efforts
14.
In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered both the voluntary
remedial acts promptly undertaken by Respondent and its cooperation with the Commission
staff. Respondent has taken the following steps to strengthen its compliance function.
Respondent has: (1) updated and expanded its disclosures in its Brochures regarding
subadvisors’ practices of trading away from Baird; (2) added disclosures to its applicable client
agreements regarding subadvisors’ practices of trading away from Baird; (3) created and updated
an annual Disclosure Statement that it makes available on its website regarding the trading away
practices of certain subadvisors participating in its wrap fee programs; (4) delivered the annual
Disclosure Statement to clients along with the Brochures when clients open a new wrap fee
account; and (5) added questions to its initial and annual subadvisor questionnaire that it sends to
subadvisors in the Recommended Managers wrap fee program to obtain more detailed
information about the execution policies and trading away practices of the subadvisors. The
Commission also considered the Undertakings described below.

4

15.
Baird also is in the process of amending its policies and procedures to require the
review of information received from subadvisors in wrap fee programs regarding their trading
away policies and practices, and expects to be able to provide trading away information to its
advisory clients and financial advisors on an account-by-account and trade-by-trade basis by
January 2017.
Undertakings
16.

Respondent has undertaken to:
a.

Add a footnote on client statements for wrap accounts managed by
subadvisors informing the clients that, during the prior calendar year, their
subadvisor placed equity trades away from Baird on which the executing
broker charged a commission that was embedded in the price of the trade.
The footnote will describe the frequency with which the subadvisor traded
away during the prior calendar year. Baird will keep this disclosure on the
account statements until January 1, 2017, or the initiation of the
commission report (described below), whichever is later.

b.

Distribute, at least annually, a report to each wrap fee program client and
their Baird financial advisor that shows the commissions embedded in
equity trades executed away from Baird by the subadvisor, unless and
until such information becomes available to advisory clients and financial
advisors through other means.

c.

Review and, as necessary, update its policies and procedures regarding (1)
the annual disclosure statement, (2) the quarterly or annual commission
report, and (3) its review of information received from subadvisors in the
Recommended Managers wrap fee program regarding their trading away
policies and practices.

d.

Develop and conduct training for its financial advisors regarding how to
understand and analyze wrap fee program subadvisors’ trading away
practices and embedded commissions, and the appropriate consideration
of such information in assessing whether use of a particular subadvisor in
the wrap fee program was, and continued to be, suitable for a particular
client.

In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these
undertakings.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
5

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, Respondent cease and desist from
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 206(4) of the Advisers
Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder.
B.
Respondent shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty in the amount of $250,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Section
21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C.
§3717.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of
these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Anne C.
McKinley, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 175 West Jackson
Boulevard, Suite 900, Chicago, IL 60604.
C.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
6

Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this
proceeding.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

7

