UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4419 / June 10, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17284

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
DANIEL THIBEAULT,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Daniel Thibeault
(“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Sections III.2., and III.3. below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings,
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Thibeault was the principal owner, President, and CEO of Graduate Leverage, LLC
(“GL”), an asset management and financial advisory firm. He was also the managing director of
GL Capital Partners, LLC (“GL Capital”), an investment adviser registered with the Commission.
GL Capital was the sole investment adviser of the GL Beyond Income Fund (the “Fund”).
Thibeault was also the co-portfolio manager of the Fund. Through Thibeault’s majority control of
GL, he was also the indirect owner of GL Investment Services, LLC, another investment adviser
registered with the Commission. Thibeault, 41 years old, is a resident of Framingham,
Massachusetts.
2.
On March 3, 2016, Thibeault pled guilty to one count of securities fraud in
violation of Title 15 of the United States Code, Sections 78j(b) and 78ff(a) and Title 17, Code of
Federal Regulations, Section 240.10b-5, and one count of obstruction of justice in violation of Title
18 of the United States Code, Section 1512(c), before the United States District Court for the
District of Massachusetts, in United States v. Daniel Thibeault, Crim. No. 1:15-CR-10031-LTS.
3.
The counts of the indictment to which Thibeault pled guilty alleged, inter alia, that
Thibeault defrauded investors in the Fund, and misappropriated at least $15 million from the Fund,
by using the Fund’s money to make fictitious loans to third party borrowers and then reporting
those fictitious loans as assets of the Fund, when Thibeault in fact used the loan proceeds to
operate his businesses and pay his personal expenses. The obstruction of justice charge alleged
that Thibeault made numerous false statements to Commission staff during the Commission’s
investigation of fraud at GL and the related investment advisors. In connection with his guilty
plea, Thibeault admitted that he knowingly, intentionally and willfully committed securities fraud
and engaged in obstruction of justice, and that he is guilty of those offenses.

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Thibeault’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that
Respondent Thibeault be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization;
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
2

as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

