UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4525 / September 8, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17531
ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 203(k) OF THE INVESTMENT
ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
RAYMOND JAMES &
ASSOCIATES, INC.,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that ceaseand-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), against Raymond James & Associates, Inc. (“Raymond
James” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Ceaseand-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
Summary
1.
This matter arises from Raymond James’s failure to adopt and implement policies
and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the Advisers Act relating to trading
commissions charged to advisory clients in the Raymond James Consulting Services (“RJCS”)
program. Under RJCS, Raymond James’s advisory clients select a participating sub-adviser to
develop a model portfolio in the client’s separately managed account. Raymond James charges
RJCS clients a negotiable “wrap fee.” A “wrap fee” is a single fee that covers investment
advisory services, trade execution, custody, and other standard brokerage services. In addition to
the wrap fee, advisory clients also paid commissions on equity transactions executed by brokerdealers unaffiliated with Raymond James. Although Raymond James’s Form ADV Part 2A
brochures disclose that a sub-adviser may direct its trading to firms unaffiliated with Raymond
James (or “trade away”) and that the commissions associated with such transactions will be in
addition to the wrap fee, Raymond James did not obtain information regarding the amount of
commissions charged for these transactions or whether that amount was material. Instead,
Raymond James received information regarding these securities transactions on a net basis with
the equity commission cost included in the price of the security. RJCS clients also were unaware
of the actual commissions incurred for trading away because their account statements disclosed
only net prices charged per equity trade and they did not receive information about commissions
from any other source.
2.
Raymond James failed to adopt and implement policies and procedures reasonably
designed to allow Raymond James to determine whether RJCS or particular sub-advisers were
suitable for its prospective and existing advisory clients, such as collecting, tracking and disclosing
information regarding commissions associated with trading away. In addition, Raymond James
had no policies and procedures to communicate to RJCS clients the sub-advisers’ trading away
practices and associated costs, and therefore those clients did not necessarily have adequate
information: (i) to negotiate meaningfully the wrap fee with Raymond James; (ii) to assess the total
costs of RJCS; and (iii) to determine which RJCS sub-advisers to select.
Respondent
3.
Raymond James & Associates, Inc., a Florida corporation based in St. Petersburg,
Florida, has branch offices throughout the United States. Raymond James has been registered with
the Commission as an investment adviser since 1974 and as a broker-dealer since 1962. As of
September 30, 2015, Raymond James managed approximately $63.5 billion in discretionary assets
and $18.9 billion in non-discretionary assets. Among its advisory services, Raymond James
sponsors the RJCS program.

2

The RJCS Program
4.
Raymond James established RJCS in 1986 to provide advisory clients with access
to third-party managers through separately managed accounts. Raymond James enters into
agreements with these managers pursuant to which the managers act as sub-advisers to Raymond
James. The sub-advisers focus primarily on trading and portfolio management, and Raymond
James – which interacts with its advisory clients through a financial advisor – monitors sub-adviser
performance, performs administrative services, and may execute sub-advisers’ transactions on
behalf of the client.
5.
Raymond James charges RJCS clients a wrap fee. Under this arrangement, the
client pays Raymond James an advisory fee that is based on a percentage of the value of the
client’s assets in RJCS. The percentage declines as the value of the assets in the client’s account
increases. The percentage also varies depending on whether the RJCS sub-adviser’s strategy is
classified as a fixed income or equity investment strategy. Raymond James discloses its wrap fees
to clients in a standard fee schedule. One of the benefits of a wrap fee arrangement is that clients
do not pay commissions on trades executed by Raymond James.
6.
An RJCS client can negotiate with Raymond James to obtain a wrap fee percentage
below the standard fee schedule. Raymond James’s Form ADV Part 2A wrap fee brochure dated
December 15, 2014, identifies a variety of factors relevant to a possible reduction in the wrap fee,
including “the nature and size of the overall client relationship with the financial advisor, the level
and type of advisory or other financial services being or expected to be provided, and Raymond
James’ or its affiliates’ policies with respect to discounts.”
RJCS Clients Incurred Additional Costs
7.
Raymond James also disclosed in its Form ADV Part 2A wrap fee brochure dated
November 29, 2013, that sub-advisers “have discretion to select brokers or dealers other than
Raymond James when necessary to fulfill their duty to seek best execution of transactions.” The
RJCS client agreement similarly states that sub-advisers should execute trades with Raymond
James, but “subject to the . . . obligation to seek best execution” may execute trades with other
broker-dealers. In its sub-advisory agreements with the sub-advisers, the obligation to seek best
execution on behalf of the client lies with the sub-adviser. A sub-adviser may trade with a brokerdealer other than Raymond James only if it determines that the transaction meets its best execution
obligation.
8.
When a sub-adviser selects Raymond James to execute a trade, RJCS clients do not
pay commissions for the transaction. However, when a sub-adviser selects another broker-dealer
to execute a trade, the Form ADV Part 2A wrap fee brochure states “the client should be aware the
executing broker or dealer will assess a commission or other charges to the transaction and such
costs will be in addition to the wrap fee assessed by Raymond James.” The client agreement also
states that the client “acknowledges that the asset based fee . . . does not include transaction
charges for securities transactions effected through firms other than [Raymond James].”

3

9.
Raymond James was aware that some sub-advisers executed nearly all RJCS client
“program trades” with broker-dealer firms other than Raymond James. A “program trade” is a
portfolio transaction that affects all clients that selected the sub-adviser’s strategy, such as
liquidating a particular security. The Form ADV Part 2A wrap fee brochure that Raymond James
distributed to RJCS clients stated that some sub-advisers “have historically directed most, if not all,
of their program trades to outside broker-dealers . . . .”
10.
Raymond James does not disclose trading away costs to its RJCS clients. The
additional costs that RJCS clients incur as a result of the sub-advisers trading away are embedded
in the security price reported for each purchase or sale on the periodic account statements that
Raymond James provides to RJCS clients.
11.
Although Raymond James disclosed that sub-advisers may trade away to achieve
best execution, Raymond James does not collect any information from the sub-advisers regarding
the specific amount of the embedded equity commission costs. Consequently, Raymond James
does not, and could not, utilize equity commission information to determine whether the amounts
paid were material and whether the RJCS program—or the particular sub-adviser—was a suitable
investment recommendation for the client. In addition, RJCS clients have no way to take these
added expenses into consideration when negotiating the wrap fee with Raymond James.
12.
Despite knowing that some sub-advisers were placing program trades with other
broker-dealers, Raymond James did not adopt and implement written policies and procedures to
receive the embedded equity commission costs from the sub-advisers, such that Raymond James
could make initial and ongoing suitability determinations for RJCS clients.
13.
In addition, Raymond James failed to adopt and implement written policies and
procedures to make this cost information available to RJCS clients.
Violation
14.
As a result of the conduct described above, Raymond James violated Section
206(4) of the Advisers Act, which prohibits investment advisers from engaging in any act, practice,
or course of business which is fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative, and Rule 206(4)-7
thereunder, which requires investment advisers to adopt and implement written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the Advisers Act and the rules thereunder.
Raymond James’s Remedial Efforts
15.
In determining to accept Raymond James’s Offer, the Commission considered
remedial acts undertaken by Respondent.

4

Undertakings
16.

Respondent has undertaken to:

a.

Create a publicly available website that discloses trading away practices of subadvisers participating in RJCS with information identifying the impact trading
away has on the sub-adviser’s performance.

b.

Identify for RJCS clients on their periodic statements any transaction that was
traded away and disclose (i) that a commission may have been charged by the
executing broker-dealer and (ii) direct the advisory client to the website described
above in Paragraph 16.a.

c.

Ensure that its financial advisors receive adequate information concerning trade
away practices and commission costs, and conduct related training regarding the
use and consideration of this information for determining whether a particular
sub-adviser would be or continues to be suitable for a particular advisory client.

d.

Periodically review on at least an annual basis, and, as necessary, update its
policies and procedures regarding these undertakings.

e.

Complete the undertakings identified in Paragraph 16.a. to d. by January 6, 2017.

f.

By no later than June 2, 2017, create a report, which will be included with RJCS
client statements on at least an annual basis, for each RJCS client and financial
advisor that shows the aggregate amount of commissions embedded in trades
executed away from Raymond James placed by the client’s sub-adviser(s).

g.

Certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) set forth above. The
certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide written evidence of
compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to
demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests
for further evidence of compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide such
evidence. The certification and supporting material shall be submitted to Anthony
S. Kelly, Co-Chief, Asset Management Unit, Enforcement Division, with a copy
to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty
(60) days from the date of the completion of all of the undertakings.
IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.

5

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, Respondent shall cease and desist
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 206(4) of the
Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder.
B.
Respondent shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty in the amount of $600,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the
general fund of the United States Treasury in accordance with Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to
31 U.S.C. § 3717. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Raymond James & Associates, Inc. as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of
these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Anthony S.
Kelly, Co-Chief, Asset Management Unit, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
C.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a
6

private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this
proceeding.
D.

Respondent shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Paragraph 16 of this

Order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

7

