UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4406 / May 31, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17265

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION
203(f) OF THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS
ACT OF 1940
AND NOTICE OF HEARING

STEVEN R. MARKUSEN
and JAY C. COPE,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Steven R.
Markusen (“Markusen”) and Jay C. Cope (“Cope”) (collectively “Respondents”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
A.

RESPONDENTS

1.
Markusen, age 62, resides in Minneapolis, Minnesota. In 2002, he formed
Archer Advisors LLC (“Archer”), a Delaware limited liability company with its principal place of
business in Wayzata, Minnesota, for the purpose of managing two private funds, the Archer Equity
Fund and Archer Focus Fund (“the Funds”), both of which closed in October 2013. At all relevant
times, Archer was not registered with the Commission. Since Archer’s inception, Markusen was its
sole owner and CEO. Markusen held the following FINRA licenses and was registered with prior
employers from approximately 1985 to 2000: General Securities Representative (Series 7) and
1

Uniform Securities Agent State Law (Series 63). He has over 29 years of experience in the
investment industry, and is not currently registered with the Commission.
2.
Cope, age 56, resides in Shorewood, Minnesota. From 2003 through
2013, he worked at Archer in marketing, client services and trading. Cope has held the
following FINRA licenses and was registered with prior employers from approximately 1983 to
1996: General Securities Representative (Series 7) and Uniform Securities Agent State Law
(Series 63). He has over 20 years of investment experience, and is not currently registered with
the Commission.
B.

ENTRY OF THE INJUNCTION

1.
On November 10, 2015, the U.S. District Court for the District of
Minnesota granted the SEC’s motion for default judgment against Markusen and Archer and, on
April 27, 2016, granted the Commission’s Motion for Summary Judgment against Cope, and
entered a final judgment against Cope, Markusen and Archer in the civil action entitled Securities
and Exchange Commission v. Steven R. Markusen, et al., Civil File Number 14-3395 (D. Minn.).
The final judgment against Markusen permanently enjoined him from violating Sections 17(a) of
the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(“Exchange Act”) and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act.
The Court further ordered Markusen to pay, jointly and severally with Archer, disgorgement of
$630,830.31, plus prejudgment interest, and a civil penalty of $100,000. The final judgment
against Cope permanently enjoined him from violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting any
violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder and Sections 206(1)
and 206(2) of theAdvisers Act. The Court further ordered Cope to pay disgorgement of
$549,284.97, prejudgment interest of $81,037.26 and a civil penalty of $100,000.
MARKUSEN
2.
The Commission’s complaint alleged and the District Court found in its
Memorandum of Law and Order that from 2008 to 2013, Markusen and Cope engaged in a scheme
to defraud the Funds of illegitimately claimed research expenses by misrepresenting Cope as an
independent research consultant so that Cope could be paid with investor money. The Court
further found that Markusen used Archer to misappropriate improper research expenses from the
Funds and failed to disclose the conflict of interest created by Cope, as an Archer insider, receiving
soft dollars and research fees from the Funds. The Court also found that Markusen and Cope
engaged in a separate scheme to mark the close and artificially inflate the price of one of the
Funds’ largest stock holdings by placing buy orders within the last 30 minutes of the last trading
day of at least 28 months. This manipulation allowed Markusen and Cope to inflate the monthly
returns reported to existing and prospective investors and to collect additional management fees for
Archer. Finally, the Court found that Archer was an investment adviser because it was paid by the
Funds to manage their investment portfolios and that Markusen qualified as an investment adviser
through his control and ownership of Archer.

2

COPE
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged and the District Court found that
from 2008 to 2013, Cope and Markusen engaged in a scheme to defraud the Funds and the
Funds’ investors of illegitimately claimed research expenses. Specifically, the Court found that
Cope and Markusen misrepresented Cope as an independent research consultant so Cope could
be paid with investor money rather than by Archer. In furtherance of the scheme, Cope created
false invoices to obtain payments from the Funds’ soft-dollar balance and then kicked back
certain of the soft-dollar payments to Markusen. According to the Court, when the soft-dollar
balance fell too low to pay Cope’s fake research invoices, Cope personally churned the stocks in
the Funds’ accounts for the sole purpose of generating soft dollars. This excessive trading led to
a 600% increase in trade commissions charged to the Funds and caused further losses for Fund
investors. In addition, the Court found that Cope and Markusen engaged in a separate scheme to
mark the close and artificially inflate the price of one of the Funds’ largest stock holdings by
placing buy orders within the last 30 minutes of the last trading day of at least 28 months. This
manipulation allowed Cope and Markusen to inflate the monthly returns reported to existing and
prospective investors and to collect additional management fees for Archer, which the Court
found to be an investment adviser because it was paid by the Funds to manage their investment
portfolios.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission deems it
necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be instituted
to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in connection
therewith, to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations; and
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondents pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed, and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220
of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondents fail to file the directed answer, or fail to appear at a hearing after being duly
notified, Respondents may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against
3

them upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as
provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondents as provided for in the
Commission’s Rules of Practice.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial
decision no later than 210 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged
in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness
or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within
the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to the
provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

4

