UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4478 / August 10, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17373
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
BRAD R. HAWKINS,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Brad R. Hawkins
(“Hawkins” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of
these proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2., below, which are admitted,
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
From January 1997 to December 2014, Hawkins was associated with Integrity
Financial Solutions, Inc. (“Integrity”), a state-registered investment adviser. Hawkins, age 51, is a
resident of Arvada, Colorado.
2.
On March 14, 2014, the District Court, Denver County, Colorado, in Fred J.
Joseph v. Providence Financial Services, Inc., Case No. 2013CV31667, entered an order against
Hawkins barring him from, among other things, associating with any broker-dealer or investment
adviser doing business in Colorado.
3.
According to the Complaint filed by the Colorado Division of Securities, the
underlying conduct resulting in the bar occurred between January 2009 and May 2013.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Hawkins’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act that
Respondent Hawkins be, and hereby is barred from association with any investment adviser,
broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

2

