UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4348 / March 2, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17150
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 203(e), 203(f),
AND 203(k) OF THE INVESTMENT
ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL
SANCTIONS AND CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDERS

In the Matter of
MARCO INVESTMENT
MANAGEMENT, LLC AND
STEVEN S. MARCO,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it appropriate and
in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby
are, instituted pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
(the “Advisers Act”) against Marco Investment Management, LLC (“MIM”), and pursuant to
Sections 203(f) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act against Steven S. Marco (“Marco”) (collectively,
the “Respondents”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, each Respondent has submitted an
Offer of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for
the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondents and the subject
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order
Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 203(e), 203(f)
and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions and Cease-and-Desist Orders (the “Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds that:

A.

Summary

1.
From approximately 2005 through 2014, MIM, a Commission-registered
investment adviser, and Marco, MIM’s chief executive officer (“CEO”) and chief compliance
officer (“CCO”), charged certain of the firm’s clients advisory fees that were calculated in a
manner different from and, at times, in excess of that provided for within those clients’
respective written advisory agreements. Additionally, as a result of the methodology used to
calculate fees for these certain clients, MIM failed to maintain accurate books and records with
respect to client assets under management in violation of Section 204(a) of the Advisers Act and
Rule 204-2(a) thereunder, and Marco and MIM misstated MIM’s regulatory assets under
management in filings made with the Commission, in violation of Section 207 of the Advisers
Act.1 MIM further failed to adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably
designed to prevent violations of the Advisers Act and rules thereunder, particularly with respect
to its client billing procedures and compliance with the terms of advisory agreements in violation
of Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder. Marco willfully aided and
abetted and caused MIM’s violations of Sections 204(a), and 206(4), and Rules 204-2(a) and
206(4)-7 thereunder.
B.

Respondents

2.
MIM is a Georgia limited liability corporation with its principal place of
business in Atlanta, Georgia. MIM has been registered with the Commission as an investment
adviser since June 8, 1998. Marco is MIM’s principal, owner, and sole officer, and has been the
only CEO and CCO of MIM throughout its existence.
3.
Marco, age 46, is a resident of Atlanta, Georgia. Marco previously held
Series 7 and Series 63 licenses that expired in the early 1990s.
C.

Facts

4.
MIM provides discretionary money management services to high net
worth individuals and institutional clients. In its most recent Form ADV, filed with the
Commission on March 30, 2015, MIM identified approximately 200 clients and $990,198,793 in
regulatory assets under management.
5.
MIM’s clients maintain custodial brokerage accounts at Commissionregistered broker-dealers (the “Custodial Accounts”). The majority of MIM’s advisory clients
utilize the same custodial broker-dealer (the “Custodial Broker-Dealer”).
6.
Marco and three other employees of MIM act as portfolio managers for
MIM’s clients, exercising discretionary authority to manage their clients’ funds and securities,
investing in both equity and fixed-income holdings in their Custodial Accounts. Marco was the
1

Section 204(a) of the Advisers Act was Section 204 prior to its amendment in the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which added Section 204(b); the amendment was
effective July 21, 2011.

2

primary portfolio manager for more than half of MIM’s clients, representing approximately $450
million in regulatory assets under management.
7.
MIM’s investment advisory agreements with its clients, executed both by
the client and by Marco on behalf of MIM, typically provide that MIM will charge the client an
advisory fee calculated as an identified percentage of the portfolio gross assets per annum, billed
quarterly (the “Management Agreements”). The Management Agreements typically provide that
the advisory fee will be applied to “[t]he market value of all gross assets in [the client’s account]
… as of the close of trading on the last business day of each calendar quarter….” The
Management Agreements also allow individual clients to select whether MIM will be permitted
to automatically deduct quarterly fees from a client’s Custodial Account, or, if the client prefers
to manually pay a quarterly invoice. A significant majority of MIM’s clients have authorized
MIM to automatically deduct their quarterly fees from their Custodial Account.
8.
At the end of each quarter, MIM sends each client a statement of
management fees (the “MIM Statement”) setting forth a stated “portfolio value” and the resulting
quarterly management fee, as well as a portfolio appraisal (the “MIM Appraisal”) detailing the
client’s account holdings and the market value of such holdings. The MIM Appraisal reports
both a “Total Portfolio” market value, upon which the management fee is calculated, and a
“Grand Total” market value, which reflects any adjustments to market value, such as the balance
of any outstanding margin loans. The clients also separately receive statements for their
Custodial Account directly from the Custodial Broker-Dealer.
9.
Approximately one-quarter of MIM’s clients for whom Marco is the
portfolio manager have margin agreements in place with the Custodial Broker-Dealer for their
Custodial Accounts, allowing MIM and Marco to utilize margin in managing the portfolio.
10.
The margin agreements in place with the Custodial Broker-Dealer provide
that when the Custodial Accounts maintain a margin balance, the proceeds from the sale of
securities or other credits into the Custodial Account will be immediately applied to reduce the
margin balance. This immediate application to margin balance of sales proceeds or other credits
was reflected on the account statements clients would receive directly from the Custodial
Broker-Dealer.
11.
For approximately 25 clients with margin accounts, Marco and MIM,
acting through Marco, calculated the quarterly management fees without adjustment for the sales
proceeds or other credits that had been applied against the margin balance by the Custodial
Broker-Dealer. With respect to these clients, Marco believed that he had an understanding with
them that each wanted to utilize the margin available within their Custodial Accounts and
simultaneously wanted to maintain an essentially fixed level of assets to be managed by MIM at
all times, irrespective of their use of the margin, such that sales proceeds or other credits were
contemplated to be reinvested in the portfolio to be managed by MIM. MIM and Marco
maintained no written amendments that modified the terms of the clients’ Management
Agreements.

3

12.
For these approximately 25 clients with margin accounts (the “Impacted
Accounts”), the Custodial Broker-Dealer’s actual application of the proceeds from sales and
other credits to the margin balance in such accounts was inconsistent with MIM’s internal
records and the MIM Appraisals sent to clients. Those documents reflected a larger margin
balance in the client’s Custodial Account and identified offsetting cash equivalent assets at the
Custodial Broker-Dealer, which assets had actually been applied to reduce the margin and were
no longer present in the Custodial Account. This practice further resulted in the MIM Statements
for the Impacted Accounts overstating the client’s account balances. While the “Grand Total”
value on the MIM Appraisal was a net figure that corresponded to the account value reported on
the Custodial Broker-Dealer account statements, the management fee was calculated on the
“Total Portfolio” value which included investment proceeds.
13.
In the Impacted Accounts, while the written Management Agreements
provided for the management fee to be applied against the “market value of all gross assets,”
MIM did not deduct the margin balance from the account balance subject to billing in these
accounts. MIM charged those accounts management fees that included sales proceeds and other
credits, as described above, which assets were not actually maintained at the Custodial BrokerDealer for each account. Therefore, the Portfolio Appraisals that MIM sent these clients
reflected a margin balance different from the margin balance reflected on the Custodial BrokerDealer’s account statements. Such fees were inconsistent with the written billing terms set out in
the Management Agreements.
14.
MIM’s and Marco’s approach to fee calculation with respect to the
Impacted Accounts has been in place since at least 2005. For the calendar year 2013, MIM and
Marco’s practice of including investment proceeds in the fee calculation instead of applying
those proceeds against any outstanding margin loan, which was inconsistent with the terms of the
written Management Agreement, resulted in approximately 25 clients being charged in total fees
of approximately $24,427 over and above what would have been charged under the written
Management Agreements. For the calendar year 2014, that amount was approximately $31,436.2
15.
Other than what was entered in its portfolio management software, which
generated the quarterly fee statements, or what was reflected in written communications from
clients, MIM did not track in writing any of the oral understandings Marco believed he had with
customers that varied the terms of their written Management Agreements, nor did MIM have
written policies or procedures that addressed how to determine gross assets or calculate client
fees.
16.
Until the most recently filed Form ADV dated March 30, 2015, in
determining MIM’s total regulatory assets under management, MIM relied upon its internal
systems that did not exclude those amounts at issue for the Impacted Accounts as described
above. MIM incorporated the total regulatory assets under management represented on its
In some instances, MIM’s fee calculation methodology for the Impacted Accounts resulted in
reduced management fees. For example, if a client wanted to reduce margin balance, the MIM Appraisal
would reflect this reduction with a corresponding offset of assets under management even if the offsetting
assets had not been fully liquidated and remained in the Custodial Broker-Dealer account.
2

4

internal systems into the Forms ADV that Marco signed and MIM filed with the Commission.
As a result, the Forms ADV filed for years 2010 through 2013, contained inaccurate calculations
of the total regulatory assets under management and resulted in material misstatements on
MIM’s Forms ADV filed with the Commission. The misstatements of regulatory assets under
management at issue for years 2010 through 2013 are as follows:
Date
12/31/2010
12/31/2011
12/31/2012
12/31/2013

D.

Reported Assets Under
Management on Form ADV
$746,131,248
$686,947,455
$860,427,348
$888,818,673

Amount of Form ADV
Misstatement
($7,024,491)
($4,323,563)
$5,071,200
$1,947,360

Violations

17.
As a result of the conduct described above, MIM willfully violated
Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, which requires an investment
adviser registered with the Commission to adopt and implement written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to prevent violation of the Advisers Act and the rules thereunder by the
adviser and its supervised persons, and requires at least annual reviews of the adequacy of such
policies and procedures and the effectiveness of their implementation.
18.
As a result of the conduct described above, MIM willfully violated Section
204(a) of the Advisers Act and Rule 204-2(a) thereunder, which requires an investment adviser
registered with the Commission to make and keep true, accurate, and current books and records.
19.
As a result of the conduct described above, MIM and Marco willfully
violated Section 207 of the Advisers Act, which prohibits any untrue statement of material fact in
any registration application or report filed with the Commission under Section 203 or 204 of the
Advisers Act.
20.
As a result of the conduct described above, Marco willfully aided and
abetted and caused MIM’s violations of Sections 204(a) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act, and
Rules 204-2(a) and 206(4)-7 thereunder.
E.

Undertakings
21.

Respondents undertake to take the following actions, as applicable.

22.
Chief Compliance Officer. MIM agrees to and has already designated and
retained a new, part-time, CCO that is not unacceptable to the Commission’s staff. The CCO’s
compensation, necessary training, and other expenses shall be borne exclusively by MIM.
23.
Compliance Training. Marco agrees to and has already completed thirty
(30) hours of compliance training related to the Advisers Act.

5

24.
Independent Compliance Consultant (“ICC”). MIM shall retain, within
thirty (30) days of the entry of this Order, the services of an ICC that is not unacceptable to the
Commission’s staff. The ICC’s compensation and expenses shall be borne exclusively by MIM.
25.
MIM shall require that the ICC conduct regular comprehensive reviews of
MIM’s supervisory, compliance, and other policies and procedures designed to detect and
prevent federal securities law violations by MIM and its employees (the “Reviews”), including
policies and procedures relating to: (a) the detection and prevention of fee overcharges to
advisory clients and the accuracy and adequacy of the firm’s management agreements and
related documentation; (b) the accuracy of MIM’s advertisements and adequacy of disclosures
accompanying such advertisements consistent with Rule 206(4)-1) under the Advisers Act; and
(c) the completeness and accuracy of MIM’s books and records and any Commission filings and
MIM’s compliance with the requirements of Section 204(a) of the Advisers Act and Rule 2042(a) thereunder.
26.
During the three (3) year period beginning on the date of entry of this
Order, MIM shall require the ICC to conduct its Reviews at least quarterly for the first year of
review and at least twice per year for each of the second and third years of review.
27.
MIM shall provide to the Commission’s staff, within thirty (30) days of
retaining the ICC, a copy of an engagement letter or employment contract detailing the ICC’s
hours, schedule, and responsibilities, which shall include the Reviews to be made by the ICC as
described in this Order.
28.
MIM shall require that, within one-hundred twenty (120) days of the entry
of this Order, the ICC shall submit a written and dated report of its findings to MIM and to the
Commission’s staff (the “Report”), which shall address the issues described above in Paragraph
25. Thereafter, within forty-five (45) days of the end of the applicable quarterly or semi-annual
period for a Review, the ICC shall submit a Report, which shall also address the issues described
above in Paragraph 25. MIM shall require that each Report include a description of the review
performed, the names of the individuals who performed the review, the conclusions reached, the
ICC’s recommendations for changes in or improvements to MIM’s policies and procedures,
practices, and/or disclosures to clients, and a procedure for implementing the recommended
changes in or improvements to MIM’s policies and procedures, practices, and/or disclosures.
29.
MIM shall adopt all recommendations contained in each Report within
sixty (60) days of the applicable Report; provided, however, that within forty-five (45) days after
the date of the applicable Report, MIM shall in writing advise the ICC and the Commission’s
staff of any recommendations in the Report that MIM considers to be unduly burdensome,
impractical, or inappropriate. With respect to any recommendation that MIM considers unduly
burdensome, impractical or inappropriate, MIM need not adopt that recommendation at that time
but shall, at that time, propose in writing an alternative policy, procedure or system reasonably
designed to achieve the same objective or purpose.
30.
As to any recommendation with respect to MIM’s policies and procedures
on which MIM, and the ICC do not agree, MIM and the ICC shall attempt in good faith to reach
6

an agreement within sixty (60) days after the date of the applicable Report. Within fifteen (15)
days after the conclusion of the discussion and evaluation by MIM and the ICC, MIM shall
require that the ICC inform MIM and the Commission’s staff in writing of the ICC’s final
determination concerning any recommendation that MIM considers to be unduly burdensome,
impractical, or inappropriate. MIM shall abide by the determinations of the ICC and, within
sixty (60) days after final agreement between MIM and the ICC or final determination by the
ICC, whichever occurs first, MIM shall adopt and implement all of the recommendations that the
ICC deems appropriate.
31.
Within ninety (90) days of MIM’s adoption of all of the recommendations
in a Report that the ICC deems appropriate, as determined pursuant to the procedures set forth
herein, MIM shall certify in writing to the ICC and the Commission’s staff that MIM has adopted
and implemented all of the ICC’s recommendations in the applicable Report. Unless otherwise
directed by the Commission’s staff, all Reports, certifications, and other documents required to
be provided to the Commission’s staff shall be sent to Aaron W. Lipson, Assistant Regional
Director, Securities and Exchange Commission, 950 East Paces Ferry Road, N.E., Suite 900,
Atlanta, Georgia 30326, or such other address as the Commission’s staff may provide.
32.
MIM and Marco shall cooperate fully with the ICC and shall provide the
ICC with access to their files, books, records, and personnel that are reasonably requested by the
ICC for review.
33.
For the first three years following this Order, MIM: (a) shall not have the
authority to terminate the ICC or substitute another ICC for the initial ICC, without the prior
written approval of the Commission’s staff; and (b) shall compensate the ICC for services
rendered pursuant to this Order at his or her reasonable and customary rates.
34.
MIM shall require the ICC to enter into an agreement providing that for
the period of the engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the engagement,
the ICC shall not enter into any new employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or other
professional relationship with MIM, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees, or agents acting in their capacity. The agreement will also provide that the ICC will
require that any firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any
person engaged to assist the ICC in the performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not,
without prior written consent of the staff of the Commission, enter into any employment,
consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with MIM, or any of its
present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as
such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the existing
engagement.
35.
Recordkeeping. MIM shall preserve for a period of not less than six (6)
years from the end of the fiscal year last used, the first two (2) years in an easily accessible place,
any record of MIM’s compliance with the undertakings set forth in this Order.
36.
Notice to Advisory Clients. Within ten (10) days of the entry of this
Order, MIM shall post prominently on its principal website a summary of this Order in a form
7

and location acceptable to the Commission’s staff, with a hyperlink to the entire Order. MIM
shall maintain the posting and hyperlink on MIM’s website for a period of twelve (12) months
from the entry of this Order. Within thirty (30) days of the entry of this Order, MIM shall
provide a copy of the Order to each of MIM’s existing advisory clients as of the entry of this
Order via mail, e-mail, or such other method as may be acceptable to the Commission’s staff,
together with a cover letter in a form not unacceptable to the Commission’s staff. Furthermore,
for a period of twelve (12) months from the entry of this Order, to the extent that MIM is
required to deliver a brochure to a client and/or prospective client pursuant to Rule 204-3 under
the Advisers Act, MIM shall also provide a copy of this Order to such client and/or prospective
client at the same time that MIM delivers the brochure.
37.
Deadlines. For good cause shown, the Commission’s staff may extend
any of the procedural dates relating to the undertakings. Deadlines for procedural dates shall be
counted in calendar days, except that if the last day falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the
next business day shall be considered to be the last day.
38.
Certifications of Compliance by Respondents. Respondents Marco and
MIM shall each certify, in writing, compliance with their respective undertaking(s) set forth
above. The certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide written evidence of
compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate
compliance. The Commission’s staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of
compliance, and Respondents each agree to provide such evidence. The certification and
supporting material shall be submitted to Aaron W. Lipson, Assistant Regional Director,
Securities and Exchange Commission, 950 East Paces Ferry Road, N.E., Suite 900, Atlanta,
Georgia 30326, or such other address as the Commission’s staff may provide, with a copy to the
Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days from the date
of the completion of the undertakings.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, in the public interest, and
for the protection of investors to impose the sanctions agreed to in each of Respondents’ Offers.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act with respect to
MIM, and pursuant to Sections 203(f) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act with respect to Marco, it is
hereby ORDERED that:
A.
MIM cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future
violations of Sections 204(a), 206(4), and 207 of the Advisers Act and Rules 204-2(a) and 206(4)-7
promulgated thereunder.
B.
Marco cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future
violations of Sections 204(a), 206(4), and 207 of the Advisers Act and Rules 204-2(a) and 206(4)-7
promulgated thereunder.
C.

MIM and Marco are censured.
8

D.

MIM shall pay disgorgement and prejudgment interest as follows:

(1)
MIM shall pay disgorgement of $124,750.44 (representing the amount of
the improperly charged advisory fees) and prejudgment interest of $7,595.94, consistent with the
provisions of this Subsection D. Within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, MIM shall
deposit the full amount of the disgorgement and prejudgment interest (the “Disgorgement Fund”)
into an escrow account acceptable to the Commission’s staff and MIM shall provide the
Commission’s staff with evidence of such deposit in a form acceptable to the Commission’s
staff. If timely deposit of the Disgorgement Fund is not made, additional interest shall accrue
pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.
(2)
MIM shall be responsible for administering the Disgorgement Fund. MIM
shall pay applicable portions of the Disgorgement Fund to impacted current and former advisory
clients, pursuant to a disbursement calculation (the “Calculation”) that has been submitted to,
reviewed and approved by the Commission’s staff in accordance with this Subsection D.
(3)
MIM shall, within thirty (30) days from the entry of this Order, submit a
proposed Calculation to the Commission’s staff for its review and approval that identifies, at a
minimum: (1) the client name and account number of each Impacted Account; (2) the exact
amount of the payment to be made to such client; (3) the exact amount of any portion of the
Disgorgement that MIM claims already has been paid to such client in anticipation of this Order,
along with supporting proof of such advance payment. MIM also shall provide to the
Commission’s staff such additional information and supporting documentation relating to the
Calculation and Disgorgement as the Commission’s staff may request for the purpose of its
review. No portion of the Disgorgement Fund shall be paid to any client account directly or
indirectly in the name of or for the benefit of Marco. In the event of one or more objections by
the Commission’s staff to MIM’s proposed Calculation and/or any of its information or
supporting documentation, MIM shall submit a revised Calculation for the review and approval
of the Commission’s staff and/or additional information or supporting documentation within ten
(10) days of the date that MIM is notified of the objection, which revised Calculation shall be
subject to all of the provisions of this Subsection D.
(4)
MIM shall complete the transmission of all amounts otherwise payable to
Impacted Accounts and advisory clients pursuant to a Calculation approved by the Commission’s
staff within one hundred and twenty (120) days of the entry of this Order, unless such time
period is extended as provided in paragraph (9) below of this Subsection D.
(5)
If MIM does not distribute or return any portion of the Disgorgement Fund
for any reason, including an inability to locate an impacted current or former advisory client or
any factors beyond MIM’s control, MIM shall transfer any such undistributed funds to the
Commission for transmittal to the United States Treasury. If timely payment is not made,
additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600. Payment must be made in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Subsection E.
(6)
MIM shall be responsible for any and all tax compliance responsibilities
associated with the Disgorgement Fund and may retain any professional services necessary or
9

appropriate. The costs and expenses of any such professional services shall be borne by MIM
and shall not be paid out of the Disgorgement Fund.
(7)
Within one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date of entry of this
Order, MIM shall submit to the Commission’s staff for its approval a final accounting and
certification of the disposition of the Disgorgement Fund, which final accounting and
certification shall be in a format to be provided by the Commission’s staff. The final accounting
and certification shall include, but not be limited to: (1) the amount paid to each payee; (2) the
date of each payment; (3) the check number or other identifier of money transferred; (4) the date
and amount of any returned payment; (5) a description of any effort to locate a prospective payee
whose payment was returned or to whom payment was not made for any reason; (6) any amounts
to be forwarded to the Commission for transfer to the United States Treasury; and (7) an
affirmation that the Disgorgement, plus any related amounts that MIM claims to have been
refunded to Impacted advisory clients before the date of this Order, represents a fair and
reasonable calculation of the compensation wrongfully received by MIM from 2010 through
2014 with respect to the Impacted Accounts. MIM shall submit proof and supporting
documentation of such payment (whether in the form of cancelled checks or otherwise) in a form
acceptable to the Commission’s staff and under a cover letter that identifies MIM and Marco as
Respondents in these proceedings and the file number of these proceedings, to Aaron W. Lipson,
Assistant Regional Director, Securities and Exchange Commission, 950 East Paces Ferry Road,
N.E., Suite 900, Atlanta, Georgia 30326, or such other address as the Commission’s staff may
provide. MIM shall provide any and all supporting documentation for the accounting and
certification to the Commission’s staff upon its request, and shall cooperate with any additional
requests by the Commission’s staff in connection with the accounting and certification.
(8)
After MIM has submitted the final accounting to the Commission’s staff,
the staff shall submit the final accounting to the Commission for approval and shall request
Commission approval to send any remaining amount to the United States Treasury.
(9)
The Commission’s staff may extend any of the procedural dates set forth
in this Subsection D for good cause shown. Deadlines for dates relating to the Disgorgement
Fund shall be counted in calendar days, except that if the last day falls on a weekend or federal
holiday, the next business day shall be considered to be the last day.
E.
MIM shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty in the amount of $100,000 to the Commission for transfer to the general fund of the
United States Treasury in accordance with Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). Marco shall, within
ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $50,000 to
the Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury in accordance with
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request;

10

(2)

Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
MIM and Marco as Respondents in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings;
a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Aaron W. Lipson, Assistant
Regional Director, Securities and Exchange Commission, 950 East Paces Ferry Road, N.E., Suite
900, Atlanta, Georgia 30326, or such other address as the Commission’s staff may provide.
F.
Limitations be, and hereby are, placed on Marco’s activities such that he shall not
for the next 3 years act as a Chief Compliance Officer or compliance officer for any broker,
dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or
nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
G.
MIM and Marco shall comply with their respective undertakings enumerated in
Section III, Subsection E, above.
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Marco, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other amounts
due by Marco under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree or settlement
agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by Marco of the
federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section
523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(19).
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

11

