UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4370 / April 15, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17050

In the Matter of
Hudson Capital Partners
Corporation

ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

Respondent.
I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) has instituted public
administrative proceedings against Hudson Capital Partners Corporation ("HCP" or
“Respondent”), pursuant to Section 203(e) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
(“Advisers Act”).
II.
In connection with these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer of
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject
matter of these proceedings and the findings contained in Sections III.1. and III.2. below,
which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Making Findings and
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1. From April 2007 through May 2011, Respondent acted as the investment
adviser to RAHFCO Funds LP and RAHFCO Growth LP (the “RAHFCO Hedge Funds”),
two private hedge funds.
2. On December 22, 2016, an order of injunction was entered by default against
HCP, permanently enjoining it from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act
of 1933, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act of 1934, Rule 10b-5 thereunder, Sections

206(1), 206(2), and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, in the civil
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Randal Kent Hansen, et al., Civil
Action Number 13-cv-1403-VSB, in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York.
3. The Commission’s complaint alleged that, from at least April 2007 through May
2011, HCP, as the investment adviser of the RAHFCO Hedge Funds, engaged in a
scheme to defraud investors, the primary function of which was to convince investors to
invest in fraudulent pooled investments that purportedly traded in options and futures on
the S&P 500 Index and in equities, and then siphon off the invested funds for the
defendants’ own purposes. The Commission’s complaint further alleges that, in fact,
HCP did not follow the stated trading strategy, misrepresented the trading success, and
misused investor funds to make Ponzi payments to other investors.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public
interest to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent HCP’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 203(e) of the Advisers Act,
Respondent HCP be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or
nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the
applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be
conditioned upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any
or all of the following: (a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or
not the Commission has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any
arbitration award related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission
order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a customer, whether or not
related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; and (d) any
restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

2

