UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4504 / August 25, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17500
ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 203(k) OF THE INVESTMENT
ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
Risk Paradigm Group, LLC
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 203(k) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Risk Paradigm Group, LLC
(“RPg” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order
Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers
Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth
below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1 that:

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or
entity in this or any other proceeding.

Summary
1.
This matter arises from misstatements made by registered investment adviser RPg
to advisory clients of other advisors, including RPg’s affiliate RPG Family Wealth Advisory,
LLC (“RPg-FWA”), that invested in F-Squared Investments, Inc.’s (“F-Squared”) strategy.
RPg advertised the strategy by negligently relying on F-Squared’s materially inflated, and
hypothetical and back-tested, performance track record that F-Squared misrepresented.
2.
AlphaSector is a sector rotation strategy based on an algorithm that yields a signal
indicating whether to buy or sell nine industry exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”) that together
made up the industries in the S&P 500 Index. Between November 2011 and May 2014, RPg
offered model portfolios based on F-Squared’s AlphaSector strategy to other investment
advisers, for use with those other advisers’ clients.
3.
From February 2012 to October 2013, in reliance on F-Squared’s false statements,
RPg’s AlphaSector advertisements falsely stated that: (a) assets had been invested in the
AlphaSector strategy from April 2001 to September 2008; and (b) the track record had
significantly outperformed the S&P 500 Index from April 2001 to September 2008. In fact, no
client assets had tracked the AlphaSector strategy from April 2001 through September 2008. In
addition, F-Squared miscalculated the historical performance of AlphaSector from April 2001 to
September 2008 by incorrectly implementing signals in advance of when such signals actually
could have occurred. RPg took insufficient steps to confirm the accuracy of F-Squared’s
historical data and other information contained in the materials. In addition, RPg did not obtain
sufficient documentation that substantiated F-Squared’s advertising claims in the materials. As
a result of this inaccurate compilation of historical data by F-Squared, RPg advertised the
AlphaSector strategy by using hypothetical and back-tested historical performance that was
inflated substantially over what performance would have been if F-Squared had applied the
signals accurately.
4.
As a result, RPg violated Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)1(a)(5) thereunder by publishing, circulating, and distributing advertisements that contained
untrue statements of material fact. RPg likewise did not make and keep true, accurate and
current records or documents necessary to form the basis for or demonstrate the calculation of
the performance or rate of returns that it circulated and distributed, as required by Section
204(a) of the Advisers Act and Rule 204-2(a)(16) thereunder.
Respondent
5.
Risk Paradigm Group, LLC (SEC File No. 801-72141), also known as RPg
Asset Management (“RPg”) is an investment adviser registered with the Commission since April
8, 2011 and headquartered in Austin, Texas. As of March 31, 2016, RPg reported regulatory

2

assets under management of approximately $234,361,000. 2 RPg’s business is to manage model
portfolios on behalf of various other investment advisers.
Other Relevant Entities and Person
6.
RPg Family Wealth Advisory, LLC (SEC File No. 801-72631) (“RPg-FWA”) is
an investment adviser registered with the Commission since August 3, 2011 and headquartered
in Burlington, Massachusetts. As of March 26, 2016, RPg-FWA reported regulatory assets
under management of approximately $366,369,000. RPg and RPg-FWA have the same
executive officers and ultimate owners. RPg managed model portfolios on behalf of RPg-FWA.
7.
F-Squared Investments, Inc. (“F-Squared”) (SEC File No. 801-69937) is an
investment adviser that was registered with the Commission from March 2009 until
January 2016, and is headquartered in Wellesley, Massachusetts. In October 2008, F-Squared
launched its first AlphaSector index. F-Squared sub-licensed its approximately 75 AlphaSector
indexes to unaffiliated third parties who managed assets pursuant to these indexes. On
December 22, 2014, the Commission instituted a settled fraud action against F-Squared in which
F-Squared admitted, among other things, to making the materially false claims that (a) the
signals that formed the basis of the AlphaSector index returns had been used to manage client
assets from April 2001 to September 2008; and (b) the signals resulted in a track record that
significantly outperformed the S&P 500 Index from April 2001 to September 2008. See In the
Matter of F-Squared Investments, Inc., Admin. Proceeding No. 3-16325 (Dec. 22, 2014).
8.
Howard Brian Present (“Present”), age 55, resides in Wellesley, Massachusetts.
In 2006, Present co-founded F-Squared and was the President and CEO until his separation in
2014. On December 22, 2014, the Commission filed a civil complaint alleging fraud charges
against Present in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, which is
pending. See SEC v. Present, No. 1:14-cv-14692 (D. Mass. filed Dec. 22, 2014).
Facts
RPg’s Relationship With F-Squared
9.
In approximately December 2009, F-Squared introduced its AlphaSector
strategies to RPg. F-Squared marketed AlphaSector to RPg as an ETF sector rotation strategy
that was based on an algorithm that yields a “signal” indicating whether to buy or sell nine
industry ETFs. 3 If the algorithm produced buy signals for three or fewer sector ETFs, the
2

Regulatory assets under management include the securities portfolios for which RPg provides
continuous and regular supervisory or management services.
3
F-Squared created several AlphaSector strategies and sub-licensed approximately 75 AlphaSector
indexes. The AlphaSector indexes that are the subject of this matter, including the AlphaSector Premium
Index and the AlphaSector Rotation Index, are based on investments in U.S. equity ETFs. As with all
indexes, the performance of the AlphaSector Premium Index and AlphaSector Rotation Index is
inherently hypothetical in the sense that the indexes do not purport to reflect the performance of any

3

AlphaSector strategy provided for some or all of the assets to be invested in cash equivalents. In
approximately September 2011, RPg entered into subadvisory and model manager agreements
with F-Squared whereby F-Squared licensed the AlphaSector strategy to RPg. Thereafter, RPg
offered model portfolios that were managed using F-Squared’s AlphaSector signals and strategy.
Advisory clients ultimately invested in such products, including clients of RPg-FWA.
10.
F-Squared described the strategy falsely to RPg by, among other things,
representing that: (a) the AlphaSector strategy had been used to manage client assets from April
2001 to September 2008, often calling it a “live” track record; and (b) the track record had
significantly outperformed the S&P 500 Index from April 2001 to September 2008. In reality,
no assets tracked the strategy until 2008 and the back-tested track record was substantially
overstated. F-Squared’s AlphaSector sales and marketing materials shared with RPg claimed
that clients actually achieved these performance returns for the April 2001 to September 2008
time period. In turn, RPg took portions of F-Squared’s advertisements, including claims
concerning the live nature of the track record and the significant outperformance, and
disseminated advertisements, under RPg’s logo, to other advisers’ clients and prospective clients
without having a reasonable basis to conclude that F-Squared’s exceptional performance claims
were true.
RPg’s Advertisements Contained Misstatements
11.
From February 2012 through October 2013, RPg, in advertising their own
advisory services and the RPg products that would utilize/incorporate the AlphaSector strategies,
disseminated AlphaSector performance advertisements that failed to disclose the AlphaSector
track record for the period April 2001 to September 2008 was hypothetical and back-tested. The
advertisements were distributed through regular mail, electronic mail, or in connection with oral
presentations. As described above, RPg’s AlphaSector advertisements also substantially
overstated the performance of F-Squared’s back-tested track record during this period based on
the false information provided by F-Squared. In October 2013, RPg stopped distributing
advertising materials containing past performance information of F-Squared. In May 2014, RPg
ceased using the AlphaSector signals. RPg disclosed these changes to the financial
intermediaries to whom they had marketed the AlphaSector strategies.
RPg Failed to Have A Reasonable Basis to Believe the Accuracy of
the Performance and Performance-Related Claims in the Advertisements
12.
RPg knew or should have known that it did not have a reasonable basis to believe
that F-Squared’s AlphaSector advertising claims were accurate. RPg knew or should have
known that F-Squared’s AlphaSector strategy purported performance contained in RPg’s
advertising materials was exceptional over the 2001-2008 period in that it significantly
outperformed the S&P 500 Index and purported to involve actual results notwithstanding that the
particular client or account. However, the AlphaSector Premium Index and AlphaSector Rotation Index
were advertised as being based on a strategy that had been in place since 2001 and therefore the
performance of these indexes was advertised as “not backtested” when in fact the performance was backtested.

4

AlphaSector strategy was not launched until 2008. With regard to the performance claims, RPg
included in some of its AlphaSector advertisements a general statement indicating that third
parties were the source of the performance data and that RPg had not independently verified the
data. RPg relied on documents making performance claims that came directly or indirectly from
F-Squared. For example, RPg relied on a Morningstar report that stated the information in the
report was self-reported by F-Squared and had not been independently verified. Moreover,
although RPg reviewed performance returns calculated by certain online databases to analyze FSquared’s past performance, the input data that was used to calculate the returns came from FSquared. Having taken insufficient steps to confirm the accuracy of the AlphaSector
performance data and not having obtained sufficient documentation that would have
substantiated F-Squared’s advertised performance and performance-related claims in RPg’s
advertising materials, RPg failed to have a reasonable basis to believe that AlphaSector’s
performance was accurate when included in its own advertisements for clients considering the
strategy.
RPg Failed to Maintain Adequate Books and Records
13.
RPg was required to make and keep true, accurate and current records or
documents necessary to form the basis for or demonstrate the calculation of the performance or
rate of return that it circulated or distributed to ten or more persons. In marketing its own
advisory services, RPg circulated and distributed the 2001-2008 historical performance of the
AlphaSector strategy in client presentations and marketing materials and other communications
to financial intermediaries to whom they advertised the AlphaSector strategy for investment by
their clients and prospective clients. However, RPg never made or kept sufficient records or
documents to form the basis for or demonstrate the calculation of the historical performance or
rate of return of the AlphaSector strategy.
Violations
14.
As a result of the conduct described above, RPg violated Section 206(4) of the
Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-1(a)(5) thereunder, which make it a fraudulent, deceptive, or
manipulative act, practice, or course of business within the meaning of Section 206(4) of the
Advisers Act to, among other things, directly or indirectly publish, circulate, or distribute an
advertisement which contains any untrue statement of material fact, or which is otherwise false
or misleading. A violation of Section 206(4) and the rules thereunder does not require scienter.
SEC v. Steadman, 967 F.2d 636, 647 (D.C. Cir. 1992).
15.
As a result of the conduct described above, RPg violated Section 204(a) of the
Advisers Act and Rule 204-2(a)(16) thereunder. Section 204(a) of the Advisers Act requires
investment advisers to make and keep certain records as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe
as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. Rule 204-2
under the Advisers Act requires investment advisers registered or required to be registered to
make and keep true, accurate and current various books and records relating to their investment
advisory business, including all accounts, books, internal working papers, and any other records
or documents that are necessary to form the basis for or demonstrate the calculation of the
performance or rate of return of any or all managed accounts or securities recommendations in
any notice, circular, advertisement, newspaper article, investment letter, bulletin or other
5

communication that the investment adviser circulates or distributes, directly or indirectly, to 10
or more persons.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent’s Offers.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, Respondent shall cease and desist
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 204(a) and
206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rules 204-2(a)(16), and 206(4)-1(a)(5) thereunder.
B.
Respondent shall pay a civil money penalty of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the
United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). Payment shall be made in
the following installments: (1) $25,000 within 10 days of the entry of the Order; (2) $25,000
within 90 days of the entry of this Order; (3) $25,000 within 180 days of the entry of this Order;
and (4) $25,000 within 270 days of the entry of this Order. If any payment is not made by the
date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of the civil penalty,
plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable
immediately, without further application.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through
the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission
and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Risk
Paradigm Group as the Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Robert B.

6

Baker, Assistant Director, Asset Management Unit, Securities and Exchange Commission,
Boston Regional Office, 33 Arch Street, 24th Floor, Boston, Massachusetts 02110.
C.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall
be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such
a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount
of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil
penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action”
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

7

