INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
[AS AMENDED

THROUGH

P.L. 112-90,

APPROVED

JANUARY 3, 2012]

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

201. Findings. 

202. Definitions. 

203. Registration of Investment Advisers. 

203A. State and Federal Responsibilities. 

204. Annual and Other Reports. 

204A. Prevention of Misuse of Nonpublic Information. 

205. Investment Advisory Contracts. 

206. Prohibited Transactions by Registered Investment Advisers. 

206A. Exemptions. 

207. Material Misstatements. 

208. General Prohibitions. 

209. Enforcement of Title. 

210. Publicity. 

210A. Consultation. 

211. Rules, Regulations, and Orders. 

212. Hearings. 

213. Court Review of Orders. 

214. Jurisdiction of Offenses and Suits. 

215. Validity of Contracts. 

216. Annual Reports of Commission. 

217. Penalties. 

218. Hiring and Leasing Authority of the Commission. 

219. Separability of Provisions. 

220. Short Title. 

221. Effective Date. 

222. State Regulation of Investment Advisers. 

223. Custody of Client Accounts. 

224. Rule of Construction Relating to the Commodities Exchange Act.

FINDINGS

SEC. 201. Upon the basis of facts disclosed by the record and
report of the Securities and Exchange Commission made pursuant
to section 30 of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935,
and facts otherwise disclosed and ascertained, it is hereby found
that investment advisers are of national concern, in that, among
other things—
(1) their advice, counsel, publications, writings, analyses,
and reports are furnished and distributed, and their contracts,
subscription agreements, and other arrangements with clients
are negotiated and performed, by the use of the mails and
means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce;
(2) their advice, counsel, publications, writings, analyses,
and reports customarily relate to the purchase and sale of se­
curities traded on national securities exchanges and in inter­
state over-the-counter markets, securities issued by companies
engaged in business in interstate commerce, and securities
1

Sec. 202

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

2

issued by national banks and member banks of the Federal Re­
serve System; and
(3) the foregoing transactions occur in such volume as sub­
stantially to affect interstate commerce, national securities ex­
changes, and other securities markets, the national banking
system and the national economy.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 201, 54 Stat. 847.)
DEFINITIONS

SEC. 202. (a) When used in this title, unless the context other­
wise requires, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) ‘‘Assignment’’ includes any direct or indirect transfer or
hypothecation of an investment advisory contract by the as­
signor or of a controlling block of the assignor’s outstanding
voting securities by a security holder of the assignor; but if the
investment adviser is a partnership, no assignment of an in­
vestment advisory contract shall be deemed to result from the
death or withdrawal of a minority of the members of the in­
vestment adviser having only a minority interest in the busi­
ness of the investment adviser, or from the admission to the
investment adviser of one or more members who, after such
admission, shall be only a minority of the members and shall
have only a minority interest in the business.
(2) ‘‘Bank’’ means (A) a banking institution organized
under the laws of the United States or a Federal savings asso­
ciation, as defined in section 2(5) of the Home Owners’ Loan
Act, (B) a member bank of the Federal Reserve System, (C)
any other banking institution, savings association, as defined
in section 2(4) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act, or trust com­
pany, whether incorporated or not, doing business under the
laws of any State or of the United States, a substantial portion
of the business of which consists of receiving deposits or exer­
cising fiduciary powers similar to those permitted to national
banks under the authority of the Comptroller of the Currency,
and which is supervised and examined by State or Federal au­
thority having supervision over banks or savings associations,
and which is not operated for the purpose of evading the provi­
sions of this title, and (D) a receiver, conservator, or other liq­
uidating agent of any institution or firm included in clauses
(A), (B), or (C) of this paragraph.
(3) The term ‘‘broker’’ has the same meaning as given in
section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(4) ‘‘Commission’’ means the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
(5) ‘‘Company’’ means a corporation, a partnership, an as­
sociation, a joint-stock company, a trust, or any organized
group of persons, whether incorporated or not; or any receiver,
trustee in a case under title 11 of the United States Code, or
similar official, or any liquidating agent for any of the fore­
going, in his capacity as such.
(6) ‘‘Convicted’’ includes a verdict, judgment, or plea of
guilty, or a finding of guilt on a plea of nolo contendere, if such

3

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 202

verdict, judgment, plea, or finding has not been reversed, set
aside, or withdrawn, whether or not sentence has been im­
posed.
(7) The term ‘‘dealer’’ has the same meaning as given in
section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but does not
include an insurance company or investment company.
(8) ‘‘Director’’ means any director of a corporation or any
person performing similar functions, with respect to any orga­
nization, whether incorporated or unincorporated.
(9) ‘‘Exchange’’ means any organization, association, or
group of persons, whether incorporated or unincorporated,
which constitutes, maintains, or provides a market place or fa­
cilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of securi­
ties or for otherwise performing with respect to securities the
functions commonly performed by a stock exchange as that
term is generally understood, and includes the market place
and the market facilities maintained by such exchange.
(10) ‘‘Interstate commerce’’ means trade, commerce, trans­
portation, or communication among the several States, or be­
tween any foreign country and any State, or between any State
and any place or ship outside thereof.
(11) ‘‘Investment adviser’’ means any person who, for com­
pensation, engages in the business of advising others, either di­
rectly or through publications or writings, as to the value of se­
curities or as to the advisability of investing in, purchasing, or
selling securities, or who, for compensation and as part of a
regular business, issues or promulgates analyses or reports
concerning securities; but does not include (A) a bank, or any
bank holding company as defined in the Bank Holding Com­
pany Act of 1956, which is not an investment company, except
that the term ‘‘investment adviser’’ includes any bank or bank
holding company to the extent that such bank or bank holding
company serves or acts as an investment adviser to a reg­
istered investment company, but if, in the case of a bank, such
services or actions are performed through a separately identifi­
able department or division, the department or division, and
not the bank itself, shall be deemed to be the investment ad­
viser; (B) any lawyer, accountant, engineer, or teacher whose
performance of such services is solely incidental to the practice
of his profession; (C) any broker or dealer whose performance
of such services is solely incidental to the conduct of his busi­
ness as a broker or dealer and who receives no special com­
pensation therefor; (D) the publisher of any bona fide news­
paper, news magazine or business or financial publication of
general and regular circulation; (E) any person whose advice,
analyses, or reports relate to no securities other than securities
which are direct obligations of or obligations guaranteed as to
principal or interest by the United States, or securities issued
or guaranteed by corporations in which the United States has
a direct or indirect interest which shall have been designated
by the Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to section 3(a)(12)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as exempted securities
for the purposes of that Act; (F) any nationally recognized sta­
tistical rating organization, as that term is defined in section

Sec. 202

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

4

3(a)(62) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, unless such or­
ganization engages in issuing recommendations as to pur­
chasing, selling, or holding securities or in managing assets,
consisting in whole or in part of securities, on behalf of oth­
ers;; [1] (G) any family office, as defined by rule, regulation, or
order of the Commission, in accordance with the purposes of
this title; or (H) such other persons not within the intent of
this paragraph, as the Commission may designate by rules and
regulations or order.
(12) ‘‘Investment company’’, affiliated person, and ‘‘insur­
ance company’’ have the same meanings as in the Investment
Company Act of 1940. ‘‘Control’’ means the power to exercise
a controlling influence over the management or policies of a
company, unless such power is solely the result of an official
position with such company.
(13) ‘‘Investment supervisory services’’ means the giving of
continuous advice as to the investment of funds on the basis
of the individual needs of each client.
(14) ‘‘Means or instrumentality of interstate commerce’’ in­
cludes any facility of a national securities exchange.
(15) ‘‘National securities exchange’’ means an exchange
registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.
(16) ‘‘Person’’ means a natural person or a company.
(17) The term ‘‘person associated with an investment ad­
viser’’ means any partner, officer, or director of such invest­
ment adviser (or any person performing similar functions), or
any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by
such investment adviser, including any employee of such in­
vestment adviser, except that for the purposes of section 203
of this title (other than subsection (f) thereof), persons associ­
ated with an investment adviser whose functions are clerical or
ministerial shall not be included in the meaning of such term.
The Commission may by rules and regulations classify, for the
purposes of any portion or portions of this title, persons, in­
cluding employees controlled by an investment adviser.
(18) ‘‘Security’’ means any note, stock, treasury stock, secu­
rity future, bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, certifi­
cate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing agree­
ment, collateral-trust certificate, preorganization certificate or
subscription, transferable share, investment contract, votingtrust certificate, certificate of deposit for a security, fractional
undivided interest in oil, gas, or other mineral rights, any put,
call, straddle, option, or privilege on any security (including a
certificate of deposit) or on any group or index of securities (in­
cluding any interest therein or based on the value thereof), or
any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege entered into on a
national securities exchange relating to foreign currency, or, in
general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a ‘‘se­
curity’’, or any certificate of interest or participation in, tem­
porary or interim certificate for, receipt for, guaranty of, or
1So

in original.

5

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 202

warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase any of the fore­
going.
(19) ‘‘State’’ means any State of the United States, the Dis­
trict of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other
possession of the United States.
(20) ‘‘Underwriter’’ means any person who has purchased
from an issuer with a view to, or sells for an issuer in connec­
tion with, the distribution of any security, or participates or
has a direct or indirect participation in any such undertaking,
or participates or has a participation in the direct or indirect
underwriting of any such undertaking; but such term shall not
include a person whose interest is limited to a commission
from an underwriter or dealer not in excess of the usual and
customary distributor’s or seller’s commission. As used in this
paragraph the term ‘‘issuer’’ shall include in addition to an
issuer, any person directly or indirectly controlling or con­
trolled by the issuer, or any person under direct or indirect
common control with the issuer.
(21) ‘‘Securities Act of 1933’’, ‘‘Securities Exchange Act of
1934’’, and ‘‘Trust Indenture Act of 1939’’, mean those Acts, re­
spectively, as heretofore or hereafter amended.
(22) ‘‘Business development company’’ means any company
which is a business development company as defined in section
2(a)(48) of title I of this Act and which complies with section
55 of title I of this Act, except that—
(A) the 70 per centum of the value of the total assets
condition referred to in sections 2(a)(48) and 55 of title I
of this Act shall be 60 per centum for purposes of deter­
mining compliance therewith;
(B) such company need not be a closed-end company
and need not elect to be subject to the provisions of sec­
tions 55 through 65 of title I of this Act; and
(C) the securities which may be purchased pursuant to
section 55(a) of title I of this Act may be purchased from
any person.
For purposes of this paragraph, all terms in sections 2(a)(48)
and 55 of title I of this Act shall have the same meaning set
forth in such title as if such company were a registered closedend investment company, except that the value of the assets of
a business development company which is not subject to the
provisions of sections 55 through 65 of title I of this Act shall
be determined as of the date of the most recent financial state­
ments which it furnished to all holders of its securities, and
shall be determined no less frequently than annually.
(23) ‘‘Foreign securities authority’’ means any foreign gov­
ernment, or any governmental body or regulatory organization
empowered by a foreign government to administer or enforce
its laws as they relate to securities matters.
(24) ‘‘Foreign financial regulatory authority’’ means any
(A) foreign securities authority, (B) other governmental body or
foreign equivalent of a self-regulatory organization empowered
by a foreign government to administer or enforce its laws relat­
ing to the regulation of fiduciaries, trusts, commercial lending,
insurance, trading in contracts of sale of a commodity for fu­

Sec. 202

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

6

ture delivery, or other instruments traded on or subject to the
rules of a contract market, board of trade or foreign equivalent,
or other financial activities, or (C) membership organization a
function of which is to regulate the participation of its mem­
bers in activities listed above.
(25) ‘‘Supervised person’’ means any partner, officer, direc­
tor (or other person occupying a similar status or performing
similar functions), or employee of an investment adviser, or
other person who provides investment advice on behalf of the
investment adviser and is subject to the supervision and con­
trol of the investment adviser.
(26) The term ‘‘separately identifiable department or divi­
sion’’ of a bank means a unit—
(A) that is under the direct supervision of an officer or
officers designated by the board of directors of the bank as
responsible for the day-to-day conduct of the bank’s invest­
ment adviser activities for one or more investment compa­
nies, including the supervision of all bank employees en­
gaged in the performance of such activities; and
(B) for which all of the records relating to its invest­
ment adviser activities are separately maintained in or ex­
tractable from such unit’s own facilities or the facilities of
the bank, and such records are so maintained or otherwise
accessible as to permit independent examination and en­
forcement by the Commission of this Act or the Investment
Company Act of 1940 and rules and regulations promul­
gated under this Act or the Investment Company Act of
1940.
(27) The terms ‘‘security future’’ and ‘‘narrow-based secu­
rity index’’ have the same meanings as provided in section
3(a)(55) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(28) The term ‘‘credit rating agency’’ has the same mean­
ing as in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(29) [2] The term ‘‘private fund’’ means an issuer that
would be an investment company, as defined in section 3 of the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3), but for sec­
tion 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act.
(30) The term ‘‘foreign private adviser’’ means any invest­
ment adviser who—
(A) has no place of business in the United States;
(B) has, in total, fewer than 15 clients and investors
in the United States in private funds advised by the in­
vestment adviser;
(C) has aggregate assets under management attrib­
utable to clients in the United States and investors in the
United States in private funds advised by the investment
adviser of less than $25,000,000, or such higher amount as
the Commission may, by rule, deem appropriate in accord­
ance with the purposes of this title; and
(D) neither—
(i) holds itself out generally to the public in the
United States as an investment adviser; nor
2Another

par. (29) appears after par. (30).

7

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 202

(ii) acts as—
(I) an investment adviser to any investment
company registered under the Investment Com­
pany Act of 1940; or
(II) a company that has elected to be a busi­
ness development company pursuant to section 54
of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C.
80a-53), and has not withdrawn its election.
(29) [3] The terms ‘‘commodity pool’’, ‘‘commodity pool oper­
ator’’, ‘‘commodity trading advisor’’, ‘‘major swap participant’’,
‘‘swap’’, ‘‘swap dealer’’, and ‘‘swap execution facility’’ have the
same meanings as in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange
Act (7 U.S.C. 1a).
(b) No provision in this title shall apply to, or be deemed to in­
clude, the United States, a State, or any political subdivision of a
State, or any agency, authority, or instrumentality of any one or
more of the foregoing, or any corporation which is wholly owned di­
rectly or indirectly by any one or more of the foregoing, or any offi­
cer, agent, or employee of any of the foregoing acting as such in the
course of his official duty, unless such provision makes specific ref­
erence thereto.
(c) CONSIDERATION OF PROMOTION OF EFFICIENCY, COMPETI­
TION, AND CAPITAL FORMATION.—Whenever pursuant to this title
the Commission is engaged in rulemaking and is required to con­
sider or determine whether an action is necessary or appropriate
in the public interest, the Commission shall also consider, in addi­
tion to the protection of investors, whether the action will promote
efficiency, competition, and capital formation.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 202, 54 Stat. 847; Pub. L. 86­
70, Sec. 12(c), June 25, 1959, 73 Stat. 143; Pub. L. 86-624, Sec.
7(d), July 12, 1960, 74 Stat. 412; Pub. L. 86-750, Sec. 1, Sept. 13,
1960, 74 Stat. 885; Pub. L. 89-485, Sec. 13(j), July 1, 1966, 80 Stat.
243; Pub. L. 91-547, Sec. 23, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1430; Pub. L.
95-598, title III, Sec. 311, Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2676; Pub. L. 96­
477, title II, Sec. 201, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2289; Pub. L. 97-303,
Sec. 6, Oct. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1410; Pub. L. 100-181, title VII, Sec.
701, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1263; Pub. L. 101-550, title II, Sec.
206(b), Nov. 15, 1990, 104 Stat. 2720; Pub. L. 104-290, title III,
Sec. 303(c), Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3438; Pub. L. 106-102, title II,
Sec. 217-219, 224, Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1399, 1400, 1402; Pub.
L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5) [title II, Sec. 209(a)(2), (4)], Dec. 21, 2000,
114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-435, 2763A-436; Pub. L. 109-291, Sec.
4(b)(3)(A), (B), Sept. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 1337; Pub. L. 109-351, title
IV, Sec. 401(b)(1), Oct. 13, 2006, 120 Stat. 1973; Pub. L. 111-203,
title IV, Secs. 402(a), 409(a), title VII, Sec. 770, title IX, Sec. 986(d),
July, 22, 2010, 124 Stat. 1570, 1575, 1801, 1936.)

3So

in original. Another par. (29) appears after par. (28).

Sec. 203

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

8

REGISTRATION OF INVESTMENT ADVISERS

SEC. 203. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) and section
203A [4], it shall be unlawful for any investment adviser, unless
registered under this section, to make use of the mails or any
means or instrumentality of interstate commerce in connection
with his or its business as an investment adviser.
(b) The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply to—
(1) any investment adviser, other than an investment ad­
viser who acts as an investment adviser to any private fund,
all of whose clients are residents of the State within which
such investment adviser maintains his or its principal office
and place of business, and who does not furnish advice or issue
analyses or reports with respect to securities listed or admitted
to unlisted trading privileges on any national securities ex­
change;
(2) any investment adviser whose only clients are insur­
ance companies;
(3) any investment adviser that is a foreign private ad­
viser;
(4) any investment adviser that is a charitable organiza­
tion, as defined in section 3(c)(10)(D) of the Investment Com­
pany Act of 1940, or is a trustee, director, officer, employee, or
volunteer of such a charitable organization acting within the
scope of such person’s employment or duties with such organi­
zation, whose advice, analyses, or reports are provided only to
one or more of the following:
(A) any such charitable organization;
(B) a fund that is excluded from the definition of an
investment company under section 3(c)(10)(B) of the In­
vestment Company Act of 1940; or
(C) a trust or other donative instrument described in
section 3(c)(10)(B) of the Investment Company Act of 1940,
or the trustees, administrators, settlors (or potential set­
tlors), or beneficiaries of any such trust or other instru­
ment;
(5) any plan described in section 414(e) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, any person or entity eligible to establish
and maintain such a plan under the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, or any trustee, director, officer, or employee of or volun­
teer for any such plan or person, if such person or entity, act­
ing in such capacity, provides investment advice exclusively to,
or with respect to, any plan, person, or entity or any company,
account, or fund that is excluded from the definition of an in­
vestment company under section 3(c)(14) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940;
(6)(A) any investment adviser that is registered with the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a commodity trad­
ing advisor whose business does not consist primarily of acting
4Section 303(d) of the National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996 (P.L. 104-290;
110 Stat. 3438) amended section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 by striking ‘‘sub­
section (b) of this section’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection (b) and section 203A’’. This compilation re­
flects this amendment even though the words ‘‘of this section’’ were not in the underlying law
at the time of the amendment.

9

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 203

as an investment adviser, as defined in section 202(a)(11) of
this title, and that does not act as an investment adviser to—
(i) an investment company registered under title I of
this Act; or
(ii) a company which has elected to be a business de­
velopment company pursuant to section 54 of title I of this
Act and has not withdrawn its election; or
(B) [5] any investment adviser that is registered with the Com­
modity Futures Trading Commission as a commodity trading advi­
sor and advises a private fund, provided that, if after the date of
enactment of the Private Fund Investment Advisers Registration
Act of 2010, the business of the advisor should become predomi­
nately the provision of securities-related advice, then such adviser
shall register with the Commission. [6]
(7) any investment adviser, other than any entity that has
elected to be regulated or is regulated as a business develop­
ment company pursuant to section 54 of the Investment Com­
pany Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-54), who solely advises—
(A) small business investment companies that are li­
censees under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958;
(B) entities that have received from the Small Busi­
ness Administration notice to proceed to qualify for a li­
cense as a small business investment company under the
Small Business Investment Act of 1958, which notice or li­
cense has not been revoked; or
(C) applicants that are affiliated with 1 or more li­
censed small business investment companies described in
subparagraph (A) and that have applied for another li­
cense under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958,
which application remains pending.
(c)(1) An investment adviser, or any person who presently con­
templates becoming an investment adviser, may be registered by
filing with the Commission an application for registration in such
form and containing such of the following information and docu­
ments as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors:
(A) the name and form of organization under which the in­
vestment adviser engages or intends to engage in business; the
name of the State or other sovereign power under which such
investment adviser is organized; the location of his or its prin­
cipal office, principal place of business, and branch offices, if
any; the names and addresses of his or its partners, officers,
directors, and persons performing similar functions or, if such
an investment adviser be an individual, of such individual; and
the number of his or its employees;
(B) the education, the business affiliations for the past ten
years, and the present business affiliations of such investment
adviser and of his or its partners, officers, directors, and per­
sons performing similar functions and of any controlling person
thereof;
5Indentation
6So

so in original. 

in original. The period probably should be ‘‘; or’’. 


Sec. 203

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

10


(C) the nature of the business of such investment adviser,
including the manner of giving advice and rendering analyses
or reports;
(D) a balance sheet certified by an independent public ac­
countant and other financial statements (which shall, as the
Commission specifies, be certified);
(E) the nature and scope of the authority of such invest­
ment adviser with respect to clients’ funds and accounts;
(F) the basis or bases upon which such investment adviser
is compensated;
(G) whether such investment adviser, or any person associ­
ated with such investment adviser, is subject to any disquali­
fication which would be a basis for denial, suspension, or rev­
ocation of registration of such investment adviser under the
provisions of subsection (e) of this section; and
(H) a statement as to whether the principal business of
such investment adviser consists or is to consist of acting as
investment adviser and a statement as to whether a substan­
tial part of the business of such investment adviser, consists or
is to consist of rendering investment supervisory services.
(2) Within forty-five days of the date of the filing of such appli­
cation (or within such longer period as to which the applicant con­
sents) the Commission shall—
(A) by order grant such registration; or
(B) institute proceedings to determine whether registration
should be denied. Such proceedings shall include notice of the
grounds for denial under consideration and opportunity for
hearing and shall be concluded within one hundred twenty
days of the date of the filing of the application for registration.
At the conclusion of such proceedings the Commission, by
order, shall grant or deny such registration. The Commission
may extend the time for conclusion of such proceedings for up
to ninety days if it finds good cause for such extension and
publishes its reasons for so finding or for such longer period as
to which the applicant consents.
The Commission shall grant such registration if the Commission
finds that the requirements of this section are satisfied and that
the applicant is not prohibited from registering as an investment
adviser under section 203A. The Commission shall deny such reg­
istration if it does not make such a finding or if it finds that if the
applicant were so registered, its registration would be subject to
suspension or revocation under subsection (e) of this section.
(d) Any provision of this title (other than subsection (a) of this
section) which prohibits any act, practice, or course of business if
the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce
are used in connection therewith shall also prohibit any such act,
practice, or course of business by any investment adviser registered
pursuant to this section or any person acting on behalf of such an
investment adviser, irrespective of any use of the mails or any
means or instrumentality of interstate commerce in connection
therewith.
(e) The Commission, by order, shall censure, place limitations
on the activities, functions, or operations of, suspend for a period
not exceeding twelve months, or revoke the registration of any in­

11

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 203


vestment adviser if it finds, on the record after notice and oppor­
tunity for hearing, that such censure, placing of limitations, sus­
pension, or revocation is in the public interest and that such in­
vestment adviser, or any person associated with such investment
adviser, whether prior to or subsequent to becoming so associated—
(1) has willfully made or caused to be made in any applica­
tion for registration or report required to be filed with the
Commission under this title, or in any proceeding before the
Commission with respect to registration, any statement which
was at the time and in the light of the circumstances under
which it was made false or misleading with respect to any ma­
terial fact, or has omitted to state in any such application or
report any material fact which is required to be stated therein.
(2) has been convicted within ten years preceding the filing
of any application for registration or at any time thereafter of
any felony or misdemeanor or of a substantially equivalent
crime by a foreign court of competent jurisdiction which the
Commission finds—
(A) involves the purchase or sale of any security, the
taking of a false oath, the making of a false report, brib­
ery, perjury, burglary, any substantially equivalent activ­
ity however denominated by the laws of the relevant for­
eign government, or conspiracy to commit any such of­
fense;
(B) arises out of the conduct of the business of a
broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, investment ad­
viser, bank, insurance company, government securities
broker, government securities dealer, fiduciary, transfer
agent, credit rating agency, foreign person performing a
function substantially equivalent to any of the above, or
entity or person required to be registered under the Com­
modity Exchange Act or any substantially equivalent stat­
ute or regulation;
(C) involves the larceny, theft, robbery, extortion, for­
gery, counterfeiting, fraudulent concealment, embezzle­
ment, fraudulent conversion, or misappropriation of funds
or securities or substantially equivalent activity however
denominated by the laws of the relevant foreign govern­
ment; or
(D) involves the violation of section 152, 1341, 1342, or
1343 or chapter 25 or 47 of title 18, United States Code,
or a violation of [7] substantially equivalent foreign statute.
(3) has been convicted during the 10-year period preceding
the date of filing of any application for registration, or at any
time thereafter, of—
(A) any crime that is punishable by imprisonment for
1 or more years, and that is not described in paragraph
(2); or
(B) a substantially equivalent crime by a foreign court
of competent jurisdiction.
(4) is permanently or temporarily enjoined by order, judg­
ment, or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, includ­
7So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘of a’’.

Sec. 203

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

12


ing any foreign court of competent jurisdiction, from acting as
an investment adviser, underwriter, broker, dealer, municipal
securities dealer, government securities broker, government se­
curities dealer, transfer agent, credit rating agency, foreign
person performing a function substantially equivalent to any of
the above, or entity or person required to be registered under
the Commodity Exchange Act or any substantially equivalent
statute or regulation, or as an affiliated person or employee of
any investment company, bank, insurance company, foreign
entity substantially equivalent to any of the above, or entity or
person required to be registered under the Commodity Ex­
change Act or any substantially equivalent statute or regula­
tion, or from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice
in connection with any such activity, or in connection with the
purchase or sale of any security.
(5) has willfully violated any provision of the Securities Act
of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment
Company Act of 1940, this title, the Commodity Exchange Act,
or the rules or regulations under any such statutes or any rule
of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, or is unable to
comply with any such provision.
(6) has willfully aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, in­
duced, or procured the violation by any other person of any
provision of the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Investment Company Act of 1940, this title,
the Commodity Exchange Act, the rules or regulations under
any of such statutes, or the rules of the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board, or has failed reasonably to supervise, with
a view to preventing violations of the provisions of such stat­
utes, rules, and regulations, another person who commits such
a violation, if such other person is subject to his supervision.
For the purposes of this paragraph no person shall be deemed
to have failed reasonably to supervise any person, if—
(A) there have been established procedures, and a sys­
tem for applying such procedures, which would reasonably
be expected to prevent and detect, insofar as practicable,
any such violation by such other person, and
(B) such person has reasonably discharged the duties
and obligations incumbent upon him by reason of such pro­
cedures and system without reasonable cause to believe
that such procedures and system were not being complied
with.
(7) is subject to any order of the Commission barring or
suspending the right of the person to be associated with an in­
vestment adviser;
(8) has been found by a foreign financial regulatory au­
thority to have—
(A) made or caused to be made in any application for
registration or report required to be filed with a foreign se­
curities authority, or in any proceeding before a foreign se­
curities authority with respect to registration, any state­
ment that was at the time and in light of the cir­
cumstances under which it was made false or misleading
with respect to any material fact, or has omitted to state

13

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 203


in any application or report to a foreign securities author­
ity any material fact that is required to be stated therein;
(B) violated any foreign statute or regulation regard­
ing transactions in securities or contracts of sale of a com­
modity for future delivery traded on or subject to the rules
of a contract market or any board of trade; or
(C) aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or
procured the violation by any other person of any foreign
statute or regulation regarding transactions in securities
or contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery trad­
ed on or subject to the rules of a contract market or any
board of trade, or has been found, by the foreign
finanical [8] regulatory authority, to have failed reasonably
to supervise, with a view to preventing violations of statu­
tory provisions, and rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder, another person who commits such a violation,
if such other person is subject to his supervision; or
(9) is subject to any final order of a State securities com­
mission (or any agency or officer performing like functions),
State authority that supervises or examines banks, savings as­
sociations, or credit unions, State insurance commission (or
any agency or office performing like functions), an appropriate
Federal banking agency (as defined in section 3 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q))), or the National
Credit Union Administration, that—
(A) bars such person from association with an entity
regulated by such commission, authority, agency, or offi­
cer, or from engaging in the business of securities, insur­
ance, banking, savings association activities, or credit
union activities; or
(B) constitutes a final order based on violations of any
laws or regulations that prohibit fraudulent, manipulative,
or deceptive conduct.
(f) The Commission, by order, shall censure or place limitations
on the activities of any person associated, seeking to become associ­
ated, or, at the time of the alleged misconduct, associated or seek­
ing to become associated with an investment adviser, or suspend
for a period not exceeding 12 months or bar any such person from
being associated with an investment adviser, broker, dealer, munic­
ipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nation­
ally recognized statistical rating organization, if the Commission
finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that
such censure, placing of limitations, suspension, or bar is in the
public interest and that such person has committed or omitted any
act or omission enumerated in paragraph (1), (5), (6), (8), or (9) of
subsection (e) or has been convicted of any offense specified in
paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection (e) within ten years of the com­
mencement of the proceedings under this subsection, or is enjoined
from any action, conduct, or practice specified in paragraph (4) of
subsection (e). It shall be unlawful for any person as to whom such
an order suspending or barring him from being associated with an
investment adviser is in effect willfully to become, or to be, associ­
8So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘financial’’.

Sec. 203

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

14


ated with an investment adviser without the consent of the Com­
mission, and it shall be unlawful for any investment adviser to per­
mit such a person to become, or remain, a person associated with
him without the consent of the Commission, if such investment ad­
viser knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care, should have
known, of such order.
(g) Any successor to the business of an investment adviser reg­
istered under this section shall be deemed likewise registered here­
under, if within thirty days from its succession to such business it
shall file an application for registration under this section, unless
and until the Commission, pursuant to subsection (c) or subsection
(e) of this section, shall deny registration to or revoke or suspend
the registration of such successor.
(h) Any person registered under this section may, upon such
terms and conditions as the Commission finds necessary in the
public interest or for the protection of investors, withdraw from
registration by filing a written notice of withdrawal with the Com­
mission. If the Commission finds that any person registered under
this section, or who has pending an application for registration
filed under this section, is no longer in existence, is not engaged
in business as an investment adviser, or is prohibited from reg­
istering as an investment adviser under section 203A, the Commis­
sion shall by order cancel the registration of such person.
(i) MONEY PENALTIES IN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS.—
(1) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In any proceeding instituted pursu­
ant to subsection (e) or (f) against any person, the Com­
mission may impose a civil penalty if it finds, on the
record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such
penalty is in the public interest and that such person—
(i) has willfully violated any provision of the Secu­
rities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Investment Company Act of 1940, or this title, or
the rules or regulations thereunder;
(ii) has willfully aided, abetted, counseled, com­
manded, induced, or procured such a violation by any
other person;
(iii) has willfully made or caused to be made in
any application for registration or report required to
be filed with the Commission under this title, or in
any proceeding before the Commission with respect to
registration, any statement which was, at the time
and in the light of the circumstances under which it
was made, false or misleading with respect to any ma­
terial fact, or has omitted to state in any such applica­
tion or report any material fact which was required to
be stated therein; or
(iv) has failed reasonably to supervise, within the
meaning of subsection (e)(6), with a view to preventing
violations of the provisions of this title and the rules
and regulations thereunder, another person who com­

15

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 203


mits such a violation, if such other person is subject
to his supervision; [9]
(B) CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS.—In any pro­
ceeding instituted pursuant to subsection (k) against any
person, the Commission may impose a civil penalty if the
Commission finds, on the record, after notice and oppor­
tunity for hearing, that such person—
(i) is violating or has violated any provision of this
title, or any rule or regulation issued under this title;
or
(ii) is or was a cause of the violation of any provi­
sion of this title, or any rule or regulation issued
under this title.
(2) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF PENALTY.—
(A) FIRST TIER.—The maximum amount of penalty for
each act or omission described in paragraph (1) shall be
$5,000 for a natural person or $50,000 for any other per­
son.
(B) SECOND TIER.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A),
the maximum amount of penalty for each such act or omis­
sion shall be $50,000 for a natural person or $250,000 for
any other person if the act or omission described in para­
graph (1) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or delib­
erate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement.
(C) THIRD TIER.—Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A)
and (B), the maximum amount of penalty for each such act
or omission shall be $100,000 for a natural person or
$500,000 for any other person if—
(i) the act or omission described in paragraph (1)
involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or
reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and
(ii) such act or omission directly or indirectly re­
sulted in substantial losses or created a significant
risk of substantial losses to other persons or resulted
in substantial pecuniary gain to the person who com­
mitted the act or omission.
(3) DETERMINATION OF PUBLIC INTEREST.—In considering
under this section whether a penalty is in the public interest,
the Commission may consider—
(A) whether the act or omission for which such penalty
is assessed involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or delib­
erate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement;
(B) the harm to other persons resulting either directly
or indirectly from such act or omission;
(C) the extent to which any person was unjustly en­
riched, taking into account any restitution made to persons
injured by such behavior;
(D) whether such person previously has been found by
the Commission, another appropriate regulatory agency, or
a self- regulatory organization to have violated the Federal
securities laws, State securities laws, or the rules of a selfregulatory organization, has been enjoined by a court of
9So

in original. The semicolon probably should be a period.

Sec. 203

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

16


competent jurisdiction from violations of such laws or
rules, or has been convicted by a court of competent juris­
diction of violations of such laws or of any felony or mis­
demeanor described in section 203(e)(2) of this title;
(E) the need to deter such person and other persons
from committing such acts or omissions; and
(F) such other matters as justice may require.
(4) EVIDENCE CONCERNING ABILITY TO PAY.—In any pro­
ceeding in which the Commission may impose a penalty under
this section, a respondent may present evidence of the respond­
ent’s ability to pay such penalty. The Commission may, in its
discretion, consider such evidence in determining whether such
penalty is in the public interest. Such evidence may relate to
the extent of such person’s ability to continue in business and
the collectability of a penalty, taking into account any other
claims of the United States or third parties upon such person’s
assets and the amount of such person’s assets.
(j) AUTHORITY TO ENTER AN ORDER REQUIRING AN ACCOUNT­
ING AND DISGORGEMENT.—In any proceeding in which the Commis­
sion may impose a penalty under this section, the Commission may
enter an order requiring accounting and disgorgement, including
reasonable interest. The Commission is authorized to adopt rules,
regulations, and orders concerning payments to investors, rates of
interest, periods of accrual, and such other matters as it deems ap­
propriate to implement this subsection.
(k) CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS.—
(1) AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION.—If the Commission
finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that any person
is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision
of this title, or any rule or regulation thereunder, the Commis­
sion may publish its findings and enter an order requiring
such person, and any other person that is, was, or would be a
cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person
knew or should have known would contribute to such violation,
to cease and desist from committing or causing such violation
and any future violation of the same provision, rule, or regula­
tion. Such order may, in addition to requiring a person to cease
and desist from committing or causing a violation, require such
person to comply, or to take steps to effect compliance, with
such provision, rule, or regulation, upon such terms and condi­
tions and within such time as the Commission may specify in
such order. Any such order may, as the Commission deems ap­
propriate, require future compliance or steps to effect future
compliance, either permanently or for such period of time as
the Commission may specify, with such provision, rule, or reg­
ulation with respect to any security, any issuer, or any other
person.
(2) HEARING.—The notice instituting proceedings pursuant
to paragraph (1) shall fix a hearing date not earlier than 30
days nor later than 60 days after service of the notice unless
an earlier or a later date is set by the Commission with the
consent of any respondent so served.
(3) TEMPORARY ORDER.—

17

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 203


(A) IN GENERAL.—Whenever the Commission deter­
mines that the alleged violation or threatened violation
specified in the notice instituting proceedings pursuant to
paragraph (1), or the continuation thereof, is likely to re­
sult in significant dissipation or conversion of assets, sig­
nificant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the pub­
lic interest, including, but not limited to, losses to the Se­
curities Investor Protection Corporation, prior to the com­
pletion of the proceedings, the Commission may enter a
temporary order requiring the respondent to cease and de­
sist from the violation or threatened violation and to take
such action to prevent the violation or threatened violation
and to prevent dissipation or conversion of assets, signifi­
cant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public
interest as the Commission deems appropriate pending
completion of such proceedings. Such an order shall be en­
tered only after notice and opportunity for a hearing, un­
less the Commission, notwithstanding section 211(c) of this
title, determines that notice and hearing prior to entry
would be impracticable or contrary to the public interest.
A temporary order shall become effective upon service
upon the respondent and, unless set aside, limited, or sus­
pended by the Commission or a court of competent juris­
diction, shall remain effective and enforceable pending the
completion of the proceedings.
(B) APPLICABILITY.—This paragraph shall apply only
to a respondent that acts, or, at the time of the alleged
misconduct acted, as a broker, dealer, investment adviser,
investment company, municipal securities dealer, govern­
ment securities broker, government securities dealer, or
transfer agent, or is, or was at the time of the alleged mis­
conduct, an associated person of, or a person seeking to be­
come associated with, any of the foregoing.
(4) REVIEW OF TEMPORARY ORDERS.—
(A) COMMISSION REVIEW.—At any time after the re­
spondent has been served with a temporary cease-and-de­
sist order pursuant to paragraph (3), the respondent may
apply to the Commission to have the order set aside, lim­
ited, or suspended. If the respondent has been served with
a temporary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior
Commission hearing, the respondent may, within 10 days
after the date on which the order was served, request a
hearing on such application and the Commission shall hold
a hearing and render a decision on such application at the
earliest possible time.
(B) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—Within—
(i) 10 days after the date the respondent was
served with a temporary cease-and-desist order en­
tered with a prior Commission hearing, or
(ii) 10 days after the Commission renders a deci­
sion on an application and hearing under subpara­
graph (A), with respect to any temporary cease-and­
desist order entered without a prior Commission hear­
ing,

Sec. 203

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

18


the respondent may apply to the United States district
court for the district in which the respondent resides or
has its principal office or place of business, or for the Dis­
trict of Columbia, for an order setting aside, limiting, or
suspending the effectiveness or enforcement of the order,
and the court shall have jurisdiction to enter such an
order. A respondent served with a temporary cease-and-de­
sist order entered without a prior Commission hearing
may not apply to the court except after hearing and deci­
sion by the Commission on the respondent’s application
under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.
(C) NO AUTOMATIC STAY OF TEMPORARY ORDER.—The
commencement of proceedings under subparagraph (B) of
this paragraph shall not, unless specifically ordered by the
court, operate as a stay of the Commission’s order.
(D) EXCLUSIVE REVIEW.—Section 213 of this title shall
not apply to a temporary order entered pursuant to this
section.
(5) AUTHORITY TO ENTER AN ORDER REQUIRING AN AC­
COUNTING AND DISGORGEMENT.—In any cease-and-desist pro­
ceeding under paragraph (1), the Commission may enter an
order requiring accounting and disgorgement, including rea­
sonable interest. The Commission is authorized to adopt rules,
regulations, and orders concerning payments to investors, rates
of interest, periods of accrual, and such other matters as it
deems appropriate to implement this subsection.
(l) EXEMPTION OF VENTURE CAPITAL FUND ADVISERS.—No in­
vestment adviser that acts as an investment adviser solely to 1 or
more venture capital funds shall be subject to the registration re­
quirements of this title with respect to the provision of investment
advice relating to a venture capital fund. Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Commission
shall issue final rules to define the term ‘‘venture capital fund’’ for
purposes of this subsection. The Commission shall require such ad­
visers to maintain such records and provide to the Commission
such annual or other reports as the Commission determines nec­
essary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of
investors.
(m) EXEMPTION OF AND REPORTING BY CERTAIN PRIVATE FUND
ADVISERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall provide an exemp­
tion from the registration requirements under this section to
any investment adviser of private funds, if each of [10] such in­
vestment adviser acts solely as an adviser to private funds and
has assets under management in the United States of less
than $150,000,000.
(2) REPORTING.—The Commission shall require investment
advisers exempted by reason of this subsection to maintain
such records and provide to the Commission such annual or
other reports as the Commission determines necessary or ap­
propriate in the public interest or for the protection of inves­
tors.
10So

in original. The word ‘‘of’’ probably should not appear.

19

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 203A

(n) REGISTRATION AND EXAMINATION OF MID-SIZED PRIVATE
FUND ADVISERS.—In prescribing regulations to carry out the re­
quirements of this section with respect to investment advisers act­
ing as investment advisers to mid-sized private funds, the Commis­
sion shall take into account the size, governance, and investment
strategy of such funds to determine whether they pose systemic
risk, and shall provide for registration and examination procedures
with respect to the investment advisers of such funds which reflect
the level of systemic risk posed by such funds.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 203, 54 Stat. 850; Sept. 13,
1960, Pub. L. 86-750, Sec. 2-5, 74 Stat. 885, 886; Dec. 14, 1970,
Pub. L. 91-547, Sec. 24, 84 Stat. 1430; June 4, 1975, Pub. L. 94­
29, Sec. 29(1)-(4), 89 Stat. 166-169; Oct. 21, 1980, Pub. L. 96-477,
title II, Sec. 202, 94 Stat. 2290; Oct. 28, 1986, Pub. L. 99-571, title
I, Sec. 102(m), 100 Stat. 3220; Dec. 4, 1987, Pub. L. 100-181, title
VII, Sec. 702, 101 Stat. 1263; Oct. 15, 1990, Pub. L. 101-429, title
IV, Sec. 401, 104 Stat. 946; Nov. 15, 1990, Pub. L. 101-550, title
II, Sec. 205(b), (c), 104 Stat. 2719, 2720; Dec. 8, 1995, Pub. L. 104­
62, Sec. 5, 109 Stat. 685; Oct. 11, 1996, Pub. L. 104-290, title III,
Secs. 303(b), (d), 305, title V, Sec. 508(d), 110 Stat. 3438, 3439,
3448; Nov. 3, 1998, Pub. L. 105-353, title III, Sec. 301(d)(1), 112
Stat. 3237; Dec. 21, 2000, Pub. L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5)[title II, Sec.
209(b)], 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-436; Pub. L. 107-204, title VI, Sec.
604(b), (c)(2), July 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 796; Pub. L. 109-291, Sec.
4(b)(3)(C), Sept. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 1337; Pub. L. 111-203, title IV,
Secs. 403, 407, 408, title IX, Secs. 925(b), 929P(a)(4), 985(e)(1), July
21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1571, 1574, 1575, 1851, 1864, 1935.)
SEC. 203A. STATE AND FEDERAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
(a) ADVISERS SUBJECT TO STATE AUTHORITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No investment adviser that

is regulated
or required to be regulated as an investment adviser in the
State in which it maintains its principal office and place of
business shall register under section 203, unless the invest­
ment adviser—
(A) has assets under management of not less than
$25,000,000, or such higher amount as the Commission
may, by rule, deem appropriate in accordance with the
purposes of this title; or
(B) is an adviser to an investment company registered
under title I of this Act.
(2) TREATMENT OF MID-SIZED INVESTMENT ADVISERS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—No investment adviser described in
subparagraph (B) shall register under section 203, unless
the investment adviser is an adviser to an investment
company registered under the Investment Company Act of
1940, or a company which has elected to be a business de­
velopment company pursuant to section 54 of the Invest­
ment Company Act of 1940, and has not withdrawn the
election, except that, if by effect of this paragraph an in­
vestment adviser would be required to register with 15 or

Sec. 203A

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

20

more States, then the adviser may register under section
203.
(B) COVERED PERSONS.—An investment adviser de­
scribed in this subparagraph is an investment adviser
that—
(i) is required to be registered as an investment
adviser with the securities commissioner (or any agen­
cy or office performing like functions) of the State in
which it maintains its principal office and place of
business and, if registered, would be subject to exam­
ination as an investment adviser by any such commis­
sioner, agency, or office; and
(ii) has assets under management between—
(I) the amount specified under subparagraph
(A) of paragraph (1), as such amount may have
been adjusted by the Commission pursuant to that
subparagraph; and
(II) $100,000,000, or such higher amount as
the Commission may, by rule, deem appropriate in
accordance with the purposes of this title.
(3) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this subsection, the term
‘‘assets under management’’ means the securities portfolios
with respect to which an investment adviser provides contin­
uous and regular supervisory or management services.
(b) ADVISERS SUBJECT TO COMMISSION AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No law of any State or political subdivi­
sion thereof requiring the registration, licensing, or qualifica­
tion as an investment adviser or supervised person of an in­
vestment adviser shall apply to any person—
(A) that is registered under section 203 as an invest­
ment adviser, or that is a supervised person of such per­
son, except that a State may license, register, or otherwise
qualify any investment adviser representative who has a
place of business located within that State; or
(B) that is not registered under section 203 because
that person is excepted from the definition of an invest­
ment adviser under section 202(a)(11).
(2) LIMITATION.—Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit
the securities commission (or any agency or office performing
like functions) of any State from investigating and bringing en­
forcement actions with respect to fraud or deceit against an in­
vestment adviser or person associated with an investment ad­
viser.
(c) EXEMPTIONS.—Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Commis­
sion, by rule or regulation upon its own motion, or by order upon
application, may permit the registration with the Commission of
any person or class of persons to which the application of sub­
section (a) would be unfair, a burden on interstate commerce, or
otherwise inconsistent with the purposes of this section.
(d) STATE ASSISTANCE.—Upon request of the securities commis­
sioner (or any agency or officer performing like functions) of any
State, the Commission may provide such training, technical assist­
ance, or other reasonable assistance in connection with the regula­
tion of investment advisers by the State.

21

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 204


(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 203A, as added Pub. L. 104­
290, title III, Sec. 303(a), Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3437; amended
Pub. L. 109-290, Sec. 7(b)(1), Sept. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 1321; Pub.
L. 111-203, title IV, Sec. 410, July, 22, 2010, 124 Stat. 1576.)
ANNUAL AND OTHER REPORTS

SEC. 204. (a) IN GENERAL.—Every investment adviser who
makes use of the mails or of any means or instrumentality of inter­
state commerce in connection with his or its business as an invest­
ment adviser (other than one specifically exempted from registra­
tion pursuant to section 203(b) of this title), shall make and keep
for prescribed periods such records (as defined in section 3(a)(37)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), furnish such copies there­
of, and make and disseminate such reports as the Commission, by
rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public inter­
est or for the protection of investors. All records (as so defined) of
such investment advisers are subject at any time, or from time to
time, to such reasonable periodic, special, or other examinations by
representatives of the Commission as the Commission deems nec­
essary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of
investors.
(b) RECORDS AND REPORTS OF PRIVATE FUNDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission may require any invest­
ment adviser registered under this title—
(A) to maintain such records of, and file with the Com­
mission such reports regarding, private funds advised by
the investment adviser, as necessary and appropriate in
the public interest and for the protection of investors, or
for the assessment of systemic risk by the Financial Sta­
bility Oversight Council (in this subsection referred to as
the ‘‘Council’’); and
(B) to provide or make available to the Council those
reports or records or the information contained therein.
(2) TREATMENT OF RECORDS.—The records and reports of
any private fund to which an investment adviser registered
under this title provides investment advice shall be deemed to
be the records and reports of the investment adviser.
(3) REQUIRED INFORMATION.—The records and reports re­
quired to be maintained by an investment adviser and subject
to inspection by the Commission under this subsection shall in­
clude, for each private fund advised by the investment adviser,
a description of—
(A) the amount of assets under management and use
of leverage, including off-balance-sheet leverage;
(B) counterparty credit risk exposure;
(C) trading and investment positions;
(D) valuation policies and practices of the fund;
(E) types of assets held;
(F) side arrangements or side letters, whereby certain
investors in a fund obtain more favorable rights or entitle­
ments than other investors;
(G) trading practices; and

Sec. 204

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

22


(H) such other information as the Commission, in con­
sultation with the Council, determines is necessary and
appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of
investors or for the assessment of systemic risk, which
may include the establishment of different reporting re­
quirements for different classes of fund advisers, based on
the type or size of private fund being advised.
(4) MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.—An investment adviser
registered under this title shall maintain such records of pri­
vate funds advised by the investment adviser for such period
or periods as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as nec­
essary and appropriate in the public interest and for the pro­
tection of investors, or for the assessment of systemic risk.
(5) FILING OF RECORDS.—The Commission shall issue rules
requiring each investment adviser to a private fund to file re­
ports containing such information as the Commission deems
necessary and appropriate in the public interest and for the
protection of investors or for the assessment of systemic risk.
(6) EXAMINATION OF RECORDS.—
(A) PERIODIC AND SPECIAL EXAMINATIONS.—The Com­
mission—
(i) shall conduct periodic inspections of the records
of private funds maintained by an investment adviser
registered under this title in accordance with a sched­
ule established by the Commission; and
(ii) may conduct at any time and from time to
time such additional, special, and other examinations
as the Commission may prescribe as necessary and ap­
propriate in the public interest and for the protection
of investors, or for the assessment of systemic risk.
(B) AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS.—An investment adviser
registered under this title shall make available to the
Commission any copies or extracts from such records as
may be prepared without undue effort, expense, or delay,
as the Commission or its representatives may reasonably
request.
(7) INFORMATION SHARING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall make avail­
able to the Council copies of all reports, documents,
records, and information filed with or provided to the Com­
mission by an investment adviser under this subsection as
the Council may consider necessary for the purpose of as­
sessing the systemic risk posed by a private fund.
(B) CONFIDENTIALITY.—The Council shall maintain the
confidentiality of information received under this para­
graph in all such reports, documents, records, and infor­
mation, in a manner consistent with the level of confiden­
tiality established for the Commission pursuant to para­
graph (8). The Council shall be exempt from section 552 of
title 5, United States Code, with respect to any informa­
tion in any report, document, record, or information made
available, to the Council under this subsection.’’. [11]
11So

in original. The quotation mark and period at the end probably should not appear.

23

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 204


(8) COMMISSION CONFIDENTIALITY OF REPORTS.—Notwith­
standing any other provision of law, the Commission may not
be compelled to disclose any report or information contained
therein required to be filed with the Commission under this
subsection, except that nothing in this subsection authorizes
the Commission—
(A) to withhold information from Congress, upon an
agreement of confidentiality; or
(B) prevent the Commission from complying with—
(i) a request for information from any other Fed­
eral department or agency or any self-regulatory orga­
nization requesting the report or information for pur­
poses within the scope of its jurisdiction; or
(ii) an order of a court of the United States in an
action brought by the United States or the Commis­
sion.
(9) OTHER RECIPIENTS CONFIDENTIALITY.—Any department,
agency, or self-regulatory organization that receives reports or
information from the Commission under this subsection shall
maintain the confidentiality of such reports, documents,
records, and information in a manner consistent with the level
of confidentiality established for the Commission under para­
graph (8).
(10) PUBLIC INFORMATION EXCEPTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission, the Council, and
any other department, agency, or self-regulatory organiza­
tion that receives information, reports, documents, records,
or information from the Commission under this subsection,
shall be exempt from the provisions of section 552 of title
5, United States Code, with respect to any such report,
document, record, or information. Any proprietary informa­
tion of an investment adviser ascertained by the Commis­
sion from any report required to be filed with the Commis­
sion pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to the
same limitations on public disclosure as any facts
ascertained during an examination, as provided by section
210(b) of this title.
(B) PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.—For purposes of this
paragraph, proprietary information includes sensitive, nonpublic information regarding—
(i) the investment or trading strategies of the in­
vestment adviser;
(ii) analytical or research methodologies;
(iii) trading data;
(iv) computer hardware or software containing in­
tellectual property; and
(v) any additional information that the Commis­
sion determines to be proprietary.
(11) ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The Commission shall
report annually to Congress on how the Commission has used
the data collected pursuant to this subsection to monitor the
markets for the protection of investors and the integrity of the
markets.

Sec. 204

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

24


(c) FILING DEPOSITORIES.—The Commission may, by rule, re­
quire an investment adviser—
(1) to file with the Commission any fee, application, report,
or notice required to be filed by this title or the rules issued
under this title through any entity designated by the Commis­
sion for that purpose; and
(2) to pay the reasonable costs associated with such filing
and the establishment and maintenance of the systems re­
quired by subsection (c) [12].
(d) [13] ACCESS TO DISCIPLINARY AND OTHER INFORMATION.—
(1) MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM TO RESPOND TO INQUIRIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall require the
entity designated by the Commission under subsection
(b)(1) [14] to establish and maintain a toll-free telephone
listing, or a readily accessible electronic or other process,
to receive and promptly respond to inquiries regarding reg­
istration information (including disciplinary actions, regu­
latory, judicial, and arbitration proceedings, and other in­
formation required by law or rule to be reported) involving
investment advisers and persons associated with invest­
ment advisers.
(B) APPLICABILITY.—This subsection shall apply to any
investment adviser (and the persons associated with that
adviser), whether the investment adviser is registered with
the Commission under section 203 or regulated solely by
a State, as described in section 203A.
(2) RECOVERY OF COSTS.—An entity designated by the
Commission under subsection (b)(1) may charge persons mak­
ing inquiries, other than individual investors, reasonable fees
for responses to inquiries described in paragraph (1).
(3) LIMITATION ON LIABILITY.—An entity designated by the
Commission under subsection (b)(1) shall not have any liability
to any person for any actions taken or omitted in good faith
under this subsection.
(d) [15] RECORDS OF PERSONS WITH CUSTODY OR USE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Records of persons having custody or use
of the securities, deposits, or credits of a client, that relate to
such custody or use, are subject at any time, or from time to
time, to such reasonable periodic, special, or other examina­
tions and other information and document requests by rep­
resentatives of the Commission, as the Commission deems nec­
essary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protec­
tion of investors.
(2) CERTAIN PERSONS SUBJECT TO OTHER REGULATION.—
Any person that is subject to regulation and examination by a
Federal financial institution regulatory agency (as such term is
defined under section 212(c)(2) of title 18, United States Code)
may satisfy any examination request, information request, or
document request described under paragraph (1), by providing
the Commission with a detailed listing, in writing, of the secu­
12So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘(d)’’. 

subsecs. (d) have been enacted. 

in original. Probably should be ‘‘(c)(1)’’. 

15Two subsecs. (d) have been enacted.

13Two
14So

25

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 205


rities, deposits, or credits of the client within the custody or
use of such person.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 204, 54 Stat. 852; Pub. L. 86­
750, Sec. 6, Sept. 13, 1960, 74 Stat. 886; Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 29(5),
June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 169; Pub. L. 109-290, Sec. 7(a), Sept. 29,
2006, 120 Stat. 1321; Pub. L. 111-203, title IV, Sec. 404, title IX,
Sec. 929Q(b), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1571, 1866.)
PREVENTION OF MISUSE OF NONPUBLIC INFORMATION

SEC. 204A. Every investment adviser subject to section 204 of
this title shall establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and
procedures reasonably designed, taking into consideration the na­
ture of such investment adviser’s business, to prevent the misuse
in violation of this Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or
the rules or regulations thereunder, of material, nonpublic informa­
tion by such investment adviser or any person associated with such
investment adviser. The Commission, as it deems necessary or ap­
propriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors,
shall adopt rules or regulations to require specific policies or proce­
dures reasonably designed to prevent misuse in violation of this
Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (or the rules or regula­
tions thereunder) of material, nonpublic information.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 204A, as added Pub. L. 100­
704, Sec. 3(b)(2), Nov. 19, 1988, 102 Stat. 4680.)
INVESTMENT ADVISORY CONTRACTS

SEC. 205. (a) No investment adviser registered or required to
be registered with the Commission shall enter into, extend, or
renew any investment advisory contract, or in any way perform
any investment advisory contract entered into, extended, or re­
newed on or after the effective date of this title, if such contract—
(1) provides for compensation to the investment adviser on
the basis of a share of capital gains upon or capital apprecia­
tion of the funds or any portion of the funds of the client;
(2) fails to provide, in substance, that no assignment of
such contract shall be made by the investment adviser without
the consent of the other party by the contract; or
(3) fails to provide, in substance, that the investment ad­
viser, if a partnership, will notify the other party to the con­
tract of any change in the membership of such partnership
within a reasonable time after such change.
(b) Paragraph (1) of subsection (a) shall not—
(1) be construed to prohibit an investment advisory con­
tract which provides for compensation based upon the total
value of a fund averaged over a definite period, or as of definite
dates, or taken as of a definite date;
(2) apply to an investment advisory contract with—
(A) an investment company registered under title I of
this Act, or

Sec. 205

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

26


(B) any other person (except a trust, governmental
plan, collective trust fund, or separate account referred to
in section 3(c)(11) of title I of this Act), provided that the
contract relates to the investment of assets in excess of $1
million,
if the contract provides for compensation based on the asset
value of the company or fund under management averaged
over a specified period and increasing and decreasing propor­
tionately with the investment performance of the company or
fund over a specified period in relation to the investment
record of an appropriate index of securities prices or such other
measure of investment performance as the Commission by
rule, regulation, or order may specify;
(3) apply with respect to any investment advisory contract
between an investment adviser and a business development
company, as defined in this title, if (A) the compensation pro­
vided for in such contract does not exceed 20 per centum of the
realized capital gains upon the funds of the business develop­
ment company over a specified period or as of definite dates,
computed net of all realized capital losses and unrealized cap­
ital depreciation, and the condition of section 61(a)(3)(B)(iii) of
title I of this Act is satisfied, and (B) the business development
company does not have outstanding any option, warrant, or
right issued pursuant to section 61(a)(3)(B) of title I of this Act
and does not have a profit-sharing plan described in section
57(n) of title I of this Act;
(4) apply to an investment advisory contract with a com­
pany excepted from the definition of an investment company
under section 3(c)(7) of title I of this Act; or
(5) apply to an investment advisory contract with a person
who is not a resident of the United States.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (2) of subsection (b), the point
from which increases and decreases in compensation are measured
shall be the fee which is paid or earned when the investment per­
formance of such company or fund is equivalent to that of the index
or other measure of performance, and an index of securities prices
shall be deemed appropriate unless the Commission by order shall
determine otherwise.
(d) As used in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (a), ‘‘invest­
ment advisory contract’’ means any contract or agreement whereby
a person agrees to act as investment adviser to or to manage any
investment or trading account of another person other than an in­
vestment company registered under title I of this Act.
(e) The Commission, by rule or regulation, upon its own mo­
tion, or by order upon application, may conditionally or uncondi­
tionally exempt any person or transaction, or any class or classes
of persons or transactions, from subsection (a)(1), if and to the ex­
tent that the exemption relates to an investment advisory contract
with any person that the Commission determines does not need the
protections of subsection (a)(1), on the basis of such factors as fi­
nancial sophistication, net worth, knowledge of and experience in
financial matters, amount of assets under management, relation­
ship with a registered investment adviser, and such other factors
as the Commission determines are consistent with this section.

27

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 206


With respect to any factor used in any rule or regulation by the
Commission in making a determination under this subsection, if
the Commission uses a dollar amount test in connection with such
factor, such as a net asset threshold, the Commission shall, by
order, not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Pri­
vate Fund Investment Advisers Registration Act of 2010, and every
5 years thereafter, adjust for the effects of inflation on such test.
Any such adjustment that is not a multiple of $100,000 shall be
rounded to the nearest multiple of $100,000.
(f) AUTHORITY TO RESTRICT MANDATORY PRE-DISPUTE ARBITRATION.—The Commission, by rule, may prohibit, or impose condi­
tions or limitations on the use of, agreements that require cus­
tomers or clients of any investment adviser to arbitrate any future
dispute between them arising under the Federal securities laws,
the rules and regulations thereunder, or the rules of a self-regu­
latory organization if it finds that such prohibition, imposition of
conditions, or limitations are in the public interest and for the pro­
tection of investors.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 205, 54 Stat. 852; Pub. L. 86­
750, Sec. 7, Sept. 13, 1960, 74 Stat. 887; Pub. L. 91-547, Sec. 25,
Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1432; Pub. L. 96-477, title II, Sec. 203, Oct.
21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2290; Pub. L. 100-181, title VII, Sec. 703, Dec.
4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1263; Pub. L. 104-290, title II, Sec. 210, Oct. 11,
1996, 110 Stat. 3436; Pub. L. 111-203, title IV, Sec. 418, title IX,
Secs. 921(b), 928, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1579, 1841, 1852.)
PROHIBITED TRANSACTIONS BY REGISTERED INVESTMENT ADVISERS

SEC. 206. It shall be unlawful for any investment adviser, by
use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate com­
merce, directly or indirectly—
(1) to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud any
client or prospective client;
(2) to engage in any transaction, practice, or course of busi­
ness which operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or
prospective client;
(3) acting as principal for his own account, knowingly to
sell any security to or purchase any security from a client, or
acting as broker for a person other than such client, knowingly
to effect any sale or purchase of any security for the account
of such client, without disclosing to such client in writing be­
fore the completion of such transaction the capacity in which
he is acting and obtaining the consent of the client to such
transaction. The prohibitions of this paragraph (3) shall not
apply to any transaction with a customer of a broker or dealer
if such broker or dealer is not acting as an investment adviser
in relation to such transaction; or
(4) to engage in any act, practice, or course of business
which is fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative. The Commis­
sion shall, for the purposes of this paragraph (4) by rules and
regulations define, and prescribe means reasonably designed to
prevent, such acts, practices, and courses of business as are
fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative.

Sec. 206A

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

28

(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 206, 54 Stat. 852; Pub. L. 86­
750, Sec. 8, 9, Sept. 13, 1960, 74 Stat. 887; Pub. L. 111-203, title
IX, Sec. 985(e)(2), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1935.)
EXEMPTIONS

SEC. 206A. The Commission, by rules and regulations, upon its
own motion, or by order upon application, may conditionally or un­
conditionally exempt any person or transaction, or any class or
classes of persons, or transactions, from any provision or provisions
of this title or of any rule or regulation thereunder, if and to the
extent that such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the pub­
lic interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the
purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of this title.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 206A, as added Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 26, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1433.)
MATERIAL MISSTATEMENTS

SEC. 207. It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to make
any untrue statement of a material fact in any registration applica­
tion or report filed with the Commission under section 203 or 204,
or willfully to omit to state in any such application or report any
material fact which is required to be stated therein.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 207, 54 Stat. 853.)
GENERAL PROHIBITIONS

SEC. 208. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person registered
under section 203 of this title to represent or imply in any manner
whatsoever that such person has been sponsored, recommended, or
approved, or that his abilities or qualifications have in any respect
been passed upon by the United States or any agency or any officer
thereof.
(b) No provision of subsection (a) shall be construed to prohibit
a statement that a person is registered under this title or under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, if such statement is true in
fact and if the effect of such registration is not misrepresented.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person registered under section
203 of this title to represent that he is an investment counsel or
to use the name ‘‘investment counsel’’ as descriptive of his business
unless (1) his or its principal business consists of acting as invest­
ment adviser, and (2) a substantial part of his or its business con­
sists of rendering investment supervisory services.
(d) It shall be unlawful for any person indirectly, or through
or by any other person, to do any act or thing which it would be
unlawful for such person to do directly under the provisions of this
title or any rule or regulation thereunder.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 208, 54 Stat. 853; Pub. L. 86­
750, Sec. 10, 11, Sept. 13, 1960, 74 Stat. 887.)

29

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 209


ENFORCEMENT OF TITLE

SEC. 209. (a) Whenever it shall appear to the Commission, ei­
ther upon complaint or otherwise, that the provisions of this title
or of any rule or regulation prescribed under the authority thereof,
have been or are about to be violated by any person, it may in its
discretion require, and in any event shall permit, such person to
file with it a statement in writing, under oath or otherwise, as to
all the facts and circumstances relevant to such violation, and may
otherwise investigate all such facts and circumstances.
(b) For the purposes of any investigation or any proceeding
under this title, any member of the Commission or any officer
thereof designated by it is empowered to administer oaths and af­
firmations, subpena witnesses, compel their attendance, take evi­
dence, and require the production of any books, papers, correspond­
ence, memoranda, contracts, agreements, or other records which
are relevant or material to the inquiry. Such attendance of wit­
nesses and the production of any such records may be required
from any place in any State or in any Territory or other place sub­
ject to the jurisdiction of the United States at any designated place
of hearing.
(c) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpena issued
to, any person, the Commission may invoke the aid of any court of
the United States within the jurisdiction of which such investiga­
tion or proceeding is carried on, or where such person resides or
carries on business, in requiring the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of books, papers, correspondence,
memoranda, contracts, agreements, and other records. And such
court may issue an order requiring such person to appear before
the Commission or member or officer designated by the Commis­
sion, there to produce records, if so ordered or to give testimony
touching the matter under investigation or in question; and any
failure to obey such order of the court may be punished by such
court as a contempt thereof. All process in any such case may be
served in the judicial district whereof such person is an inhabitant
or wherever he may be found. Any person who without just cause
shall fail or refuse to attend and testify or to answer any lawful
inquiry or to produce books, papers, correspondence, memoranda,
contracts, agreements, or other records, if in his or its power so to
do, in obedience to the subpena of the Commission, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine
of not more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for a term of not more
than one year, or both.
(d) Whenever it shall appear to the Commission that any per­
son has engaged, is engaged, or is about to engage in any act or
practice constituting a violation of any provision of this title, or of
any rule, regulation, or order hereunder, or that any person has
aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or procured, is aid­
ing, abetting, counseling, commanding, inducing, or procuring, or is
about to aid, abet, counsel, command, induce, or procure such a vio­
lation, it may in its discretion bring an action in the proper district
court of the United States, or the proper United States court of any
Territory or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States, to enjoin such acts or practices and to enforce compliance

Sec. 209

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

30


with this title or any rule, regulation, or order hereunder. Upon a
showing that such person has engaged, is engaged, or is about to
engage in any such act or practice, or in aiding, abetting, coun­
seling, commanding, inducing, or procuring any such act or prac­
tice, a permanent or temporary injunction or decree or restraining
order shall be granted without bond. The Commission may trans­
mit such evidence as may be available concerning any violation of
the provisions of this title, or of any rule, regulation, or order
thereunder, to the Attorney General, who, in his discretion, may in­
stitute the appropriate criminal proceedings under this title.
(e) MONEY PENALTIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.—
(1) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.—Whenever it shall appear
to the Commission that any person has violated any provision
of this title, the rules or regulations thereunder, or a cease­
and-desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to sec­
tion 203(k) of this title, the Commission may bring an action
in a United States district court to seek, and the court shall
have jurisdiction to impose, upon a proper showing, a civil pen­
alty to be paid by the person who committed such violation.
(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY.—
(A) FIRST TIER.—The amount of the penalty shall be
determined by the court in light of the facts and cir­
cumstances. For each violation, the amount of the penalty
shall not exceed the greater of (i) $5,000 for a natural per­
son or $50,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross
amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of
the violation.
(B) SECOND TIER.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A),
the amount of penalty for each such violation shall not ex­
ceed the greater of (i) $50,000 for a natural person or
$250,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross amount of
pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the viola­
tion, if the violation described in paragraph (1) involved
fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless dis­
regard of a regulatory requirement.
(C) THIRD TIER.—Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A)
and (B), the amount of penalty for each such violation
shall not exceed the greater of (i) $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross
amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of
the violation, if—
(I) the violation described in paragraph (1) in­
volved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or
reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and
(II) such violation directly or indirectly resulted in
substantial losses or created a significant risk of sub­
stantial losses to other persons.
(3) PROCEDURES FOR COLLECTION.—
(A) PAYMENT OF PENALTY TO TREASURY.—A penalty
imposed under this section shall be payable into the Treas­
ury of the United States, except as otherwise provided in
section 308 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and section
21F of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

31

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 210


(B) COLLECTION OF PENALTIES.—If a person upon
whom such a penalty is imposed shall fail to pay such pen­
alty within the time prescribed in the court’s order, the
Commission may refer the matter to the Attorney General
who shall recover such penalty by action in the appro­
priate United States district court.
(C) REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE.—The actions authorized
by this subsection may be brought in addition to any other
action that the Commission or the Attorney General is en­
titled to bring.
(D) JURISDICTION AND VENUE.—For purposes of section
214 of this title, actions under this paragraph shall be ac­
tions to enforce a liability or a duty created by this title.
(4) SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO A VIOLATION OF A
CEASE-AND- DESIST ORDER.—In an action to enforce a cease­
and-desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to sec­
tion 203(k), each separate violation of such order shall be a
separate offense, except that in the case of a violation through
a continuing failure to comply with the order, each day of the
failure to comply shall be deemed a separate offense.
(f) AIDING AND ABETTING.—For purposes of any action brought
by the Commission under subsection (e), any person that knowingly
or recklessly has aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or
procured a violation of any provision of this Act, or of any rule, reg­
ulation, or order hereunder, shall be deemed to be in violation of
such provision, rule, regulation, or order to the same extent as the
person that committed such violation.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 209, 54 Stat. 853; Sept. 13,
1960, Pub. L. 86-750, Sec. 12, 74 Stat. 887; Oct. 15, 1970, Pub. L.
91-452, title II, Sec. 216, 84 Stat. 929; Dec. 4, 1987, Pub. L. 100­
181, title VII, Sec. 704, 101 Stat. 1264; Oct. 15, 1990, Pub. L. 101­
429, title IV, Sec. 402, 104 Stat. 949; Pub. L. 107-204, title III, Sec.
308(d)(5), July 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 785; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX,
Secs. 923(a)(3), 929N, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1849, 1862.)
PUBLICITY

SEC. 210. (a) The information contained in any registration ap­
plication or report or amendment thereto filed with the Commis­
sion pursuant to any provision of this title shall be made available
to the public, unless and except insofar as the Commission, by
rules and regulations upon its own motion, or by order upon appli­
cation, finds that public disclosure is neither necessary nor appro­
priate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. Pho­
tostatic or other copies of information contained in documents filed
with the Commission under this title and made available to the
public shall be furnished to any person at such reasonable charge
and under such reasonable limitations as the Commission shall
prescribe.
(b) Subject to the provisions of subsections (c) and (d) of section
209 of this title and section 24(c) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the Commission, or any member, officer, or employee
thereof, shall not make public the fact that any examination or in­

Sec. 210A

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

32

vestigation under this title is being conducted, or the results of or
any facts ascertained during any such examination or investiga­
tion; and no member, officer, or employee of the Commission shall
disclose to any person other than a member, officer, or employee
of the Commission any information obtained as a result of any such
examination or investigation except with the approval of the Com­
mission. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply—
(1) in the case of any hearing which is public under the
provisions of section 212; or
(2) in the case of a resolution or request from either House
of Congress.
(c) No provision of this title shall be construed to require, or
to authorize the Commission to require any investment adviser en­
gaged in rendering investment supervisory services to disclose the
identity, investments, or affairs of any client of such investment
adviser, except insofar as such disclosure may be necessary or ap­
propriate in a particular proceeding or investigation having as its
object the enforcement of a provision or provisions of this title or
for purposes of assessment of potential systemic risk.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 210, 54 Stat. 854; Pub. L. 86­
750, Sec. 13, Sept. 13, 1960, 74 Stat. 887; Pub. L. 101-550, title II,
Sec. 202(b)(2), Nov. 15, 1990, 104 Stat. 2715; Pub. L. 111-203, title
IV, Sec. 405, title IX, Sec. 929I(c), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1574,
1858; Pub. L. 111-257, Sec. 1(c), Oct. 5, 2010, 124 Stat. 2646.)
SEC. 210A. CONSULTATION.
(a) EXAMINATION RESULTS AND

OTHER INFORMATION.—
(1) The appropriate Federal banking agency shall provide
the Commission upon request the results of any examination,
reports, records, or other information to which such agency
may have access—
(A) with respect to the investment advisory activities
of any—
(i) bank holding company or savings and loan
holding company;
(ii) bank; or
(iii) separately identifiable department or division
of a bank,
that is registered under section 203 of this title; and
(B) in the case of a bank holding company or sav­
ings and loan holding company or bank that has a
subsidiary or a separately identifiable department or
division registered under that section, with respect to
the investment advisory activities of such bank or
bank holding company or savings and loan holding
company.
(2) The Commission shall provide to the appropriate Fed­
eral banking agency upon request the results of any examina­
tion, reports, records, or other information with respect to the
investment advisory activities of any bank holding company or
savings and loan holding company, bank, or separately identifi­

33

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 211


able department or division of a bank, which is registered
under section 203 of this title.
(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Com­
mission and the appropriate Federal banking agencies shall
not be compelled to disclose any information provided under
paragraph (1) or (2). Nothing in this paragraph shall authorize
the Commission or such agencies to withhold information from
Congress, or prevent the Commission or such agencies from
complying with a request for information from any other Fed­
eral department or agency or any self-regulatory organization
requesting the information for purposes within the scope of its
jurisdiction, or complying with an order of a court of the
United States in an action brought by the United States, the
Commission, or such agencies. For purposes of section 552 of
title 5, United States Code, this paragraph shall be considered
a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section 552.
(b) EFFECT ON OTHER AUTHORITY.—Nothing in this section
shall limit in any respect the authority of the appropriate Federal
banking agency with respect to such bank holding company or sav­
ings and loan holding company (or affiliates or subsidiaries there­
of), bank, or subsidiary, department, or division or a bank under
any other provision of law.
(c) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘appro­
priate Federal banking agency’’ shall have the same meaning as
given in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 210A, as added Pub. L. 106­
102, title II, Sec. 220, Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1400; amended Pub.
L. 109-351, title IV, Sec. 401(b)(2), Oct. 13, 2006, 120 Stat. 1973.)
RULES, REGULATIONS, AND ORDERS

SEC. 211. (a) The Commission shall have authority from time
to time to make, issue, amend, and rescind such rules and regula­
tions and such orders as are necessary or appropriate to the exer­
cise of the functions and powers conferred upon the Commission
elsewhere in this title, including rules and regulations defining
technical, trade, and other terms used in this title, except that the
Commission may not define the term ‘‘client’’ for purposes of para­
graphs (1) and (2) of section 206 to include an investor in a private
fund managed by an investment adviser, if such private fund has
entered into an advisory contract with such adviser. For the pur­
poses of its rules or regulations the Commission may classify per­
sons and matters within its jurisdiction and prescribe different re­
quirements for different classes of persons or matters.
(b) Subject to the provisions of chapter 15 of title 44, United
States Code, and regulations prescribed under the authority there­
of, the rules and regulations of the Commission under this title,
and amendments thereof, shall be effective upon publication in the
manner which the Commission shall prescribe, or upon such later
date as may be provided in such rules and regulations.
(c) Orders of the Commission under this title shall be issued
only after appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing. Notice to
the parties to a proceeding before the Commission shall be given

Sec. 211

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

34


by personal service upon each party or by registered mail or cer­
tified mail or confirmed telegraphic notice to the party’s last known
business address. Notice to interested persons, if any, other than
parties may be given in the same manner or by publication in the
Federal Register.
(d) No provision of this title imposing any liability shall apply
to any act done or omitted in good faith in conformity with any
rule, regulation, or order of the Commission, notwithstanding that
such rule, regulation, or order may, after such act or omission, be
amended or rescinded or be determined by judicial or other author­
ity to be invalid for any reason.
(e) DISCLOSURE RULES ON PRIVATE FUNDS.—The Commission
and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall, after con­
sultation with the Council but not later than 12 months after the
date of enactment of the Private Fund Investment Advisers Reg­
istration Act of 2010, jointly promulgate rules to establish the form
and content of the reports required to be filed with the Commission
under subsection 204(b) and with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission by investment advisers that are registered both under
this title and the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a et seq.).
(g) [16] STANDARD OF CONDUCT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission may promulgate rules
to provide that the standard of conduct for all brokers, dealers,
and investment advisers, when providing personalized invest­
ment advice about securities to retail customers (and such
other customers as the Commission may by rule provide), shall
be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard
to the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or in­
vestment adviser providing the advice. In accordance with such
rules, any material conflicts of interest shall be disclosed and
may be consented to by the customer. Such rules shall provide
that such standard of conduct shall be no less stringent than
the standard applicable to investment advisers under section
206(1) and (2) of this Act when providing personalized invest­
ment advice about securities, except the Commission shall not
ascribe a meaning to the term ‘‘customer’’ that would include
an investor in a private fund managed by an investment ad­
viser, where such private fund has entered into an advisory
contract with such adviser. The receipt of compensation based
on commission or fees shall not, in and of itself, be considered
a violation of such standard applied to a broker, dealer, or in­
vestment adviser.
(2) RETAIL CUSTOMER DEFINED.—For purposes of this sub­
section, the term ‘‘retail customer’’ means a natural person, or
the legal representative of such natural person, who—
(A) receives personalized investment advice about se­
curities from a broker, dealer, or investment adviser; and
(B) uses such advice primarily for personal, family, or
household purposes.
(h) OTHER MATTERS.—The Commission shall—
(1) facilitate the provision of simple and clear disclosures
to investors regarding the terms of their relationships with
16So

in original. No subsec. (f) has been enacted.

35

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 213


brokers, dealers, and investment advisers, including any mate­
rial conflicts of interest; and
(2) examine and, where appropriate, promulgate rules pro­
hibiting or restricting certain sales practices, conflicts of inter­
est, and compensation schemes for brokers, dealers, and in­
vestment advisers that the Commission deems contrary to the
public interest and the protection of investors.
(i) HARMONIZATION OF ENFORCEMENT.—The enforcement au­
thority of the Commission with respect to violations of the standard
of conduct applicable to an investment adviser shall include—
(1) the enforcement authority of the Commission with re­
spect to such violations provided under this Act; and
(2) the enforcement authority of the Commission with re­
spect to violations of the standard of conduct applicable to a
broker or dealer providing personalized investment advice
about securities to a retail customer under the Securities Ex­
change Act of 1934, including the authority to impose sanctions
for such violations, and
the Commission shall seek to prosecute and sanction violators of
the standard of conduct applicable to an investment adviser under
this Act to same extent as the Commission prosecutes and sanc­
tions violators of the standard of conduct applicable to a broker or
dealer providing personalized investment advice about securities to
a retail customer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 211, 54 Stat. 855; Pub. L. 86­
507, Sec. 1(16), June 11, 1960, 74 Stat. 201; Pub. L. 86-750, Sec.
14, Sept. 13, 1960, 74 Stat. 888; Pub. L. 100-181, title VII, Sec. 705,
Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1264; Pub. L. 111-203, title IV, Sec. 406,
title IX, Sec. 913(g)(2), (h)(2), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1574, 1828,
1829.)
HEARINGS

SEC. 212. Hearings may be public and may be held before the
Commission, any member or members thereof, or any officer or offi­
cers of the Commission designated by it, and appropriate records
thereof shall be kept.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 212, 54 Stat. 855.)
COURT REVIEW OF ORDERS

SEC. 213. (a) Any person or party aggrieved by an order issued
by the Commission under this title may obtain a review of such
order in the court of appeals of the United States within any circuit
wherein such person resides or has his principal office or place of
business, or in the United States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia, by filing in such court, within sixty days after the
entry of such order, a written petition praying that the order of the
Commission be modified or set aside in whole or in part. A copy
of such petition shall be forthwith transmitted by the clerk of the
court to any member of the Commission, or any officer thereof des­

Sec. 214

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

36


ignated by the Commission for that purpose, and thereupon the
Commission shall file in the court the record upon which the order
complained of was entered, as provided in section 2112 of title 28,
United States Code. Upon the filing of such petition such court
shall have jurisdiction, which upon the filing of the record shall be
exclusive, to affirm, modify, or set aside such order, in whole or in
part. No objection to the order of the Commission shall be consid­
ered by the court unless such objection shall have been urged be­
fore the Commission or unless there were reasonable grounds for
failure so to do. The findings of the Commission as to the facts, if
supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive. If applica­
tion is made to the court for leave to adduce additional evidence,
and it is shown to the satisfaction of the court that such additional
evidence is material and that there were reasonable grounds for
failure to adduce such evidence in the proceeding before the Com­
mission, the court may order such additional evidence to be taken
before the Commission and to be adduced upon the hearing in such
manner and upon such terms and conditions as to the court may
seem proper. The Commission may modify its findings as to the
facts by reason of the additional evidence so taken, and it shall file
with the court such modified or new findings, which, if supported
by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive, and its recommenda­
tion, if any, for the modification or setting aside of the original
order. The judgment and decree of the court affirming, modifying,
or setting aside, in whole or in part, any such order of the Commis­
sion shall be final, subject to review by the Supreme Court of the
United States upon certiorari or certification as provided in section
1254 of title 28, United States Code.
(b) The commencement of proceedings under subsection (a)
shall not, unless specifically ordered by the court, operate as a stay
of the Commission’s order.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 213, 54 Stat. 855; June 25,
1948, ch. 646, Sec. 32(a), 62 Stat. 991; May 24, 1949, ch. 139, Sec.
127, 63 Stat. 107; Pub. L. 85-791, Sec. 26, Aug. 28, 1958, 72 Stat.
949; Pub. L. 100-181, title VII, Sec. 706, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat.
1264; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec. 985(e)(3), July 21, 2010, 124
Stat. 1935.)
JURISDICTION OF OFFENSES AND SUITS

SEC. 214. (a) IN GENERAL.—The district courts of the United
States and the United States courts of any Territory or other place
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall have jurisdic­
tion of violations of this title or the rules, regulations, or orders
thereunder, and, concurrently with State and Territorial courts, of
all suits in equity and actions at law brought to enforce any liabil­
ity or duty created by, or to enjoin any violation of this title or the
rules, regulations, or orders thereunder. Any criminal proceeding
may be brought in the district wherein any act or transaction con­
stituting the violation occurred. Any suit or action to enforce any
liability or duty created by, or to enjoin any violation of this title
or rules, regulations, or orders thereunder, may be brought in any
such district or in the district wherein the defendant is an inhab­

37

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 215


itant or transacts business, and process in such cases may be
served in any district of which the defendant is an inhabitant or
transacts business or wherever the defendant may be found. In any
action or proceeding instituted by the Commission under this title
in a United States district court for any judicial district, a sub­
poena issued to compel the attendance of a witness or the produc­
tion of documents or tangible things (or both) at a hearing or trial
may be served at any place within the United States. Rule
45(c)(3)(A)(ii) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure shall not
apply to a subpoena issued under the preceding sentence. Judg­
ments and decrees so rendered shall be subject to review as pro­
vided in sections 1254, 1291, 1292, and 1294 of title 28, United
States Code. No costs shall be assessed for or against the Commis­
sion in any proceeding under this title brought by or against the
Commission in any court.
(b) EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.—The district courts of the
United States and the United States courts of any Territory shall
have jurisdiction of an action or proceeding brought or instituted
by the Commission or the United States alleging a violation of sec­
tion 206 involving—
(1) conduct within the United States that constitutes sig­
nificant steps in furtherance of the violation, even if the viola­
tion is committed by a foreign adviser and involves only foreign
investors; or
(2) conduct occurring outside the United States that has a
foreseeable substantial effect within the United States.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 214, 54 Stat. 856; Pub. L. 100­
181, title VII, Sec. 707, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1264; Pub. L. 101­
429, title IV, Sec. 403, Oct. 15, 1990, 104 Stat. 951; Pub. L. 111­
203, title IX, Secs. 929E(d), 929P(b)(3), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat.
1853, 1865.)
VALIDITY OF CONTRACTS

SEC. 215. (a) Any condition, stipulation, or provision binding
any person to waive compliance with any provision of this title or
with any rule, regulation, or order thereunder shall be void.
(b) Every contract made in violation of any provision of this
title and every contract heretofore or hereafter made, the perform­
ance of which involves the violation of, or the continuance of any
relationship or practice in violation of any provision of this title, or
any rule, regulation, or order thereunder, shall be void (1) as re­
gards the rights of any person who, in violation of any such provi­
sion, rule, regulation, or order, shall have made or engaged in the
performance of any such contract, and (2) as regards the rights of
any person who, not being a party to such contract, shall have ac­
quired any right thereunder with actual knowledge of the facts by
reason of which the making or performance of such contract was
in violation of any such provision.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 215, 54 Stat. 856.)

Sec. 216

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

38


ANNUAL REPORTS OF COMMISSION

SEC. 216. The Commission shall submit annually a report to
the Congress covering the work of the Commission for the pre­
ceding year and including such information, data, and rec­
ommendations for further legislation in connection with the mat­
ters covered by this title as it may find advisable.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 216, 54 Stat. 857.)
PENALTIES

SEC. 217. Any person who willfully violates any provision of
this title, or any rule, regulation, or order promulgated by the Com­
mission under authority thereof, shall, upon conviction, be fined
not more than $10,000, imprisoned for not more than five years, or
both.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 217, 54 Stat. 857; Pub. L. 86­
750, Sec. 15, Sept. 13, 1960, 74 Stat. 888; Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 27(f),
June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 163.)
HIRING AND LEASING AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION

SEC. 218. The provisions of section 4(b) of the Securities Ex­
change Act of 1934 shall be applicable with respect to the power
of the Commission—
(1) to appoint and fix the compensation of such other em­
ployees as may be necessary for carrying out its functions
under this title, and
(2) to lease and allocate such real property as may be nec­
essary for carrying out its functions under this title.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 218, 54 Stat. 857; Oct. 28,
1949, ch. 782, title XI, Sec. 1106(a), 63 Stat. 972; Pub. L. 101-550,
title I, Sec. 104(d), Nov. 15, 1990, 104 Stat. 2714.)
SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS

SEC. 219. If any provision of this title or the application of such
provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the
remainder of the title and the application of such provision to per­
sons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held in­
valid shall not be affected thereby.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 219, 54 Stat. 857.)
SHORT TITLE

SEC. 220. This title may be cited as the ‘‘Investment Advisers
Act of 1940’’.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 220, 54 Stat. 857.)

39

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Sec. 222


EFFECTIVE DATE

SEC. 221. This title shall become effective on November 1,
1940.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 221, 54 Stat. 857.)
SEC. 222. STATE REGULATION OF INVESTMENT ADVISERS.
(a) JURISDICTION OF STATE REGULATORS.—Nothing in

this title
shall affect the jurisdiction of the securities commissioner (or any
agency or officer performing like functions) of any State over any
security or any person insofar as it does not conflict with the provi­
sions of this title or the rules and regulations thereunder.
(b) DUAL COMPLIANCE PURPOSES.—No State may enforce any
law or regulation that would require an investment adviser to
maintain any books or records in addition to those required under
the laws of the State in which it maintains its principal office and
place of business, if the investment adviser—
(1) is registered or licensed as such in the State in which
it maintains its principal office and place of business; and
(2) is in compliance with the applicable books and records
requirements of the State in which it maintains its principal
office and place of business.
(c) LIMITATION ON CAPITAL AND BOND REQUIREMENTS.—No
State may enforce any law or regulation that would require an in­
vestment adviser to maintain a higher minimum net capital or to
post any bond in addition to any that is required under the laws
of the State in which it maintains its principal office and place of
business, if the investment adviser—
(1) is registered or licensed as such in the State in which
it maintains its principal office and place of business; and
(2) is in compliance with the applicable net capital or
bonding requirements of the State in which it maintains its
principal office and place of business.
(d) NATIONAL DE MINIMIS STANDARD.—No law of any State or
political subdivision thereof requiring the registration, licensing, or
qualification as an investment adviser shall require an investment
adviser to register with the securities commissioner of the State (or
any agency or officer performing like functions) or to comply with
such law (other than any provision thereof prohibiting fraudulent
conduct) if the investment adviser—
(1) does not have a place of business located within the
State; and
(2) during the preceding 12-month period, has had fewer
than 6 clients who are residents of that State.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 222, as added Pub. L. 86-750,
Sec. 16, Sept. 13, 1960, 74 Stat. 888; amended Pub. L. 104-290,
title III, Sec. 304, Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3438; Pub. L. 105-353,
title III, Sec. 301(d)(2), Nov. 3, 1998, 112 Stat. 3237; Pub. L. 111­
203, title IX, Sec. 985(e)(4), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1935.)

Sec. 223

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

40


SEC. 223. CUSTODY OF CLIENT ACCOUNTS.

An investment adviser registered under this title shall take
such steps to safeguard client assets over which such adviser has
custody, including, without limitation, verification of such assets by
an independent public accountant, as the Commission may, by rule,
prescribe.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 223, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title IV, Sec. 411, July, 22, 2010, 124 Stat. 1577.)
SEC. 224. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION RELATING TO THE COMMOD­
ITIES EXCHANGE ACT.

Nothing in this title shall relieve any person of any obligation
or duty, or affect the availability of any right or remedy available
to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or any private
party, arising under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et
seq.) governing commodity pools, commodity pool operators, or com­
modity trading advisors.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title II, Sec. 224, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title IV, Sec. 414, July, 22, 2010, 124 Stat. 1578.)

