Draft from the Market Structure Subcommittee: Recommendations
to enhance information for bond market investors (May 25, 2016)

Recommendations:

1. The Committee recommends that the Commission actively engage with the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board (“MSRB”) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) to
finalize their proposals to require dealers to provide more information to retail investors so that
they can see the full transaction costs of purchasing or selling a bond, not only commissions 1 or
fees when a dealer acts as agent, but also markups or markdowns when a dealer is acting as a
principal. With this recommendation, the Committee does not take the position that
markups/markdowns in the bond market are too large; the Committee also notes that the
recently implemented best execution rule for municipal bonds, together with long-standing
rules covering corporate and agency bonds, have enhanced protection to investors in this
regard. However, the Committee believes more information about the full transaction cost of
purchasing or selling a bond, even if provided after the investment decision, will benefit
investors.
2. Longer term, the Commission should work with brokers, FINRA, and the MSRB to get full
transaction cost information to investors before they purchase or sell a bond. Most retail
investors do not trade bonds on a regular basis, and they do not have a lot of experience on
which to judge a proposal from their broker. Furthermore, substantial advancements in
information technology have dramatically reduced the cost of providing information to
investors, while greatly increasing the speed of providing this information. Brokers already
provide investors the price and the yield for the bond before the investor decides to transact, so
providing the all-in transaction cost should be feasible. Providing comprehensive information
that is material to the investment decision, including price, yield, and transaction costs, prior to
the investment decision is likely to have the biggest impact in terms of promoting competition
and fair dealing.
3. We encourage the Commission to work with the MSRB and FINRA to continue to improve easy
access to price transparency in bond markets for retail investors. Investors should be able to
easily find information on the prices and yields of recent transactions in municipal, agency, and
corporate bonds. Websites sponsored by the MSRB and FINRA have improved access to recent
transaction data, especially the Electronic Municipal Market Access (“EMMA”), but are still
cumbersome for retail investors to navigate, especially if they are not regular users. Investors
would also benefit from being able to research current bids and offers for various bonds to get a
better sense of the market. The MSRB discussed a “Central Transaction Portal” several years
ago, which would aggregate and publically display current bids and offers from all the brokers,
but no further action has occurred. Access to this kind of information will help inform their
investment decisions when they are considering purchasing or selling those or similar securities.

1

MSRB: “Under MSRB Rule G- 15, on confirmation, clearance, settlement and other uniform practice requirements
with respect to transactions with customers, dealers are required to disclose on the customer confirmation
transaction-based remuneration received from the customer when the dealer acts as agent. There is, however,
currently no comparable disclosure requirement under SEC or MSRB rules when the dealer acts as principal.”

Page 1 of 4

Draft from the Market Structure Subcommittee: Recommendations
to enhance information for bond market investors (May 25, 2016)

Background:

The fixed income markets in the U.S. are substantially larger than the equity markets. As the Wall Street
Journal noted in October 2015, “[t]he U.S. bond market is among the biggest financial markets in the
world, with $39.5 trillion outstanding at mid-2015 … That is equivalent to 1½ U.S. stock markets and
nearly twice the aggregate size of the five largest foreign stock exchanges (in Japan, China and
Europe) ….”
Enhanced disclosure and transparency for investors in municipal, corporate, and agency bonds have
long been a priority for the Commission. In 2012, the Commission issued a Report on the Municipal
Securities Market (Report on the Municipal Securities Market), and more recently Chair White discussed
these issues in her June 2014 speech (Intermediation in the Modern Securities Markets: Putting
Technology and Competition to Work for Investors ). One of Chair White’s conclusions was “that in the
fixed income markets, technology is being leveraged simply to make the old, decentralized method of
trading more efficient for market intermediaries, and its potential to achieve more widespread benefits
for investors, including the broad availability of pre-trade pricing information, lower search costs, and
greater price competition – especially for retail investors – is not being realized.”
At the Commission’s urging, a Best Execution rule has been enacted for municipal bonds (paralleling the
one for agencies and corporates issued several years before), and both FINRA and MSRB recently
provided interpretive guidance to enhance compliance, which went into effect in March 2016. But two
other critical efforts in enhanced cost disclosure and price transparency have not been completed.
1. Enhanced disclosure of full transaction costs
The Committee believes it is important to enhance disclosure, especially for retail investors, about the
markup/markdown that an investor pays when purchasing/selling a bond in the secondary market from
a dealer acting as a principal. (Given the OTC nature of the bond market, many retail investor purchases
are made by dealers selling from their inventory of recently purchased bonds.)
This is an issue that has been discussed for years, and the Committee heard from speakers at a recent
meeting. Last year each of the MSRB and FINRA issued proposals and earlier this year indicated a
growing convergence in approaches. 2 The MSRB proposal would require disclosing the price that the
2

FINRA: “[T]he MSRB also published a notice soliciting comment on a revised proposal. As described in detail in
the MSRB’s notice, the MSRB’s approach differs from FINRA’s proposed approach described above and would
require disclosure of the amount of the firm’s mark-up (or mark-down) for certain retail customer transactions,
rather than the reference price paid by the firm and the differential between the reference price and the price paid
by the customer. Under the MSRB’s proposal, the firm would be required to disclose its mark-up or mark-down
from the prevailing market price of a security if the firm traded as principal with a non-institutional customer
within a discrete time window (e.g., the firm purchased the security in the two hours preceding the sale to the
customer, or sold the security in the two hours following the purchase from the customer). While FINRA and the
MSRB’s revised proposals currently differ, both entities favor a coordinated approach. Accordingly, FINRA is
inviting comments on the MSRB’s proposal in comparison to FINRA’s revised proposal, and whether the MSRB’s
proposal, or elements of the proposal, may be an appropriate alternative to FINRA’s revised proposal.”

Page 2 of 4

Draft from the Market Structure Subcommittee: Recommendations
to enhance information for bond market investors (May 25, 2016)

dealer paid, if it acquired the security near in time to the resale, so an investor could see the
markup/markdown. There has been a lot of industry and advocate commentary, and FINRA revised its
proposal last fall and discussed it again in February 2016, when it indicated that it was considering
moving to harmonize with the MSRB approach. The Committee believes that active engagement by the
Commission could encourage the marketplace to move more expeditiously to complete rules and
implement these important improvements in transparency.
MSRB and FINRA Pricing Disclosure Rules
a. MSRB Proposed Mark-Up Disclosure (Sept. 24, 2015)
b. Comment Letters to MSRB Proposal
c. FINRA Revised Price Reference Disclosure (Oct. 2015)
d. Comment Letters to FINRA Proposal
2. Enhancing access to material information prior to the investment decision
The second area of focus is increasing the public’s access to information about current price, yield, and
transaction costs prior to their making an investment decision. Compared to the amount of data
available for even less liquid equities, mutual funds, and ETFs, bond data is hard to find and hard to use
once it is found. The Committee encourages the Commission to redouble its efforts to make relevant
transaction data (pre- and post-trade) more readily available to investors to better inform their
investment decisions.
Comparing prices among dealers for similar bonds, or even just getting general yield levels from recent
transactions that reflect current market conditions, are both quite difficult for most bond investors.
Enhanced transparency could help all investors and other market participants, but will be of particular
use to retail investors who transact infrequently in the bonds markets, and therefore would not typically
have recent transaction information of their own to use in their investment decisions.
There are two types of information that would be helpful to retail investors:
-post-trade information on recent, relevant transactions and
-pre-trade bids and offers from multiple brokers.
The upgraded the EMMA system managed by the MSRB (http://emma.msrb.org/) provides more
information about recent municipal bond transactions than used to be available, but it is still difficult to
navigate, and the EMMA data is not readily available on major news or consumer financial websites.
TRACE, for corporate and agency bonds, provides only prior day data on a short list of active corporate
bonds, and while there is more data on agency bonds, it is more likely to be useful to professional
advisors than retail customers. Investors who have an account with an online brokerage firm can access
that firm’s bids/offers, but has little information to use to see if those prices are competitive.

Page 3 of 4

Draft from the Market Structure Subcommittee: Recommendations
to enhance information for bond market investors (May 25, 2016)

Both the MSRB and FINRA have put out some preliminary ideas on how dealers could provide more data
to the investing public, but there is no clear consensus on how to proceed, and progress seems stalled.
The MSRB concept release (from 2013) discusses the development of a “Central Transparency Platform”
that would show actual current bids and offers from multiple brokers to the public. The more recent
FINRA proposal would only provide data to regulators, not the public.
Transparency
a. MSRB Concept Release on Pre-Trade and Post-Trade Pricing Data Dissemination Through a New
Central Transparency Platform (Jul. 31, 2013)
b. FINRA Requests Comment on Proposal to Require Alternative Trading Systems to Submit
Quotation Information Relating to Fixed Income Securities (Feb. 2015)

Page 4 of 4

