Recommendation of the Investor as Purchaser Subcommittee
Regarding Mutual Fund Cost Disclosure

Preliminary Observations

1

•

It is generally accepted that costs have a significant impact on investment success,
particularly over the long term. As the Commission itself noted in an Investor Bulletin
that urges investors to understand and compare costs, “Over time, even ongoing fees that
are small can have a big impact on your investment portfolio.” 1

•

All types of investment costs, including costs for advice and services as well as costs for
investment products, affect the total monies accumulated by an investor in a long term
investment. Because of the important role mutual funds play as long-term investments for
individual investors, however, and because costs can vary greatly from fund to fund,
providing clear disclosure of mutual fund costs has long been a priority.

•

Since 1988, the Commission has required the mutual fund prospectus to include a fee
table that shows all fees and charges associated with a mutual fund investment as a
percentage of net assets. In 2004, the Commission added a requirement for funds to
disclose costs per $1,000 investment as a dollar amount in the annual shareholder report. 2

•

Despite this disclosure, evidence suggests that many mutual fund investors do not have a
good grasp of the amount they pay annually in mutual fund fees or the long-term impact
of those fees on their portfolio’s performance. The Commission reported in its 2012
financial literacy report, that “many investors … are not fully aware of investment costs
and their impact on investment returns.” 3 Academic researchers have similarly concluded
that investors do not pay sufficient attention to mutual fund expenses. 4

•

While research specific to investors’ understanding of fund costs is limited, one
unpublished study that asked about investor’s knowledge of fund costs found that only
about half of investors who own mutual funds say they know roughly how much they pay
in mutual fund fees. When asked to provide an estimate, the majority of respondents
greatly under-estimated the costs. 5

SEC Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, Investor Bulletin, “How Fees and Expenses Affect Your
Investment Portfolio,” available here: https://www.sec.gov/investor/alerts/ib_fees_expenses.pdf
2
Funds are required to disclose two amounts: (1) the cost in dollars associated with an investment of $1,000, based
on the fund's actual expenses and return for the period; and (2) the cost in dollars associated with an investment of
$1,000, based on the fund's actual expenses for the period and an assumed return of 5 percent per year.
3
Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Study Regarding Financial Literacy Among Investors as
required by Section 917 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, August 2012
(available here: https://www.sec.gov/news/studies/2012/917-financial-literacy-study-part1.pdf)
4
Palmiter, A. R., and A. E. Taha, “Mutual Fund Investors: Sharp Enough?” Journal of Financial Transformation,
Vol. 24, January 2008, pp. 113–121. As of August 13, 2015:
http://www.researchgate.net/publication/46557869_Mutual_Fund_Investors_Sharp_Enough
5
SM – Diversification/Portfolio Survey 2015. When asked about if they know how much they pay in mutual fund
fees, 31.35% answered yes, 32.65% answered no, and 36% indicated that they did not own mutual funds. Asked to

•

While the Commission has taken a number of steps over the years to improve mutual
fund cost disclosure, the Committee believes more can and should be done to enhance the
quality and effectiveness of these disclosures.

Recommendation
The Investor Advisory Committee recommends that the Commission explore ways to
improve mutual fund cost disclosures. The goal should be to enhance investors’ understanding of
the actual costs they bear when investing in mutual funds and the impact of those costs on total
accumulations over the life of their investment. In the short term, the Committee believes the
best way to make investors more conscious of costs is through standardized disclosure of actual
dollar amount costs on customer account statements. In addition, as part of a longer term effort
to improve disclosures, we encourage the Commission to explore ways to provide context for
cost information in order to improve investor understanding of the impact of those costs.
Supporting Rationale:
Disclosures play an important role in helping investors both make sound investment
decisions and evaluate the investments they own. Even investors who do not themselves read
disclosures can benefit indirectly if improved transparency leads to beneficial market
competition. Reflecting the view that investors and the market benefit from price transparency,
the Commission has since 1988 required mutual funds to provide detailed information about
their costs in the fund prospectus. Since 2004, funds have been required to provide additional
cost information in the annual shareholder report. This information, presented in a standardized
format, allows cost conscious investors who know where to look to compare costs across funds.
The Committee remains concerned, however, that these disclosures suffer from several serious
shortcomings that undermine their utility, particularly for investors who are not already focused
on costs as an important factor to consider when making a fund selection.
•

The disclosures are located in documents that many investors do not read.

Many investors simply do not read the disclosure documents containing information on
mutual fund costs. Among respondents to the survey conducted for the Commission’s 2012
financial literacy study, for example, more than four in ten mutual fund investors (44.3 percent)
indicated that they never (8.7 percent), very rarely (12.0 percent), or rarely (23.6 percent) read a
prospectus when they receive one. Even fewer (24.6 percent) identified the prospectus as one of
their main sources of information when making a fund purchase, and just 6.2 percent identified
the prospectus as their most important information source. 6 Another study of investors’ mutual
fund purchase practices similarly found most mutual fund investors do not consider the

estimate how much they would pay on a $100,000 investment in a fund with expenses equal to the average for
actively managed equity index funds, roughly half of respondents (50.92%) estimated that the annual cost would be
$500 or less (equating to an expense ratio of 0.5%). Only 6.12% correctly estimated that annual costs would be
between $750 and $1500, with another 4.64% estimating costs greater than $1500.
6
Siegel & Gale, Investor Research Report, submitted to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, July 26,
2012 (available here: https://www.sec.gov/news/studies/2012/917-financial-literacy-study-part3.pdf)

prospectus as having been even somewhat influential in the purchase decision. 7 Investors appear
to be even less likely to rely on disclosures in shareholder reports. 8
Investors appear to be much more likely to review their account statements. A 1997
Investment Company Institute (ICI) survey of how investors obtain information about their funds
indicated that investors typically view the account statement as the most important
communication that they receive from a mutual fund company, and nearly all shareholders use
such statements to monitor their mutual funds. 9 Nearly two-thirds of respondents to the survey
for the Commission’s financial literacy study indicated that they either always (42.0 percent) or
usually (26.8 percent) check their account statements for possible mistakes, and only about 15
percent indicated that they either rarely (11.3 percent) or never (3.6 percent) do so. This
suggests that investors are not only more likely to read the account statement, but to read it
closely.
•

The complex, technical nature of the fee table disclosures likely inhibits investors’
willingness and ability to make good use of the information provided.

The typical mutual fund fee table for a fund with multiple share classes can quickly
overwhelm the user through the sheer volume and complexity of the information presented. It is
unclear what benefit the typical investor gets from the break-down of annual fund operating
expenses, for example, and the provision of that detailed information in the fee table adds greatly
to the complexity of the disclosures. Similarly, some of the labels are likely to be confusing to
financially unsophisticated investors. Labeling sales charges “Shareholder Fees,” for example,
seems to unnecessarily obscure the purpose of these fees. And describing 12b-1 fees as
“distribution or service fees” does little to clarify their significance. Simplifying the disclosures
could lead to better investor understanding. Definitions or brief descriptions should be provided
when the label or heading itself does not clearly indicate or imply the purpose of the fees.
•

Presentation of the costs as a percentage of assets can give the appearance that costs are
negligible when this is not the case.

The primary way in which fund costs are disclosed is as a percentage of assets, which
may cause investors to under-estimate the impact of those costs. Researchers have documented a
phenomenon they refer to as the “absolute magnitude effect,” which is the tendency for people to
perceive numbers as the absolute value of the quantities inherent in them, and not as the actual
7

Roper, Barbara and Brobeck, Stephen, “Investors’ Mutual Fund Purchase Practices: An Analysis of Survey
Results,” Consumer Federation of America, June 2006 (available here:
http://consumerfed.org/_archives/elements/www.consumerfed.org/file/finance/mutual_fund_survey_report.pdf)
Among those who purchased their funds primarily from a financial professional, 44% rated the prospectus as either
very (22%) or somewhat (22%) influential. Among those who purchased funds primarily through a workplace
retirement account, 43% rated the prospectus as either very (19%) or somewhat (24%) influential. Only among
those who purchased their funds directly from a fund company did a majority (55%) rate the prospectus as either
very (37%) or somewhat (18%) influential.
8
On the survey for the Commission’s financial literacy study, 21.8 percent and 4.4 percent respectively identified
the annual shareholder report as either one of their main sources or the main source of information.
9
Government Accountability Office, Statement of Richard J. Hillman, Director, Financial Markets and Community
Investment before the U.S. Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Financial Management,
the Budget and International Security, “Mutual Funds: Additional Disclosures Could Increase Transparency of Fees
and Other Practices,” January 27, 2004 (available here: http://www.gao.gov/assets/120/110547.pdf )

statistical figures they represent. As researchers who examined this phenomenon explained, this
causes a person “to perceive a larger change in their portfolio if the return was expressed as 24
percent versus an identical return of 0.24” and to “perceive an even larger change if it was
expressed in a dollar amount as long as the change was more than $24.” 10 It is logical that the
same would be true of fund costs – that investors would be more likely to better appreciate the
magnitude of fund costs if they are presented as a dollar amount (e.g., $100), rather than as a
percentage (1.0%).
Fund companies are required to provide certain dollar amount disclosures based on
various hypothetical scenarios. The prospectus must include an illustration showing dollar
amount costs of investing in various different fund classes over 1-, 3-, 5-, and 10-year periods.
This illustration assumes an investment of $10,000, a return of 5 percent, and that all shares are
redeemed at the end of the period. An additional illustration is provided for share classes that
charge deferred loads assuming that shares are not redeemed at the end of the period.
Shareholder reports are required to include two additional illustrations – one showing the dollar
cost expenses per $1,000 invested using the fund’s actual performance over the reporting period
and another using an assumed rate of return of 5 percent. Unlike the prospectus disclosures,
which come at the start of the document, the shareholder report disclosures may be found at the
back of the report at the end of many pages of dense data.
In addition to being presented in documents many investors do not read, the dollar
amount disclosures that are provided require the investor to extrapolate their own costs based on
the hypothetical costs presented. Nothing in the Commission’s extensive study of financial
literacy and disclosure effectiveness suggests that a majority of investors are likely to make those
calculations. On the contrary, the Commission’s research demonstrates that even investors who
claim to understand cost disclosures often fail to calculate costs accurately. 11
•

Current disclosures do not provide a ready context to show whether a fund’s costs are
relatively high, low, or about average or how those costs might impact total
accumulations.

Investors who wish to measure how their fund costs compare to costs of other funds must
seek out additional information to make that assessment. While the information and cost
comparison tools are readily available to those who go in search of them, consumer behavior
research suggests that this is not how consumers typically shop. 12 Federal Reserve officials who
grappled with this problem in the context of designing improved APR disclosures concluded
based on research and testing that consumers can benefit from inclusion of information on
disclosure documents that help them to put costs in context. With that in mind, they proposed to
include a graphic showing the APR in relation to APRs on similar loans offered to borrowers
with excellent credit. 13 While providing context of this kind is not a panacea, mutual fund
10

“Numerical Information Format and Investment Decisions: Implications for the Disposition Effect and the Status
Quo Bias,” (Rubaltelli et al., The Journal of Behavioral Finance, 2005, Vol. 6, No. 1, 19–26)
11
See, for example, Siegel & Gale findings regarding investor understanding of investment adviser costs disclosed
on ADV forms.
12
Hogarth, Jeanne M. and Merry, Ellen A., “Designing Disclosures to Inform Consumer Financial Decisionmaking: Lessons Learned from Consumer Testing,” Federal Reserve Bulletin, August 2011 (Vol. 97, No. 3)
13
Ibid

investors, many of whom have little understanding of what constitutes a low-, average-, or highcost fund within a particular fund category, could likely benefit from information that helps them
to put those costs in context. Similarly, while the Commission emphasizes the importance of
understanding the impact of costs on total accumulations over the lifetime of a long-term
investment, it does not require funds to present cost information in a form that promotes this
understanding.
Proposals to Address these Short-comings
•

As a first step toward improving cost disclosures, the Commission should take immediate
steps to require dollar amount cost disclosures on account statements as a supplement to
existing prospectus disclosures.

The Committee believes the account statement is the best location for cost disclosures
because it is the disclosure document most likely to be read, and read closely, by fund investors.
Furthermore, providing dollar amount cost information on the account statement, where it will be
juxtaposed with information about fund returns, increases the likelihood that investors will
appreciate the significance of those costs, even without the provision of additional contextual
information. We are optimistic that this form of disclosure would have the effect of making
more investors cost conscious when selecting and evaluating funds. That would not only directly
benefit those investors who take steps to lower their investment costs, it would provide indirect
benefits to the market as a whole by promoting cost competition.
The GAO recommended this approach in a series of reports issued in 2003 and 2004.
GAO noted that “most other financial services disclose the actual costs to the purchaser in dollar
terms.” GAO speculated that “seeing the specific dollar amount paid on shares owned could be
the incentive that some investors need to take action to compare their fund’s expenses to those of
other funds and make more informed investment decisions on this basis,” and they added that
such disclosures “may also increasingly motivate fund companies to respond competitively by
lowering fees.” When it adopted its requirement for cost disclosures in shareholder reports,
however, the Commission rejected this approach on the grounds that it would be too costly. The
Commission cited a report commissioned by ICI which estimated that implementation costs
would exceed $200 million and that annual compliance costs would be about $66 million. Using
those numbers, GAO estimated that the cost per account would be minimal, increasing the
average fee by just 0.0038 percent. 14
We recognize that the Commission must carefully weigh the potential costs and benefits
of proposed changes to regulations such as this. In considering this proposal, we urge the
Commission to carefully weigh its costs against its potential benefits, focusing in particular on
which approach has the greatest potential to increase investors’ awareness of costs and, with it,
their likelihood to make more cost-conscious decisions. Should the Commission conclude that
the costs of this proposal outweigh its benefits, we encourage the Commission to consider less
costly alternatives, such as requiring a standardized illustration of the fund’s operation costs,
expressed as a dollar amount, as an enclosure in account statements.

14

GAO, Statement of Richard J. Hillman

The Committee questions whether the additional cost disclosures required to be included
in Annual Shareholder Reports add measurably to investors understanding of their fund costs. At
the very least, we believe the time has come for a comprehensive review of the effectiveness of
the required disclosures and alternatives, such as dollar amount cost disclosures on customer
account statements, to determine whether changes to these requirements could promote greater
cost consciousness among mutual fund investors, more informed investment decision-making,
and increased market competition based on fund costs. If, as we expect, analysis shows that
disclosures in account statements are more effective than shareholder report disclosures in
conveying the desired information, the Commission could consider replacing the existing
shareholder report disclosures with the new account statement disclosures as a way to balance
any increase in costs.
•

Over the longer term, the Commission should consider additional disclosure changes to
improve investors’ understanding of fund costs.

In addition to requiring new account statement cost disclosures, the Commission should
consider ways to improve the disclosures currently provided in the prospectus. Through testing,
the Commission could identify ways to simplify and clarify the fee table. At the same time, the
Commission should explore ways to put cost information in context. One possibility, for
example, would be to require funds to disclose their costs relative to a benchmark showing the
category average cost. This would help investors determine whether their own costs are higher,
lower, or in line with the category average. The Commission should explore the feasibility of
such an approach, examining such questions as how to define fund categories, what to use as the
cost benchmark for those categories, and how best to present that information.
Such disclosures could be even more effective if they also showed how much more or
less the investor would pay over various periods relative to the category average. This is
information that some funds provide voluntarily today. 15 For long-term investments, such as
target date funds, the comparison could be based on a period coinciding with the target date of
the fund. Another possible approach would be to require funds to present a graph, similar to that
used in the Commission’s Investor Bulletin on the impact of investor costs, showing the impact
on total accumulations of the fund’s actual expenses and the category average expense, using an
assumed rate of return and over an extended holding period. The Commission might also
consider the benefits of requiring a reference to the link for the Investor Bulletin about mutual
fund fees. 16
Another possibility would be to require funds to provide an annual performance and fee
report for each investor showing the actual performance and associated fees by fund or fund
company. This could be distributed either with tax information or in an end-of-year account
summary.
The above examples are just suggestions for possible approaches. The Committee
encourages the Commission to test various such approaches to determine which are most

15

See, for example, the graph included in Vanguard’s online fund summaries (example available here:
https://personal.vanguard.com/us/funds/snapshot?FundId=0040&FundIntExt=INT#tab=3)
16
https://www.sec.gov/oiea/investor-alerts-bulletins/ib_mutualfundfees.pdf

effective in informing investors of the relative costs of their own funds, or funds they are
considering purchasing, and the long-term impact of those costs.

