Recommendation of the Investor Advisory Committee
Target Date Mutual Funds
(Adopted April 11, 2013)

Findings:

1

•

Target date mutual funds have come to play an increasingly important role in the
retirement savings of American investors. Assets of target date funds totaled
approximately $485 billion at the end of 2012, up 29 percent over the previous year. 1
Roughly 70 percent of U.S. employers report offering target date funds as their default
investment option for company sponsored defined contribution plans, according to one
recent survey. 2

•

Well-designed target date funds can provide a cost-effective long-term investing solution
for the many individual investors who find it difficult to construct and maintain a
diversified portfolio with risk levels changing to match their evolving needs.

•

The dramatic drop in value in 2008 of some target date funds that were close to reaching
their advertised target date brought new attention to the significant differences in risk
levels that exist among funds with identical target dates.

•

Evidence suggests that individual investors are ill-equipped to identify those risk
disparities among similar seeming funds. 3 For example, on a survey commissioned by
the SEC, only 36 percent of respondents (including 48 percent of target date fund owners
and 26 percent of non-owners) correctly answered a true-false question regarding
whether target date funds provide guaranteed income after retirement. Thirty percent
(including 25 percent of owners and 34 percent of non-owners) answered incorrectly that
target date funds do provide guaranteed income. 4 Fifteen percent of respondents said
whether there is a guarantee depends on the fund and 20 percent said they didn’t know.

Rob Kozlowski, “Target-date fund assets rise 29% in 2012 to record $485 billion,” Pensions & Investments,
February 7, 2013, citing a report by Ibbotson Associates, available here:
http://www.pionline.com/article/20130207/dailyreg/130209884.
2
Investment Company Advertising: Target Date Retirement Fund Names and Marketing, Securities and Exchange
Commission, File No. S7-12-10, June 23, 2010. (Available here.) (See footnote 21, citing a Mercer, Inc. study of
more than 1,500 companies).
3
See, for example, Securities and Exchange Commission, Study Regarding Financial Literacy Among Investors,
study by the SEC staff as required by Section 917 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act (August 2012), which shows high levels of financial illiteracy.
4
Investor Testing of Target Date Retirement Fund (TDF) Comprehension and Communications, Submitted to the
Securities and Exchange Committee by Siegel and Gale, February 15, 2012. (See slides 26-28.)

•

Even many professional pension fund consultants who help select retirement plan fund
options offered through defined contribution plans under-estimate the degree of risk in
many target date funds. For example, one unpublished study 5 found that, although target
date funds on average exposed investors nearing retirement to a significantly higher
maximum potential loss than most pension consultants surveyed deemed appropriate for
those nearing retirement, only about 35 percent of those pension consultants viewed
current glide paths as somewhat to highly inappropriate (i.e., too aggressive). In other
words, almost two-thirds of these pension consultants assumed that funds were invested
more conservatively than was in fact the case.

•

There is a high degree of saver concentration among just a few target date funds.
According to Morningstar, the top three fund families had 75 percent of the market share
in 2011, and the top ten fund families had 90 percent of the 2011 market share. 6 As a
result, large numbers of investors, including large numbers of individuals approaching
retirement at the same time, will be affected by the approaches these companies adopt.

Recommendations
The Committee applauds the Commission and its staff for turning its attention to this
important issue and for seeking to develop an approach to target date fund marketing and
advertising practices that will improve investor understanding of target date fund operations and
risks. However, we believe the current proposal 7 needs to be revised and expanded if it is to
achieve this goal. In addition to improving the marketing material provided to investors, the
Commission should seek to ensure that retirement plan consultants also receive the information
they need to make sound decisions about which target date funds are included on the menu of
retirement plan options and offered as default investments in those plans. The goal should be to
ensure that the information provides an accurate and easily comparable depiction of fund risk,
does so in a manner that is objective, is not easily gamed, and is sufficiently flexible to apply to
different methods of managing risk and to allow for continuing innovation among target date
funds.

Recommendation 1
The Commission should develop a glide path illustration for target date funds that is
based on a standardized measure of fund risk (see Recommendation 2) as either a replacement
for or supplement to its proposed asset allocation glide path illustration.
Supporting Rationale: As the Commission notes in its proposing release, the
performance of target date funds with the same target date has varied widely, reflecting very
different risk characteristics among these funds. For example, among funds with a 2010 target
date, losses in 2008 ranged from 9 percent to 41 percent while returns in 2009 ranged from
5

The study was conducted for PIMCO in 2010.
Morningstar 2012 Target-Date Fund survey (Charlson and Lutton), page
7
Securities and Exchange Commission, Investment Company Advertising: Target Date Retirement Fund Names and
Marketing, File No. S7-12-10, June 23, 2010, available here.
6

approximately 7 percent to 31 percent. Much of those differences in risk can be explained by
differences in the asset allocation models and glide paths used by different funds, as different
target-date funds with the same target dates may pursue vastly divergent investment strategies. A
2011 Morningstar study of 36 funds with a target date of 2020 found, for example, that their
equity weightings ranged from 35 percent to 80 percent, with an average of 61 percent. 8
But choices of assets within the various asset classes, inclusion of assets from outside the
traditional asset classes, and other risk management practices can also have a significant impact
on fund risk levels. A glide-path illustration based solely on asset allocation is therefore unlikely
to reliably capture potentially significant differences in fund risk levels.
Asset allocation is a particularly unreliable proxy for risk where the asset classes are
defined quite broadly, as they are in the Commission proposal. Because assets within those
broad classes may have markedly different risk characteristics, such an approach may serve to
mask significant differences in the risk levels of funds with apparently similar or even identical
asset allocation glide paths. Indeed, basing the glide path illustration on broadly defined asset
classes could create an incentive for some funds to attempt to increase returns by selecting riskier
options within the various broad asset classes, since those added risks would likely be
overlooked by anyone relying on the glide path illustration to compare fund risk levels.
Moreover, a glide path illustration that focuses solely on asset allocation could inadvertently act
to limit the flexibility of fund managers to adapt to changing market conditions that may warrant
a change in asset allocation, potentially exposing target date fund investors to greater risks.
We therefore encourage the Commission to develop an alternative glide path illustration
based on the target risk level over the life of the fund. A glide path illustration based on an
appropriate, standardized measure of fund risk would be both more accurate and more flexible
than a glide path illustration based on asset allocation alone. It is possible that the two
approaches could be designed to work together. If the fund is designed around a target risk level,
illustrated through an appropriate risk glide path, the fund could also be required to disclose what
the expected asset allocation would be to produce the desired risk level and explain that the asset
allocation may vary, and other risk management practices may be employed, to maintain that
target risk level. Where a fund bases its approach on a target asset allocation, the fund could be
required to show the expected risk level associated with that asset allocation over the life of the
investment. In each case, the illustrations would need to be periodically updated to reflect actual
market experience and any changes in management strategy.

Recommendation 2
The Commission should adopt a standard methodology or methodologies to be used in
both the risk-based and asset allocation glide path illustrations.

8

Daisy Maxey, “Evolving Target-Date Funds May Require More Guidance,” The Wall Street Journal, February 19,
2013. (Available here:
http://professional.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323495104578314203197157768.html?mod=googlenews_w
sj&mg=reno64-wsj)

Supporting Rationale: A primary purpose of the glide path illustration is to allow sideby-side comparisons of target date fund risks. As noted above, we believe this is better achieved
through a risk-based glide path illustration than an asset allocation glide path illustration, though
we recognize that both may have their place. To promote comparability, risk-based illustrations
should be based on a standardized measure of risk. Currently, no such standard exists, though a
variety of accepted risk measures exist and are in use today. In determining the appropriate risk
measure to use in a risk-based glide path illustration, the Commission should focus on factors
such as maximum exposure to loss or volatility of returns that are directly relevant to the primary
concerns of those approaching retirement. (Funds would remain free to supplement this
disclosure with additional information about fund risk and methods they use to manage those
risks, as they deem appropriate.) By the same token, we believe the proposed asset allocation
glide path illustration would better serve its intended purpose if the Commission were to
prescribe both the asset classes to be used in disclosing a target date fund’s asset allocation and
the methodology for calculating the percentage allocations. Failure to do so increases the
likelihood that the asset allocation glide path illustrations will create a misleading impression of
similarity among funds with significant differences in risk exposure.

Recommendation 3
The Commission should require target date fund prospectuses to disclose and clearly
explain the policies and assumptions used to design and manage the target date offerings to attain
the target risk level over the life of the fund.
Supporting Rationale: The policies and assumptions that fund managers use in
constructing their target date funds play a critical role in determining a fund’s risk level at
various points over the expected lifetime of the investment. Relevant factors may include
whether the fund employs an active or passive investment strategy, whether or how the fund
addresses protection against inflation in its asset selection, whether or how the fund may adjust
its asset selection or other factors in response to changing market conditions, and what
assumptions about “average” investor behavior are used in constructing the fund. While many if
not most target date fund investors may be poorly equipped to evaluate qualitative disclosures
with regard to these policies and assumptions, retirement plan consultants should be able to make
good use of the information. Because these plan consultants play a gatekeeper role in selecting
defined contribution retirement plan offerings and default options, the enhanced disclosures
could provide significant indirect benefits to workplace investors in target date funds. Moreover,
evidence noted above that retirement plan consultants tend to under-estimate the risk exposure in
target date funds suggests that they would benefit greatly from a clear explanation of those risks
and the strategies used to manage risk over the life of the fund. While the Commission proposal
focuses on changes to the marketing materials and advertising of target date funds, this
information, because of its complex and technical nature, would better be provided in the fund
prospectus as a supplement to the risk illustrations proposed for inclusion in marketing materials.

Recommendation 4

The Committee strongly supports the Commission proposal to require target date fund
marketing materials to include a warning that the fund is not guaranteed and that losses are
possible, including at or after the target date. The Commission should consider testing various
approaches to providing this disclosure to determine the most effective approach and then
mandate that approach in the final rule.
Supporting Rationale: The survey report commissioned by the SEC found that
significant numbers of investors falsely believe that target date funds provide guaranteed income
in retirement. The survey found that the sample marketing materials developed based on the
Commission proposal significantly reduced, but did not eliminate, this confusion. For each of
the four model documents tested, a majority of survey respondents correctly answered a truefalse question about the possibility of losing money in a target date fund, with correct responses
ranging from a low of 56 percent to a high of 61 percent. Given the importance of this
information, however, we encourage the Commission to explore through investor testing whether
alternative approaches to providing this warning might not improve the response rate. Based on
the results of that testing, the Commission should consider mandating a disclosure approach that
maximizes the effectiveness of the disclosure.

Recommendation 5
The Commission should amend the fee disclosure requirements for target date funds to
provide better information about the likely impact of fund fees on total accumulations over the
expected holding period of the investment.
Supporting Rationale: The Committee believes that promoting improved investor
understanding of fees and costs is a priority that deserves attention across all categories of
investment products and services. However, because target date funds are specifically designed
as long-term investments, often held over a period of several decades, fund fees can have a
particularly significant impact on total accumulations over the life of the investment. In our
view, the fee table currently provided in the fund summary and fund prospectus does not
adequately illustrate the significant impact that seemingly small differences in fees can have on
long-term accumulations. We therefore urge the Commission to explore ways to improve this
disclosure. Where a fund is designed for a retirement date many years in the future, for example,
the impact of fees could be measured based on that expected retirement date. Similarly, the
calculation could be based on average or “typical” annual investment amounts in the fund.
Ideally, the information would be provided in a way that allows investors (and retirement plan
consultants) to easily determine how these accumulated costs compare with those of other target
date funds. Finally, the Commission should require that this information be included in target
date fund marketing materials. This exploration of how to more effectively convey the impact of
fund fees has implications beyond target date funds, but it is particularly relevant in the context
of an investment that is specifically designed to be held for several decades and as an appropriate
option for less sophisticated, middle income investors.

