Securities and Exchange Commission Investor Advisory Committee
By-Laws and Operating Procedures
(As adopted on June 12, 2012 and amended on September 28, 2012 and July 10, 2014)
The following By-Laws and Operating Procedures (“By-Laws”) will govern the
operations of the Securities and Exchange Commission Investor Advisory Committee
(the “Committee”).
A.

Meetings. The Committee will meet not less frequently than twice annually at
the call of the Chairman of the Committee and, from time to time, at the call of
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”).

B.

Notice of Meetings. The Chairman of the Committee, through Commission staff,
will give each member of the Committee written notice of each meeting not later
than two weeks before the date of the meeting.

C.

Members. Each member of the Committee will serve for a term of four years.
There will be elected by the members, a Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary, and
Assistant Secretary. The Chairman will lead Committee meetings. The Vice
Chairman may, when the Chairman is absent from a meeting, act as Chairman for
the purposes of that Committee meeting. Each member elected will serve a term
of three years in the capacity for which the member was elected.

D.

Vacancies. Vacancies among the members, whether caused by the resignation,
death, removal, expiration of a term, or otherwise, will be filled in the manner that
the exited member was appointed. Any person selected to replace a member will
serve for a term of four years.

E.

Agenda. The Chairman of the Committee will circulate an agenda for each
meeting of the Committee sufficiently in advance of the meeting to permit a copy
or summary of the agenda to be published with the notice of the meeting. Any
Committee member may submit to the Chairman items for the agenda. All items
submitted will be included in the agenda.

F.

Voting. A member must be participating in a meeting, in person or by telephone
or similar communication, to cast a vote. When a decision or recommendation of
the Committee is required, the presiding officer will request a motion for a vote.
Any member may make a motion for a vote and vote. No second after a motion
will be required to bring any issue or recommendation to a vote. Committee
action based on a vote requires a simple majority of the votes cast at a meeting at
which there is a quorum.

G.

Recommendations and Findings. Any recommendation or finding approved by
the Committee shall be transmitted in writing to the Secretary of the Commission.

H.

Quorum. A quorum will consist of a simple majority of the members.

I.

Minutes. The Secretary or Assistant Secretary will prepare minutes of each
meeting of the Committee and circulate the minutes to all members for review
and comment. The Secretary or Assistant Secretary will distribute copies of the
minutes to each member in advance of the following Committee meeting, at
which a vote will be held to approve the minutes.

J.

Subcommittees. The Committee may convene subcommittees to support the
Committee’s functions and may appoint members to, and Chairs of, any
subcommittees. Only members of the subcommittee will have the right to vote
and make a motion to vote in a subcommittee. No subcommittee will have any
authority to provide advice or recommendations (1) directly to the Commission or
any agency official or (2) to be adopted by the Committee without approval at an
open meeting of the Committee. Any member of the Committee may attend a
subcommittee meeting. The subcommittee’s chairman will provide reasonable
notice of subcommittee meetings to all members of the Committee.

K.

Robert’s Rules of Order. Robert’s Rules of Order will apply to Committee
meetings, except as otherwise provided for in the Committee’s By-Laws or
Charter.

L.

Amendments. These By-Laws may be amended from time to time by vote of the
members.

2

