Recommendations of the Investor Advisory Committee
Regarding SEC Rulemaking to Lift the Ban on General Solicitation and
Advertising in Rule 506 Offerings:
Efficiently Balancing Investor Protection, Capital Formation
and Market Integrity
Preliminary Observations:
•

The IAC recognizes the importance of Regulation D Rule 506 as a capital formation tool.
In 2011, Rule 506 offerings accounted for $895 billion, as compared to $984 billion
raised in registered offerings.

•

The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (JOBS Act) requires that the Securities and
Exchange Commission lift the ban on general solicitation and advertising in Rule 506
private placements.

•

Keeping in mind the risks to investors, lifting the solicitation ban can and should be done
in a manner that simultaneously promotes investor protection, facilitates efficient capital
formation, and provides regulators with the tools they need to police the market
effectively. 1

•

The Commission retains both the authority and the responsibility to ensure that investors
are adequately protected as the ban on general solicitation is lifted.

•

The rule proposal recently released by the Commission should more effectively address
the risk of potential harm to investors, which we believe can be done without imposing a
material burden on the capital formation process.

•

A number of concrete proposals have been put forward to improve investor protections
and enhance regulators’ ability to police this market.

IAC Recommendations:
As the Commission fulfills its JOBS Act mandate to lift the ban on general solicitation and
advertising in private offerings, it must carefully consider the potential harm to investors
resulting from that action and the alternatives available to minimize that harm. In keeping with
1

In 2011, state regulators took more than 200 enforcement actions related specifically to Rule 506 offerings (more than 250 in

2010; 175 in 2009).

1

its own guidelines for economic analysis and its investor protection mandate, the Commission
should give strong consideration to the following recommendations as part of the rulemaking
process:
Recommendation 1
Require all issuers intending to rely on the new JOBS Act general solicitation exemption
to file with the Commission either a new “Form GS” or a revised version of Form D.
Filing the form should be a precondition for claiming the exemption. To reduce
compliance costs, the form should be available for on-line completion. The form should
request simple information regarding the identity of the entity seeking to rely on the
exemption, the control persons of that entity (together with their addresses, telephone and
contact information), counsel representing the entity (if any), the entity’s accountants or
auditors (if any), the amount sought to be raised, a brief description of the entity’s general
solicitation plans, and a brief description of the entity’s proposed business and use of
proceeds.
Supporting Rationale: These data would be used both for basic statistical purposes to
help judge the effectiveness of the exemption and to help the SEC and state regulators
monitor the market. Indeed, absent this form of information, the Commission will be
unable to determine the extent to which the capital formation process is relying on the
new JOBS Act exemption. This information may also be valuable in the event that
enforcement issues arise in connection with an offering.
Recommendation 2
Require that all solicitation material prepared or disseminated by or on behalf of the
issuer that is being disseminated to the public through a general solicitation or advertising
campaign in reliance on the new exemption be furnished to the Commission. This
requirement can be satisfied at very low cost to the capital formation process by having
the Commission create an online electronic “drop box” into which all general solicitation
material can be deposited, together with a cover form identifying the issuer using the
general solicitation material and the circumstances under which the material is to be used.
The drop box should be designed to be able to accept print, audio and video forms of
general solicitation. A condition of the exemption should be that the copy of the
solicitation materials be furnished either prior to first use or promptly after first use. The
materials furnished to the Commission should be made available for prompt public view.
The Commission should consider appropriate measures to ensure compliance with this
requirement. The Commission should consider the degree of dissemination that would
trigger this requirement.
Supporting Rationale: Again, absent access to information of this sort, the Commission
will be unable, as a practical matter, to monitor the types of solicitations being used in
practice. The Commission will therefore be unable to assess the potential benefits and
risks of the solicitations. The Commission should keep the process of filing these
materials as simple and as inexpensive as possible (it can and should be as easy as filing a
comment to a Commission proposed rule and as simple as posting a video to YouTube).
Further, Commission access to this database will allow it better to identify instances of

2

potential fraud in an efficient manner, and the simple knowledge that general solicitation
material must be provided to the Commission may act as a deterrent against some
potential forms of fraud. The Committee observes that by making these materials
available to the public on a timely basis, the Commission would be simultaneously
facilitating the retransmission of these general solicitation materials to a broader audience
and “crowdsourcing” the public’s ability to inform the Commission of potential fraud in
this marketplace.
Recommendation 3
Adopt a safe harbor that provides clear and enforceable standards for verification, as
opposed to reasonable belief, of accredited investor status, including standards to
promote reliance on reliable third parties, such as broker-dealers, banks, and licensed
accountants.
Supporting Rationale: The JOBS Act requires the Commission to adopt standards to
ensure that issuers take reasonable steps to ensure that only accredited investors invest in
these offerings. The “facts and circumstances” based approach proposed by the
Commission does not do enough either to ensure this outcome or to provide issuers with
the certainty they need to develop appropriate procedures. On the one hand, investors
may be unwilling (and unwise) to provide sensitive financial information to issuers with
whom they have no relationship in order to provide proof of their accredited investor
status. As a result, reliable third parties, such as brokers, accountants, and attorneys, may
play a central role in providing that verification. Without clear guidelines for such thirdparty verification, however, these professionals may be reluctant to provide these services
on terms that are beneficial to investors and issuers alike. In addition, Section 5 of the
Securities Act creates strict liability for the sale of unregistered securities. Prudent
counsel and issuers seeking to assure compliance with the law will, in many
circumstances, be unwilling to take the risk associated with a “facts and circumstances”
test, particularly when there is no precedent that offers meaningful guidance as to facts
and circumstances likely to qualify for the safe harbor. Non-exclusive safe harbor
guidelines will therefore help promote reliance on the new statutory provisions by issuers
who are risk averse and seek responsibly to comply with the federal securities laws.
Indeed, the Committee observes that an equivalent rationale supported the Commission’s
initial decision to adopt Regulation D.
Recommendation 4
The filing of Form D should be made a condition for relying on the Regulation D
exemption. In implementing this recommendation, which is intended to encourage broad
compliance with the filing requirement, the Committee encourages the Commission also
to consider incorporating measures to ensure that it does not impose undue penalties for
inadvertent violations by small, unsophisticated issuers.
Supporting Rationale: While Form D is required to be filed, its filing is not a condition
of relying on the Regulation D exemption. It is generally acknowledged that a significant
number of issuers do not currently file Form D, depriving the Commission of important
information and inhibiting its ability to provide effective market oversight. Moreover,

3

absent reliable data from Form D it will be difficult for the Commission to compare the
performance of private placements that rely on the new JOBS Act exemptions with the
performance of private placements that do not rely on those exemptions. These data will
be valuable to the Commission and to Congress in assessing the performance of these
new exemptions. Again, a variety of mechanisms are available to minimize the costs of
compliance, and the Commission should adopt these mechanisms.
Recommendation 5
The Commission should take steps to ensure that any performance claims in materials
used as part of general solicitations are based on appropriate performance reporting
standards.
Supporting Rationale: Investors need the assurance that performance claims they rely
on as a part of a general solicitation campaign are based on a clear, well-defined, and
auditable standard. The Committee observes that there are several private sector
standards that can be applied to govern the presentation of such data and that the
Commission should be able to designate the appropriate standards in a manner that
imposes little if any marginal cost to market participants complying with industry norms.
Recommendation 6
The Commission should amend the natural persons prong of the definition of accredited
investor to better reflect a population that has the financial sophistication to analyze the
risks in private offerings and/or the wealth to withstand potential losses. The Committee
believes this is essential in the absence of the procedural protections afforded by the
general solicitation and advertising ban.
Supporting Rationale: The Committee observes that there has long been a debate
regarding the adequacy of the definition of “accredited investor” which currently relies
exclusively on asset and income tests, and is invariant to the investor’s actual investment
sophistication (with the exception of situations requiring reliance on a purchaser
representative). To the extent that the JOBS Act places greater reliance on the ability of
investors to “fend for themselves” under the federal securities laws, it seems prudent to
explore alternative formulations of the accredited investment standard that might be more
suitable to the new regulatory environment. It is the view of the Committee that the
Commission has clear authority to amend the accredited investor definition at this time,
except with regard to the net worth component of the definition where the Commission is
precluded from acting until 2014.
Recommendation 7
SEC rulemaking mandated pursuant to Dodd-Frank Act Section 926 has not concluded.
Section 926 mandates rulemaking disqualifying felons and other “bad actors” from
reliance on the safe harbor from Securities Act registration provided by Rule 506 of
Regulation D. This provision is particularly relevant to bolstering investor protection in
connection with Rule 506 offerings. In conjunction with the rulemaking to lift the ban on
general solicitation and advertising, we recommend adoption of the “bad actors” rule
proposed in May 2011, and already past the statutory deadline for adoption.

4

Supporting Rationale: As the Commission moves forward to implement the regulations
mandated by the JOBS Act, it is sensible that all related regulations be adopted on a
simultaneous basis, unless there is substantial reason to phase in certain regulations.
There appears to be no reason to phase in the “bad actor” provision. Accordingly, it is
appropriate that this provision be operative at the same time that the other rules and
regulations relating to the general solicitation and private placement process take effect.

5

