Technical Director
File Reference Nos. 2015-300 and 2015-310
FASB
401 Merritt 7
PO Box 5116
Norwalk, CT 06856-5116
Re:

Proposed Amendments to Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts & Notes to
Financial Statements

Ladies & Gentlemen:
On behalf of the Investor Advisory Committee, we are writing to express concern over
the proposed amendments by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) to Concepts
Statement No. 8, Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting 1 (“Conceptual Framework”)
and Notes to Financial Statements (Topic 235) (“Notes”) (collectively “Proposals”) and to
encourage FASB to significantly alter the approach set out in the Proposals. 2
The two Proposals seek to “clarify” the disclosure standard by changing the definition of
materiality. 3 The changes set out in the Proposals are not, however, clarifications but entail a
significant and substantive alteration to the current definition. The approach taken in the
Proposals is explicitly designed to reduce disclosure and in doing so has the potential to
adversely affect the quality of financial disclosure.
While we strongly support efforts to improve the quality and transparency of financial
disclosure, we do not believe that the approach, at least as currently drafted, will accomplish this
goal. We believe that the Proposals need to be entirely reconsidered, with any future proposals
preceded by the development of a more complete record that sets out the concerns giving rise to,
and the consequences of, any change in the definition. Finally, with respect to any future
proposals in this area, we encourage FASB to more clearly alert the public as to the significance
of such changes.

1

http://www.fasb.org/jsp/FASB/Document_C/DocumentPage?cid=1176166402450&acceptedDisclaimer=true
http://www.fasb.org/jsp/FASB/Document_C/DocumentPage?cid=1176166402325&acceptedDisclaimer=true
3
See Statement by James Schnurr, IAC Meeting, Oct. 15, 2015 (“There clearly was some feedback from the
preparer community, the auditors as well as audit committees that question about how you apply it.”), available at
http://www.sec.gov/news/otherwebcasts/2015/investor-advisory-committee-101515.shtml
2

1

I.

Proposal – “Conceptual Framework”
A. Overview

The “Conceptual Framework” Proposal fundamentally seeks to rewrite the definition of
materiality. While we acknowledge and appreciate that the Conceptual Framework is not
intended for use by issuers to assess concepts of materiality as applied to their financial
statements, in the absence of a more coherent framework for issuers, it is likely in our view that
the Conceptual Framework will be a source of guidance at least by analogy and as such have at
least an indirect impact on issuer’s reporting and disclosure.
As currently formulated, materiality is defined as information that “could influence
decisions that users make on the basis of the financial information of a specific reporting entity.”
Materiality is also described as “an entity specific aspect of relevance based on the nature or
magnitude or both of the items to which the information relates in the context of an individual
entity’s financial report.” 4
The “Conceptual Framework” Proposal would replace this definition. Describing
materiality as “a legal concept,” the Proposal borrows from the language used by the Supreme
Court in interpreting the antifraud provisions under the securities laws. 5 Information will be
material “if there is a substantial likelihood that the omitted or misstated item would have been
viewed by a reasonable resource provider as having significantly altered the total mix of
information.”

B. Analysis – “Conceptual Framework”
The “Conceptual Framework” Proposal raises a number of concerns.
First, the Proposal characterizes the changes as an effort to “clarify” the concept of
materiality. In fact, the Proposal does not clarify but substantially alters the definition in a
manner that will narrow its application. In paragraph QC11, the Proposal strikes the reference to
“relevance,” leaving application of the concept entirely unclear, focuses on “resource provider”
rather than “user” and replaces the need to determine whether information “could influence
decisions” with the need to determine whether the information “would” have “significantly”
altered the “total mix.” 6
Second, the “Conceptual Framework” Proposal does not adequately discuss the impact of
the change on the disclosure process, including the increased costs that will likely result. In
particular, the Proposal does not sufficiently take into account that, by “clarifying” the legal
4

See QC11. Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 8 (Sept. 2010), available at
http://www.fasb.org/jsp/FASB/Document_C/DocumentPage?cid=1176157498129&acceptedDisclaimer=true
5
The Proposal relied on definitions from two Supreme Court cases, TSC industries v. Northway, 426 US 438 (1976)
and Basic v. Levinson, 485 US 224 (1988).
6
The textual changes in language support a conclusion that the Proposal contains a definition of materiality that is
more narrow than the current definition. This is also consistent with the goal of the Proposal to facilitate the ability
to omit immaterial disclosure. It is also consistent with commentators. See Proposal, at BC3.18C (noting that in
commenting on the IASB definition, which is identical to current FASB definition of materiality, “[s]ome
stakeholders also have observed that the IASB’s definitions of materiality generally would require disclosure of
more information than would the legal concept of materiality in the United States.”).

2

nature of the definition, counsel will likely have an increased role in the process. Whatever the
current role, 7 issuers wanting greater comfort on the proper application of the “legal concept of
materiality” will presumably have an increased incentive to seek the views or opinions of
counsel. Particularly if this type of review becomes common, the additional costs may be
significant. Beyond costs, the risk exists that, by replacing the current, differentiated
professional accounting standard with a case-law driven legal standard, close questions of
judgment will ultimately devolve to lawyers rather than accountants.
Third, the Proposal justifies the revision as necessary to “eliminate inconsistencies”
between the current definition with the one developed by the Supreme Court under the antifraud
provisions. 8 The Proposal does not explain the basis for this determination of inconsistency. To
the extent that “inconsistent” means incompatible, the current definition is not inconsistent. The
current definition is broader than the one used in the antifraud provisions. Thus, information
captured by the Supreme Court’s definition is captured in the existing definition.
Indeed, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) recognized that an
earlier version of materiality employed by FASB, one that closely resembles the current
standard, was consistent with the Supreme Court’s definition. 9 As the Commission noted, the
“formulation in the accounting literature is in substance identical to the formulation used by the
courts in interpreting the federal securities laws.” 10
Finally, the Supreme Court’s interpretation of materiality has arisen in the context of the
antifraud provisions under the federal securities laws. We believe that the existing terminology
used by the FASB provides a better framework for determining the content of financial
disclosure.

II.

Proposal – “Notes”
A. Discussion

The “Notes” Proposal would change U.S. GAAP by applying the definition of materiality
set out in the Conceptual Framework to the notes that accompany audited financial statements. 11
7

To date, counsel has apparently not been significantly involved in the process. See Schnurr Testimony, supra note
3, at 3:06:30 (“where I can tell you from my own, you know, 40 years of experience in the profession that the
attorneys are not involved in any significant way in the determination of whether something is material”).
8
Although unexplained in the Proposal, this is apparently based upon the use of the word “could” in the existing
definition rather than the word “would” as used by the Supreme Court.
9
As with the current definition, the earlier definition emphasized the importance of relevance and looked to whether
the information would have “changed or influenced” the judgment of the person relying on the information. The
definition applied not to any “resource provider” but a “person.” See
http://www.fasb.org/jsp/FASB/Document_C/DocumentPage?cid=1218220132599&acceptedDisclaimer=true
10
See SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin: No. 99, Aug. 12, 1999, available at
https://www.sec.gov/interps/account/sab99.htm
11
In promoting the goal of reducing irrelevant disclosures, the “Notes” Proposal would also clarify that the omission
of immaterial disclosures is not an accounting error. As a result, immaterial information need not be disclosed and
would no longer be presented to the audit committee as an error. We express no opinion on this change.
http://www.fasb.org/jsp/FASB/Document_C/DocumentPage?cid=1176166402325&acceptedDisclaimer=true (“In
particular, many participants in the field study stated that they would be reluctant to eliminate immaterial disclosures
if the omission is required to be communicated to the audit committee as an error.”).

3

As a result, the amendment would assist in “reducing or eliminating irrelevant disclosures” by
“helping reporting entities omit immaterial information.” Reducing the amount of immaterial
information, in turn, “would improve the effectiveness of the notes to financial statements.” 12

B. Analysis
The “Notes” Proposal raises at least two significant concerns.
First, the Proposal would change the “default” approach with respect to the application of
materiality to disclosures in the financial statement notes. Currently, U.S. GAAP states that “the
provisions of the Codification need not be applied to immaterial items”. The formulation
assumes disclosure absent an affirmative finding of immateriality. The Proposal would reverse
this approach and instead provide “that an entity shall provide required disclosures if they are
material” (p. 2). 13 Non-disclosure would, therefore, be presumed absent an affirmative finding
of materiality. This is a significant change, and one that is fraught with risk from an investor
perspective.
Second, the “Notes” Proposal provides no framework for evaluating whether a disclosure
is material, nor does any framework exist in GAAP, particularly for those disclosures that are
qualitative in nature. 14 This absence is notable given the substantial variation among issuers in
the consideration of qualitative factors in evaluating the materiality of numeric disclosures,
suggesting even greater variation in evaluating the materiality of text-based disclosures. 15 The
absence of a framework ensures inconsistent application of the materiality standard.
The consequences of this absence is exacerbated by the stated goal of the Proposal to
“promote the use of discretion” by issuers and auditors (p. 15). 16 The approach encourages a
more frequent application of the materiality standard to disclosure in the notes. A stated goal of
this increased review is a reduction in disclosure (p. 1). 17 While some of the discretion will no
doubt be used to eliminate irrelevant disclosures, silence on how issuers (and auditors) are
expected to evaluate the materiality of note information provides inadequate assurances that this
will be the common or even likely result.

12

http://www.fasb.org/jsp/FASB/Document_C/DocumentPage?cid=1176166402325&acceptedDisclaimer=true It is
important to note that it is not necessarily generally accepted that disclosures are uniformly excessive. In fact, only
50 percent of large firm partners “agree that current footnote disclosures about measurement uncertainty are
adequate” (p. 32). See Steven M. Glover, Mark H. Taylor, & Yi-Jing Wu, Mind the Gap: Factors Contributing to
Reported Deficiencies in Auditing Complex Estimates Beyond Auditor Performance, Working paper, Brigham
Young University, Case Western Reserve University, and Texas Tech University (2015).
13
http://www.fasb.org/jsp/FASB/Document_C/DocumentPage?cid=1176166402325&acceptedDisclaimer=true
14
The U.S. Supreme Court defines an item as material “if there is a substantial likelihood that the omitted or
misstated item would have been viewed by a reasonable resource provider as having significantly altered the total
mix of information”. This general definition provides no operational guidance as to how to make this judgment.
15
See Andrew A. Acito, Jeffrey J. Burks, & W. Bruce Johnson, The Materiality of Accounting Errors: Evidence
from SEC Comment Letters and Implications for Research Proxies, Working paper, Michigan State University,
University of Notre Dame, and University of Iowa (2015). The committee thanks Professor Lauren Cunningham for
bringing this paper to our attention.
16
http://www.fasb.org/jsp/FASB/Document_C/DocumentPage?cid=1176166402325&acceptedDisclaimer=true
17
http://www.fasb.org/jsp/FASB/Document_C/DocumentPage
id=1176166402325&acceptedDisclaimer=true

4

Granting issuers greater latitude to use discretion in evaluating the materiality of
disclosures in the absence of a framework is fraught with the risk that disclosures that are
unfavorable to the issuer are disproportionately viewed as immaterial and as a result excluded
from the financial statements. Such a result is not in the best interest of investors, and is
anathema to investor protection, capital formation, and the efficient functioning of the capital
markets.

III.

Desired Action Steps

We appreciate the efforts of the Board and agree with the goal of improved disclosure.
However, we believe the Board’s proposals as drafted are flawed. We believe that FASB
should:
1. Maintain the FASB’s current definition of materiality; or
2. Withdraw the Proposals and precede any future proposals with a more complete
record that sets out both the concerns requiring any changes to the definition of
materiality and the implications of any such changes, and that more clearly alerts the
public to the consequences of such revisions.
To the extent that FASB does not agree to these approaches, at a minimum we recommend that
the FASB take the following steps:
1. In the “Notes” Proposal clarify that disclosures listed in the ASC are required unless
the issuer (and the auditor) conclude that the disclosure is immaterial (i.e., the default
should continue to be disclosure unless immaterial rather than no disclosure unless
material).
2. Immediately begin an accelerated project to develop a framework for evaluating the
materiality of disclosure, especially qualitative disclosures, and actively monitor the
application such a framework on the quality of disclosure to investors.

cc: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissioners

5

