ADMININSTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17286
SEC Finalizes Settlement with The Bank of New York Mellon
June 13, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced a final settlement
with The Bank of New York Mellon (BNYM) as part of an overall agreement announced on
March 19, 2015 with federal and state regulators regarding BNYM’s standing instruction foreign
currency (FX) exchange program.
According to the SEC’s order instituting a settled administrative proceeding against BNYM, the
bank represented that its standing instruction program provided “best execution standards,” and
“best rates,” and priced transactions at levels that “generally reflected the interbank market at the
time the trade was executed,” and was “free of charge.” Contrary to these representations,
BNYM priced its clients’ standing instruction transactions near the end of the trading day or
session at or near the worst interbank rates reported during that day or session, and obtained
substantial revenues based on the difference between the rates that it assigned to its clients and
the rates that it obtained on its own behalf when buying and selling foreign currency. BNYM
clients that used this program included SEC-registered investment companies. BNYM prepared
and provided these clients with trade confirmations and monthly transaction reports that were
misleading because they did not specify the time the standing instruction FX transactions were
executed or provide information about how specific rates were assigned.
The SEC’s order, in which BNYM admitted certain facts, finds that BNYM violated Section
34(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, and caused violations of Section 31(a) of the Act
and Rule 31a-1(b) thereunder. The order requires BNYM to cease and desist from these
violations, to disgorge $133,022,207 (which was satisfied by its payment of this amount under
the terms of BNYM’s related settlements with the U.S. Department of Justice and the New York
Attorney General), to pay a $30 million penalty to the SEC, and to report on its remediation and
implementation of compliance measures for the standing instruction and successor programs
offered to registered investment company clients.
The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Kathryn A. Pyszka of the Division of Enforcement’s
Market Abuse Unit, Andrew O’Brien, Donald Ryba, and Benjamin J. Hanauer of the Chicago
Regional Office, and was supervised by Robert A. Cohen and Joseph G. Sansone, Co-Chiefs of
the Market Abuse Unit, and Timothy Warren, Associate Director of the Chicago Regional
Office. The SEC appreciates the assistance of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern
District of New York, the New York Attorney General’s office, and the Department of Labor.
See also:

Order

