UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 32151/ June 13, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17286
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 9(b) AND 9(f)
OF THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT
OF 1940, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND
A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
The Bank of New York Mellon
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be,
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company
Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against The Bank of New York Mellon
(“BNYM” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted
an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”) that the Commission has determined to accept. Solely
for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf
of the Commission, or in which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or
denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it, the
subject matter of these proceedings, and the facts set forth in Annex A attached hereto,
which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative And Cease-And-Desist Proceedings Pursuant To Sections 9(b) And 9(f)
Of The Investment Company Act Of 1940, Making Findings, And Imposing Remedial
Sanctions And A Cease-And-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
Summary
From at least 2000 through at least August of 2011, The Bank of New York
Mellon (“BNYM”) and its predecessors, The Bank of New York (“BNY”) and Mellon
Bank (collectively, the “Bank”), misled certain of its custodial clients with regard to its
execution of their Standing Instruction foreign currency transactions. With regard to
foreign currency trades executed through the Bank’s Standing Instruction program, the
Bank represented on the BNY and BNYM websites and in communications to certain
registered investment company (“RIC”) customers, among other things, that the Standing
Instruction (“SI”) program provided foreign exchange (“FX”) execution according to
“best execution standards,” provided “best rates,” priced the transactions at levels that
“generally reflected the interbank market at the time the trade was executed,” and was
“free of charge.” Contrary to these representations, the Bank priced its clients’ Standing
Instruction transactions near the end of the trading day or session at or near the worst
interbank rates reported during that day or session. This resulted in substantial revenues
to BNYM based on the difference between the rates that BNYM assigned to its clients
and the rates that it obtained on its own behalf when buying and selling foreign currency
in the interbank market.
After the transactions were executed, the Bank prepared and provided its RIC
clients with trade confirmations and monthly transaction reports that contained, among
other things, the date of each transaction and the rate assigned by the Bank. However,
the Bank did not specify the time the transaction was executed, nor did it provide
information about how specific rates were assigned. Exchange rates generally fluctuated
throughout the day, and the rate assigned by the Bank was within the range of interbank
rates for that day. As a result, the omission of the time of the transaction or manner of
pricing in FX confirmations and transaction reports was misleading because the
documents omitted the information that would have revealed that the Bank’s Standing
Instruction service did not, in fact, provide FX execution in the manner represented by
the Bank.

2

Respondent
1.
The Bank of New York Mellon (“BNYM”) is a New York State chartered
bank, headquartered in New York, New York, with approximately $1.2 trillion in assets
under management and approximately $25 trillion in assets under custody and
administration. Certain BNYM deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation. BNYM is one of the world’s largest custodian banks. Its predecessors are
The Bank of New York and Mellon Bank, which merged in 2007.
Facts
A.

The Bank’s Standing Instruction FX Transactions

2.
BNYM acts as a custody and trust bank providing an array of services to
clients, including public pension funds, states, colleges, charities and foundations, and
RICs. As a custodian bank, BNYM holds and safeguards its clients’ financial assets,
including stocks, bonds, and currency. In this role, BNYM provides a variety of services
to its foreign and domestic clients, such as settlement of the purchase and sale of
securities and currency, maintenance services related to currency/cash bank accounts,
management services related to cash transactions, and FX services.
3.
Many of BNYM’s U.S. custodial clients, including a large number of
RICs, invest in foreign securities, which must be purchased and sold in the currencies of
the countries in which the securities are issued. Accordingly, to trade foreign securities,
BNYM’s U.S.-based custodial clients must obtain related foreign currencies. In addition,
dividends earned on foreign securities are paid in foreign currencies. When BNYM’s
domestic clients sell those foreign securities or receive dividends in foreign currencies,
they may elect to convert the foreign currency back to U.S. dollars. From at least 2000
through 2011, the Bank provided a variety of FX services to its custodial clients, which
clients utilized when purchasing or selling foreign securities or repatriating income from
foreign investments to U.S. dollars.
4.
During the relevant period, one of the FX products that the Bank provided
was the Standing Instruction product. When clients selected the Standing Instruction
product, in accordance with its terms, the Bank automatically processed and executed
certain FX trades without supervision or direct negotiations with clients with respect to
pricing. Standing Instruction transactions did not involve any negotiation, and the Bank
unilaterally determined the price that the client received for the currency purchase or sale.
5.
In its post-merger SI Procedures, BNYM published on its website by 9:00
A.M. a “daily schedule” of the specific buy and sell rates for Standing Instruction
transactions. BNYM advised its clients that the actual rates on Standing Instruction
transactions would be “not less favorable to the account than the corresponding rates
indicated on the Daily Schedule for that day,” at rates not worse than these published
rates, and that rates would “not deviate by more or less than three (3) percent from the
relevant Interbank bid or ask rates.”
3

6.
The Bank’s Standing Instruction FX service was its most profitable FX
product offering. The Bank’s sales margins on Standing Instruction FX transactions in
currencies not subject to governmental transfer restrictions were generally substantially
higher than on negotiated FX transactions in the same currencies, in which the custodial
client negotiated directly with an FX trader at BNYM to purchase or sell currency at a
particular price.
B.

The Bank’s Representations to its Custodial Clients

7.
During the relevant period, BNY and BNYM represented that its Standing
Instruction service was provided according to “best execution” standards. The Bank
made these representations on the BNY and BNYM Global Markets websites and in
responses to inquiries from certain RIC clients about the Bank’s pricing arrangements.
8.
From 2006 until late 2009, BNY and BNYM stated on the Global Markets
websites that their Standing Instruction FX service provided many benefits to their
clients, including “FX execution according to best execution standards.”
9.
In addition, a standard comment of the Bank in response to questions
about FX transactions that was provided to certain RIC clients represented, among other
things, that: (a) “[u]nderstanding the fiduciary role of the fund manager, it is our goal to
provide best execution for all foreign exchange executed in support of our clients’
transactions;” (b) “we price foreign exchange at levels generally reflecting the interbank
market at the time the trade is executed by the foreign exchange desk;” and (c) “Best
execution encompasses a variety of services designed to maximize the proceeds of each
trade… .”
10.
Moreover, a Bank “Question and Answer” document used for responding
to requests for proposal (“RFPs”), equated best execution with obtaining the best
available rates on FX transactions. That material stated that the Bank “ensures best
execution [by actively engaging in] making markets and taking positions in numerous
currencies so that we can provide the best rates for our clients.”
11.
The Bank was aware that many market participants equated “best
execution” with best price or considered best price to be one of the most important
factors in determining best execution. For example, the employee who drafted the
Bank’s standard definition of “best execution” noted that the language he used came from
“industry standard definitions of ‘best execution’; namely, to achieve the goal of
‘maximizing the value of the client portfolio under the particular circumstances at the
time.’” The Bank also sponsored an industry survey in which market participants were
asked to define “best execution,” and in 2007, half of the respondents defined “best
execution” as “price.”
12.
On their websites, in welcome packages sent to clients, and in responses to
requests for proposals, BNY and BNYM also described their Standing Instruction service
as “free of charge.” Until late 2009, BNY and BNYM described the Standing Instruction
service on the Global Markets websites as “[o]perationally simple, free of charge and
4

integrated with the client’s activity on the various securities markets, FX Standing
Instruction is designed to help clients minimize risks and costs related to the foreign
exchange and concentrate on their core business.”
C.

How the Bank Priced its Standing Instruction FX Transactions

13.
The Bank generated, or received from its customers, Standing Instruction
FX trade requests throughout the trading day. The Bank’s practice was to aggregate FX
transactions for all SI clients and group them by currency pair. Near the end of the
trading day or session, the Bank assigned prices to the Standing Instruction FX trade
requests it had received from its clients throughout that day or session. During the
relevant period, the Bank priced its clients’ Standing Instruction transactions at or near
the worst interbank rates reported during that day or session, in the way that was most
beneficial to the Bank, which obtained more favorable rates on its own behalf when
buying and selling foreign currency in the interbank market.
14.
After the merger of Mellon Bank and Bank of New York, to determine the
price to assign to U.S. clients’ FX transactions, BNYM’s U.S. transaction desks started
with a programmed spreadsheet that was designed to calculate a “suggested” client price
at or near the high and low ends of the range of rates available on the interbank market
that day or session.
15.
In calculating the suggested rate, the spreadsheet took into account two
constraints. The first was the daily rate schedule that BNYM published each morning.
BNYM’s U.S. transaction desks determined the daily buy and sell rate for each currency
pair by taking the reported interbank bid or offer at that particular time and applying a
spread; the amount of that spread varied over time and by currency. The rate ranges
reported on the daily schedule were “worst case scenario” rates; they were set with an eye
toward ensuring that BNYM would be able to profit on each Standing Instruction FX
transaction absent unusual circumstances. The second general pricing constraint was a
restriction that the actual rate assigned to each Standing Instruction transaction would not
be greater than three percent from the interbank bid and offer rates as reported by certain
reporting services.
16.
BNYM’s U.S. transaction desks then considered the actual trading range
for each currency on the interbank market that day and multiplied each end of the actual
range by a modifier to arrive at the “suggested” bid and offer rates. In most cases on any
given day, both the daily published buy and sell rates, and the three percent limit, were
far broader than the actual range of prices traded on the interbank market. Accordingly,
absent unusual circumstances, the spreadsheet simply multiplied the day’s highest
interbank offer by a modifier number of slightly less than 1 to produce the “suggested”
offer rate and multiplied the day’s lowest bid by a modifier number of slightly more than
1 to produce the suggested “bid” rate. If the suggested price was one that had occurred
during the New York trading day, the suggested price became the price that was assigned
to the client, logged in BNYM’s records for the client, and reported on client statements.
If the suggested rate was not one that had occurred during the New York trading day,
BNYM would assign a rate that had occurred during the New York trading day. In this
5

way, BNYM assigned rates to its clients that were always near the extreme ends, but still
within, the daily interbank market range for each currency pair.
D.

The Bank’s Representations to its Clients About its Standing
Instruction Services were Misleading

17.
Contrary to the representations set forth above, the Bank priced its clients’
Standing Instruction transactions near the end of the trading day at or near the worst rates
available on the interbank market that day or session. This generated substantial
revenues for BNYM based on the difference between the rates that BNYM assigned to its
clients and those that it obtained on its own behalf when buying and selling foreign
currency in the interbank market.
E.

The Bank Provided its RIC Clients with Misleading Transaction
Reports

18.
The Bank’s contracts with its RIC clients provided that the Bank would
furnish the RICs with, among other things, daily trade confirmations and monthly
transaction reports of all transfers to and from the accounts. The contracts further
provided that the books and records in the possession of the Bank were the property of
the RIC and would be prepared and maintained as required by the Investment Company
Act of 1940 and the rules thereunder.
19.
The daily trade confirmations and monthly transaction reports that the
Bank provided to its RIC clients included, among other things, the date of each
transaction and the assigned rate. However, the Bank did not specify the time the
transaction was executed, nor did it provide information about how it assigned specific
rates. Because exchange rates generally fluctuated throughout the day, and the rate
assigned by the Bank was within the range of interbank rates for that day, the omission in
FX confirmations and transaction reports of the time of execution and pricing
methodology was misleading because the documents omitted the information that would
have revealed that the Bank’s Standing Instruction service did not provide FX execution
in the manner represented by the Bank.
20.
From April 8, 2008 through August 8, 2011, BNYM obtained Standing
Instruction FX revenues as a result of the conduct described herein in the amount of
approximately $120 million from its RIC clients.
Violations
21.
As a result of the conduct described above, BNYM willfully1 violated
Section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act, which prohibits any person from making
1

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the
duty knows what he is doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000)
(quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that

6

any untrue statement of a material fact in any registration statement, application, report,
account, record, or other document filed or transmitted pursuant to the Act or the keeping
of which is required pursuant to Section 31(a), and provides that it shall be unlawful for
any person so filing, transmitting, or keeping any such document to omit to state therein
any fact necessary in order to prevent the statements made therein, in the light of the
circumstances under which they were made, from being materially misleading, and
BNYM also caused violations of Section 31(a) of the Investment Company Act and Rule
31a-1(b) thereunder, which require RICs to maintain records containing certain
information about their transactions.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, in the public
interest, to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent BNYM’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company
Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent BNYM cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Sections 31(a) and 34(b) of the Investment
Company Act and Rule 31a-1(b) thereunder.
B.
Respondent shall pay disgorgement, which represents revenue gained
from its RIC clients as a result of the conduct described herein, of $120,000,000.00 and
prejudgment interest of $13,022,207.00, but that payment of such amount shall be
deemed satisfied by its payment of $133,022,207.00 under the terms of the Bank’s
settlements with the U.S. Department of Justice and the New York Attorney General in
U.S. v. The Bank of New York Mellon, No. 12-md-02335-LAK-JLC (S.D.N.Y.) and
People v. The Bank of New York Mellon Corp., No. 09/114735 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.). If timely
payment is not made in accordance with the terms of the settlements in the
aforementioned actions, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice
600, but the payment of such additional interest also shall be deemed satisfied by the
payments in these actions to the extent the accrued interest does not exceed the amounts
paid by the Bank to the U.S. Department of Justice and the New York Attorney General.
C.
Respondent shall, within ten days of the entry of the Order, pay a
civil money penalty in the amount of $30,000,000.00 to the Securities and Exchange
Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall
accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.

the actor “‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’” Id. (quoting
Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).

7

(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the
Commission, which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire
instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via
Pay.gov through the SEC website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check,
or United States postal money order, made payable to the
Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or
mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
BNYM as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a
copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Kathryn Pyszka,
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 175 West Jackson
Boulevard, Chicago, IL 60604.
D.
Respondent shall report to the Commission staff once a year for a three
year period the status of its remediation and implementation of compliance measures
relating to the Standing Instruction FX trading program offered to its RIC custodial
clients discussed in the Order, its Defined Spread and Session Range Standing Instruction
FX Trading Programs offered to RIC custodial clients, and any successor Standing
Instruction FX Trading Programs offered to RIC custodial clients (hereinafter, the
“Programs”). During this three-year period, Respondent shall promptly report (within
thirty days) to the Commission any potential misconduct involving the Programs that
Respondent discovers or any allegations of such misconduct that Respondent receives.
During this three-year period, Respondent shall: (1) conduct an initial review and submit
an initial report, and (2) conduct and prepare two annual follow-up reviews and reports,
as described below:
(1) Respondent shall submit to the Commission staff, within 180 days of
the entry of the Order, a written report setting forth a complete
description of its remediation efforts relating to the Programs,
including measures taken to date and any additional proposals
reasonably designed to improve its remediation and implementation of
compliance measures concerning the Programs, and also including
procedures for subsequent internal audits to ensure the effectiveness of
such remedial efforts and compliance measures (the “Initial Report”).
8

The Initial Report shall be transmitted to Kathryn Pyszka, Assistant
Director, Division of Enforcement, United States Securities and
Exchange Commission, 175 W. Jackson St., Ste. 900, Chicago, IL
60604. Respondent shall also provide a copy of the Initial Report to
its external auditors. Respondent may extend the time period for
submission of the Initial Report with prior written approval of the
Commission staff.
(2) Respondent shall undertake two annual follow up reviews and submit
to Commission staff two follow up reports (the “Follow-up Reports”),
incorporating any comments provided by the Commission staff on the
previous report, to further report on its remediation and
implementation of compliance measures relating to the Programs. In
the Follow-up Reports, Respondent shall also provide the Commission
staff with its updated assessment of the effectiveness of these policies
and procedures.
(3) The first Follow-up Report shall be completed by no later than 365
days after the Initial Report. The second Follow-up Report shall be
completed no later than 365 days after the completion of the first
Follow-up Report. Each Follow-up Report shall be provided to
Kathryn Pyszka at the address listed above. Respondent shall also
provide a copy of each Follow-up Report to its external auditors.
Respondent may extend the time period for issuance of the Follow-up
Reports with prior written approval of the Commission staff.
(4) During this three-year period of review, Respondent shall provide its
external auditors with the results of the internal audits of its remedial
efforts and compliance measures discussed in paragraph 1 above.
(5) During this three-year period of review, Respondent shall provide the
Commission staff with any written reports, responses or
recommendations provided to it by Respondent’s external auditors in
connection with the information provided by Respondent to the
external auditors pursuant to paragraph 4 above.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

9

Annex A
Respondent admits the facts set forth below:
1.

2.

BNYM’s Standing Instruction Service
a.

BNYM and its predecessors the Bank of New York and Mellon Bank
(collectively, the “Bank”) act as a custody and trust bank providing an
array of custodial services to clients, including public pension funds,
states, colleges, charities and foundations. In providing such custodial
services, the Bank is obligated to act in certain circumstances as a
fiduciary with respect to those clients.

b.

From at least 2000 through 2011, the Bank provided FX products to its
custodial clients, which clients utilized when purchasing or selling foreign
securities or repatriating income from foreign investments to U.S. dollars.
One of the FX products the Bank provided was the Standing Instruction
(“SI”) product. When clients or their investment managers selected the SI
product in accordance with the terms of the SI product, the Bank would
automatically process and execute the clients’ FX trades without
supervision or direct involvement from clients.

How BNYM Priced Standing Instruction Foreign Exchange Transactions
a.

Throughout a trading day or session (which could be as long as 24 hours),
as each custodial client’s account generated FX transactions to be
executed pursuant to SIs, the Bank’s practice was to aggregate those FX
transactions for all SI clients and group them by currency pair. Near the
end of the trading day or session, the Bank priced those SI FX trade
requests it had received throughout that day or session.

b.

To determine the price for each SI FX transaction for most currencies, the
Bank examined the range of reported interbank rates from the trading day
or session and assigned the rate on SI trades as follows: if the client was
purchasing foreign currency, the client received a price at or close to the
highest reported interbank rate for that day or session (at or near the least
favorable interbank price for the client reported during the trading day or
session), and if the client was selling foreign currency, the client received
a price at or close to the lowest reported interbank rate of the day or
session (also at or near the least favorable interbank price for the client
reported during the trading day or session).

c.

Because SI clients received pricing at or near the high end of the reported
interbank range for their currency purchases and at or near the low end of
the reported interbank range for their sales, the Bank was generally buying
low from, and selling high to, its own clients. The Bank recorded the

difference or “spread” between the rates it gave clients and the interbank
market price at the time the SI transactions were priced as “sales margin.”
3.

BNYM’s Representations to Its Clients
a.

The Bank made representations to existing and potential custodial clients
concerning the SI product. The Bank made these representations in
various written and oral communications with clients, including certain
responses to requests for proposals and on the Bank’s website.

b.

Specifically, the Bank made the following representations to certain
existing and potential clients concerning the SI product:
i.

The service provided “benefits” to its clients, including
“FX execution according to best execution standards.”

ii.

The Bank “ensures best execution on foreign exchange
transactions through the following mechanisms: As a major
market participant, the Bank is actively engaged in making
markets and taking position in numerous currencies so that
we can provide the best rates for our clients.”

iii.

“Understanding the fiduciary role of the fund manager, it is
our goal to provide best execution for all foreign exchange
executed in support of our clients’ transactions.”

iv.

“Best execution encompasses a variety of services
designed to maximize the proceeds of each trade, while
containing inherent risks and the total cost of processing.”

v.

“We price foreign exchange at levels generally reflecting
the interbank market at the time the trade is executed by the
foreign exchange desk.”

vi.

“We also support post-trade analysis ... to assist the fund
manager in demonstrating that the execution of each trade
was consistent with the goal of maximizing the value of the
client portfolio.”

vii.

“If the client has standing income exchange instructions
with us, our system automates the conversion process based
on the current foreign exchange rate input.”

viii.

The Bank’s “primary focus is on securing the best possible
rates for our clients rather than on trading for the bank’s
own account.”

2

ix.

4.

“Operationally simple, free of charge and integrated with
the client’s activity on the various securities markets, FX
standing instruction is designed to help clients minimize
risks and costs related to the foreign exchange and
concentrate on their core business.”

BNYM Did Not Provide Its SI Clients with the Best Price
a.

Contrary to the representations set forth above, including that BNYM
offered “best rates,” the Bank gave SI clients prices that were at or near
the worst interbank rates reported during the trading day or session.

b.

The Bank generally did not disclose its SI FX pricing methodology
discussed above to its custodial clients or their investment managers.

c.

The Bank was aware that many clients did not fully understand the Bank’s
pricing methodology for SI transactions.

d.

The Bank was aware that many market participants equated “best
execution” with best price or considered best price to be one of the most
important factors in determining best execution.

3

