INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
[AS AMENDED
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

THROUGH

P.L. 112-90,

APPROVED

JANUARY 3, 2012]

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Findings and Declaration of Policy. 

2. General Definitions. 

3. Definition of Investment Company. 

4. Classification of Investment Companies. 

5. Subclassification of Management Companies. 

6. Exemptions. 

7. Transactions by Unregistered Investment Companies. 

8. Registration of Investment Companies. 

9. Ineligibility of Certain Affiliated Persons and Underwriters. 

10. Affiliations of Directors. 

11. Offers of Exchange. 

12. Functions and Activities of Investment Companies. 

13. Changes in Investment Policy. 

14. Size of Investment Companies. 

15. Investment Advisory and Underwriting Contracts. 

16. Changes in Board of Directors; Provisions Relative to Strict Trusts. 

17. Transactions of Certain Affiliated Persons and Underwriters. 

18. Capital Structure. 

19. Dividends. 

20. Proxies; Voting Trusts; Circular Ownership. 

21. Loans. 

22. Distribution, Redemption, and Repurchase of Redeemable Securities. 

23. Distribution and Repurchase of Securities: Closed-End Companies. 

24. Registration of Securities Under Securities Act of 1933. 

25. Plans of Reorganization. 

26. Unit Investment Trusts. 

27. Periodic Payment Plans. 

28. Face-Amount Certificate Companies. 

29. Bankruptcy of Face-Amount Certificate Companies. 

30. Periodic and Other Reports; Reports of Affiliated Persons. 

31. Accounts and Records. 

32. Accountants and Auditors. 

33. Filing of Documents With Commission in Civil Actions. 

34. Destruction and Falsification of Reports and Records. 

35. Unlawful Representations and Names. 

36. Breach of Fiduciary Duty. 

37. Larceny and Embezzlement. 

38. Rules, Regulations, and Orders; General Powers of Commission. 

39. Rules and Regulations; Procedure for Issuance. 

40. Orders; Procedure for Issuance. 

41. Hearings by Commission. 

42. Enforcement of Title. 

43. Court Review of Orders. 

44. Jurisdiction of Offenses and Suits. 

45. Information Filed With Commission. 

46. Annual Reports of Commission; Employees of the Commission. 

47. Validity of Contracts. 

48. Liability of Controlling Persons; Preventing Compliance With Title. 

49. Penalties. 

50. Effect on Existing Law. 

51. Separability of Provisions. 

52. Short Title. 

53. Effective Date. 

54. Election to Be Regulated As A Business Development Company. 

1

Sec. 1
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

2

Functions and Activities of Business Development Companies. 

Qualifications of Directors. 

Transactions With Certain Affiliates. 

Changes in Investment Policy. 

Incorporation of Provisions. 

Functions and Activities of Business Development Companies. 

Capital Structure. 

Loans. 

Distribution and Repurchase of Securities. 

Accounts and Records. 

Liability of Controlling Persons; Preventing Compliance With Title.

FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF POLICY

SEC. 1. (a) Upon the basis of facts disclosed by the record and
reports of the Securities and Exchange Commission made pursuant
to section 30 of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935,
and facts otherwise disclosed and ascertained, it is hereby found
that investment companies are affected with a national public in­
terest in that, among other things—
(1) the securities issued by such companies, which con­
stitute a substantial part of all securities publicly offered, are
distributed, purchased, paid for, exchanged, transferred, re­
deemed, and repurchased by use of the mails and means and
instrumentalities of interstate commerce, and in the case of the
numerous companies which issue redeemable securities this
process of distribution and redemption is continuous;
(2) the principal activities of such companies-investing, re­
investing, and trading in securities-are conducted by use of the
mails and means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce,
including the facilities of national securities exchanges, and
constitute a substantial part of all transactions effected in the
securities markets of the Nation;
(3) such companies customarily invest and trade in securi­
ties issued by, and may dominate and control or otherwise af­
fect the policies and management of, companies engaged in
business in interstate commerce;
(4) such companies are media for the investment in the na­
tional economy of a substantial part of the national savings
and may have a vital effect upon the flow of such savings into
the capital markets; and
(5) the activities of such companies, extending over many
States, their use of the instrumentalities of interstate com­
merce and the wide geographic distribution of their security
holders, make difficult, if not impossible, effective State regula­
tion of such companies in the interest of investors.
(b) Upon the basis of facts disclosed by the record and reports
of the Securities and Exchange Commission made pursuant to sec­
tion 30 of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, and
facts otherwise disclosed and ascertained, it is hereby declared that
the national public interest and the interest of investors are ad­
versely affected—
(1) when investors purchase, pay for, exchange, receive
dividends upon, vote, refrain from voting, sell, or surrender se­
curities issued by investment companies without adequate, ac­
curate, and explicit information, fairly presented, concerning

3

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 2

the character of such securities and the circumstances, policies,
and financial responsibility of such companies and their man­
agement;
(2) when investment companies are organized, operated,
managed, or their portfolio securities are selected, in the inter­
est of directors, officers, investment advisers, depositors, or
other affiliated persons thereof, in the interest of underwriters,
brokers, or dealers, in the interest of special classes of their se­
curity holders, or in the interest of other investment companies
or persons engaged in other lines of business, rather than in
the interest of all classes of such companies’ security holders;
(3) when investment companies issue securities containing
inequitable or discriminatory provisions, or fail to protect the
preferences and privileges of the holders of their outstanding
securities;
(4) when the control of investment companies is unduly
concentrated through pyramiding or inequitable methods of
control, or is inequitably distributed, or when investment com­
panies are managed by irresponsible persons;
(5) when investment companies, in keeping their accounts,
in maintaining reserves, and in computing their earnings and
the asset value of their outstanding securities, employ unsound
or misleading methods, or are not subjected to adequate inde­
pendent scrutiny;
(6) when investment companies are reorganized, become
inactive, or change the character of their business, or when the
control or management thereof is transferred, without the con­
sent of their security holders;
(7) when investment companies by excessive borrowing
and the issuance of excessive amounts of senior securities in­
crease unduly the speculative character of their junior securi­
ties; or
(8) when investment companies operate without adequate
assets or reserves.
It is hereby declared that the policy and purposes of this title, in
accordance with which the provisions of this title shall be inter­
preted, are to mitigate and, so far as is feasible, to eliminate the
conditions enumerated in this section which adversely affect the
national public interest and the interest of investors.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 1, 54 Stat. 789.)
GENERAL DEFINITIONS

SEC. 2. (a) When used in this title, unless the context other­
wise requires—
(1) ‘‘Advisory board’’ means a board, whether elected or ap­
pointed, which is distinct from the board of directors or board
of trustees, of an investment company, and which is composed
solely of persons who do not serve such company in any other
capacity, whether or not the functions of such board are such
as to render its members ‘‘directors’’ within the definition of
that term, which board has advisory functions as to invest­

Sec. 2

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

4

ments but has no power to determine that any security or
other investment shall be purchased or sold by such company.
(2) ‘‘Affiliated company’’ means a company which is an af­
filiated person.
(3) ‘‘Affiliated person’’ of another person means (A) any
person directly or indirectly owning, controlling, or holding
with power to vote, 5 per centum or more of the outstanding
voting securities of such other person; (B) any person 5 per
centum or more of whose outstanding voting securities are di­
rectly or indirectly owned, controlled, or held with power to
vote, by such other person; (C) any person directly or indirectly
controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such
other person; (D) any officer, director, partner, copartner, or
employee of such other person; (E) if such other person is an
investment company, any investment adviser thereof or any
member of an advisory board thereof; and (F) if such other per­
son is an unincorporated investment company not having a
board of directors, the depositor thereof.
(4) ‘‘Assignment’’ includes any direct or indirect transfer or
hypothecation of a contract or chose in action by the assignor,
or of a controlling block of the assignor’s outstanding voting se­
curities by a security holder of the assignor; but does not in­
clude an assignment of partnership interests incidental to the
death or withdrawal of a minority of the members of the part­
nership having only a minority interest in the partnership
business or to the admission to the partnership of one or more
members who, after such admission, shall be only a minority
of the members and shall have only a minority interest in the
business.
(5) ‘‘Bank’’ means (A) a depository institution (as defined
in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) or a branch
or agency of a foreign bank (as such terms are defined in sec­
tion 1(b) of the International Banking Act of 1978), (B) a mem­
ber bank of the Federal Reserve System, (C) any other banking
institution or trust company, whether incorporated or not,
doing business under the laws of any State or of the United
States, a substantial portion of the business of which consists
of receiving deposits or exercising fiduciary powers similar to
those permitted to national banks under the authority of the
Comptroller of the Currency, and which is supervised and ex­
amined by State or Federal authority having supervision over
banks, and which is not operated for the purpose of evading
the provisions of this title, and (D) a receiver, conservator, or
other liquidating agent of any institution or firm included in
clause (A), (B), or (C) of this paragraph.
(6) The term ‘‘broker’’ has the same meaning as given in
section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that
such term does not include any person solely by reason of the
fact that such person is an underwriter for one or more invest­
ment companies.
(7) ‘‘Commission’’ means the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
(8) ‘‘Company’’ means a corporation, a partnership, an as­
sociation, a joint-stock company, a trust, a fund, or any orga­

5

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 2

nized group of persons whether incorporated or not; or any re­
ceiver, trustee in a case under title 11 of the United States
Code or similar official or any liquidating agent for any of the
foregoing, in his capacity as such.
(9) ‘‘Control’’ means the power to exercise a controlling in­
fluence over the management or policies of a company, unless
such power is solely the result of an official position with such
company.
Any person who owns beneficially, either directly or
through one or more controlled companies, more than 25 per
centum of the voting securities of a company shall be presumed
to control such company. Any person who does not so own
more than 25 per centum of the voting securities of any com­
pany shall be presumed not to control such company. A natural
person shall be presumed not to be a controlled person within
the meaning of this title. Any such presumption may be rebut­
ted by evidence, but except as hereinafter provided, shall con­
tinue until a determination to the contrary made by the Com­
mission by order either on its own motion or on application by
an interested person. If an application filed hereunder is not
granted or denied by the Commission within sixty days after
filing thereof, the determination sought by the application
shall be deemed to have been temporarily granted pending
final determination of the Commission thereon. The Commis­
sion, upon its own motion or upon application, may by order
revoke or modify any order issued under this paragraph when­
ever it shall find that the determination embraced in such
original order is no longer consistent with the facts.
(10) ‘‘Convicted’’ includes a verdict, judgment, or plea of
guilty, or a finding of guilt on a plea of nolo contendere, if such
verdict, judgment, plea, or finding has not been reversed, set
aside, or withdrawn, whether or not sentence has been im­
posed.
(11) The term ‘‘dealer’’ has the same meaning as given in
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but does not include an
insurance company or investment company.
(12) ‘‘Director’’ means any director of a corporation or any
person performing similar functions with respect to any organi­
zation, whether incorporated or unincorporated, including any
natural person who is a member of a board of trustees of a
management company created as a common-law trust.
(13) ‘‘Employees’ securities company’’ means any invest­
ment company or similar issuer all of the outstanding securi­
ties of which (other than short-term paper) are beneficially
owned (A) by the employees or persons on retainer of a single
employer or of two or more employers each of which is an af­
filiated company of the other, (B) by former employees of such
employer or employers, (C) by members of the immediate fam­
ily of such employees, persons on retainer, or former employ­
ees, (D) by any two or more of the foregoing classes of persons,
or (E) by such employer or employers together with any one or
more of the foregoing classes of persons.
(14) ‘‘Exchange’’ means any organization, association, or
group of persons, whether incorporated or unincorporated,

Sec. 2

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

6

which constitutes, maintains, or provides a market place or fa­
cilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of securi­
ties or for otherwise performing with respect to securities the
functions commonly performed by a stock exchange as that
term is generally understood, and includes the market place
and the market facilities maintained by such exchange.
(15) ‘‘Face-amount certificate’’ means any certificate, in­
vestment contract, or other security which represents an obli­
gation on the part of its issuer to pay a stated or determinable
sum or sums at a fixed or determinable date or dates more
than twenty-four months after the date of issuance, in consid­
eration of the payment of periodic installments of a stated or
determinable amount (which security shall be known as a faceamount certificate of the ‘‘installment type’’); or any security
which represents a similar obligation on the part of a faceamount certificate company, the consideration for which is the
payment of a single lump sum (which security shall be known
as a ‘‘fully paid’’ face-amount certificate).
(16) ‘‘Government security’’ means any security issued or
guaranteed as to principal or interest by the United States, or
by a person controlled or supervised by and acting as an in­
strumentality of the Government of the United States pursu­
ant to authority granted by the Congress of the United States;
or any certificate of deposit for any of the foregoing.
(17) ‘‘Insurance company’’ means a company which is orga­
nized as an insurance company, whose primary and predomi­
nant business activity is the writing of insurance or the rein­
suring of risks underwritten by insurance companies, and
which is subject to supervision by the insurance commissioner
or a similar official or agency of a State; or any receiver or
similar official or any liquidating agent for such a company, in
his capacity as such.
(18) ‘‘Interstate commerce’’ means trade, commerce, trans­
portation, or communication among the several States, or be­
tween any foreign country and any State, or between any State
and any place or ship outside thereof.
(19) ‘‘Interested person’’ of another person means—
(A) when used with respect to an investment com­
pany—
(i) any affiliated person of such company,
(ii) any member of the immediate family of any
natural person who is an affiliated person of such com­
pany,
(iii) any interested person of any investment ad­
viser of or principal underwriter for such company,
(iv) any person or partner or employee of any per­
son who at any time since the beginning of the last
two completed fiscal years of such company has acted
as legal counsel for such company,
(v) any person or any affiliated person of a person
(other than a registered investment company) that, at
any time during the 6-month period preceding the
date of the determination of whether that person or af­
filiated person is an interested person, has executed

7

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 2

any portfolio transactions for, engaged in any principal
transactions with, or distributed shares for—
(I) the investment company;
(II) any other investment company having the
same investment adviser as such investment com­
pany or holding itself out to investors as a related
company for purposes of investment or investor
services; or
(III) any account over which the investment
company’s investment adviser has brokerage
placement discretion,
(vi) any person or any affiliated person of a person
(other than a registered investment company) that, at
any time during the 6-month period preceding the
date of the determination of whether that person or af­
filiated person is an interested person, has loaned
money or other property to—
(I) the investment company;
(II) any other investment company having the
same investment adviser as such investment com­
pany or holding itself out to investors as a related
company for purposes of investment or investor
services; or
(III) any account for which the investment
company’s investment adviser has borrowing au­
thority, and
(vii) any natural person whom the Commission by
order shall have determined to be an interested person
by reason of having had, at any time since the begin­
ning of the last two completed fiscal years of such
company, a material business or professional relation­
ship with such company or with the principal execu­
tive officer of such company or with any other invest­
ment company having the same investment adviser or
principal underwriter or with the principal executive
officer of such other investment company:
Provided, That no person shall be deemed to be an inter­
ested person of an investment company solely by reason of
(aa) his being a member of its board of directors or advi­
sory board or an owner of its securities, or (bb) his mem­
bership in the immediate family of any person specified in
clause (aa) of this proviso; and
(B) when used with respect to an investment adviser
of or principal underwriter for any investment company—
(i) any affiliated person of such investment ad­
viser or principal underwriter,
(ii) any member of the immediate family of any
natural person who is an affiliated person of such in­
vestment advisor or principal underwriter,
(iii) any person who knowingly has any direct or
indirect beneficial interest in, or who is designated as
trustee, executor, or guardian of any legal interest in,
any security issued either by such investment adviser

Sec. 2

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

8

or principal underwriter or by a controlling person of
such investment adviser or principal underwriter,
(iv) any person or partner or employee of any per­
son who at any time since the beginning of the last
two completed fiscal years of such investment com­
pany has acted as legal counsel for such investment
adviser or principal underwriter,
(v) any person or any affiliated person of a person
(other than a registered investment company) that, at
any time during the 6-month period preceding the
date of the determination of whether that person or af­
filiated person is an interested person, has executed
any portfolio transactions for, engaged in any principal
transactions with, or distributed shares for—
(I) any investment company for which the in­
vestment adviser or principal underwriter serves
as such;
(II) any investment company holding itself out
to investors, for purposes of investment or inves­
tor services, as a company related to any invest­
ment company for which the investment adviser
or principal underwriter serves as such; or
(III) any account over which the investment
adviser has brokerage placement discretion,
(vi) any person or any affiliated person of a person
(other than a registered investment company) that, at
any time during the 6-month period preceding the
date of the determination of whether that person or af­
filiated person is an interested person, has loaned
money or other property to—
(I) any investment company for which the in­
vestment adviser or principal underwriter serves
as such;
(II) any investment company holding itself out
to investors, for purposes of investment or inves­
tor services, as a company related to any invest­
ment company for which the investment adviser
or principal underwriter serves as such; or
(III) any account for which the investment ad­
viser has borrowing authority, and
(vii) any natural person whom the Commission by
order shall have determined to be an interested person
by reason of having had at any time since the begin­
ning of the last two completed fiscal years of such in­
vestment company a material business or professional
relationship with such investment adviser or principal
underwriter or with the principal executive officer or
any controlling person of such investment adviser or
principal underwriter.
For the purposes of this paragraph (19), ‘‘member of the imme­
diate family’’ means any parent, spouse of a parent, child,
spouse of a child, spouse, brother, or sister, and includes step
and adoptive relationships. The Commission may modify or re­
voke any order issued under clause (vii) of subparagraph (A)

9

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 2

or (B) of this paragraph whenever it finds that such order is
no longer consistent with the facts. No order issued pursuant
to clause (vii) of subparagraph (A) or (B) of this paragraph
shall become effective until at least sixty days after the entry
thereof, and no such order shall affect the status of any person
for the purposes of this title or for any other purpose for any
period prior to the effective date of such order.
(20) ‘‘Investment adviser’’ of an investment company
means (A) any person (other than a bona fide officer, director,
trustee, member of an advisory board, or employee of such
company, as such) who pursuant to contract with such com­
pany regularly furnishes advice to such company with respect
to the desirability of investing in, purchasing or selling securi­
ties or other property, or is empowered to determine what se­
curities or other property shall be purchased or sold by such
company, and (B) any other person who pursuant to contract
with a person described in clause (A) regularly performs sub­
stantially all of the duties undertaken by such person de­
scribed in clause (A); but does not include (i) a person whose
advice is furnished solely through uniform publications distrib­
uted to subscribers thereto, (ii) a person who furnishes only
statistical and other factual information, advice regarding eco­
nomic factors and trends, or advice as to occasional trans­
actions in specific securities, but without generally furnishing
advice or making recommendations regarding the purchase or
sale of securities, (iii) a company furnishing such services at
cost to one or more investment companies, insurance compa­
nies, or other financial institutions, (iv) any person the char­
acter and amount of whose compensation for such services
must be approved by a court, or (v) such other persons as the
Commission may by rules and regulations or order determine
not to be within the intent of this definition.
(21) ‘‘Investment banker’’ means any person engaged in
the business of underwriting securities issued by other per­
sons, but does not include an investment company, any person
who acts as an underwriter in isolated transactions but not as
a part of a regular business, or any person solely by reason of
the fact that such person is an underwriter for one or more in­
vestment companies.
(22) ‘‘Issuer’’ means every person who issues or proposes to
issue any security, or has outstanding any security which it
has issued.
(23) ‘‘Lend’’ includes a purchase coupled with an agree­
ment by the vendor to repurchase; ‘‘borrow’’ includes a sale
coupled with a similar agreement.
(24) ‘‘Majority-owned subsidiary’’ of a person means a com­
pany 50 per centum or more of the outstanding voting securi­
ties of which are owned by such person, or by a company
which, within the meaning of this paragraph, is a majorityowned subsidiary of such person.
(25) ‘‘Means or instrumentality of interstate commerce’’ in­
cludes any facility of a national securities exchange.

Sec. 2

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

10


(26) ‘‘National securities exchange’’ means an exchange
registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.
(27) ‘‘Periodic payment plan certificate’’ means (A) any cer­
tificate, investment contract, or other security providing for a
series of periodic payments by the holder, and representing an
undivided interest in certain specified securities or in a unit or
fund of securities purchased wholly or partly with the proceeds
of such payments, and (B) any security the issuer of which is
also issuing securities of the character described in clause (A)
and the holder of which has substantially the same rights and
privileges as those which holders of securities of the character
described in clause (A) have upon completing the periodic pay­
ments for which such securities provide.
(28) ‘‘Person’’ means a natural person or a company.
(29) ‘‘Principal underwriter’’ of or for any investment com­
pany other than a closed-end company, or of any security
issued by such a company, means any underwriter who as
principal purchases from such company, or pursuant to con­
tract has the right (whether absolute or conditional) from time
to time to purchase from such company, any such security for
distribution, or who as agent for such company sells or has the
right to sell any such security to a dealer or to the public or
both, but does not include a dealer who purchases from such
company through a principal underwriter acting as agent for
such company. ‘‘Principal underwriter’’ of or for a closed-end
company or any issuer which is not an investment company, or
of any security issued by such a company or issuer, means any
underwriter who, in connection with a primary distribution of
securities, (A) is in privity of contract with the issuer or an af­
filiated person of the issuer; (B) acting alone or in concert with
one or more other persons, initiates or directs the formation of
an underwriting syndicate; or (C) is allowed a rate of gross
commission, spread, or other profit greater than the rate al­
lowed another underwriter participating in the distribution.
(30) ‘‘Promoter’’ of a company or a proposed company
means a person who, acting alone or in concert with other per­
sons, is initiating or directing, or has within one year initiated
or directed, the organization of such company.
(31) ‘‘Prospectus’’, as used in section 22, means a written
prospectus intended to meet the requirements of section 10(a)
of the Securities Act of 1933 and currently in use. As used else­
where, ‘‘prospectus’’ means a prospectus as defined in the Secu­
rities Act of 1933.
(32) ‘‘Redeemable security’’ means any security, other than
short-term paper, under the terms of which the holder, upon
its presentation to the issuer or to a person designated by the
issuer, is entitled (whether absolutely or only out of surplus)
to receive approximately his proportionate share of the issuer’s
current net assets, or the cash equivalent thereof.
(33) ‘‘Reorganization’’ means (A) a reorganization under
the supervision of a court of competent jurisdiction; (B) a merg­
er or consolidation; (C) a sale of 75 per centum or more in
value of the assets of a company; (D) a restatement of the cap­

11

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 2


ital of a company, or an exchange of securities issued by a com­
pany for any of its own outstanding securities; (E) a voluntary
dissolution or liquidation of a company; (F) a recapitalization
or other procedure or transaction which has for its purpose the
alteration, modification, or elimination of any of the rights,
preferences, or privileges of any class of securities issued by a
company, as provided in its charter or other instrument cre­
ating or defining such rights, preferences, and privileges; (G)
an exchange of securities issued by a company for outstanding
securities issued by another company or companies, prelimi­
nary to and for the purpose of effecting or consummating any
of the foregoing; or (H) any exchange of securities by a com­
pany which is not an investment company for securities issued
by a registered investment company.
(34) ‘‘Sale’’, ‘‘sell’’, ‘‘offer to sell’’, or ‘‘offer for sale’’ includes
every contract of sale or disposition of, attempt or offer to dis­
pose of, or solicitation of an offer to buy, a security or interest
in a security, for value. Any security given or delivered with,
or as a bonus on account of, any purchase of securities or any
other thing, shall be conclusively presumed to constitute a part
of the subject of such purchase and to have been sold for value.
(35) ‘‘Sales load’’ means the difference between the price of
a security to the public and that portion of the proceeds from
its sale which is received and invested or held for investment
by the issuer (or in the case of a unit investment trust, by the
depositor or trustee), less any portion of such difference de­
ducted for trustee’s or custodian’s fee, insurance premiums,
issue taxes, or administrative expenses or fees which are not
properly chargeable to sales or promotional activities. In the
case of a periodic payment plan certificate, ‘‘sales load’’ in­
cludes the sales load on any investment company securities in
which the payments made on such certificate are invested, as
well as the sales load on the certificate itself.
(36) ‘‘Security’’ means any note, stock, treasury stock, secu­
rity future, bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, certifi­
cate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing agree­
ment, collateral-trust certificate, preorganization certificate or
subscription, transferable share, investment contract, votingtrust certificate, certificate of deposit for a security, fractional
undivided interest in oil, gas, or other mineral rights, any put,
call, straddle, option, or privilege on any security (including a
certificate of deposit) or on any group or index of securities (in­
cluding any interest therein or based on the value thereof), or
any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege entered into on a
national securities exchange relating to foreign currency, or, in
general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a ‘‘se­
curity’’, or any certificate of interest or participation in, tem­
porary or interim certificate for, receipt for, guarantee of, or
warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase, any of the fore­
going.
(37) ‘‘Separate account’’ means an account established and
maintained by an insurance company pursuant to the laws of
any State or territory of the United States, or of Canada or any
province thereof, under which income, gains and losses, wheth­

Sec. 2

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

12


er or not realized, from assets allocated to such account, are,
in accordance with the applicable contract, credited to or
charged against such account without regard to other income,
gains, or losses of the insurance company.
(38) ‘‘Short-term paper’’ means any note, draft, bill of ex­
change, or banker’s acceptance payable on demand or having
a maturity at the time of issuance of not exceeding nine
months, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof pay­
able on demand or having a maturity likewise limited; and
such other classes of securities, of a commercial rather than an
investment character, as the Commission may designate by
rules and regulations.
(39) ‘‘State’’ means any State of the United States, the Dis­
trict of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other
possession of the United States. [1]
(40) ‘‘Underwriter’’ means any person who has purchased
from an issuer with a view to, or sells for an issuer in connec­
tion with, the distribution of any security, or participates or
has a direct or indirect participation in any such undertaking,
or participates or has a participation in the direct or indirect
underwriting of any such undertaking; but such term shall not
include a person whose interest is limited to a commission
from an underwriter or dealer not in excess of the usual and
customary distributor’s or seller’s commission. As used in this
paragraph the term ‘‘issuer’’ shall include, in addition to an
issuer, any person directly or indirectly controlling or con­
trolled by the issuer, or any person under direct or indirect
common control with the issuer. When the distribution of the
securities in respect of which any person is an underwriter is
completed such person shall cease to be an underwriter in re­
spect of such securities or the issuer thereof.
(41) ‘‘Value’’, with respect to assets of registered invest­
ment companies, except as provided in subsection (b) of section
28 of this title, means—
(A) as used in sections 3, 5, and 12 of this title, (i)
with respect to securities owned at the end of the last pre­
ceding fiscal quarter for which market quotations are read­
ily available, the market value at the end of such quarter;
(ii) with respect to other securities and assets owned at the
end of the last preceding fiscal quarter, fair value at the
end of such quarter, as determined in good faith by the
board of directors; and (iii) with respect to securities and
other assets acquired after the end of the last preceding
fiscal quarter, the cost thereof; and
(B) as used elsewhere in this title, (i) with respect to
securities for which market quotations are readily avail­
able, the market value of such securities; and (ii) with re­
spect to other securities and assets, fair value as deter­
mined in good faith by the board of directors;
in each case as of such time or times as determined pursuant
to this title, and the rules and regulations issued by the Com­
1The words ‘‘Philippine Islands’’ were deleted from the definition of the term ‘‘State’’ on the
basis of Presidential Proclamation No. 2695, effective July 4, 1946 (11 F.R. 7517; 60 Stat. 1352),
which granted independence to the Philippine Islands.

13

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 2


mission hereunder. Notwithstanding the fact that market
quotations for securities issued by controlled companies are
available, the board of directors may in good faith determine
the value of such securities: Provided, That the value so deter­
mined is not in excess of the higher of market value or asset
value of such securities in the case of majority-owned subsidi­
aries, and is not in excess of market value in the case of other
controlled companies.
For purposes of the valuation of those assets of a reg­
istered diversified company which are not subject to the limita­
tions provided for in section 5(b)(1), the Commission may, by
rules and regulations or orders, permit any security to be car­
ried at cost, if it shall determine that such procedure is con­
sistent with the general intent and purposes of this title. For
purposes of sections 5 and 12, in lieu of values determined as
provided in clause (A) above, the Commission shall by rules
and regulations permit valuation of securities at cost or other
basis in cases where it may be more convenient for such com­
pany to make its computations on such basis by reason of the
necessity or desirability of complying with the provisions of
any United States revenue laws or rules and regulations issued
thereunder, or the laws or the rules and regulations issued
thereunder of any State in which the securities of such com­
pany may be qualified for sale.
The foregoing definition shall not derogate from the au­
thority of the Commission with respect to the reports, informa­
tion, and documents to be filed with the Commission by any
registered company, or with respect to the accounting policies
and principles to be following by any such company, as pro­
vided in sections 8, 30, and 31.
(42) ‘‘Voting security’’ means any security presently enti­
tling the owner or holder thereof to vote for the election of di­
rectors of a company. A specified percentage of the outstanding
voting securities of a company means such amount of its out­
standing voting securities as entitles the holder or holders
thereof to cast said specified percentage of the aggregate votes
which the holders of all the outstanding voting securities of
such company are entitled to cast. The vote of a majority of the
outstanding voting securities of a company means the vote, at
the annual or a special meeting of the security holders of such
company duly called, (A) of 67 per centum or more of the vot­
ing securities present at such meeting, if the holders of more
than 50 per centum of the outstanding voting securities of such
company are present or represented by proxy; or (B) of more
than 50 per centum of the outstanding voting securities of such
company, whichever is the less.
(43) ‘‘Wholly-owned subsidiary’’ of a person means a com­
pany 95 per centum or more of the outstanding voting securi­
ties of which are owned by such person, or by a company
which, within the meaning of this paragraph, is a whollyowned subsidiary of such person.
(44) ‘‘Securities Act of 1933’’, ‘‘Securities Exchange Act of
1934’’, and ‘‘Trust Indenture Act of 1939’’ means those Acts, re­
spectively, as heretofore or hereafter amended.

Sec. 2

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

14


(45) ‘‘Savings and loan association’’ means a savings and
loan association, building and loan association, cooperative
bank, homestead association, or similar institution, which is
supervised and examined by State or Federal authority having
supervision over any such institution, and a receiver, conser­
vator, or other liquidating agent of any such institution.
(46) ‘‘Eligible portfolio company’’ means any issuer which—
(A) is organized under the laws of, and has its prin­
cipal place of business in, any State or States;
(B) is neither an investment company as defined in
section 3 (other than a small business investment company
which is licensed by the Small Business Administration to
operate under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958
and which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the business de­
velopment company) nor a company which would be an in­
vestment company except for the exclusion from the defini­
tion of investment company in section 3(c); and
(C) satisfies one of the following:
(i) it does not have any class of securities with re­
spect to which a member of a national securities ex­
change, broker, or dealer may extend or maintain
credit to or for a customer pursuant to rules or regula­
tions adopted by the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System under section 7 of the Securities Ex­
change Act of 1934;
(ii) it is controlled by a business development com­
pany, either alone or as part of a group acting to­
gether, and such business development company in
fact exercises a controlling influence over the manage­
ment or policies of such eligible portfolio company and,
as a result of such control, has an affiliated person
who is a director of such eligible portfolio company;
(iii) it has total assets of not more than
$4,000,000, and capital and surplus (shareholders’ eq­
uity less retained earnings) of not less than
$2,000,000, except that the Commission may adjust
such amounts by rule, regulation, or order to reflect
changes in 1 or more generally accepted indices or
other indicators for small businesses; or
(iv) it meets such other criteria as the Commission
may, by rule, establish as consistent with the public
interest, the protection of investors, and the purposes
fairly intended by the policy and provisions of this
title.
(47) ‘‘Making available significant managerial assistance’’
by a business development company means—
(A) any arrangement whereby a business development
company, through its directors, officers, employees, or gen­
eral partners, offers to provide, and, if accepted, does so
provide, significant guidance and counsel concerning the
management, operations, or business objectives and poli­
cies of a portfolio company;
(B) the exercise by a business development company of
a controlling influence over the management or policies of

15

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 2


a portfolio company by the business development company
acting individually or as part of a group acting together
which controls such portfolio company; or
(C) with respect to a small business investment com­
pany licensed by the Small Business Administration to op­
erate under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958,
the making of loans to a portfolio company.
For purposes of subparagraph (A), the requirement that a busi­
ness development company make available significant manage­
rial assistance shall be deemed to be satisfied with respect to
any particular portfolio company where the business develop­
ment company purchases securities of such portfolio company
in conjunction with one or more other persons acting together,
and at least one of the persons in the group makes available
significant managerial assistance to such portfolio company,
except that such requirement will not be deemed to be satisfied
if the business development company, in all cases, makes
available significant managerial assistance solely in the man­
ner described in this sentence.
(48) ‘‘Business development company’’ means any
closedend company which—
(A) is organized under the laws of, and has its prin­
cipal place of business in, any State or States;
(B) is operated for the purpose of making investments
in securities described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of sec­
tion 55(a), and makes available significant managerial as­
sistance with respect to the issuers of such securities, pro­
vided that a business development company must make
available significant managerial assistance only with re­
spect to the companies which are treated by such business
development company as satisfying the 70 per centum of
the value of its total assets condition of section 55; and
provided further that a business development company
need not make available significant managerial assistance
with respect to any company described in paragraph
(46)(C)(iii), or with respect to any other company that
meets such criteria as the Commission may by rule, regu­
lation, or order permit, as consistent with the public inter­
est, the protection of investors, and the purposes of this
title; and
(C) has elected pursuant to section 54(a) to be subject
to the provisions of sections 55 through 65.
(49) ‘‘Foreign securities authority’’ means any foreign gov­
ernment or any governmental body or regulatory organization
empowered by a foreign government to administer or enforce
its laws as they relate to securities matters.
(50) ‘‘Foreign financial regulatory authority’’ means any
(A) foreign securities authority, (B) other governmental body or
foreign equivalent of a self-regulatory organization empowered
by a foreign government to administer or enforce its laws relat­
ing to the regulation of fiduciaries, trusts, commercial lending,
insurance, trading in contracts of sale of a commodity for fu­
ture delivery, or other instruments traded on or subject to the
rules of a contract market, board of trade or foreign equivalent,

Sec. 2

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

16


or other financial activities, or (C) membership organization a
function of which is to regulate the participation of its mem­
bers in activities listed above.
(51)(A) ‘‘Qualified purchaser’’ means—
(i) any natural person (including any person who holds
a joint, community property, or other similar shared own­
ership interest in an issuer that is excepted under section
3(c)(7) with that person’s qualified purchaser spouse) who
owns not less than $5,000,000 in investments, as defined
by the Commission;
(ii) any company that owns not less than $5,000,000 in
investments and that is owned directly or indirectly by or
for 2 or more natural persons who are related as siblings
or spouse (including former spouses), or direct lineal de­
scendants by birth or adoption, spouses of such persons,
the estates of such persons, or foundations, charitable or­
ganizations, or trusts established by or for the benefit of
such persons;
(iii) any trust that is not covered by clause (ii) and
that was not formed for the specific purpose of acquiring
the securities offered, as to which the trustee or other per­
son authorized to make decisions with respect to the trust,
and each settlor or other person who has contributed as­
sets to the trust, is a person described in clause (i), (ii), or
(iv); or
(iv) any person, acting for its own account or the ac­
counts of other qualified purchasers, who in the aggregate
owns and invests on a discretionary basis, not less than
$25,000,000 in investments.
(B) The Commission may adopt such rules and regulations
applicable to the persons and trusts specified in clauses (i)
through (iv) of subparagraph (A) as it determines are nec­
essary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protec­
tion of investors.
(C) The term ‘‘qualified purchaser’’ does not include a com­
pany that, but for the exceptions provided for in paragraph (1)
or (7) of section 3(c), would be an investment company (here­
after in this paragraph referred to as an ‘‘excepted investment
company’’), unless all beneficial owners of its outstanding secu­
rities (other than short-term paper), determined in accordance
with section 3(c)(1)(A), that acquired such securities on or be­
fore April 30, 1996 (hereafter in this paragraph referred to as
‘‘pre-amendment beneficial owners’’), and all pre-amendment
beneficial owners of the outstanding securities (other than
short-term paper) of any excepted investment company that,
directly or indirectly, owns any outstanding securities of such
excepted investment company, have consented to its treatment
as a qualified purchaser. Unanimous consent of all trustees, di­
rectors, or general partners of a company or trust referred to
in clause (ii) or (iii) of subparagraph (A) shall constitute con­
sent for purposes of this subparagraph.
(52) The terms ‘‘security future’’ and ‘‘narrow-based secu­
rity index’’ have the same meanings as provided in section
3(a)(55) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

17

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 3


(53) The term ‘‘credit rating agency’’ has the same mean­
ing as in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(54) The terms ‘‘commodity pool’’, ‘‘commodity pool oper­
ator’’, ‘‘commodity trading advisor’’, ‘‘major swap participant’’,
‘‘swap’’, ‘‘swap dealer’’, and ‘‘swap execution facility’’ have the
same meanings as in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange
Act (7 U.S.C. 1a).
(b) No provision in this title shall apply to, or be deemed to in­
clude, the United States, a State, or any political subdivision of a
State, or any agency, authority, or instrumentality of any one or
more of the foregoing, or any corporation which is wholly owned di­
rectly or indirectly by any one or more of the foregoing, or any offi­
cer, agent, or employee of any of the foregoing acting as such in the
course of his official duty, unless such provision makes specific ref­
erence thereto.
(c) CONSIDERATION OF PROMOTION OF EFFICIENCY, COMPETI­
TION, AND CAPITAL FORMATION.—Whenever pursuant to this title
the Commission is engaged in rulemaking and is required to con­
sider or determine whether an action is consistent with the public
interest, the Commission shall also consider, in addition to the pro­
tection of investors, whether the action will promote efficiency,
competition, and capital formation.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 2, 54 Stat. 790; Proc. No. 2695,
eff. July 4, 1946, 11 F.R. 7517, 60 Stat. 1352; Aug. 10, 1954, ch.
667, title IV, Sec. 401, 68 Stat. 688; Pub. L. 86-70, Sec. 12(d), June
25, 1959, 73 Stat. 143; Pub. L. 86-624, Sec. 7(c), July 12, 1960, 74
Stat. 412; Pub. L. 91-547, Sec. 2(a), Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1413;
Pub. L. 95-598, title III, Sec. 310(a), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2676;
Pub. L. 96-477, title I, Sec. 101, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2275; Pub.
L. 97-303, Sec. 5, Oct. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1409; Pub. L. 100-181,
title VI, Sec. 601-603, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1260; Pub. L. 101­
550, title II, Sec. 206(a), Nov. 15, 1990, 104 Stat. 2720; Pub. L. 104­
290, title I, Sec. 106(c), title II, Sec. 209(b), title V, Sec. 503, 504,
Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3425, 3434, 3445; Pub. L. 105-353, title III,
Sec. 301(c)(1), Nov. 3, 1998, 112 Stat. 3236; Pub. L. 106-102, title
II, Sec. 213(a), (b), 215, 216, 223, Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1397,
1399, 1401; Pub. L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5) [title II, Sec. 209(a)(1),
(3)], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-435, 2763A-436; Pub. L.
109-291, Sec. 4(b)(2)(A), Sept. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 1337; Pub. L.
111-203, title VII, Sec. 769, title IX, Secs. 985(d)(1), 986(c)(1), July
21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1801, 1934, 1936.)
DEFINITION OF INVESTMENT COMPANY

SEC. 3. (a)(1) When used in this title, ‘‘investment company’’
means any issuer which—
(A) is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily,
or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of invest­
ing, reinvesting, or trading in securities;
(B) is engaged or proposes to engage in the business
of issuing face-amount certificates of the installment type,
or has been engaged in such business and has any such
certificate outstanding; or

Sec. 3

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

18


(C) is engaged or proposes to engage in the business
of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in se­
curities, and owns or proposes to acquire investment secu­
rities having a value exceeding 40 per centum of the value
of such issuer’s total assets (exclusive of Government secu­
rities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis.
(2) As used in this section, ‘‘investment securities’’ includes all
securities except (A) Government securities, (B) securities issued by
employees’ securities companies, and (C) securities issued by
majority- owned subsidiaries of the owner which (i) are not invest­
ment companies, and (ii) are not relying on the exception from the
definition of investment company in paragraph (1) or (7) of sub­
section (c).
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(C) of subsection (a), none of
the following persons is an investment company within the mean­
ing of this title:
(1) Any issuer primarily engaged, directly or through a
wholly- owned subsidiary or subsidiaries, in a business or busi­
nesses other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, hold­
ing, or trading in securities.
(2) Any issuer which the Commission, upon application by
such issuer, finds and by order declares to be primarily en­
gaged in a business or businesses other than that of investing,
reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities either di­
rectly or (A) through majority-owned subsidiaries or (B)
through controlled companies conducting similar types of busi­
nesses. The filing of an application under this paragraph in
good faith by an issuer other than a registered investment
company shall exempt the applicant for a period of sixty days
from all provisions of this title applicable to investment compa­
nies as such. For cause shown, the Commission by order may
extend such period of exemption for an additional period or pe­
riods. Whenever the Commission, upon its own motion or upon
application, finds that the circumstances which gave rise to the
issuance of an order granting an application under this para­
graph no longer exist, the Commission shall by order revoke
such order.
(3) Any issuer all the outstanding securities of which
(other than short-term paper and directors’ qualifying shares)
are directly or indirectly owned by a company excepted from
the definition of investment company by paragraph (1) or (2)
of this subsection.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a), none of the following per­
sons is an investment company within the meaning of this title:
(1) Any issuer whose outstanding securities (other than
short- term paper) are beneficially owned by not more than one
hundred persons and which is not making and does not pres­
ently propose to make a public offering of its securities. Such
issuer shall be deemed to be an investment company for pur­
poses of the limitations set forth in subparagraphs (A)(i) and
(B)(i) of section 12(d)(1) governing the purchase or other acqui­
sition by such issuer of any security issued by any registered
investment company and the sale of any security issued by any

19

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 3


registered open-end investment company to any such issuer.
For purposes of this paragraph:
(A) Beneficial ownership by a company shall be
deemed to be beneficial ownership by one person, except
that, if the company owns 10 per centum or more of the
outstanding voting securities of the issuer, and is or, but
for the exception provided for in this paragraph or para­
graph (7), would be an investment company, the beneficial
ownership shall be deemed to be that of the holders of
such company’s outstanding securities (other than shortterm paper).
(B) Beneficial ownership by any person who acquires
securities or interests in securities of an issuer described
in the first sentence of this paragraph shall be deemed to
be beneficial ownership by the person from whom such
transfer was made, pursuant to such rules and regulations
as the Commission shall prescribe as necessary or appro­
priate in the public interest and consistent with the protec­
tion of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the
policy and provisions of this title, where the transfer was
caused by legal separation, divorce, death, or other invol­
untary event.
(2)(A) Any person primarily engaged in the business of un­
derwriting and distributing securities issued by other persons,
selling securities to customers, acting as broker, and acting as
market intermediary, or any one or more of such activities,
whose gross income normally is derived principally from such
business and related activities.
(B) For purposes of this paragraph—
(i) the term ‘‘market intermediary’’ means any person
that regularly holds itself out as being willing contempora­
neously to engage in, and that is regularly engaged in, the
business of entering into transactions on both sides of the
market for a financial contract or one or more such finan­
cial contracts; and
(ii) the term ‘‘financial contract’’ means any arrange­
ment that—
(I) takes the form of an individually negotiated
contract, agreement, or option to buy, sell, lend, swap,
or repurchase, or other similar individually negotiated
transaction commonly entered into by participants in
the financial markets;
(II) is in respect of securities, commodities, cur­
rencies, interest or other rates, other measures of
value, or any other financial or economic interest simi­
lar in purpose or function to any of the foregoing; and
(III) is entered into in response to a request from
a counter party for a quotation, or is otherwise entered
into and structured to accommodate the objectives of
the counter party to such arrangement.
(3) Any bank or insurance company; any savings and loan
association, building and loan association, cooperative bank,
homestead association, or similar institution, or any receiver,
conservator, liquidator, liquidating agent, or similar official or

Sec. 3

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

20


person thereof or therefor; or any common trust fund or similar
fund maintained by a bank exclusively for the collective invest­
ment and reinvestment of moneys contributed thereto by the
bank in its capacity as a trustee, executor, administrator, or
guardian, if—
(A) such fund is employed by the bank solely as an aid
to the administration of trusts, estates, or other accounts
created and maintained for a fiduciary purpose;
(B) except in connection with the ordinary advertising
of the bank’s fiduciary services, interests in such fund are
not—
(i) advertised; or
(ii) offered for sale to the general public; and
(C) fees and expenses charged by such fund are not in
contravention of fiduciary principles established under ap­
plicable Federal or State law.
(4) Any person substantially all of whose business is con­
fined to making small loans, industrial banking, or similar
businesses.
(5) Any person who is not engaged in the business of
issuing redeemable securities, face-amount certificates of the
installment type or periodic payment plan certificates, and who
is primarily engaged in one or more of the following busi­
nesses: (A) Purchasing or otherwise acquiring notes, drafts, ac­
ceptances, open accounts receivable, and other obligations rep­
resenting part or all of the sales price of merchandise, insur­
ance, and services; (B) making loans to manufacturers, whole­
salers, and retailers of, and to prospective purchasers of, speci­
fied merchandise, insurance, and services; and (C) purchasing
or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and inter­
ests in real estate.
(6) Any company primarily engaged, directly or through
majority-owned subsidiaries, in one or more of the businesses
described in paragraphs (3), (4), and (5), or in one or more of
such businesses (from which not less than 25 centum of such
company’s gross income during its last fiscal year was derived)
together with an additional business or businesses other than
investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities.
(7)(A) Any issuer, the outstanding securities of which are
owned exclusively by persons who, at the time of acquisition of
such securities, are qualified purchasers, and which is not
making and does not at that time propose to make a public of­
fering of such securities. Securities that are owned by persons
who received the securities from a qualified purchaser as a gift
or bequest, or in a case in which the transfer was caused by
legal separation, divorce, death, or other involuntary event,
shall be deemed to be owned by a qualified purchaser, subject
to such rules, regulations, and orders as the Commission may
prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors.
(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), an issuer is within
the exception provided by this paragraph if—

21

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 3


(i) in addition to qualified purchasers, outstanding se­
curities of that issuer are beneficially owned by not more
than 100 persons who are not qualified purchasers, if—
(I) such persons acquired any portion of the secu­
rities of such issuer on or before September 1, 1996;
and
(II) at the time at which such persons initially ac­
quired the securities of such issuer, the issuer was ex­
cepted by paragraph (1); and
(ii) prior to availing itself of the exception provided by
this paragraph—
(I) such issuer has disclosed to each beneficial
owner, as determined under paragraph (1), that future
investors will be limited to qualified purchasers, and
that ownership in such issuer is no longer limited to
not more than 100 persons; and
(II) concurrently with or after such disclosure,
such issuer has provided each beneficial owner, as de­
termined under paragraph (1), with a reasonable op­
portunity to redeem any part or all of their interests
in the issuer, notwithstanding any agreement to the
contrary between the issuer and such persons, for that
person’s proportionate share of the issuer’s net assets.
(C) Each person that elects to redeem under subparagraph
(B)(ii)(II) shall receive an amount in cash equal to that per­
son’s proportionate share of the issuer’s net assets, unless the
issuer elects to provide such person with the option of receiv­
ing, and such person agrees to receive, all or a portion of such
person’s share in assets of the issuer. If the issuer elects to
provide such persons with such an opportunity, disclosure con­
cerning such opportunity shall be made in the disclosure re­
quired by subparagraph (B)(ii)(I).
(D) An issuer that is excepted under this paragraph shall
nonetheless be deemed to be an investment company for pur­
poses of the limitations set forth in subparagraphs (A)(i) and
(B)(i) of section 12(d)(1) relating to the purchase or other acqui­
sition by such issuer of any security issued by any registered
investment company and the sale of any security issued by any
registered open- end investment company to any such issuer.
(E) For purposes of determining compliance with this para­
graph and paragraph (1), an issuer that is otherwise excepted
under this paragraph and an issuer that is otherwise excepted
under paragraph (1) shall not be treated by the Commission as
being a single issuer for purposes of determining whether the
outstanding securities of the issuer excepted under paragraph
(1) are beneficially owned by not more than 100 persons or
whether the outstanding securities of the issuer excepted
under this paragraph are owned by persons that are not quali­
fied purchasers. Nothing in this subparagraph shall be con­
strued to establish that a person is a bona fide qualified pur­
chaser for purposes of this paragraph or a bona fide beneficial
owner for purposes of paragraph (1).
(8) [Repealed]

Sec. 3

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

22


(9) Any person substantially all of whose business consists
of owning or holding oil, gas, or other mineral royalties or
leases, or fractional interests therein, or certificates of interest
or participation in or investment contracts relative to such roy­
alties, leases, or fractional interests.
(10)(A) Any company organized and operated exclusively
for religious, educational, benevolent, fraternal, charitable, or
reformatory purposes—
(i) no part of the net earnings of which inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual; or
(ii) which is or maintains a fund described in subpara­
graph (B).
(B) For the purposes of subparagraph (A)(ii), a fund is de­
scribed in this subparagraph if such fund is a pooled income
fund, collective trust fund, collective investment fund, or simi­
lar fund maintained by a charitable organization exclusively
for the collective investment and reinvestment of one or more
of the following:
(i) assets of the general endowment fund or other
funds of one or more charitable organizations;
(ii) assets of a pooled income fund;
(iii) assets contributed to a charitable organization in
exchange for the issuance of charitable gift annuities;
(iv) assets of a charitable remainder trust or of any
other trust, the remainder interests of which are irrev­
ocably dedicated to any charitable organization;
(v) assets of a charitable lead trust;
(vi) assets of a trust, the remainder interests of which
are revocably dedicated to or for the benefit of 1 or more
charitable organizations, if the ability to revoke the dedica­
tion is limited to circumstances involving—
(I) an adverse change in the financial cir­
cumstances of a settlor or an income beneficiary of the
trust;
(II) a change in the identity of the charitable orga­
nization or organizations having the remainder inter­
est, provided that the new beneficiary is also a chari­
table organization; or
(III) both the changes described in subclauses (I)
and (II);
(vii) assets of a trust not described in clauses (i)
through (v), the remainder interests of which are revocably
dedicated to a charitable organization, subject to subpara­
graph (C); or
(viii) such assets as the Commission may prescribe by
rule, regulation, or order in accordance with section 6(c).
(C) A fund that contains assets described in clause (vii) of
subparagraph (B) shall be excluded from the definition of an
investment company for a period of 3 years after the date of
enactment of this subparagraph, but only if—
(i) such assets were contributed before the date which
is 60 days after the date of enactment of this subpara­
graph; and

23

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 3


(ii) such assets are commingled in the fund with assets
described in one or more of clauses (i) through (vi) and
(viii) of subparagraph (B).
(D) For purposes of this paragraph—
(i) a trust or fund is ‘‘maintained’’ by a charitable or­
ganization if the organization serves as a trustee or admin­
istrator of the trust or fund or has the power to remove the
trustees or administrators of the trust or fund and to des­
ignate new trustees or administrators;
(ii) the term ‘‘pooled income fund’’ has the same mean­
ing as in section 642(c)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986;
(iii) the term ‘‘charitable organization’’ means an orga­
nization described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of section
170(c) or section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986;
(iv) the term ‘‘charitable lead trust’’ means a trust de­
scribed
in
section
170(f)(2)(B),
2055(e)(2)(B),
or
2522(c)(2)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
(v) the term ‘‘charitable remainder trust’’ means a
charitable remainder annuity trust or a charitable remain­
der unitrust, as those terms are defined in section 664(d)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
(vi) the term ‘‘charitable gift annuity’’ means an annu­
ity issued by a charitable organization that is described in
section 501(m)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(11) Any employee’s stock bonus, pension, or profit-sharing
trust which meets the requirements for qualification under sec­
tion 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or any govern­
mental plan described in section 3(a)(2)(C) of the Securities Act
of 1933; or any collective trust fund maintained by a bank con­
sisting solely of assets of one or more of such trusts, govern­
ment plans, or church plans, companies or accounts that are
excluded from the definition of an investment company under
paragraph (14) of this subsection; or any separate account the
assets of which are derived solely from (A) contributions under
pension or profit-sharing plans which meet the requirements of
section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or the re­
quirements for deduction of the employer’s contribution under
section 404(a)(2) of such Code, (B) contributions under govern­
mental plans in connection with which interests, participa­
tions, or securities are exempted from the registration provi­
sions of section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 by section
3(a)(2)(C) of such Act, and (C) advances made by an insurance
company in connection with the operation of such separate ac­
count.
(12) Any voting trust the assets of which consist exclu­
sively of securities of a single issuer which is not an invest­
ment company.
(13) Any security holders’ protective committee or similar
issuer having outstanding and issuing no securities other than
certificates of deposit and short-term paper.
(14) Any church plan described in section 414(e) of the In­
ternal Revenue Code of 1986, if, under any such plan, no part

Sec. 4

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

24


of the assets may be used for, or diverted to, purposes other
than the exclusive benefit of plan participants or beneficiaries,
or any company or account that is—
(A) established by a person that is eligible to establish
and maintain such a plan under section 414(e) of the In­
ternal Revenue Code of 1986; and
(B) substantially all of the activities of which consist
of—
(i) managing or holding assets contributed to such
church plans or other assets which are permitted to be
commingled with the assets of church plans under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or
(ii) administering or providing benefits pursuant
to church plans.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 3, 54 Stat. 797; Oct. 21, 1942,
ch. 619, title I, Sec. 162(e), 56 Stat. 867; Pub. L. 89-485, Sec. 13(i),
July 1, 1966, 80 Stat. 243; Pub. L. 91-547, Sec. 3(a), (b), Dec. 14,
1970, 84 Stat. 1414; Pub. L. 94-210, title III, Sec. 308(c), Feb. 5,
1976, 90 Stat. 57; Pub. L. 96-477, title I, Sec. 102, title VII, Sec.
703, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2276, 2295; Pub. L. 100-181, title VI,
Sec. 604-606, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1260; Pub. L. 104-62, Sec.
2(a), Dec. 8, 1995, 109 Stat. 682; Pub. L. 104-290, title II, Sec.
209(a), (c), title V, Sec. 508(a), Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3432, 3435,
3447; Pub. L. 105-353, title III, Sec. 301(c)(2), Nov. 3, 1998, 112
Stat. 3236; Pub. L. 106-102, title II, Sec. 221(c), Nov. 12, 1999, 113
Stat. 1401; Pub. L. 108-359, Sec. 1(a), Oct. 25, 2004 118 Stat. 1666;
Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec. 986(c)(2), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat.
1936.)
CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES

SEC. 4. For the purposes of this title, investment companies are
divided into three principal classes, defined as follows:
(1) ‘‘Face-amount certificate company’’ means an invest­
ment company which is engaged or proposes to engage in the
business of issuing face-amount certificates of the installment
type, or which has been engaged in such business and has any
such certificate outstanding.
(2) ‘‘Unit investment trust’’ means an investment company
which (A) is organized under a trust indenture, contract of cus­
todianship or agency, or similar instrument, (B) does not have
a board of directors, and (C) issues only redeemable securities,
each of which represents an undivided interest in a unit of
specified securities; but does not include a voting trust.
(3) ‘‘Management company’’ means any investment com­
pany other than a face-amount certificate company or a unit
investment trust.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 4, 54 Stat. 799.)

25

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 6


SUBCLASSIFICATION OF MANAGEMENT COMPANIES

SEC. 5. (a) For the purposes of this title, management compa­
nies are divided into open-end and closed-end companies, defined
as follows:
(1) ‘‘Open-end company’’ means a management company
which is offering for sale or has outstanding any redeemable
security of which it is the issuer.
(2) ‘‘Closed-end company’’ means any management com­
pany other than an open-end company.
(b) Management companies are further divided into diversified
companies and non-diversified companies, defined as follows:
(1) ‘‘Diversified company’’ means a management company
which meets the following requirements: At least 75 per cen­
tum of the value of its total assets is represented by cash and
cash items (including receivables), Government securities, se­
curities of other investment companies, and other securities for
the purposes of this calculation limited in respect of any one
issuer to an amount not greater in value than 5 per centum
of the value of the total assets of such management company
and to not more than 10 per centum of the outstanding voting
securities of such issuer.
(2) ‘‘Non-diversified company’’ means any management
company other than a diversified company.
(c) A registered diversified company which at the time of its
qualification as such meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of
subsection (b) shall not lose its status as a diversified company be­
cause of any subsequent discrepancy between the value of its var­
ious investments and the requirements of said paragraph, so long
as any such discrepancy existing immediately after its acquisition
of any security or other property is neither wholly nor partly the
result of such acquisition.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 5, 54 Stat. 800; Pub. L. 100­
181, title VI, Sec. 607, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1261.)
EXEMPTIONS

SEC. 6. (a) The following investment companies are exempt
from the provisions of this title:
(1) Any company organized or otherwise created under the
laws of and having its principal office and place of business in
Puerto Rico, [2] the Virgin Islands, or any other possession of
the United States; but such exemption shall terminate if any
security of which such company is the issuer is offered for sale
or sold after the effective date of this title, by such company
or an underwriter therefor, to a resident of any State other
than the State in which such company is organized.
(2) Any company which since the effective date of this title
or within five years prior to such date has been reorganized
under the supervision of a court of competent jurisdiction, if
2The words ‘‘Philippine Islands’’ have been deleted under the authority of Presidential Procla­
mation No. 2695 (60 Stat. 1352), which granted independence to the Philippine Islands.

Sec. 6

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

26


(A) such company was not an investment company at the com­
mencement of such reorganization proceedings, (B) at the con­
clusion of such proceedings all outstanding securities of such
company were owned by creditors of such company or by per­
sons to whom such securities were issued on account of credi­
tors’ claims, and (C) more than 50 per centum of the voting se­
curities of such company, and securities representing more
than 50 per centum of the net asset value of such company, are
currently owned beneficially by not more than twenty- five per­
sons; but such exemption shall terminate if any security of
which such company is the issuer is offered for sale or sold to
the public after the conclusion of such proceedings by the
issuer or by or through any underwriter. For the purposes of
this paragraph, any new company organized as part of the re­
organization shall be deemed the same company as its prede­
cessor; and beneficial ownership shall be determined in the
manner provided in section 3(c)(1).
(3) Any issuer as to which there is outstanding a writing
filed with the Commission by the Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation stating that exemption of such issuer
from the provisions of this title is consistent with the public in­
terest and the protection of investors and is necessary or ap­
propriate by reason of the fact that such issuer holds or pro­
poses to acquire any assets or any product of any assets which
have been segregated (A) from assets of any company which at
the filing of such writing is an insured institution within the
meaning of section 401(a) [3] of the National Housing Act, as
heretofore or hereafter amended, or (B) as a part of or in con­
nection with any plan for or condition to the insurance of ac­
counts of any company by said corporation or the conversion of
any company into a Federal savings and loan association. Any
such writing shall expire when canceled by a writing similarly
filed or at the expiration of two years after the date of its fil­
ing, whichever first occurs; but said corporation may, neverthe­
less, before, at, or after the expiration of any such writing file
another writing or writings with respect to such issuer.
(4) Any company which prior to March 15, 1940, was and
now is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a registered face-amount
certificate company and was prior to said date and now is orga­
nized and operating under the insurance laws of any State and
subject to supervision and examination by the insurance com­
missioner thereof, and which prior to March 15, 1940, was and
now is engaged, subject to such laws, in business substantially
all of which consists of issuing and selling only to residents of
such State and investing the proceeds from, securities pro­
viding for or representing participations or interests in intan­
gible assets consisting of mortgages or other liens on real es­
tate or notes or bonds secured thereby or in a fund or deposit
of mortgages or other liens on real estate or notes or bonds se­
cured thereby or having outstanding such securities so issued
and sold.
3Section 401 of the National Housing Act was repealed by Pub. L. 101-73, title IV, Sec. 407,
Aug. 9, 1989, 103 Stat. 363.

27

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 6


(5)(A) Any company that is not engaged in the business of
issuing redeemable securities, the operations of which are sub­
ject to regulation by the State in which the company is orga­
nized under a statute governing entities that provide financial
or managerial assistance to enterprises doing business, or pro­
posing to do business, in that State if—
(i) the organizational documents of the company state
that the activities of the company are limited to the pro­
motion of economic, business, or industrial development in
the State through the provision of financial or managerial
assistance to enterprises doing business, or proposing to do
business, in that State, and such other activities that are
incidental or necessary to carry out that purpose;
(ii) immediately following each sale of the securities of
the company by the company or any underwriter for the
company, not less than 80 percent of the securities of the
company being offered in such sale, on a class-by-class
basis, are held by persons who reside or who have a sub­
stantial business presence in that State;
(iii) the securities of the company are sold, or proposed
to be sold, by the company or by any underwriter for the
company, solely to accredited investors, as that term is de­
fined in section 2(a)(15) of the Securities Act of 1933, or to
such other persons that the Commission, as necessary or
appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the
protection of investors, may permit by rule, regulation, or
order; and
(iv) the company does not purchase any security
issued by an investment company or by any company that
would be an investment company except for the exclusions
from the definition of the term ‘‘investment company’’
under paragraph (1) or (7) of section 3(c), other than—
(I) any debt security that meets such standards of
credit-worthiness as the Commission shall adopt; or
(II) any security issued by a registered open-end
investment company that is required by its investment
policies to invest not less than 65 percent of its total
assets in securities described in subclause (I) or securi­
ties that are determined by such registered open-end
investment company to be comparable in quality to se­
curities described in subclause (I).
(B) Notwithstanding the exemption provided by this para­
graph, section 9 (and, to the extent necessary to enforce section
9, sections 38 through 51) shall apply to a company described
in this paragraph as if the company were an investment com­
pany registered under this title.
(C) Any company proposing to rely on the exemption pro­
vided by this paragraph shall file with the Commission a noti­
fication stating that the company intends to do so, in such form
and manner as the Commission may prescribe by rule.
(D) Any company meeting the requirements of this para­
graph may rely on the exemption provided by this paragraph
upon filing with the Commission the notification required by
subparagraph (C), until such time as the Commission deter­

Sec. 6

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

28


mines by order that such reliance is not in the public interest
or is not consistent with the protection of investors.
(E) The exemption provided by this paragraph may be sub­
ject to such additional terms and conditions as the Commission
may by rule, regulation, or order determine are necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of inves­
tors.
(b) Upon application by any employees’ security company, the
Commission shall by order exempt such company from the provi­
sions of this title and of the rules and regulations hereunder, if and
to the extent that such exemption is consistent with the protection
of investors. In determining the provisions to which such an order
of exemption shall apply, the Commission shall give due weight,
among other things, to the form of organization and the capital
structure of such company, the persons by whom its voting securi­
ties, evidences of indebtedness, and other securities are owned and
controlled, the prices at which securities issued by such company
are sold and the sales load thereon, the disposition of the proceeds
of such sales, the character of the securities in which such proceeds
are invested, and any relationship between such company and the
issuer of any such security.
(c) The Commission, by rules and regulations upon its own mo­
tion, or by order upon application, may conditionally or uncondi­
tionally exempt any person, security, or transaction, or any class
or classes of persons, securities, or transactions, from any provision
or provisions of this title or of any rule or regulation thereunder,
if and to the extent that such exemption is necessary or appro­
priate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of
investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provi­
sions of this title.
(d) The Commission, by rules and regulations or order, shall
exempt a closed-end investment company from any or all provisions
of this title, but subject to such terms and conditions as may be
necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection
of investors, if—
(1) the aggregate sums received by such company from the
sale of all its outstanding securities, plus the aggregate offer­
ing price of all securities of which such company is the issuer
and which it proposes to offer for sale, do not exceed
$10,000,000, or such other amount as the Commission may set
by rule, regulation, or order;
(2) no security of which such company is the issuer has
been or is proposed to be sold by such company or any under­
writer therefor, in connection with a public offering, to any per­
son who is not a resident of the State under the laws of which
such company is organized or otherwise created; and
(3) such exemption is not contrary to the public interest or
inconsistent with the protection of investors.
(e) If, in connection with any rule, regulation, or order under
this section exempting any investment company from any provision
of section 7, the Commission deems it necessary or appropriate in
the public interest or for the protection of investors that certain
specified provisions of this title pertaining to registered investment
companies shall be applicable in respect of such company, the pro­

29

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 7


visions so specified shall apply to such company, and to other per­
sons in their transactions and relations with such company, as
though such company were a registered investment company.
(f) Any closed-end company which—
(1) elects to be treated as a business development company
pursuant to section 54; or
(2) would be excluded from the definition of an investment
company by section 3(c)(1), except that it presently proposes to
make a public offering of its securities as a business develop­
ment company, and has notified the Commission, in a form
and manner which the Commission may, by rule, prescribe,
that it intends in good faith to file, within 90 days, a notifica­
tion of election to become subject to the provisions of sections
55 through 65,
shall be exempt from sections 1 through 53, except to the extent
provided in sections 59 through 65.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 6, 54 Stat. 800; Proc. No. 2695,
eff. July 4, 1946, 11 F.R. 7517, 60 Stat. 1352; Pub. L. 86-70, Sec.
12(e), June 25, 1959, 73 Stat. 143; Pub. L. 86-624, Sec. 7(c), July
12, 1960, 74 Stat. 412; Pub. L. 95-598, title III, Sec. 310(b), Nov.
6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2676; Pub. L. 96-477, title I, Sec. 103, Oct. 21,
1980, 94 Stat. 2277; Pub. L. 100-181, title VI, Sec. 608, Dec. 4,
1987, 101 Stat. 1261; Pub. L. 104-290, title V, Sec. 501, 502, Oct.
11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3444, 3445; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec.
939(c), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1886.)
TRANSACTIONS BY UNREGISTERED INVESTMENT COMPANIES

SEC. 7. (a) No investment company organized or otherwise cre­
ated under the laws of the United States or of a State and having
a board of directors, unless registered under section 8, shall di­
rectly or indirectly—
(1) offer for sale, sell, or deliver after sale, by the use of
the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate com­
merce, any security or any interest in a security, whether the
issuer of such security is such investment company or another
person; or offer for sale, sell, or deliver after sale any such se­
curity or interest, having reason to believe that such security
or interest will be made the subject of a public offering by use
of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate com­
merce;
(2) purchase, redeem, retire, or otherwise acquire or at­
tempt to acquire, by use of the mails or any means or instru­
mentality of interstate commerce, any security or any interest
in a security, whether the issuer of such security is such in­
vestment company or another person;
(3) control any investment company which does any of the
acts enumerated in paragraphs (1) and (2);
(4) engage in any business in interstate commerce; or
(5) control any company which is engaged in any business
in interstate commerce.

Sec. 7

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

30


The provisions of this subsection (a) shall not apply to transactions
of an investment company which are merely incidental to its dis­
solution.
(b) No depositor or trustee of or underwriter for any invest­
ment company, organized or otherwise created under the laws of
the United States or of a State and not having a board of directors,
unless such company is registered under section 8 or exempt under
section 6, shall directly or indirectly—
(1) offer for sale, sell, or deliver after sale, by use of the
mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce,
any security or any interest in a security of which such com­
pany is the issuer; or offer for sale, sell, or deliver after sale
any such security or interest, having reason to believe that
such security or interest will be made the subject of a public
offering by use of the mails or any means or instrumentality
of interstate commerce;
(2) purchase, redeem, or otherwise acquire or attempt to
acquire, by use of the mails or any means or instrumentality
of interstate commerce, any security or any interest in a secu­
rity of which such company is the issuer; or
(3) sell or purchase for the account of such company, by
use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate
commerce, any security or interest in a security, by whomever
issued.
The provisions of this subsection (b) shall not apply to transactions
which are merely incidental to the dissolution of an investment
company.
(c) No promoter of a proposed investment company, and no un­
derwriter for such a promoter, shall make use of the mails or any
means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, directly or indi­
rectly, to offer for sale, sell, or deliver after sale, in connection with
a public offering, any preorganization certificate or subscription for
such a company.
(d) No investment company, unless organized or otherwise cre­
ated under the laws of the United States or of a State, and no de­
positor or trustee of or underwriter for such a company not so orga­
nized or created, shall make use of the mails or any means or in­
strumentality of interstate commerce, directly or indirectly, to offer
for sale, sell, or deliver after sale, in connection with a public offer­
ing, any security of which such company is the issuer. Notwith­
standing the provisions of this subsection and of section 8(a), the
Commission is authorized, upon application by an investment com­
pany organized or otherwise created under the laws of a foreign
country, to issue a conditional or unconditional order permitting
such company to register under this title and to make a public of­
fering of its securities by use of the mails and means or instrumen­
talities of interstate commerce, if the Commission finds that, by
reason of special circumstances or arrangements, it is both legally
and practically feasible effectively to enforce the provisions of this
title against such company and that the issuance of such order is
otherwise consistent with the public interest and the protection of
investors.
(e) DISCLOSURE BY EXEMPT CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.—
Each fund that is excluded from the definition of an investment

31

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 8


company under section 3(c)(10)(B) of this Act shall provide, to each
donor to such fund, at the time of the donation or within 90 days
after the date of enactment of this subsection, whichever is later,
written information describing the material terms of the operation
of such fund.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 7, 54 Stat. 802; Pub. L. 104­
62, Sec. 2(b), Dec. 8, 1995, 109 Stat. 683.)
REGISTRATION OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES

SEC. 8. (a) Any investment company organized or otherwise
created under the laws of the United States or of a State may reg­
ister for the purposes of this title by filing with the Commission a
notification of registration, in such form as the Commission shall
by rules and regulations prescribe as necessary or appropriate in
the public interest or for the protection of investors. An investment
company shall be deemed to be registered upon receipt by the Com­
mission of such notification of registration.
(b) Every registered investment company shall file with the
Commission, within such reasonable time after registration as the
Commission shall fix by rules and regulations, an original and such
copies of a registration statement, in such form and containing
such of the following information and documents as the Commis­
sion shall by rules and regulations prescribe as necessary or appro­
priate in the public interest or for the protection of investors:
(1) a recital of the policy of the registrant in respect of
each of the following types of activities, such recital consisting
in each case of a statement whether the registrant reserves
freedom of action to engage in activities of such type, and if
such freedom of action is reserved, a statement briefly indi­
cating, insofar as is practicable, the extent to which the reg­
istrant intends to engage therein: (A) the classification and
subclassifications, as defined in sections 4 and 5, within which
the registrant proposes to operate; (B) borrowing money; (C)
the issuance of senior securities; (D) engaging in the business
of underwriting securities issued by other persons; (E) concen­
trating investments in a particular industry or group of indus­
tries; (F) the purchase and sale of real estate and commodities,
or either of them; (G) making loans to other persons; and (H)
portfolio turn-over (including a statement showing the aggre­
gate dollar amount of purchases and sales of portfolio securi­
ties, other than Government securities, in each of the last
three full fiscal years preceding the filing of such registration
statement);
(2) a recital of all investment policies of the registrant, not
enumerated in paragraph (1), which are changeable only if au­
thorized by shareholder vote;
(3) a recital of all policies of the registrant, not enumer­
ated in paragraphs (1) and (2), in respect of matters which the
registrant deems matters of fundamental policy;
(4) the name and address of each affiliated person of the
registrant; the name and principal address of every company,
other than the registrant, of which each such person is an offi­

Sec. 8

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

32


cer, director, or partner; a brief statement of the business expe­
rience for the preceding five years of each officer and director
of the registrant; and
(5) the information and documents which would be re­
quired to be filed in order to register under the Securities Act
of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 all securities
(other than short- term paper) which the registrant has out­
standing or proposes to issue.
(c) The Commission shall make provision, by permissive rules
and regulations or order, for the filing of the following, or so much
of the following as the Commission may designate, in lieu of the
information and documents required pursuant to subsection (b):
(1) copies of the most recent registration statement filed by
the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 and currently
effective under such Act, or if the registrant has not filed such
a statement, copies of a registration statement filed by the reg­
istrant under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and cur­
rently effective under such Act;
(2) copies of any reports filed by the registrant pursuant
to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and
(3) a report containing reasonably current information re­
garding the matters included in copies filed pursuant to para­
graphs (1) and (2), and such further information regarding
matters not included in such copies as the Commission is au­
thorized to require under subsection (b).
(d) If the registrant is a unit investment trust substantially all
of the assets of which are securities issued by another registered
investment company, the Commission is authorized to prescribe for
the registrant, by rules and regulations or order, a registration
statement which eliminates inappropriate duplication of informa­
tion contained in the registration statement filed under this section
by such other investment company.
(e) If it appears to the Commission that a registered invest­
ment company has failed to file the registration statement required
by this section or a report required pursuant to section 30 (a) or
(b), or has filed such a registration statement or report but omitted
therefrom material facts required to be stated therein, or has filed
such a registration statement or report in violation of section 34(b),
the Commission shall notify such company by registered mail or by
certified mail of the failure to file such registration statement or
report, or of the respects in which such registration statement or
report appears to be materially incomplete or misleading, as the
case may be, and shall fix a date (in no event earlier than thirty
days after the mailing of such notice) prior to which such company
may file such registration statement or report or correct the same.
If such registration statement or report is not filed or corrected
within the time so fixed by the Commission or any extension there­
of, the Commission, after appropriate notice and opportunity for
hearing, and upon such conditions and with such exemptions as it
deems appropriate for the protection of investors, may by order
suspend the registration of such company until such statement or
report is filed or corrected, or may by order revoke such registra­
tion, if the evidence establishes—

33

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 9


(1) that such company has failed to file a registration
statement required by this section or a report required pursu­
ant to section 30 (a) or (b), or has filed such a registration
statement or report but omitted therefrom material facts re­
quired to be stated therein, or has filed such a registration
statement or report in violation of section 34(b); and
(2) that such suspension or revocation is in the public in­
terest.
(f) Whenever the Commission, on its own motion or upon appli­
cation, finds that a registered investment company has ceased to
be an investment company, it shall so declare by order and upon
the taking effect of such order the registration of such company
shall cease to be in effect. If necessary for the protection of inves­
tors, an order under this subsection may be made upon appropriate
conditions. The Commission’s denial of any application under this
subsection shall be by order.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 8, 54 Stat. 803; Pub. L. 86-507,
Sec. 1(14), June 11, 1960, 74 Stat. 201; Pub. L. 91-547, Sec. 3(c),
Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1415.)
INELIGIBILITY OF CERTAIN AFFILIATED PERSONS AND UNDERWRITERS

SEC. 9. (a) It shall be unlawful for any of the following persons
to serve or act in the capacity of employee, officer, director, member
of an advisory board, investment adviser, or depositor of any reg­
istered investment company, or principal underwriter for any reg­
istered open- end company, registered unit investment trust, or
registered face- amount certificate company:
(1) any person who within 10 years has been convicted of
any felony or misdemeanor involving the purchase or sale of
any security or arising out of such person’s conduct as an un­
derwriter, broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securi­
ties dealer, government securities broker, government securi­
ties dealer, bank, transfer agent, credit rating agency, or entity
or person required to be registered under the Commodity Ex­
change Act, or as an affiliated person, salesman, or employee
of any investment company, bank, insurance company, or enti­
ty or person required to be registered under the Commodity
Exchange Act;
(2) any person who, by reason of any misconduct, is perma­
nently or temporarily enjoined by order, judgment, or decree of
any court of competent jurisdiction from acting as an under­
writer, broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities
dealer, government securities broker, government securities
dealer, bank, transfer agent, credit rating agency, or entity or
person required to be registered under the Commodity Ex­
change Act, or as an affiliated person, salesman, or employee
of any investment company, bank, insurance company, or enti­
ty or person required to be registered under the Commodity
Exchange Act, or from engaging in or continuing any conduct
or practice in connection with any such activity or in connec­
tion with the purchase or sale of any security; or

Sec. 9

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

34


(3) a company any affiliated person of which is ineligible,
by reason of paragraph (1) or (2), to serve or act in the fore­
going capacities.
For the purposes of paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection,
the term ‘‘investment adviser’’ shall include an investment adviser
as defined in title II of this Act.
(b) The Commission may, after notice and opportunity for hear­
ing, by order prohibit, conditionally or unconditionally, either per­
manently or for such period of time as it in its discretion shall
deem appropriate in the public interest, any person from serving
or acting as an employee, officer, director, member of an advisory
board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter
for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such
investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter, if such per­
son—
(1) has willfully made or caused to be made in any reg­
istration statement, application or report filed with the Com­
mission under this title any statement which was at the time
and in the light of the circumstances under which it was made
false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or has
omitted to state in any such registration statement, applica­
tion, or report any material fact which was required to be stat­
ed therein;
(2) has willfully violated any provision of the Securities Act
of 1933, or of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or of title
II of this Act, or of this title, or of the Commodity Exchange
Act, or of any rule or regulation under any of such statutes;
(3) has willfully aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, in­
duced, or procured the violation by any other person of the Se­
curities Act of 1933, or of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
or of title II of this Act, or of this title, or of the Commodity
Exchange Act, or of any rule or regulation under any of such
statutes;
(4) has been found by a foreign financial regulatory au­
thority to have—
(A) made or caused to be made in any application for
registration or report required to be filed with a foreign se­
curities authority, or in any proceeding before a foreign se­
curities authority with respect to registration, any state­
ment that was at the time and in light of the cir­
cumstances under which it was made false or misleading
with respect to any material fact, or has omitted to state
in any application or report to a foreign securities author­
ity any material fact that is required to be stated therein;
(B) violated any foreign statute or regulation regard­
ing transactions in securities or contracts of sale of a com­
modity for future delivery traded on or subject to the rules
of a contract market or any board of trade; or
(C) aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or
procured the violation by any other person of any foreign
statute or regulation regarding transactions in securities
or contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery trad­
ed on or subject to the rules of a contract market or any
board of trade;

35

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 9


(5) within 10 years has been convicted by a foreign court
of competent jurisdiction of a crime, however denominated by
the laws of the relevant foreign government, that is substan­
tially equivalent to an offense set forth in paragraph (1) of sub­
section (a); or
(6) by reason of any misconduct, is temporarily or perma­
nently enjoined by any foreign court of competent jurisdiction
from acting in any of the capacities, set forth in paragraph (2)
of subsection (a), or a substantially equivalent foreign capacity,
or from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in
connection with any such activity or in connection with the
purchase or sale of any security.
(c) Any person who is ineligible, by reason of subsection (a), to
serve or act in the capacities enumerated in that subsection, may
file with the Commission an application for an exemption from the
provisions of that subsection. The Commission shall by order grant
such application, either unconditionally or on an appropriate tem­
porary or other conditional basis, if it is established that the prohi­
bitions of subsection (a), as applied to such person, are unduly or
disproportionately severe or that the conduct of such person has
been such as not to make it against the public interest or protec­
tion of investors to grant such application.
(d) MONEY PENALTIES IN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS.—
(1) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In any proceeding instituted pursu­
ant to subsection (b) against any person, the Commission
may impose a civil penalty if it finds, on the record after
notice and opportunity for hearing, that such penalty is in
the public interest, and that such person—
(i) has willfully violated any provision of the Secu­
rities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or this title, or
the rules or regulations thereunder;
(ii) has willfully aided, abetted, counseled, com­
manded, induced, or procured such a violation by any
other person; or
(iii) has willfully made or caused to be made in
any registration statement, application, or report re­
quired to be filed with the Commission under this
title, any statement which was, at the time and in the
light of the circumstances under which it was made,
false or misleading with respect to any material fact,
or has omitted to state in any such registration state­
ment, application, or report any material fact which
was required to be stated therein; [4]
(B) CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS.—In any pro­
ceeding instituted pursuant to subsection (f) against any
person, the Commission may impose a civil penalty if the
Commission finds, on the record, after notice and oppor­
tunity for hearing, that such person—
4So

in original. The semicolon probably should be a period.

Sec. 9

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

36


(i) is violating or has violated any provision of this
title, or any rule or regulation issued under this title;
or
(ii) is or was a cause of the violation of any provi­
sion of this title, or any rule or regulation issued
under this title.
(2) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF PENALTY.—
(A) FIRST TIER.—The maximum amount of penalty for
each act or omission described in paragraph (1) shall be
$5,000 for a natural person or $50,000 for any other per­
son.
(B) SECOND TIER.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A),
the maximum amount of penalty for each such act or omis­
sion shall be $50,000 for a natural person or $250,000 for
any other person if the act or omission described in para­
graph (1) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or delib­
erate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement.
(C) THIRD TIER.—Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A)
and (B), the maximum amount of penalty for each such act
or omission shall be $100,000 for a natural person or
$500,000 for any other person if—
(i) the act or omission described in paragraph (1)
involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or
reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and
(ii) such act or omission directly or indirectly re­
sulted in substantial losses or created a significant
risk of substantial losses to other persons or resulted
in substantial pecuniary gain to the person who com­
mitted the act or omission.
(3) DETERMINATION OF PUBLIC INTEREST.—In considering
under this section whether a penalty is in the public interest,
the Commission may consider—
(A) whether the act or omission for which such penalty
is assessed involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or delib­
erate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement;
(B) the harm to other persons resulting either directly
or indirectly from such act or omission;
(C) the extent to which any person was unjustly en­
riched, taking into account any restitution made to persons
injured by such behavior;
(D) whether such person previously has been found by
the Commission, another appropriate regulatory agency, or
a self- regulatory organization to have violated the Federal
securities laws, State securities laws, or the rules of a selfregulatory organization, has been enjoined by a court of
competent jurisdiction from violations of such laws or
rules, or has been convicted by a court of competent juris­
diction of violations of such laws or of any felony or mis­
demeanor described in section 203(e)(2) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940;
(E) the need to deter such person and other persons
from committing such acts or omissions; and
(F) such other matters as justice may require.

37

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 9


(4) EVIDENCE CONCERNING ABILITY TO PAY.—In any pro­
ceeding in which the Commission may impose a penalty under
this section, a respondent may present evidence of the respond­
ent’s ability to pay such penalty. The Commission may, in its
discretion, consider such evidence in determining whether such
penalty is in the public interest. Such evidence may relate to
the extent of such person’s ability to continue in business and
the collectability of a penalty, taking into account any other
claims of the United States or third parties upon such person’s
assets and the amount of such person’s assets.
(e) AUTHORITY TO ENTER AN ORDER REQUIRING AN ACCOUNT­
ING AND DISGORGEMENT.—In any proceeding in which the Commis­
sion may impose a penalty under this section, the Commission may
enter an order requiring accounting and disgorgement, including
reasonable interest. The Commission is authorized to adopt rules,
regulations, and orders concerning payments to investors, rates of
interest, periods of accrual, and such other matters as it deems ap­
propriate to implement this subsection.
(f) CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS.—
(1) AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION.—If the Commission
finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that any person
is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision
of this title, or any rule or regulation thereunder, the Commis­
sion may publish its findings and enter an order requiring
such person, and any other person that is, was, or would be a
cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person
knew or should have known would contribute to such violation,
to cease and desist from committing or causing such violation
and any future violation of the same provision, rule, or regula­
tion. Such order may, in addition to requiring a person to cease
and desist from committing or causing a violation, require such
person to comply, or to take steps to effect compliance, with
such provision, rule, or regulation, upon such terms and condi­
tions and within such time as the Commission may specify in
such order. Any such order may, as the Commission deems ap­
propriate, require future compliance or steps to effect future
compliance, either permanently or for such period of time as
the Commission may specify, with such provision, rule, or reg­
ulation with respect to any security, any issuer, or any other
person.
(2) HEARING.—The notice instituting proceedings pursuant
to paragraph (1) shall fix a hearing date not earlier than 30
days nor later than 60 days after service of the notice unless
an earlier or a later date is set by the Commission with the
consent of any respondent so served.
(3) TEMPORARY ORDER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Whenever the Commission deter­
mines that the alleged violation or threatened violation
specified in the notice instituting proceedings pursuant to
paragraph (1), or the continuation thereof, is likely to re­
sult in significant dissipation or conversion of assets, sig­
nificant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the pub­
lic interest, including, but not limited to, losses to the Se­
curities Investor Protection Corporation, prior to the com­

Sec. 9

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

38


pletion of the proceeding, the Commission may enter a
temporary order requiring the respondent to cease and de­
sist from the violation or threatened violation and to take
such action to prevent the violation or threatened violation
and to prevent dissipation or conversion of assets, signifi­
cant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public
interest as the Commission deems appropriate pending
completion of such proceedings. Such an order shall be en­
tered only after notice and opportunity for a hearing, un­
less the Commission, notwithstanding section 40(a) of this
title, determines that notice and hearing prior to entry
would be impracticable or contrary to the public interest.
A temporary order shall become effective upon service
upon the respondent and, unless set aside, limited, or sus­
pended by the Commission or a court of competent juris­
diction, shall remain effective and enforceable pending the
completion of the proceedings.
(B) APPLICABILITY.—This paragraph shall apply only
to a respondent that acts, or, at the time of the alleged
misconduct acted, as a broker, dealer, investment adviser,
investment company, municipal securities dealer, govern­
ment securities broker, government securities dealer, or
transfer agent, or is, or was at the time of the alleged mis­
conduct, an associated person of, or a person seeking to be­
come associated with, any of the foregoing.
(4) REVIEW OF TEMPORARY ORDERS.—
(A) COMMISSION REVIEW.—At any time after the re­
spondent has been served with a temporary cease-and-de­
sist order pursuant to paragraph (3), the respondent may
apply to the Commission to have the order set aside, lim­
ited, or suspended. If the respondent has been served with
a temporary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior
Commission hearing, the respondent may, within 10 days
after the date on which the order was served, request a
hearing on such application and the Commission shall hold
a hearing and render a decision on such application at the
earliest possible time.
(B) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—Within—
(i) 10 days after the date the respondent was
served with a temporary cease-and-desist order en­
tered with a prior Commission hearing, or
(ii) 10 days after the Commission renders a deci­
sion on an application and hearing under subpara­
graph (A), with respect to any temporary cease-and­
desist order entered without a prior Commission hear­
ing,
the respondent may apply to the United States district
court for the district in which the respondent resides or
has its principal place of business, or for the District of Co­
lumbia, for an order setting aside, limiting, or suspending
the effectiveness or enforcement of the order, and the court
shall have jurisdiction to enter such an order. A respond­
ent served with a temporary cease-and-desist order en­
tered without a prior Commission hearing may not apply

39

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 10


to the court except after hearing and decision by the Com­
mission on the respondent’s application under subpara­
graph (A) of this paragraph.
(C) NO AUTOMATIC STAY OF TEMPORARY ORDER.—The
commencement of proceedings under subparagraph (B) of
this paragraph shall not, unless specifically ordered by the
court, operate as a stay of the Commission’s order.
(D) EXCLUSIVE REVIEW.—Section 43 of this title shall
not apply to a temporary order entered pursuant to this
section.
(5) AUTHORITY TO ENTER AN ORDER REQUIRING AN AC­
COUNTING AND DISGORGEMENT.—In any cease-and-desist pro­
ceeding under subsection (f)(1), the Commission may enter an
order requiring accounting and disgorgement, including rea­
sonable interest. The Commission is authorized to adopt rules,
regulations, and orders concerning payments to investors, rates
of interest, periods of accrual, and such other matters as it
deems appropriate to implement this subsection.
(g) For the purposes of this section, the term ‘‘investment ad­
viser’’ includes a corporate or other trustee performing the func­
tions of an investment adviser.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 9, 54 Stat. 805; Pub. L. 91-547,
Sec. 4, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1415; Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 28(6), June
4, 1975, 89 Stat. 166; Pub. L. 99-571, title I, Sec. 102(l), Oct. 28,
1986, 100 Stat. 3220; Pub. L. 100-181, title VI, Sec. 609, Dec. 4,
1987, 101 Stat. 1261; Pub. L. 101-429, title III, Sec. 301, Oct. 15,
1990, 104 Stat. 941; Pub. L. 101-550, title II, Sec. 205(a), Nov. 15,
1990, 104 Stat. 2718; Pub. L. 106-102, title II, Sec. 222, Nov. 12,
1999, 113 Stat. 1401; Pub. L. 109-291, Sec. 4(b)(2)(B), Sept. 29,
2006, 120 Stat. 1337; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Secs. 929P(a)(3),
985(d)(2), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1863, 1934.)
AFFILIATIONS OF DIRECTORS

SEC. 10. (a) No registered investment company shall have a
board of directors more than 60 per centum of the members of
which are persons who are interested persons of such registered
company.
(b) No registered investment company shall—
(1) employ as regular broker any director, officer, or em­
ployee of such registered company, or any person of which any
such director, officer, or employee is an affiliated person, un­
less a majority of the board of directors of such registered com­
pany shall be persons who are not such brokers or affiliated
persons of any of such brokers;
(2) use as a principal underwriter of securities issued by
it any director, officer, or employee of such registered company
or any person of which any such director, officer, or employee
is an interested person, unless a majority of the board of direc­
tors of such registered company shall be persons who are not
such principal underwriters or interested persons of any of
such principal underwriters; or

Sec. 10

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

40


(3) have as director, officer, or employee any investment
banker, or any affiliated person of any investment banker, un­
less a majority of the board of directors of such registered com­
pany shall be persons who are not investment bankers or affili­
ated persons of any investment banker. For the purposes of
this paragraph, a person shall not be deemed an affiliated per­
son of an investment banker solely by reason of the fact that
he is an affiliated person of a company of the character de­
scribed in section 12(d)(3) (A) and (B).
(c) No registered investment company shall have a majority of
its board of directors consisting of persons who are officers, direc­
tors, or employees of any one bank (together with its affiliates and
subsidiaries) or any one bank holding company (together with its
affiliates and subsidiaries) (as such terms are defined in section 2
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956) or any one savings and
loan holding company, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries
(as such terms are defined in section 10 of the Home Owners’ Loan
Act),, [5] except that, if on March 15, 1940, any registered invest­
ment company had a majority of its directors consisting of persons
who are directors, officers, or employees of any one bank, such com­
pany may continue to have the same percentage of its board of di­
rectors consisting of persons who are directors, officers, or employ­
ees of such bank.
(d) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b)(2) of this section,
a registered investment company may have a board of directors all
the members of which, except one, are interested persons of the in­
vestment adviser of such company, or are officers or employees of
such company, if—
(1) such investment company is an open-end company;
(2) such investment adviser is registered under title II of
this Act and is engaged principally in the business of rendering
investment supervisory services as defined in title II;
(3) no sales load is charged on securities issued by such in­
vestment company;
(4) any premium over net asset value charged by such
company upon the issuance of any such security, plus any dis­
count from net asset value charged on redemption thereof,
shall not in the aggregate exceed 2 per centum;
(5) no sales or promotion expenses are incurred by such
registered company; but expenses incurred in complying with
laws regulating the issue or sale of securities shall not be
deemed sales or promotion expenses;
(6) such investment adviser is the only investment adviser
to such investment company, and such investment adviser does
not receive a management fee exceeding 1 per centum per
annum of the value of such company’s net assets averaged over
the year or taken as of a definite date or dates within the year;
(7) all executive salaries and executive expenses and office
rent of such investment company are paid by such investment
adviser; and
5So

in original.

41

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 10


(8) such investment company has only one class of securi­
ties outstanding, each unit of which has equal voting rights
with every other unit.
(e) If by reason of the death, disqualification, or bona fide res­
ignation of any director or directors, the requirements of the fore­
going provisions of this section or of section 15(f)(1) in respect of
directors shall not be met by a registered investment company, the
operation of such provision shall be suspended as to such registered
company—
(1) for a period of thirty days if the vacancy or vacancies
may be filled by action of the board of directors;
(2) for a period of sixty days if a vote of stockholders is re­
quired to fill the vacancy or vacancies; or
(3) for such longer period as the Commission may pre­
scribe, by rules and regulations upon its own motion or by
order upon application, as not inconsistent with the protection
of investors.
(f) No registered investment company shall knowingly pur­
chase or otherwise acquire, during the existence of any under­
writing or selling syndicate, any security (except a security of
which such company is the issuer) a principal underwriter of which
is an officer, director, member of an advisory board, investment ad­
viser, or employee of such registered company, or is a person (other
than a company of the character described in section 12(d)(3) (A)
and (B)) of which any such officer, director, member of an advisory
board, investment adviser, or employee is an affiliated person, un­
less in acquiring such security such registered company is itself
acting as a principal underwriter for the issuer. The Commission,
by rules and regulations upon its own motion or by order upon ap­
plication, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt any trans­
action or classes of transactions from any of the provisions of this
subsection, if and to the extent that such exemption is consistent
with the protection of investors.
(g) In the case of a registered investment company which has
an advisory board, such board, as a distinct entity, shall be subject
to the same restrictions as to its membership as are imposed upon
a board of directors by this section.
(h) In the case of a registered management company which is
an unincorporated company not having a board of directors, the
provisions of this section shall apply as follows:
(1) the provisions of subsection (a), as modified by sub­
section (e), shall apply to the board of directors of the depositor
of such company;
(2) the provisions of subsections (b) and (c), as modified by
subsection (e), shall apply to the board of directors of the de­
positor and of every investment adviser of such company; and
(3) the provisions of subsection (f) shall apply to purchases
and other acquisitions for the account of such company of secu­
rities a principal underwriter of which is the depositor or an
investment adviser of such company, or an affiliated person of
such depositor or investment adviser.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 10, 54 Stat. 806; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 5, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1416; Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 28(5),

Sec. 11

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

42


June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 165; Pub. L. 106-102, title II, Sec. 213(c),
Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1398; Pub. L. 109-351, title IV, Sec. 401(c),
Oct. 13, 2006, 120 Stat. 1973.)
OFFERS OF EXCHANGE

SEC. 11. (a) It shall be unlawful for any registered open-end
company or any principal underwriter for such a company to make
or cause to be made an offer to the holder of a security of such com­
pany or of any other open- end investment company to exchange
his security for a security in the same or another such company on
any basis other than the relative net asset values of the respective
securities to be exchanged, unless the terms of the offer have first
been submitted to and approved by the Commission or are in ac­
cordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission may
have prescribed in respect of such offers which are in effect at the
time such offer is made. For the purposes of this section, (A) an
offer by a principal underwriter means an offer communicated to
holders of securities of a class or series but does not include an
offer made by such principal underwriter to an individual investor
in the course of a retail business conducted by such principal un­
derwriter, and (B) the net asset value means the net asset value
which is in effect for the purpose of determining the price at which
the securities, or class or series of securities involved, are offered
for sale to the public either (1) at the time of the receipt by the
offeror of the acceptance of the offer or (2) at such later times as
is specified in the offer.
(b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any offer
made pursuant to any plan of reorganization, which is submitted
to and requires the approval of the holders of at least a majority
of the outstanding shares of the class or series to which the secu­
rity owned by the offeree belongs.
(c) The provisions of subsection (a) shall be applicable, irrespec­
tive of the basis of exchange, (1) to any offer of exchange of any
security of a registered open-end company for a security of a reg­
istered unit investment trust or registered face-amount certificate
company; and (2) to any type of offer of exchange of the securities
of registered unit investment trusts or registered face-amount cer­
tificate companies for the securities of any other investment com­
pany.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 11, 54 Stat. 808; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 6, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1417.)
FUNCTIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES

SEC. 12. (a) It shall be unlawful for any registered investment
company, in contravention of such rules and regulations or orders
as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in
the public interest or for the protection of investors—
(1) to purchase any security on margin, except such shortterm credits as are necessary for the clearance of transactions;

43

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 12


(2) to participate on a joint or a joint and several basis in
any trading account in securities, except in connection with an
underwriting in which such registered company is a partici­
pant; or
(3) to effect a short sale of any security, except in connec­
tion with an underwriting in which such registered company is
a participant.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any registered open-end company
(other than a company complying with the provisions of section 10
(d)) to act as a distributor of securities of which it is the issuer, ex­
cept through an underwriter, in contravention of such rules and
regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or ap­
propriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any registered diversified company
to make any commitment as underwriter, if immediately thereafter
the amount of its outstanding underwriting commitments, plus the
value of its investments in securities of issuers (other than invest­
ment companies) of which it owns more than 10 per centum of the
outstanding voting securities, exceeds 25 per centum of the value
of its total assets.
(d)(1)(A) It shall be unlawful for any registered investment
company (the ‘‘acquiring company’’) and any company or companies
controlled by such acquiring company to purchase or otherwise ac­
quire any security issued by any other investment company (the
‘‘acquired company’’), and for any investment company (the ‘‘acquir­
ing company’’) and any company or companies controlled by such
acquiring company to purchase or otherwise acquire any security
issued by any registered investment company (the ‘‘acquired com­
pany’’), if the acquiring company and any company or companies
controlled by it immediately after such purchase or acquisition own
in the aggregate—
(i) more than 3 per centum of the total outstanding voting
stock of the acquired company;
(ii) securities issued by the acquired company having an
aggregate value in excess of 5 per centum of the value of the
total assets of the acquiring company; or
(iii) securities issued by the acquired company and all
other investment companies (other than treasury stock of the
acquiring company) having an aggregate value in excess of 10
per centum of the value of the total assets of the acquiring
company.
(B) It shall be unlawful for any registered open-end investment
company (the ‘‘acquired company’’), any principal underwriter
therefor, or any broker or dealer registered under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, knowingly to sell or otherwise dispose of any
security issued by the acquired company to any other investment
company (the ‘‘acquiring company’’) or any company or companies
controlled by the acquiring company, if immediately after such sale
or disposition—
(i) more than 3 per centum of the total outstanding voting
stock of the acquired company is owned by the acquiring com­
pany and any company or companies controlled by it; or
(ii) more than 10 per centum of the total outstanding vot­
ing stock of the acquired company is owned by the acquiring

Sec. 12

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

44


company and other investment companies and companies con­
trolled by them.
(C) It shall be unlawful for any investment company (the ‘‘ac­
quiring company’’) and any company or companies controlled by the
acquiring company to purchase or otherwise acquire any security
issued by a registered closed-end investment company, if imme­
diately after such purchase or acquisition the acquiring company,
other investment companies having the same investment adviser,
and companies controlled by such investment companies, own more
than 10 per centum of the total outstanding voting stock of such
closed-end company.
(D) The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to a secu­
rity received as a dividend or as a result of an offer of exchange
approved pursuant to section 11 or of a plan of reorganization of
any company (other than a plan devised for the purpose of evading
the foregoing provisions).
(E) The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to a secu­
rity (or securities) purchased or acquired by an investment com­
pany if—
(i) the depositor of, or principal underwriter for, such in­
vestment company is a broker or dealer registered under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or a person controlled by such
a broker or dealer;
(ii) such security is the only investment security held by
such investment company (or such securities are the only in­
vestment securities held by such investment company, if such
investment company is a registered unit investment trust that
issues two or more classes or series of securities, each of which
provides for the accumulation of shares of a different invest­
ment company); and
(iii) the purchase or acquisition is made pursuant to an ar­
rangement with the issuer of, or principal underwriter for the
issuer of, the security whereby such investment company is ob­
ligated—
(aa) either to seek instructions from its security hold­
ers with regard to the voting of all proxies with respect to
such security and to vote such proxies only in accordance
with such instructions, or to vote the shares held by it in
the same proportion as the vote of all other holders of such
security, and
(bb) in the event that such investment company is not
a registered investment company, to refrain from sub­
stituting such security unless the Commission shall have
approved such substitution in the manner provided in sec­
tion 26 of this Act.
(F) The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to securi­
ties purchased or otherwise acquired by a registered investment
company if—
(i) immediately after such purchase or acquisition not more
than 3 per centum of the total outstanding stock of such issuer
is owned by such registered investment company and all affili­
ated persons of such registered investment company; and
(ii) such registered investment company has not offered or
sold after January 1, 1971, and is not proposing to offer or sell

45

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 12


any security issued by it through a principal underwriter or
otherwise at a public offering price which includes a sales load
of more than 1 1/2 per centum.
No issuer of any security purchased or acquired by a registered in­
vestment company pursuant to this subparagraph shall be obli­
gated to redeem such security in an amount exceeding 1 per cen­
tum of such issuer’s total outstanding securities during any period
of less than thirty days. Such investment company shall exercise
voting rights by proxy or otherwise with respect to any security
purchased or acquired pursuant to this subparagraph in the man­
ner prescribed by subparagraph (E) of this subsection.
(G)(i) This paragraph does not apply to securities of a reg­
istered open-end investment company or a registered unit invest­
ment trust (hereafter in this subparagraph referred to as the ‘‘ac­
quired company’’) purchased or otherwise acquired by a registered
open-end investment company or a registered unit investment trust
(hereafter in this subparagraph referred to as the ‘‘acquiring com­
pany’’) if—
(I) the acquired company and the acquiring company are
part of the same group of investment companies;
(II) the securities of the acquired company, securities of
other registered open-end investment companies and registered
unit investment trusts that are part of the same group of in­
vestment companies, Government securities, and short-term
paper are the only investments held by the acquiring company;
(III) with respect to—
(aa) securities of the acquired company, the acquiring
company does not pay and is not assessed any charges or
fees for distribution-related activities, unless the acquiring
company does not charge a sales load or other fees or
charges for distribution-related activities; or
(bb) securities of the acquiring company, any sales
loads and other distribution-related fees charged, when ag­
gregated with any sales load and distribution-related fees
paid by the acquiring company with respect to securities of
the acquired company, are not excessive under rules adopt­
ed pursuant to section 22(b) or section 22(c) by a securities
association registered under section 15A of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, or the Commission;
(IV) the acquired company has a policy that prohibits it
from acquiring any securities of registered open-end invest­
ment companies or registered unit investment trusts in reli­
ance on this subparagraph or subparagraph (F); and
(V) such acquisition is not in contravention of such rules
and regulations as the Commission may from time to time pre­
scribe with respect to acquisitions in accordance with this sub­
paragraph, as necessary and appropriate for the protection of
investors.
(ii) For purposes of this subparagraph, the term ‘‘group of in­
vestment companies’’ means any 2 or more registered investment
companies that hold themselves out to investors as related compa­
nies for purposes of investment and investor services.
(H) For the purposes of this paragraph, the value of an invest­
ment company’s total assets shall be computed as of the time of a

Sec. 12

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

46


purchase or acquisition or as closely thereto as is reasonably pos­
sible.
(I) In any action brought to enforce the provisions of this para­
graph, the Commission may join as a party the issuer of any secu­
rity purchased or otherwise acquired in violation of this paragraph,
and the court may issue any order with respect to such issuer as
may be necessary or appropriate for the enforcement of the provi­
sions of this paragraph.
(J) The Commission, by rule or regulation, upon its own motion
or by order upon application, may conditionally or unconditionally
exempt any person, security, or transaction, or any class or classes
of persons, securities, or transactions from any provision of this
paragraph, if and to the extent that such exemption is consistent
with the public interest and the protection of investors.
(2) It shall be unlawful for any registered investment company
and any company or companies controlled by such registered in­
vestment company to purchase or otherwise acquire any security
(except a security received as a dividend or as a result of a plan
of reorganization of any company, other than a plan devised for the
purpose of evading the provisions of this paragraph) issued by any
insurance company of which such registered investment company
and any company or companies controlled by such registered com­
pany do not, at the time of such purchase or acquisition, own in
the aggregate at least 25 per centum of the total outstanding vot­
ing stock, if such registered company and any company or compa­
nies controlled by it own in the aggregate, or as a result of such
purchase or acquisition will own in the aggregate, more than 10
per centum of the total outstanding voting stock of such insurance
company.
(3) It shall be unlawful for any registered investment company
and any company or companies controlled by such registered in­
vestment company to purchase or otherwise acquire any security
issued by or any other interest in the business of any person who
is a broker, a dealer, is engaged in the business of underwriting,
or is either an investment adviser of an investment company or an
investment adviser registered under title II of this Act, unless (A)
such person is a corporation all the outstanding securities of which
(other than short-term paper, securities representing bank loans,
and directors’ qualifying shares) are, or after such acquisition will
be, owned by one or more registered investment companies; and (B)
such person is primarily engaged in the business of underwriting
and distributing securities issued by other persons, selling securi­
ties to customers, or any one or more of such or related activities,
and the gross income of such person normally is derived principally
from such business or related activities.
(e) Notwithstanding any provisions of this title, any registered
investment company may hereafter purchase or otherwise acquire
any security issued by any one corporation engaged or proposing to
engage in the business of underwriting, furnishing capital to indus­
try, financing promotional enterprises, purchasing securities of
issuers for which no ready market is in existence, and reorganizing
companies or similar activities; provided—
(1) That the securities issued by such corporation (other
than short-term paper and securities representing bank loans)

47

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 12


shall consist solely of one class of common stock and shall have
been originally issued or sold for investment to registered in­
vestment companies only;
(2) That the aggregate cost of the securities of such cor­
poration purchased by such registered investment company
does not exceed 5 per centum of the value of the total assets
of such registered company at the time of any purchase or ac­
quisition of such securities; and
(3) That the aggregate paid-in capital and surplus of such
corporation does not exceed $100,000,000.
For the purpose of paragraph (1) of section 5(b) any investment in
any such corporation shall be deemed to be an investment in an
investment company.
(f) Notwithstanding any provisions of this Act, any registered
face-amount certificate company may organize not more than two
face- amount certificate companies and acquire and own all or any
part of the capital stock thereof only if such stock is acquired and
held for investment: Provided, That the aggregate cost to such reg­
istered company of all such stock so acquired shall not exceed six
times the amount of the minimum capital stock requirement pro­
vided in subdivision (1) of subsection (a) of section 28 for a faceamount company organized on or after March 15, 1940: And pro­
vided further, That the aggregate cost to such registered company
of all such capital stock issued by face-amount certificate compa­
nies organized or otherwise created under laws other than the laws
of the United States or any State thereof shall not exceed twice the
amount of the minimum capital stock requirement provided in sub­
division (1) of subsection (a) of section 28 for a company organized
on or after March 15, 1940. Nothing contained in this subsection
shall be deemed to prevent the sale of any such stock to any other
person if the original purchase was made by such registered faceamount certificate company in good faith for investment and not
for resale.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section any reg­
istered investment company and any company or companies con­
trolled by such registered company may purchase or otherwise ac­
quire from another investment company or any company or compa­
nies controlled by such registered company more than 10 per cen­
tum of the total outstanding voting stock of any insurance company
owned by any such company or companies, or may acquire the se­
curities of any insurance company if the Commission by order de­
termines that such acquisition is in the public interest because the
financial condition of such insurance company will be improved as
a result of such acquisition or any plan contemplated as a result
thereof. This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the promotion
of a new insurance company or the acquisition of the securities of
any newly created insurance company by a registered investment
company, alone or with other persons. Nothing contained in this
section shall in any way affect or derogate from the powers of any
insurance commissioner or similar official or agency of the United
States or any State, or to affect the right under State law of any
insurance company to acquire securities of any other insurance
company or insurance companies.

Sec. 13

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

48


(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 12, 54 Stat. 808; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 7, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1417; Pub. L. 100-181, title VI,
Sec. 610, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1261; Pub. L. 104-290, title II, Sec.
202, Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3426; Pub. L. 105-353, title III, Sec.
301(c)(3), Nov. 3, 1998, 112 Stat. 3236; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX,
Sec. 985(d)(3), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1934.)
CHANGES IN INVESTMENT POLICY

SEC. 13. (a) No registered investment company shall, unless
authorized by the vote of a majority of its outstanding voting secu­
rities—
(1) change its subclassification as defined in section 5(a)(1)
and (2) of this title or its subclassification from a diversified to
a non-diversified company;
(2) borrow money, issue senior securities, underwrite secu­
rities issued by other persons, purchase or sell real estate or
commodities or make loans to other persons, except in each
case in accordance with the recitals of policy contained in its
registration statement in respect thereto;
(3) deviate from its policy in respect of concentration of in­
vestments in any particular industry or group of industries as
recited in its registration statement, deviate from any invest­
ment policy which is changeable only if authorized by share­
holder vote, or deviate from any policy recited in its registra­
tion statement pursuant to section 8(b)(3); [6]
(4) change the nature of its business so as to cease to be
an investment company.
(b) In the case of a common-law trust of the character de­
scribed in section 16(c), either written approval by holders of a ma­
jority of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest or the vote of
a majority of such outstanding shares cast in person or by proxy
at a meeting called for the purpose shall for the purposes of sub­
section (a) be deemed the equivalent of the vote of a majority of the
outstanding voting securities, and the provisions of paragraph (42)
of section 2(a) as to a majority shall be applicable to the vote cast
at such a meeting.
(c) LIMITATION ON ACTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
Federal or State law, no person may bring any civil, criminal,
or administrative action against any registered investment
company, or any employee, officer, director, or investment ad­
viser thereof, based solely upon the investment company di­
vesting from, or avoiding investing in, securities issued by per­
sons that the investment company determines, using credible
information available to the public—
(A) conduct or have direct investments in business op­
erations in Sudan described in section 3(d) of the Sudan
Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 1701
note); or
6So

in law. Probably should include ‘‘or’’ after the semicolon at the end.

49

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 14


(B) engage in investment activities in Iran described
in section 202(c) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Ac­
countability, and Divestment Act of 2010.
(2) APPLICABILITY.—
(A) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in paragraph
(1) shall be construed to create, imply, diminish, change,
or affect in any way whether or not a private right of ac­
tion exists under subsection (a) or any other provision of
this Act.
(B) DISCLOSURES.—Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a
registered investment company, or any employee, officer,
director, or investment adviser thereof, unless the invest­
ment company makes disclosures in accordance with regu­
lations prescribed by the Commission.
(3) PERSON DEFINED.—For purposes of this subsection the
term ‘‘person’’ includes the Federal Government and any State
or political subdivision of a State.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 13, 54 Stat. 811; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 2(b), 3(d), Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1414, 1415; Pub. L. 94­
29, Sec. 28(4), June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 165; Pub. L. 110-174, Sec.
4(a), Dec. 31, 2007, 121 Stat. 2519; Pub. L. 111-195, title II, Secs.
203(a), 205(b)(1), July 1, 2010, 124 Stat. 1343, 1345.)
SIZE OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES

SEC. 14. (a) No registered investment company organized after
the date of enactment of this title, and no principal underwriter for
such a company, shall make a public offering of securities of which
such company is the issuer, unless—
(1) such company has a net worth of at least $100,000;
(2) such company has previously made a public offering of
its securities, and at the time of such offering had a net worth
of at least $100,000; or
(3) provision is made in connection with and as a condition
of the registration of such securities under the Securities Act
of 1933 which in the opinion of the Commission adequately in­
sures (A) that after the effective date of such registration state­
ment such company will not issue any security or receive any
proceeds of any subscription for any security until firm agree­
ments have been made with such company by not more than
twenty-five responsible persons to purchase from it securities
to be issued by it for an aggregate net amount which plus the
then net worth of the company, if any, will equal at least
$100,000; (B) that said aggregate net amount will be paid in
to such company before any subscriptions for such securities
will be accepted from any persons in excess of twenty- five; (C)
that arrangements will be made whereby any proceeds so paid
in, as well as any sales load, will be refunded to any subscriber
on demand without any deduction, in the event that the net
proceeds so received by the company do not result in the com­
pany having a net worth of at least $100,000 within ninety
days after such registration statement becomes effective.

Sec. 15

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

50


At any time after occurrence of the event specified in clause (C) of
paragraph (3) of this subsection the Commission may issue a stop
order suspending the effectiveness of the registration statement of
such securities under the Securities Act of 1933 and may suspend
or revoke the registration of such company under this title.
(b) The Commission is authorized, at such times as it deems
that any substantial further increase in size of investment compa­
nies creates any problem involving the protection of investors or
the public interest, to make a study and investigation of the effects
of size on the investment policy of investment companies and on se­
curity markets, on concentration of control of wealth and industry,
and on companies in which investment companies are interested,
and from time to time to report the results of its studies and inves­
tigations and its recommendations to the Congress.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 14, 54 Stat. 811.)
INVESTMENT ADVISORY AND UNDERWRITING CONTRACTS

SEC. 15. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person to serve or act
as investment adviser of a registered investment company, except
pursuant to a written contract, which contract, whether with such
registered company or with an investment adviser of such reg­
istered company, has been approved by the vote of a majority of the
outstanding voting securities of such registered company, and—
(1) precisely describes all compensation to be paid there­
under;
(2) shall continue in effect for a period more than two
years from the date of its execution, only so long as such con­
tinuance is specifically approved at least annually by the board
of directors or by vote of a majority of the outstanding voting
securities of such company;
(3) provides, in substance, that it may be terminated at
any time, without the payment of any penalty, by the board of
directors of such registered company or by vote of a majority
of the outstanding voting securities of such company on not
more than sixty days’ written notice to the investment adviser;
and
(4) provides, in substance, for its automatic termination in
the event of its assignment.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any principal underwriter for a reg­
istered open-end company to offer for sale, sell, or deliver after sale
any security of which such company is the issuer, except pursuant
to a written contract with such company, which contract—
(1) shall continue in effect for a period more than two
years from the date of its execution, only so long as such con­
tinuance is specifically approved at least annually by the board
of directors or by vote of a majority of the outstanding voting
securities of such company; and
(2) provides, in substance, for its automatic termination in
the event of its assignment.
(c) In addition to the requirements of subsections (a) and (b)
of this section, it shall be unlawful for any registered investment
company having a board of directors to enter into, renew, or per­

51

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 15


form any contract or agreement, written or oral, whereby a person
undertakes regularly to serve or act as investment adviser of or
principal underwriter for such company, unless the terms of such
contract or agreement and any renewal thereof have been approved
by the vote of a majority of directors, who are not parties to such
contract or agreement or interested persons of any such party, cast
in person at a meeting called for the purpose of voting on such ap­
proval. It shall be the duty of the directors of a registered invest­
ment company to request and evaluate, and the duty of an invest­
ment adviser to such company to furnish, such information as may
reasonably be necessary to evaluate the terms of any contract
whereby a person undertakes regularly to serve or act as invest­
ment adviser of such company. It shall be unlawful for the direc­
tors of a registered investment company, in connection with their
evaluation of the terms of any contract whereby a person under­
takes regularly to serve or act as investment adviser of such com­
pany, to take into account the purchase price or other consideration
any person may have paid in connection with a transaction of the
type referred to in paragraph (1), (3), or (4) of subsection (f).
(d) In the case of a common-law trust of the character de­
scribed in section 16(c), either written approval by holders of a ma­
jority of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest or the vote of
a majority of such outstanding shares cast in person or by proxy
at a meeting called for the purpose shall for the purposes of this
section be deemed the equivalent of the vote of a majority of the
outstanding voting securities, and the provisions of paragraph (42)
of section 2(a) as to a majority shall be applicable to the vote cast
at such a meeting.
(e) Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to require
or contemplate any action by an advisory board of any registered
company or by any of the members of such a board.
(f)(1) An investment adviser, or a corporate trustee performing
the functions of an investment adviser, of a registered investment
company or an affiliated person of such investment adviser or cor­
porate trustee may receive any amount or benefit in connection
with a sale of securities of, or a sale of any other interest in, such
investment adviser or corporate trustee which results in an assign­
ment of an investment advisory contract with such company or the
change in control of or identity of such corporate trustee, if—
(A) for a period of three years after the time of such action,
at least 75 per centum of the members of the board of directors
of such registered company or such corporate trustee (or suc­
cessor thereto, by reorganization or otherwise) are not (i) inter­
ested persons of the investment adviser of such company or
such corporate trustee, or (ii) interested persons of the prede­
cessor investment adviser or such corporate trustee; and
(B) there is not imposed an unfair burden on such com­
pany as a result of such transaction or any express or implied
terms, conditions, or understandings applicable thereto.
(2)(A) For the purpose of paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection,
interested persons of a corporate trustee shall be determined in ac­
cordance with section 2(a)(19)(B): Provided, That no person shall be
deemed to be an interested person of a corporate trustee solely by
reason of (i) his being a member of its board of directors or advi­

Sec. 15

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

52


sory board or (ii) his membership in the immediate family of any
person specified in clause (i) of this subparagraph.
(B) For the purpose of paragraph (1)(B) of this subsection, an
unfair burden on a registered investment company includes any ar­
rangement, during the two-year period after the date on which any
such transaction occurs, whereby the investment adviser or cor­
porate trustee or predecessor or successor investment advisers or
corporate trustee or any interested person of any such adviser or
any such corporate trustee receives or is entitled to receive any
compensation directly or indirectly (i) from any person in connec­
tion with the purchase or sale of securities or other property to,
from, or on behalf of such company, other than bona fide ordinary
compensation as principal underwriter for such company, or (ii)
from such company or its security holders for other than bona fide
investment advisory or other services.
(3) If—
(A) an assignment of an investment advisory contract with
a registered investment company results in a successor invest­
ment adviser to such company, or if there is a change in con­
trol of or identity of a corporate trustee of a registered invest­
ment company, and such adviser or trustee is then an invest­
ment adviser or corporate trustee with respect to other assets
substantially greater in amount than the amount of assets of
such company, or
(B) as a result of a merger of, or a sale of substantially all
the assets by, a registered investment company with or to an­
other registered investment company with assets substantially
greater in amount, a transaction occurs which would be subject
to paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection,
such discrepancy in size of assets shall be considered by the Com­
mission in determining whether or to what extent an application
under section 6(c) for exemption from the provisions of paragraph
(1)(A) should be granted.
(4) Paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection shall not apply to a
transaction in which a controlling block of outstanding voting secu­
rities of an investment adviser to a registered investment company
or of a corporate trustee performing the functions of an investment
adviser to a registered investment company is—
(A) distributed to the public and in which there is, in fact,
no change in the identity of the persons who control such in­
vestment adviser or corporate trustee, or
(B) transferred to the investment adviser or the corporate
trustee, or an affiliated person or persons of such investment
adviser or corporate trustee, or is transferred from the invest­
ment adviser or corporate trustee to an affiliated person or per­
sons of the investment adviser, or corporate trustee: Provided,
That (i) each transferee (other than such adviser or trustee) is
a natural person and (ii) the transferees (other than such ad­
viser or trustee) owned in the aggregate more than 25 per cen­
tum of such voting securities for a period of at least six months
prior to such transfer.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 15, 54 Stat. 812; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 8, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1419; Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 28(1),

53

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 16


(2), (4), June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 164, 165; Pub. L. 100-181, title VI,
Sec. 611, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1261.)
CHANGES IN BOARD OF DIRECTORS; PROVISIONS RELATIVE TO STRICT

TRUSTS


SEC. 16. (a) No person shall serve as a director of a registered
investment company unless elected to that office by the holders of
the outstanding voting securities of such company, at an annual or
a special meeting duly called for that purpose; except that vacan­
cies occurring between such meetings may be filled in any other­
wise legal manner if immediately after filling any such vacancy at
least two-thirds of the directors then holding office shall have been
elected to such office by the holders of the outstanding voting secu­
rities of the company at such an annual or special meeting. In the
event that at any time less than a majority of the directors of such
company holding office at that time were so elected by the holders
of the outstanding voting securities, the board of directors or prop­
er officer of such company shall forthwith cause to be held as
promptly as possible and in any event within sixty days a meeting
of such holders for the purpose of electing directors to fill any exist­
ing vacancies in the board of directors unless the Commission shall
by order extend such period. The foregoing provisions of this sub­
section shall not apply to members of an advisory board.
Nothing herein shall, however, preclude a registered invest­
ment company from dividing its directors into classes if its charter,
certificate of incorporation, articles of association, by-laws, trust in­
denture, or other instrument or the law under which it is orga­
nized, so provides and prescribes the tenure of office of the several
classes: Provided, That no class shall be elected for a shorter period
than one year or for a longer period than five years and the term
of office of at least one class shall expire each year.
(b) Any vacancy on the board of directors of a registered invest­
ment company which occurs in connection with compliance with
section 15(f)(1)(A) and which must be filled by a person who is not
an interested person of either party to a transaction subject to sec­
tion 15(f)(1)(A) shall be filled only by a person (1) who has been se­
lected and proposed for election by a majority of the directors of
such company who are not such interested persons, and (2) who
has been elected by the holders of the outstanding voting securities
of such company, except that in the case of the death, disqualifica­
tion, or bona fide resignation of a director selected and elected pur­
suant to clauses (1) and (2) of this subsection (b), the vacancy cre­
ated thereby may be filled as provided in subsection (a).
(c) The foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply to
a common-law trust existing on the date of enactment of this title
under an indenture of trust which does not provide for the election
of trustees by the shareholders. No natural person shall serve as
trustee of such a trust, which is registered as an investment com­
pany, after the holders of record of not less than two-thirds of the
outstanding shares of beneficial interest in such trust have de­
clared that he be removed from that office either by declaration in
writing filed with the custodian of the securities of the trust or by
votes cast in person or by proxy at a meeting called for the pur­

Sec. 16

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

54


pose. Solicitation of such a declaration shall be deemed a solicita­
tion of a proxy within the meaning of section 20(a).
The trustees of such a trust shall promptly call a meeting of
shareholders for the purpose of voting upon the question of removal
of any such trustee or trustees when requested in writing so to do
by the record holders of not less than 10 per centum of the out­
standing shares.
Whenever ten or more shareholders of record who have been
such for at least six months preceding the date of application, and
who hold in the aggregate either shares having a net asset value
of at least $25,000 or at least 1 per centum of the outstanding
shares, whichever is less, shall apply to the trustees in writing,
stating that they wish to communicate with other shareholders
with a view to obtaining signatures to a request for a meeting pur­
suant to this subsection (c) and accompanied by a form of commu­
nication and request which they wish to transmit, the trustees
shall within five business days after receipt of such application ei­
ther—
(1) afford to such applicants access to a list of the names
and addresses of all shareholders as recorded on the books of
the trust; or
(2) inform such applicants as to the approximate number
of shareholders of record, and the approximate cost of mailing
to them the proposed communication and form of request.
If the trustees elect to follow the course specified in paragraph
(2) of this subsection (c) the trustees, upon the written request of
such applicants, accompanied by a tender of the material to be
mailed and of the reasonable expenses of mailing, shall, with rea­
sonable promptness, mail such material to all shareholders of
record at their addresses as recorded on the books, unless within
five business days after such tender the trustees shall mail to such
applicants and file with the Commission, together with a copy of
the material to be mailed, a written statement signed by at least
a majority of the trustees to the effect that in their opinion either
such material contains untrue statement of fact or omits to state
facts necessary to make the statements contained therein not mis­
leading, or would be in violation of applicable law, and specifying
the basis of such opinion.
After opportunity for hearing upon the objections specified in
the written statement so filed, the Commission may, and if de­
manded by the trustees or by such applicants shall, enter an order
either sustaining one or more of such objections or refusing to sus­
tain any of them. If the Commission shall enter an order refusing
to sustain any of such objections, or if, after the entry of an order
sustaining one or more of such objections, the Commission shall
find, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that all objections so
sustained have been met, and shall enter an order so declaring, the
trustees shall mail copies of such material to all shareholders with
reasonable promptness after the entry of such order and the re­
newal of such tender.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 16, 54 Stat. 813; Pub. L. 94­
29, Sec. 28(3), June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 165.)

55

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 17


TRANSACTIONS OF CERTAIN AFFILIATED PERSONS AND UNDERWRITERS

SEC. 17. (a) It shall be unlawful for any affiliated person or
promoter of or principal underwriter for a registered investment
company (other than a company of the character described in sec­
tion 12(d)(3) (A) and (B)), or any affiliated person of such a person,
promoter, or principal underwriter, acting as principal—
(1) knowingly to sell any security or other property to such
registered company or to any company controlled by such reg­
istered company, unless such sale involves solely (A) securities
of which the buyer is the issuer, (B) securities of which the
seller is the issuer and which are part of a general offering to
the holders of a class of its securities, or (C) securities depos­
ited with the trustee of a unit investment trust or periodic pay­
ment plan by the depositor thereof;
(2) knowingly to purchase from such registered company,
or from any company controlled by such registered company,
any security or other property (except securities of which the
seller is the issuer);
(3) to borrow money or other property from such registered
company or from any company controlled by such registered
company (unless the borrower is controlled by the lender) ex­
cept as permitted in section 21(b); or
(4) to loan money or other property to such registered com­
pany, or to any company controlled by such registered com­
pany, in contravention of such rules, regulations, or orders as
the Commission may, after consultation with and taking into
consideration the views of the Federal banking agencies (as de­
fined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act), pre­
scribe or issue consistent with the protection of investors.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), any person may file with
the Commission an application for an order exempting a proposed
transaction of the applicant from one or more provisions of that
subsection. The Commission shall grant such application and issue
such order of exemption if evidence establishes that—
(1) the terms of the proposed transaction, including the
consideration to be paid or received, are reasonable and fair
and do not involve overreaching on the part of any person con­
cerned;
(2) the proposed transaction is consistent with the policy
of each registered investment company concerned, as recited in
its registration statement and reports filed under this title;
and
(3) the proposed transaction is consistent with the general
purposes of this title.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a), a person may, in the ordi­
nary course of business, sell to or purchase from any company mer­
chandise or may enter into a lessor-lessee relationship with any
person and furnish the services incident thereto.
(d) It shall be unlawful for any affiliated person of or principal
underwriter for a registered investment company (other than a
company of the character described in section 12(d)(3) (A) and (B)),
or any affiliated person of such a person or principal underwriter,
acting as principal to effect any transaction in which such reg­

Sec. 17

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

56


istered company, or a company controlled by such registered com­
pany, is a joint or a joint and several participant with such person,
principal underwriter, or affiliated person, in contravention of such
rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe for the pur­
pose of limiting or preventing participation by such registered or
controlled company on a basis different from or less advantageous
than that of such other participant. Nothing contained in this sub­
section shall be deemed to preclude any affiliated person from act­
ing as manager of any underwriting syndicate or other group in
which such registered or controlled company is a participant and
receiving compensation therefor.
(e) It shall be unlawful for any affiliated person of a registered
investment company, or any affiliated person of such person—
(1) acting as agent, to accept from any source any com­
pensation (other than a regular salary or wages from such reg­
istered company) for the purchase or sale of any property to or
for such registered company or any controlled company thereof,
except in the course of such person’s business as an under­
writer or broker; or
(2) acting as broker, in connection with the sale of securi­
ties to or by such registered company or any controlled com­
pany thereof, to receive from any source a commission, fee, or
other remuneration for effecting such transaction which ex­
ceeds (A) the usual and customary broker’s commission if the
sale is effected on a securities exchange, or (B) 2 per centum
of the sales price if the sale is effected in connection with a sec­
ondary distribution of such securities, or (C) 1 per centum of
the purchase or sale price of such securities if the sale is other­
wise effected unless the Commission shall, by rules and regula­
tions or order in the public interest and consistent with the
protection of investors, permit a larger commission.
(f) CUSTODY OF SECURITIES.—
(1) Every registered management company shall place and
maintain its securities and similar investments in the custody
of (A) a bank or banks having the qualifications prescribed in
paragraph (1) of section 26(a) of this title for the trustees of
unit investment trusts; or (B) a company which is a member
of a national securities exchange as defined in the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, subject to such rules and regulations as
the Commission may from time to time prescribe for the pro­
tection of investors; or (C) such registered company, but only
in accordance with such rules and regulations or orders as the
Commission may from time to time prescribe for the protection
of investors.
(2) Subject to such rules, regulations, and orders as the
Commission may adopt as necessary or appropriate for the pro­
tection of investors, a registered management company or any
such custodian, with the consent of the registered management
company for which it acts as custodian, may deposit all or any
part of the securities owned by such registered management
company in a system for the central handling of securities es­
tablished by a national securities exchange or national securi­
ties association registered with the Commission under the Se­
curities Exchange Act of 1934, or such other person as may be

57

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 17


permitted by the Commission, pursuant to which system all se­
curities of any particular class or series of any issuer deposited
within the system are treated as fungible and may be trans­
ferred or pledged by bookkeeping entry without physical deliv­
ery of such securities.
(3) Rules, regulations, and orders of the Commission under
this subsection, among other things, may make appropriate
provision with respect to such matters as the earmarking, seg­
regation, and hypothecation of such securities and invest­
ments, and may provide for or require periodic or other inspec­
tions by any or all of the following: Independent public ac­
countants, employees and agents of the Commission, and such
other persons as the Commission may designate.
(4) No member of a national securities exchange which
trades in securities for its own account may act as custodian
except in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by
the Commission for the protection of investors.
(5) If a registered company maintains its securities and
similar investments in the custody of a qualified bank or
banks, the cash proceeds from the sale of such securities and
similar investments and other cash assets of the company shall
likewise be kept in the custody of such a bank or banks, or in
accordance with such rules and regulations or orders as the
Commission may from time to time prescribe for the protection
of investors, except that such a registered company may main­
tain a checking account in a bank or banks having the quali­
fications prescribed in paragraph (1) of section 26(a) of this
title for the trustees of unit investment trusts with the balance
of such account or the aggregate balances of such accounts at
no time in excess of the amount of the fidelity bond, main­
tained pursuant to section 17(g) of this title, covering the offi­
cers or employees authorized to draw on such account or ac­
counts.
(6) The Commission may, after consultation with and tak­
ing into consideration the views of the Federal banking agen­
cies (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act), adopt rules and regulations, and issue orders, consistent
with the protection of investors, prescribing the conditions
under which a bank, or an affiliated person of a bank, either
of which is an affiliated person, promoter, organizer, or sponsor
of, or principal underwriter for, a registered management com­
pany, may serve as custodian of that registered management
company.
(g) The Commission is authorized to require by rules and regu­
lations or orders for the protection of investors that any officer or
employee of a registered management investment company who
may singly, or jointly with others, have access to securities or funds
of any registered company, either directly or through authority to
draw upon such funds or to direct generally the disposition of such
securities (unless the officer or employee has such access solely
through his position as an officer or employee of a bank) be bonded
by a reputable fidelity insurance company against larceny and em­
bezzlement in such reasonable minimum amounts as the Commis­
sion may prescribe.

Sec. 18

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

58


(h) After one year from the effective date of this title, neither
the charter, certificate of incorporation, articles of association, in­
denture of trust, nor the by-laws of any registered investment com­
pany, nor any other instrument pursuant to which such a company
is organized or administered, shall contain any provision which
protects or purports to protect any director or officer of such com­
pany against any liability to the company or to its security holders
to which he would otherwise be subject by reason of willful misfea­
sance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of the du­
ties involved in the conduct of his office.
(i) After one year from the effective date of this title no con­
tract or agreement under which any person undertakes to act as
investment adviser of, or principal underwriter for, a registered in­
vestment company shall contain any provision which protects or
purports to protect such person against any liability to such com­
pany or its security holders to which he would otherwise be subject
by reason of willful misfeasance, bad faith, or gross negligence, in
the performance of his duties, or by reason of his reckless disregard
of his obligations and duties under such contract or agreement.
(j) It shall be unlawful for any affiliated person of or principal
underwriter for a registered investment company or any affiliated
person of an investment adviser of or principal underwriter for a
registered investment company, to engage in any act, practice, or
course of business in connection with the purchase or sale, directly
or indirectly, by such person of any security held or to be acquired
by such registered investment company in contravention of such
rules and regulations as the Commission may adopt to define, and
prescribe means reasonably necessary to prevent, such acts, prac­
tices, or courses of business as are fraudulent, deceptive or manipu­
lative. Such rules and regulations may include requirements for
the adoption of codes of ethics by registered investment companies
and investment advisers of, and principal underwriters for, such in­
vestment companies establishing such standards as are reasonably
necessary to prevent such acts, practices, or courses of business.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 17, 54 Stat. 815; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 9, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1420; Pub. L. 100-181, title VI,
Sec. 612, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1261; Pub. L. 106-102, title II, Sec.
211(a), 212, Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1396; Pub. L. 111-203, title
IX, Sec. 985(d)(4), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1934.)
CAPITAL STRUCTURE

SEC. 18. (a) It shall be unlawful for any registered closed-end
company to issue any class of senior security, or to sell any such
security of which it is the issuer, unless—
(1) if such class of senior security represents an indebted­
ness—
(A) immediately after such issuance or sale, it will
have an asset coverage of at least 300 per centum;
(B) provision is made to prohibit the declaration of any
dividend (except a dividend payable in stock of the issuer),
or the declaration of any other distribution, upon any class
of the capital stock of such investment company, or the

59

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 18


purchase of any such capital stock, unless, in every such
case, such class of senior securities has at the time of the
declaration of any such dividend or distribution or at the
time of any such purchase an asset coverage of at least
300 per centum after deducting the amount of such divi­
dend, distribution, or purchase price, as the case may be,
except that dividends may be declared upon any preferred
stock if such senior security representing indebtedness has
an asset coverage of at least 200 per centum at the time
of declaration thereof after deducting the amount of such
dividend; and
(C) provision is made either—
(i) that, if on the last business day of each of
twelve consecutive calendar months such class of sen­
ior securities shall have an asset coverage of less than
100 per centum, the holders of such securities voting
as a class shall be entitled to elect at least a majority
of the members of the board of directors of such reg­
istered company, such voting right to continue until
such class of senior security shall have an asset cov­
erage of 110 per centum or more on the last business
day of each of three consecutive calendar months, or
(ii) that, if on the last business day of each of
twenty-four consecutive calendar months such class of
senior securities shall have an asset coverage of less
than 100 per centum, an event of default shall be
deemed to have occurred;
(2) if such class of senior security is a stock—
(A) immediately after such issuance or sale it will
have an asset coverage of at least 200 per centum;
(B) provision is made to prohibit the declaration of any
dividend (except a dividend payable in common stock of
the issuer), or the declaration of any other distribution,
upon the common stock of such investment company, or
the purchase of any such common stock, unless in every
such case such class of senior security has at the time of
the declaration of any such dividend or distribution or at
the time of any such purchase an asset coverage of at least
200 per centum after deducting the amount of such divi­
dend, distribution or purchase price, as the case may be;
(C) provision is made to entitle the holders of such
senior securities, voting as a class, to elect at least two di­
rectors at all times, and, subject to the prior rights, if any,
of the holders of any other class of senior securities out­
standing, to elect a majority of the directors if at any time
dividends on such class of securities shall be unpaid in an
amount equal to two full years’ dividends on such securi­
ties, and to continue to be so represented until all divi­
dends in arrears shall have been paid or otherwise pro­
vided for;
(D) provision is made requiring approval by the vote
of a majority of such securities, voting as a class, of any
plan of reorganization adversely affecting such securities

Sec. 18

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

60


or of any action requiring a vote of security holders as in
section 13(a) provided; and
(E) such class of stock shall have complete priority
over any other class as to distribution of assets and pay­
ment of dividends, which dividends shall be cumulative.
(b) The asset coverage in respect of a senior security provided
for in subsection (a) may be determined on the basis of values cal­
culated as of a time within forty-eight hours (not including Sun­
days or holidays) next preceding the time of such determination.
The time of issue or sale shall, in the case of an offering of such
securities to existing stockholders of the issuer, be deemed to be
the first date on which such offering is made, and in all other cases
shall be deemed to be the time as of which a firm commitment to
issue or sell and to take or purchase such securities shall be made.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) it shall be
unlawful for any registered closed-end investment company to issue
or sell any senior security representing indebtedness if immediately
thereafter such company will have outstanding more than one class
of senior security representing indebtedness, or to issue or sell any
senior security which is a stock if immediately thereafter such com­
pany will have outstanding more than one class of senior security
which is a stock, except that (1) any such class of indebtedness or
stock may be issued in one or more series: Provided, That no such
series shall have a preference or priority over any other series upon
the distribution of the assets of such registered closed-end company
or in respect of the payment of interest or dividends, and (2) prom­
issory notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in consider­
ation of any loan, extension, or renewal thereof, made by a bank
or other person and privately arranged, and not intended to be
publicly distributed, shall not be deemed to be a separate class of
senior securities representing indebtedness within the meaning of
this subsection (c).
(d) It shall be unlawful for any registered management com­
pany to issue any warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase a
security of which such company is the issuer, except in the form
of warrants or rights to subscribe expiring not later than one hun­
dred and twenty days after their issuance and issued exclusively
and ratably to a class or classes of such company’s security holders;
except that any warrant may be issued in exchange for outstanding
warrants in connection with a plan of reorganization.
(e) The provisions of this section 18 shall not apply to any sen­
ior securities issued or sold by any registered closed-end company—
(1) for the purpose of refunding through payment, pur­
chase, redemption, retirement, or exchange, any senior security
of such registered investment company except that no senior
security representing indebtedness shall be so issued or sold
for the purpose of refunding any senior security which is a
stock; or
(2) pursuant to any plan of reorganization (other than for
refunding as referred to in paragraph (1) of this subsection,
provided—
(A) that such senior securities are issued or sold for
the purpose of substituting or exchanging such senior secu­
rities for outstanding senior securities, and if such senior

61

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 18


securities represent indebtedness they are issued or sold
for the purpose of substituting or exchanging such senior
securities for outstanding senior securities representing in­
debtedness, of any registered investment company which is
a party to such plan of reorganization; or
(B) that the total amount of such senior securities so
issued or sold pursuant to such plan does not exceed the
total amount of senior securities of all the companies
which are parties to such plan, and the total amount of
senior securities representing indebtedness so issued or
sold pursuant to such plan does not exceed the total
amount of senior securities representing indebtedness of
all such companies, or, alternatively, the total amount of
such senior securities so issued or sold pursuant to such
plan does not have the effect of increasing the ratio of sen­
ior securities representing indebtedness to the securities
representing stock or the ratio of senior securities rep­
resenting stock to securities junior thereto when compared
with such ratios as they existed before such reorganiza­
tion.
(f)(1) It shall be unlawful for any registered open-end company
to issue any class of senior security or to sell any senior security
of which it is the issuer, except that any such registered company
shall be permitted to borrow from any bank: Provided, That imme­
diately after any such borrowing there is an asset coverage of at
least 300 per centum for all borrowings of such registered company:
And provided further, That in the event that such asset coverage
shall at any time fall below 300 per centum such registered com­
pany shall, within three days thereafter (not including Sundays
and holidays) or such longer period as the Commission may pre­
scribe by rules and regulations, reduce the amount of its bor­
rowings to an extent that the asset coverage of such borrowings
shall be at least 300 per centum.
(2) ‘‘Senior security’’ shall not, in the case of a registered openend company, include a class or classes or a number of series of
preferred or special stock each of which is preferred over all other
classes or series in respect of assets specifically allocated to that
class or series: Provided, That (A) such company has outstanding
no class or series of stock which is not so preferred over all other
classes or series, or (B) the only other outstanding class of the
issuer’s stock consists of a common stock upon which no dividend
(other than a liquidating dividend) is permitted to be paid and
which in the aggregate represents not more than one-half of 1 per
centum of the issuer’s outstanding voting securities. For the pur­
pose of insuring fair and equitable treatment of the holders of the
outstanding voting securities of each class or series of stock of such
company, the Commission may by rule, regulation, or order direct
that any matter required to be submitted to the holders of the out­
standing voting securities of such company shall not be deemed to
have been effectively acted upon unless approved by the holders of
such percentage (not exceeding a majority) of the outstanding vot­
ing securities of each class or series of stock affected by such mat­
ter as shall be prescribed in such rule, regulation, or order.

Sec. 18

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

62


(g) Unless otherwise provided: ‘‘Senior security’’ means any
bond, debenture, note, or similar obligation or instrument consti­
tuting a security and evidencing indebtedness, and any stock of a
class having priority over any other class as to distribution of as­
sets or payment of dividends; and ‘‘senior security representing in­
debtedness’’ means any senior security other than stock.
The term ‘‘senior security’’, when used in subparagraphs (B)
and (C) of paragraph (1) of subsection (a), shall not include any
promissory note or other evidence of indebtedness issued in consid­
eration of any loan, extension, or renewal thereof, made by a bank
or other person and privately arranged, and not intended to be
publicly distributed; nor shall such term, when used in this section
18, include any such promissory note or other evidence of indebted­
ness in any case where such a loan is for temporary purposes only
and in an amount not exceeding 5 per centum of the value of the
total assets of the issuer at the time when the loan is made. A loan
shall be presumed to be for temporary purposes if it is repaid with­
in sixty days and is not extended or renewed; otherwise it shall be
presumed not to be for temporary purposes. Any such presumption
may be rebutted by evidence.
(h) ‘‘Asset coverage’’ of a class of senior security representing
an indebtedness of an issuer means the ratio which the value of
the total assets of such issuer, less all liabilities and indebtedness
not represented by senior securities, bears to the aggregate amount
of senior securities representing indebtedness of such issuer. ‘‘Asset
coverage’’ of a class of senior security of an issuer which is a stock
means the ratio which the value of the total assets of such issuer,
less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior secu­
rities, bears to the aggregate amount of senior securities rep­
resenting indebtedness of such issuer plus the aggregate of the in­
voluntary liquidation preference of such class of senior security
which is a stock. The involuntary liquidation preference of a class
of senior security which is a stock shall be deemed to mean the
amount to which such class of senior security would be entitled on
involuntary liquidation of the issuer in preference to a security jun­
ior to it.
(i) Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, or as
otherwise required by law, every share of stock hereafter issued by
a registered management company (except a common-law trust of
the character described in section 16(c)) shall be a voting stock and
have equal voting rights with every other outstanding voting stock:
Provided, That this subsection shall not apply to shares issued pur­
suant to the terms of any warrant or subscription right outstanding
on March 15, 1940, or any firm contract entered into before March
15, 1940, to purchase such securities from such company nor to
shares issued in accordance with any rules, regulations, or orders
which the Commission may make permitting such issue.
(j) Notwithstanding any provision of this title, it shall be un­
lawful, after the date of enactment of this title, for any registered
face-amount certificate company—
(1) to issue, except in accordance with such rules, regula­
tions, or orders as the Commission may prescribe in the public
interest or as necessary or appropriate for the protection of in­
vestors, any security other than (A) a face-amount certificate;

63

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 19


(B) a common stock having a par value and being without pref­
erence as to dividends or distributions and having at least
equal voting rights with any outstanding security of such com­
pany; or (C) short-term payment or promissory notes or other
indebtedness issued in consideration of any loan, extension, or
renewal thereof, made by a bank or other person and privately
arranged and not intended to be publicly offered;
(2) if such company has outstanding any security, other
than such face-amount certificates, common stock, promissory
notes, or other evidence of indebtedness, to make any distribu­
tion or declare or pay any dividend on any capital security in
contravention of such rules and regulations or orders as the
Commission may prescribe in the public interest or as nec­
essary or appropriate for the protection of investors or to in­
sure the financial integrity of such company, to prevent the im­
pairment of the company’s ability to meet its obligations upon
its face-amount certificates; or
(3) to issue any of its securities except for cash or securi­
ties including securities of which such company is the issuer.
(k) The provisions of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph
(1) of subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to investment
companies operating under the Small Business Investment Act of
1958, and the provisions of paragraph (2) of said subsection shall
not apply to such companies so long as such class of senior security
shall be held or guaranteed by the Small Business Administration.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 18, 54 Stat. 817; Pub. L. 85­
699, title III, Sec. 307(c), Aug. 21, 1958, 72 Stat. 694; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 10, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1421; Pub. L. 85-699, title III,
Sec. 317, formerly Sec. 319, Aug. 21, 1958, as added Pub. L. 92­
595, Sec. 2(g), Oct. 27, 1972, 86 Stat. 1316, renumbered Sec. 317,
Pub. L. 104-208, div. D, title II, Sec. 208(h)(1)(E), Sept. 30, 1996,
110 Stat. 3009-747; Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 28(4), June 4, 1975, 89 Stat.
165; Pub. L. 100-181, title VI, Sec. 613, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat.
1261; Pub. L. 105-353, title III, Sec. 301(c)(4), Nov. 3, 1998, 112
Stat. 3236.)
DIVIDENDS

SEC. 19. (a) It shall be unlawful for any registered investment
company to pay any dividend, or to make any distribution in the
nature of a dividend payment, wholly or partly from any source
other than—
(1) such company’s accumulated undistributed net income,
determined in accordance with good accounting practice and
not including profits or losses realized upon the sale of securi­
ties or other properties; or
(2) such company’s net income so determined for the cur­
rent or preceding fiscal year;
unless such payment is accompanied by a written statement which
adequately discloses the source or sources of such payment. The
Commission may prescribe the form of such statement by rules and
regulations in the public interest and for the protection of inves­
tors.

Sec. 20

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

64


(b) It shall be unlawful in contravention of such rules, regula­
tions, or orders as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors
for any registered investment company to distribute long-term cap­
ital gains, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, more
often than once every twelve months.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 19, 54 Stat. 821; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 11, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1422; Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2,
Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095.)
PROXIES; VOTING TRUSTS; CIRCULAR OWNERSHIP

SEC. 20. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person, by use of the
mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce or
otherwise, to solicit or to permit the use of his name to solicit any
proxy or consent or authorization in respect of any security of
which a registered investment company is the issuer in contraven­
tion of such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe
as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protec­
tion of investors.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any registered investment company
or affiliated person thereof, any issuer of a voting-trust certificate
relating to any security of a registered investment company, or any
underwriter of such a certificate, by use of the mails or any means
or instrumentality of interstate commerce, or otherwise, to offer for
sale, sell, or deliver after sale, in connection with a public offering,
any such voting-trust certificate.
(c) No registered investment company shall purchase any vot­
ing security if, to the knowledge of such registered company, crossownership or circular ownership exists, or after such acquisition
will exist, between such registered company and the issuer of such
security. Cross-ownership shall be deemed to exist between two
companies when each of such companies beneficially owns more
than 3 per centum of the outstanding voting securities of the other
company. Circular ownership shall be deemed to exist between two
companies if such companies are included within a group of three
or more companies, each of which—
(1) beneficially owns more than 3 per centum of the out­
standing voting securities of one or more other companies of
the group; and
(2) has more than 3 per centum of its own outstanding vot­
ing securities beneficially owned by another company, or by
each of two or more other companies, of the group.
(d) If cross-ownership or circular ownership between a reg­
istered investment company and any other company or companies
comes into existence upon the purchase by a registered investment
company of the securities of another company, it shall be the duty
of such registered company, within one year after it first knows of
the existence of such cross-ownership or circular ownership, to
eliminate the same.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 20, 54 Stat. 822; Pub. L. 100­
181, title VI, Sec. 614, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1262.)

65

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 22


LOANS

SEC. 21. It shall be unlawful for any registered management
company to lend money or property to any person, directly or indi­
rectly, if—
(a) the investment policies of such registered company, as
recited in its registration statement and reports filed under
this title, do not permit such a loan; or
(b) such person controls or is under common control with
such registered company; except that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply to any loan from a registered com­
pany to a company which owns all of the outstanding securities
of such registered company, except directors’ qualifying shares.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 21, 54 Stat. 822; Pub. L. 100­
181, title VI, Sec. 615, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1262.)
DISTRIBUTION, REDEMPTION, AND REPURCHASE OF REDEEMABLE

SECURITIES


SEC. 22. (a) A securities association registered under section
15A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 may prescribe, by rules
adopted and in effect in accordance with said section and subject
to all provisions of said section applicable to the rules of such an
association—
(1) a method or methods for computing the minimum price
at which a member thereof may purchase from any investment
company, any redeemable security issued by such company and
the maximum price at which a member may sell to such com­
pany any redeemable security issued by it or which he may re­
ceive for such security upon redemption, so that the price in
each case will bear such relation to the current net asset value
of such security computed as of such time as the rules may
prescribe; and
(2) a minimum period of time which must elapse after the
sale or issue of such security before any resale to such com­
pany by a member or its redemption upon surrender by a
member;
in each case for the purpose of eliminating or reducing so far as
reasonably practicable any dilution of the value of other out­
standing securities of such company or any other result of such
purchase, redemption, or sale which is unfair to holders of such
other outstanding securities; and said rules may prohibit the mem­
bers of the association from purchasing, selling, or surrendering for
redemption any such redeemable securities in contravention of said
rules.
(b)(1) Such a securities association may also, by rules adopted
and in effect in accordance with said section 15A, and notwith­
standing the provisions of subsection (b)(6) thereof but subject to
all other provisions of said section applicable to the rules of such
an association, prohibit its members from purchasing, in connection
with a primary distribution of redeemable securities of which any
registered investment company is the issuer, any such security
from the issuer or from any principal underwriter except at a price

Sec. 22

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

66


equal to the price at which such security is then offered to the pub­
lic less a commission, discount, or spread which is computed in con­
formity with a method or methods, and within such limitations as
to the relation thereof to said public offering price, as such rules
may prescribe in order that the price at which such security is of­
fered or sold to the public shall not include an excessive sales load
but shall allow for reasonable compensation for sales personnel,
broker-dealers, and underwriters, and for reasonable sales loads to
investors. The Commission shall on application or otherwise, if it
appears that smaller companies are subject to relatively higher op­
erating costs, make due allowance therefor by granting any such
company or class of companies appropriate qualified exemptions
from the provisions of this section.
(2) At any time after the expiration of eighteen months from
the date of enactment of the Investment Company Amendments
Act of 1970 (or, if earlier, after a securities association has adopted
for purposes of paragraph (1) any rule respecting excessive sales
loads), the Commission may alter or supplement the rules of any
securities association as may be necessary to effectuate the pur­
poses of this subsection in the manner provided by section 19(c) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(3) If any provision of this subsection is in conflict with any
provision of any law of the United States in effect on the date this
subsection takes effect, the provisions of this subsection shall pre­
vail.
(c) The Commission may make rules and regulations applicable
to registered investment companies and to principal underwriters
of, and dealers in, the redeemable securities of any registered in­
vestment company, whether or not members of any securities asso­
ciation, to the same extent, covering the same subject matter, and
for the accomplishment of the same ends as are prescribed in sub­
section (a) of this section in respect of the rules which may be made
by a registered securities association governing its members. Any
rules and regulations so made by the Commission, to the extent
that they may be inconsistent with the rules of any such associa­
tion, shall so long as they remain in force supersede the rules of
the association and be binding upon its members as well as all
other underwriters and dealers to whom they may be applicable.
(d) No registered investment company shall sell any redeem­
able security issued by it to any person except either to or through
a principal underwriter for distribution or at a current public offer­
ing price described in the prospectus, and, if such class of security
is being currently offered to the public by or through an under­
writer, no principal underwriter of such security and no dealer
shall sell any such security to any person except a dealer, a prin­
cipal underwriter, or the issuer, except at a current public offering
price described in the prospectus. Nothing in this subsection shall
prevent a sale made (i) pursuant to an offer of exchange permitted
by section 11 including any offer made pursuant to section 11(b);
(ii) pursuant to an offer made solely to all registered holders of the
securities, or of a particular class or series of securities issued by
the company proportionate to their holdings or proportionate to any
cash distribution made to them by the company (subject to appro­
priate qualifications designed solely to avoid issuance of fractional

67

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 23


securities); or (iii) in accordance with rules and regulations of the
Commission made pursuant to subsection (b) of section 12.
(e) No registered investment company shall suspend the right
of redemption, or postpone the date of payment or satisfaction upon
redemption of any redeemable security in accordance with its terms
for more than seven days after the tender of such security to the
company or its agent designated for that purpose for redemption,
except—
(1) for any period (A) during which the New York Stock
Exchange is closed other than customary week-end and holiday
closings or (B) during which trading on the New York Stock
Exchange is restricted;
(2) for any period during which an emergency exists as a
result of which (A) disposal by the company of securities owned
by it is not reasonably practicable or (B) it is not reasonably
practicable for such company fairly to determine the value of
its net assets; or
(3) for such other periods as the Commission may by order
permit for the protection of security holders of the company.
The Commission shall by rules and regulations determine the con­
ditions under which (i) trading shall be deemed to be restricted and
(ii) an emergency shall be deemed to exist within the meaning of
this subsection.
(f) No registered open-end company shall restrict the transfer­
ability or negotiability of any security of which it is the issuer ex­
cept in conformity with the statements with respect thereto con­
tained in its registration statement nor in contravention of such
rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe in the in­
terests of the holders of all of the outstanding securities of such in­
vestment company.
(g) No registered open-end company shall issue any of its secu­
rities (1) for services; or (2) for property other than cash or securi­
ties (including securities of which such registered company is the
issuer), except as a dividend or distribution to its security holders
or in connection with a reorganization.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 22, 54 Stat. 823; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 12, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1422; Pub. L. 100-181, title VI,
Sec. 616, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1262.)
DISTRIBUTION AND REPURCHASE OF SECURITIES: CLOSED-END
COMPANIES

SEC. 23. (a) No registered closed-end company shall issue any
of its securities (1) for services; or (2) for property other than cash
or securities (including securities of which such registered company
is the issuer), except as a dividend or distribution to its security
holders or in connection with a reorganization.
(b) No registered closed-end company shall sell any common
stock of which it is the issuer at a price below the current net asset
value of such stock, exclusive of any distributing commission or dis­
count (which net asset value shall be determined as of a time with­
in forty-eight hours, excluding Sundays and holidays, next pre­
ceding the time of such determination), except (1) in connection

Sec. 24

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

68


with an offering to the holders of one or more classes of its capital
stock; (2) with the consent of a majority of its common stock­
holders; (3) upon conversion of a convertible security in accordance
with its terms; (4) upon the exercise of any warrant outstanding on
the date of enactment of this Act or issued in accordance with the
provisions of section 18(d); or (5) under such other circumstances
as the Commission may permit by rules and regulations or orders
for the protection of investors.
(c) No registered closed-end company shall purchase any secu­
rities of any class of which it is the issuer except—
(1) on a securities exchange or such other open market as
the Commission may designate by rules and regulations or or­
ders: Provided, That if such securities are stock, such reg­
istered company shall, within the preceding six months, have
informed stockholders of its intention to purchase stock of such
class by letter or report addressed to stockholders of such class;
or
(2) pursuant to tenders, after reasonable opportunity to
submit tenders given to all holders of securities of the class to
be purchased; or
(3) under such other circumstances as the Commission
may permit by rules and regulations or orders for the protec­
tion of investors in order to insure that such purchases are
made in a manner or on a basis which does not unfairly dis­
criminate against any holders of the class or classes of securi­
ties to be purchased.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 23, 54 Stat. 825.)
REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES UNDER SECURITIES ACT OF 1933

SEC. 24. (a) In registering under the Securities Act of 1933 any
security of which it is the issuer, a registered investment company,
in lieu of furnishing a registration statement containing the infor­
mation and documents specified in schedule A of said Act, may file
a registration statement containing the following information and
documents:
(1) such copies of the registration statement filed by such
company under this title, and of such reports filed by such
company pursuant to section 30 or such copies of portions of
such registration statement and reports, as the Commission
shall designate by rules and regulations; and
(2) such additional information and documents (including
a prospectus) as the Commission shall prescribe by rules and
regulations as necessary or appropriate in the public interest
or for the protection of investors.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any of the following companies, or
for any underwriter for such a company, in connection with a pub­
lic offering of any security of which such company is the issuer, to
make use of the mails or any means or instrumentalities of inter­
state commerce, to transmit any advertisement, pamphlet, circular,
form letter, or other sales literature addressed to or intended for
distribution to prospective investors unless three copies of the full

69

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 24


text thereof have been filed with the Commission or are filed with
the Commission within ten days thereafter:
(1) any registered open-end company;
(2) any registered unit investment trust; or
(3) any registered face-amount certificate company.
(c) In addition to the powers relative to prospectuses granted
the Commission by section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, the
Commission is authorized to require, by rules and regulations or
order, that the information contained in any prospectus relating to
any periodic payment plan certificate or face-amount certificate
registered under the Securities Act of 1933 on or after the effective
date of this title be presented in such form and order of items, and
such prospectus contain such summaries of any portion of such in­
formation, as are necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors.
(d) The exemption provided by paragraph (8) of section 3(a) of
the Securities Act of 1933 shall not apply to any security of which
an investment company is the issuer. The exemption provided by
paragraph (11) of said section 3(a) shall not apply to any security
of which a registered investment company is the issuer. The ex­
emption provided by section 4(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 shall
not apply to any transaction in a security issued by a face-amount
certificate company or in a redeemable security issued by an openend management company or unit investment trust if any other se­
curity of the same class is currently being offered or sold by the
issuer or by or through an underwriter in a distribution which is
not exempted from section 5 of said Act, except to such extent and
subject to such terms and conditions as the Commission, having
due regard for the public interest and the protection of investors,
may prescribe by rules or regulations with respect to any class of
persons, securities, or transactions.
(e) For the purposes of section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933,
as amended, the effective date of the latest amendment filed shall
be deemed the effective date of the registration statement with re­
spect to securities sold after such amendment shall have become ef­
fective. For the purposes of section 13 of the Securities Act of 1933,
as amended, no such security shall be deemed to have been bona
fide offered to the public prior to the effective date of the latest
amendment filed pursuant to this subsection. Except to the extent
the Commission otherwise provides by rules or regulations as ap­
propriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors,
no prospectus relating to a security issued by a face-amount certifi­
cate company or a redeemable security issued by an open-end man­
agement company or unit investment trust which varies for the
purposes of subsection (a)(3) of section 10 of the Securities Act of
1933 from the latest prospectus filed as a part of the registration
statement shall be deemed to meet the requirements of said section
10 unless filed as part of an amendment to the registration state­
ment under said Act and such amendment has become effective.
(f) REGISTRATION OF INDEFINITE AMOUNT OF SECURITIES.—
(1) REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES.—Upon the effective date
of its registration statement, as provided by section 8 of the Se­
curities Act of 1933, a face-amount certificate company, open­

Sec. 24

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

70


end management company, or unit investment trust, shall be
deemed to have registered an indefinite amount of securities.
(2) PAYMENT OF REGISTRATION FEES.—Not later than 90
days after the end of the fiscal year of a company or trust re­
ferred to in paragraph (1), the company or trust, as applicable,
shall pay a registration fee to the Commission, calculated in
the manner specified in section 6(b) of the Securities Act of
1933, based on the aggregate sales price for which its securi­
ties (including, for purposes of this paragraph, all securities
issued pursuant to a dividend reinvestment plan) were sold
pursuant to a registration of an indefinite amount of securities
under this subsection during the previous fiscal year of the
company or trust, reduced by—
(A) the aggregate redemption or repurchase price of
the securities of the company or trust during that year;
and
(B) the aggregate redemption or repurchase price of
the securities of the company or trust during any prior fis­
cal year ending not more than 1 year before the date of en­
actment of the Investment Company Act Amendments of
1996, that were not used previously by the company or
trust to reduce fees payable under this section.
(3) INTEREST DUE ON LATE PAYMENT.—A company or trust
paying the fee required by this subsection or any portion there­
of more than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year of the
company or trust shall pay to the Commission interest on un­
paid amounts, at the average investment rate for Treasury tax
and loan accounts published by the Secretary of the Treasury
pursuant to section 3717(a) of title 31, United States Code. The
payment of interest pursuant to this paragraph shall not pre­
clude the Commission from bringing an action to enforce the
requirements of paragraph (2).
(4) RULEMAKING AUTHORITY.—The Commission may adopt
rules and regulations to implement this subsection.
(g) ADDITIONAL PROSPECTUSES.—In addition to any prospectus
permitted or required by section 10(a) of the Securities Act of 1933,
the Commission shall permit, by rules or regulations deemed nec­
essary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of
investors, the use of a prospectus for purposes of section 5(b)(1) of
that Act with respect to securities issued by a registered invest­
ment company. Such a prospectus, which may include information
the substance of which is not included in the prospectus specified
in section 10(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, shall be deemed to
be permitted by section 10(b) of that Act.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 24, 54 Stat. 825; Aug. 10, 1954,
ch. 667, title IV, Sec. 402, 403, 68 Stat. 689; Pub. L. 91-547, Sec.
13, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1423; Pub. L. 100-181, title VI, Sec. 617,
Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1262; Pub. L. 104-290, title II, Sec. 203(a),
(b), 204, Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3427, 3428.)

71

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 25


PLANS OF REORGANIZATION

SEC. 25. (a) Any person who, by use of the mails or any means
or instrumentality of interstate commerce or otherwise, solicits or
permits the use of his name to solicit any proxy, consent, author­
ization, power of attorney, ratification, deposit, or dissent in respect
of any plan of reorganization of any registered investment company
shall file with, or mail to, the Commission for its information, with­
in twenty-four hours after the commencement of any such solicita­
tion, a copy of such plan and any deposit agreement relating there­
to and of any proxy, consent, authorization, power of attorney, rati­
fication, instrument of deposit, or instrument of dissent in respect
thereto, if or to the extent that such documents shall not already
have been filed with the Commission.
(b) The Commission is authorized, if so requested, prior to any
solicitation of security holders with respect to any plan of reorga­
nization, by any registered investment company which is, or any of
the securities of which are, the subject of or is a participant in any
such plan, or if so requested by the holders of 25 per centum of any
class of its outstanding securities, to render an advisory report in
respect of the fairness of any such plan and its effect upon any
class or classes of security holders. In such event any registered in­
vestment company, in respect of which the Commission shall have
rendered any such advisory report, shall mail promptly a copy of
such advisory report to all its security holders affected by any such
plan: Provided, That such advisory report shall have been received
by it at least forty-eight hours (not including Sundays and holi­
days) before final action is taken in relation to such plan at any
meeting of security holders called to act in relation thereto, or any
adjournment of any such meeting, or if no meeting be called, then
prior to the final date of acceptance of such plan by security hold­
ers. In respect of securities not registered as to ownership, in lieu
of mailing a copy of such advisory report, such registered company
shall publish promptly a statement of the existence of such advi­
sory report in a newspaper of general circulation in its principal
place of business and shall make available copies of such advisory
report upon request. Notwithstanding the provision of this section
the Commission shall not render such advisory report although so
requested by any such investment company or such security hold­
ers if the fairness or feasibility of said plan is in issue in any pro­
ceeding pending in any court of competent jurisdiction unless such
plan is submitted to the Commission for that purpose by such
court.
(c) Any district court of the United States in the State of incor­
poration of a registered investment company, or any such court for
the district in which such company maintains its principal place of
business, is authorized to enjoin the consummation of any plan of
reorganization of such registered investment company upon pro­
ceedings instituted by the Commission (which is authorized so to
proceed upon behalf of security holders of such registered company,
or any class thereof), if such court shall determine that any such
plan is not fair and equitable to all security holders.
(d) Nothing contained in this section shall in any way affect or
derogate from the powers of the courts of the United States and the

Sec. 26

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

72


Commission with reference to reorganizations contained in title 11
of the United States Code.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 25, 54 Stat. 826; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 14, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1424; Pub. L. 95-598, title III,
Sec. 310(c), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2676.)
UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS

SEC. 26. (a) No principal underwriter for or depositor of a reg­
istered unit investment trust shall sell, except by surrender to the
trustee for redemption, any security of which such trust is the
issuer (other than short-term paper), unless the trust indenture,
agreement of custodianship, or other instrument pursuant to which
such security is issued—
(1) designates one or more trustees or custodians, each of
which is a bank, and provides that each such trustee or custo­
dian shall have at all times an aggregate capital, surplus, and
undivided profits of a specified minimum amount, which shall
not be less than $500,000 (but may also provide, if such trustee
or custodian publishes reports of condition at least annually,
pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or ex­
amining authority, that for the purposes of this paragraph the
aggregate capital, surplus, and undivided profits of such trust­
ee or custodian shall be deemed to be its aggregate capital,
surplus, and undivided profits as set forth in its most recent
report of condition so published);
(2) provides, in substance, (A) that during the life of the
trust the trustee or custodian, if not otherwise remunerated,
may charge against and collect from the income of the trust,
and from the corpus thereof if no income is available, such fees
for its services and such reimbursement for its expenses as are
provided for in such instrument; (B) that no such charge or col­
lection shall be made except for services theretofore performed
or expenses theretofore incurred; (C) that no payment to the
depositor of or a principal underwriter for such trust, or to any
affiliated person or agent of such depositor or underwriter,
shall be allowed the trustee or custodian as an expense (except
that provision may be made for the payment to any such per­
son of a fee, not exceeding such reasonable amount as the
Commission may prescribe as compensation for performing
bookkeeping and other administrative services, of a character
normally performed by the trustee or custodian itself); and (D)
that the trustee or custodian shall have possession of all secu­
rities and other property in which the funds of the trust are
invested, all funds held for such investment, all equalization,
redemption, and other special funds of the trust, and all in­
come upon, accretions to, and proceeds of such property and
funds, and shall segregate and hold the same in trust (subject
only to the charges and collections allowed under clauses (A),
(B), and (C)) until distribution thereof to the security holders
of the trust;
(3) provides, in substance, that the trustee or custodian
shall not resign until either (A) the trust has been completely

73

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 26


liquidated and the proceeds of the liquidation distributed to
the security holders of the trust, or (B) a successor trustee or
custodian, having the qualifications prescribed in paragraph
(1), has been designated and has accepted such trusteeship or
custodianship; and
(4) provides, in substance, (A) that a record will be kept by
the depositor or an agent of the depositor of the name and ad­
dress of, and the shares issued by the trust and held by, every
holder of any security issued pursuant to such instrument, in­
sofar as such information is known to the depositor or agent;
and (B) that whenever a security is deposited with the trustee
in substitution for any security in which such security holder
has an undivided interest, the depositor or the agent of the de­
positor will, within five days after such substitution, either de­
liver or mail to such security holder a notice of substitution, in­
cluding an identification of the securities eliminated and the
securities substituted, and a specification of the shares of such
security holder affected by the substitution.
(b) The Commission may, after consultation with and taking
into consideration the views of the Federal banking agencies (as de­
fined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act), adopt
rules and regulations, and issue orders, consistent with the protec­
tion of investors, prescribing the conditions under which a bank, or
an affiliated person of a bank, either of which is an affiliated per­
son of a principal underwriter for, or depositor of, a registered unit
investment trust, may serve as trustee or custodian under sub­
section (a)(1).
(c) It shall be unlawful for any depositor or trustee of a reg­
istered unit investment trust holding the security of a single issuer
to substitute another security for such security unless the Commis­
sion shall have approved such substitution. The Commission shall
issue an order approving such substitution if the evidence estab­
lishes that it is consistent with the protection of investors and the
purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of this title.
(d) In the event that a trust indenture, agreement of custodian­
ship, or other instrument pursuant to which securities of a reg­
istered unit investment trust are issued does not comply with the
requirements of subsection (a) of this section, such instrument will
be deemed to meet such requirements if a written contract or
agreement binding on the parties and embodying such require­
ments has been executed by the depositor on the one part and the
trustee or custodian on the other part, and three copies of such con­
tract or agreement have been filed with the Commission.
(e) Whenever the Commission has reason to believe that a unit
investment trust is inactive and that its liquidation is in the inter­
est of the security holders of such trust, the Commission may file
a complaint seeking the liquidation of such trust in the district
court of the United States in any district wherein any trustee of
such trust resides or has its principal place of business. A copy of
such complaint shall be served on every trustee of such trust, and
notice of the proceeding shall be given such other interested per­
sons in such manner and at such times as the court may direct.
If the court determines that such liquidation is in the interest of
the security holders of such trust, the court shall order such liq­

Sec. 26

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

74


uidation and, after payment of necessary expenses, the distribution
of the proceeds to the security holders of the trust in such manner
and on such terms as may to the court appear equitable.
(f) EXEMPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) does not apply to any reg­
istered separate account funding variable insurance contracts,
or to the sponsoring insurance company and principal under­
writer of such account.
(2) LIMITATION ON SALES.—It shall be unlawful for any reg­
istered separate account funding variable insurance contracts,
or for the sponsoring insurance company of such account, to
sell any such contract—
(A) unless the fees and charges deducted under the
contract, in the aggregate, are reasonable in relation to the
services rendered, the expenses expected to be incurred,
and the risks assumed by the insurance company, and, be­
ginning on the earlier of August 1, 1997, or the earliest ef­
fective date of any registration statement or amendment
thereto for such contract following the date of enactment
of this subsection, the insurance company so represents in
the registration statement for the contract; and
(B) unless the insurance company—
(i) complies with all other applicable provisions of
this section, as if it were a trustee or custodian of the
registered separate account;
(ii) files with the insurance regulatory authority of
the State which is the domiciliary State of the insur­
ance company, an annual statement of its financial
condition, which most recent statement indicates that
the insurance company has a combined capital and
surplus, if a stock company, or an unassigned surplus,
if a mutual company, of not less than $1,000,000, or
such other amount as the Commission may from time
to time prescribe by rule, as necessary or appropriate
in the public interest or for the protection of investors;
and
(iii) together with its registered separate accounts,
is supervised and examined periodically by the insur­
ance authority of such State.
(3) FEES AND CHARGES.—For purposes of paragraph (2),
the fees and charges deducted under the contract shall include
all fees and charges imposed for any purpose and in any man­
ner.
(4) REGULATORY AUTHORITY.—The Commission may issue
such rules and regulations to carry out paragraph (2)(A) as it
determines are necessary or appropriate in the public interest
or for the protection of investors.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 26, 54 Stat. 827; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 15, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1424; Pub. L. 100-181, title VI,
Sec. 618, 619, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1262; Pub. L. 104-290, title
II, Sec. 205(a), Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3429; Pub. L. 106-102, title
II, Sec. 211(b), Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1396.)

75

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 27


PERIODIC PAYMENT PLANS

SEC. 27. (a) It shall be unlawful for any registered investment
company issuing periodic payment plan certificates, or for any de­
positor of or underwriter for such company, to sell any such certifi­
cate, if—
(1) the sales load on such certificate exceeds 9 per centum
of the total payments to be made thereon;
(2) more than one-half of any of the first twelve monthly
payments thereon, or their equivalent, is deducted for sales
load;
(3) the amount of sales load deducted from any one of such
first payments exceeds proportionately the amount deducted
from any other such payment, or the amount deducted from
any subsequent payment exceeds proportionately the amount
deducted from any other subsequent payment;
(4) the first payment on such certificate is less than $20,
or any subsequent payment is less than $10;
(5) if such registered company is a management company,
the proceeds of such certificate or the securities in which such
proceeds are invested are subject to management fees (other
than fees for administrative services of the character described
in clause (C), paragraph (2), of section 26(a)) exceeding such
reasonable amount as the Commission may prescribe, whether
such fees are payable to such company or to investment advis­
ers thereof; or
(6) if such registered company is a unit investment trust
the assets of which are securities issued by a management
company, the depositor of or principal underwriter for such
trust, or any affiliated person of such depositor or underwriter,
is to receive from such management company or any affiliated
person thereof any fee or payment on account of payments on
such certificate exceeding such reasonable amount as the Com­
mission may prescribe.
(b) If it appears to the Commission, upon application or other­
wise, that smaller companies are subjected to relatively higher op­
erating costs and that in order to make due allowance therefor it
is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent
with the protection of investors that a provision or provisions of
paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (a) relative to sales load be
relaxed in the case of certain registered investment companies
issuing periodic payment plan certificates, or certain specified
classes of such companies, the Commission is authorized by rules
and regulations or order to grant any such company or class of
companies appropriate qualified exemptions from the provisions of
said paragraphs.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any registered investment company
issuing periodic payment plan certificates, or for any depositor of
or underwriter for such company, to sell any such certificate, un­
less—
(1) such certificate is a redeemable security; and
(2) the proceeds of all payments on such certificate (except
such amounts as are deducted for sales load) are deposited
with a trustee or custodian having the qualifications prescribed

Sec. 27

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

76


in paragraph (1) of section 26(a) for the trustees of unit invest­
ment trusts, and are held by such trustee or custodian under
an indenture or agreement containing, in substance, the provi­
sions required by paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 26(a) for the
trust indentures of unit investment trusts.
(d) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any registered investment company issuing periodic
payment plan certificates, or for any depositor of or underwriter for
such company, to sell any such certificate unless the certificate pro­
vides that the holder thereof may surrender the certificate at any
time within the first eighteen months after the issuance of the cer­
tificate and receive in payment thereof, in cash, the sum of (1) the
value of his account, and (2) an amount, from such underwriter or
depositor, equal to that part of the excess paid for sales loading
which is over 15 per centum of the gross payments made by the
certificate holder. The Commission may make rules and regulations
applicable to such underwriters and depositors specifying such re­
serve requirements as it deems necessary or appropriate in order
for such underwriters and depositors to carry out the obligations to
refund sales charges required by this subsection.
(e) With respect to any periodic payment plan certificate sold
subject to the provisions of subsection (d) of this section, the reg­
istered investment company issuing such periodic payment plan
certificate, or any depositor of or underwriter for such company,
shall in writing (1) inform each certificate holder who has missed
three payments or more, within thirty days following the expiration
of fifteen months after the issuance of the certificate, or, if any
such holder has missed one payment or more after such period of
fifteen months but prior to the expiration of eighteen months after
the issuance of the certificate, at any time prior to the expiration
of such eighteen-month period, of his right to surrender his certifi­
cate as specified in subsection (d) of this section, and (2) inform the
certificate holder of (A) the value of the holder’s account as of the
time the written notice was given to such holder, and (B) the
amount to which he is entitled as specified in subsection (d) of this
section. The Commission may make rules specifying the method,
form, and contents of the notice required by this subsection.
(f) With respect to any periodic payment plan (other than a
plan under which the amount of sales load deducted from any pay­
ment thereon does not exceed 9 per centum of such payment), the
custodian bank for such plan shall mail to each certificate holder,
within sixty days after the issuance of the certificate, a statement
of charges to be deducted from the projected payments on the cer­
tificate and a notice of his right of withdrawal as specified in this
section. The Commission may make rules specifying the method,
form, and contents of the notice required by this subsection. The
certificate holder may within forty- five days of the mailing of the
notice specified in this subsection surrender his certificate and re­
ceive in payment thereof, in cash, the sum of (1) the value of his
account, and (2) an amount, from the underwriter or depositor,
equal to the difference between the gross payments made and the
net amount invested. The Commission may make rules and regula­
tions applicable to underwriters and depositors of companies
issuing any such certificate specifying such reserve requirements as

77

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 27


it deems necessary or appropriate in order for such underwriters
and depositors to carry out the obligations to refund sales charges
required by this subsection.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (d),
a registered investment company issuing periodic payment plan
certificates may elect, by written notice to the Commission, to be
governed by the provisions of subsection (h) rather than the provi­
sions of subsections (a) and (d) of this section.
(h) Upon making the election specified in subsection (g), it
shall be unlawful for any such electing registered investment com­
pany issuing periodic payment plan certificates, or for any deposi­
tor of or underwriter for such company, to sell any such certificate,
if—
(1) the sales load on such certificate exceeds 9 per centum
of the total payments to be made thereon;
(2) more than 20 per centum of any payment thereon is de­
ducted for sales load, or an average of more than 16 per cen­
tum is deducted for sales load from the first forty-eight month­
ly payments thereon, or their equivalent;
(3) the amount of sales load deducted from any one of the
first twelve monthly payments, the thirteenth through twentyfourth monthly payments, the twenty-fifth through thirty-sixth
monthly payments, or the thirty-seventh through forty-eighth
monthly payments, or their equivalents, respectively, exceeds
proportionately the amount deducted from any other such pay­
ment, or the amount deducted from any subsequent payment
exceeds proportionately the amount deducted from any other
subsequent payment;
(4) the deduction for sales load on the excess of the pay­
ment or payments in any month over the minimum monthly
payment, or its equivalent, to be made on the certificate ex­
ceeds the sales load applicable to payments subsequent to the
first forty-eight monthly payments or their equivalent;
(5) the first payment on such certificate is less than $20,
or any subsequent payment is less than $10;
(6) if such registered company is a management company,
the proceeds of such certificate or the securities in which such
proceeds are invested are subject to management fees (other
than fees for administrative services of the character described
in clause (C) of paragraph (2) of section 26(a)) exceeding such
reasonable amount as the Commission may prescribe, whether
such fees are payable to such company or to investment advis­
ers thereof; or
(7) if such registered company is a unit investment trust
the assets of which are securities issued by a management
company, the depositor of or principal underwriter for such
trust, or any affiliated person of such depositor or underwriter,
is to receive from such management company or any affiliated
person thereof any fee or payment on account of payments on
such certificate exceeding such reasonable amount as the Com­
mission may prescribe.
(i)(1) This section does not apply to any registered separate ac­
count funding variable insurance contracts, or to the sponsoring in­

Sec. 28

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

78


surance company and principal underwriter of such account, except
as provided in paragraph (2).
(2) It shall be unlawful for any registered separate account
funding variable insurance contracts, or for the sponsoring insur­
ance company of such account, to sell any such contract unless—
(A) such contract is a redeemable security; and
(B) the insurance company complies with section 26(f) and
any rules or regulations issued by the Commission under sec­
tion 26(f).
(j) TERMINATION OF SALES.—
(1) TERMINATION.—Effective 30 days after the date of en­
actment of the Military Personnel Financial Services Protec­
tion Act, it shall be unlawful, subject to subsection (i)—
(A) for any registered investment company to issue
any periodic payment plan certificate; or
(B) for such company, or any depositor of or under­
writer for any such company, or any other person, to sell
such a certificate.
(2) NO INVALIDATION OF EXISTING CERTIFICATES.—Para­
graph (1) shall not be construed to alter, invalidate, or other­
wise affect any rights or obligations, including rights of re­
demption, under any periodic payment plan certificate issued
and sold before 30 days after such date of enactment.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 27, 54 Stat. 829; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 16, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1424; Pub. L. 92-165, Nov. 23,
1971, 85 Stat. 487; Pub. L. 104-290, title II, Sec. 205(b), Oct. 11,
1996, 110 Stat. 3429; Pub. L. 109-290, Sec. 4(a), (b), Sept. 29, 2006,
120 Stat. 1318, 1319.)
FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE COMPANIES

SEC. 28. (a) It shall be unlawful for any registered face-amount
certificate company to issue or sell any face-amount certificate, or
to collect or accept any payment on any such certificate issued by
such company on or after the effective date of this title, unless—
(1) such company, if organized before March 15, 1940, was
actively and continuously engaged in selling face-amount cer­
tificates on and before that date, and has outstanding capital
stock worth upon a fair valuation of assets not less than
$50,000; or if organized on or after March 15, 1940, has capital
stock in an amount not less than $250,000 which has been
bona fide subscribed and paid for in cash; and
(2) such company maintains at all times minimum certifi­
cate reserves on all its outstanding face-amount certificates in
an aggregate amount calculated and adjusted as follows:
(A) the reserves for each certificate of the installment
type shall be based on assumed annual, semi-annual,
quarterly, or monthly reserve payments according to the
manner in which gross payments for any certificate year
are made by the holder, which reserve payments shall be
sufficient in amount, as and when accumulated at a rate
not to exceed 3 1/2 per centum per annum compounded an­
nually, to provide the minimum maturity or face amount

79

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 28


of the certificate when due. Such reserve payments may be
graduated according to certificate years so that the reserve
payment or payments for the first certificate year shall
amount to at least 50 per centum of the required gross an­
nual payment for such year and the reserve payment or
payments for each of the second to fifth certificate years
inclusive shall amount to at least 93 per centum of each
such year’s required gross annual payment and for the
sixth and each subsequent certificate year the reserve pay­
ment or payments shall amount to at least 96 per centum
of each such year’s required gross annual payment: Pro­
vided, That such aggregate reserve payments shall amount
to at least 93 per centum of the aggregate gross annual
payments required to be made by the holder to obtain the
maturity of the certificate. The company may at its option
take as loading from the gross payment or payments for a
certificate year, as and when made by the certificate hold­
er, an amount or amounts equal in the aggregate for such
year to not more than the excess, if any, of the gross pay­
ment or payments required to be made by the holder for
such year, over and above the percentage of the gross an­
nual payment required herein for such year for reserve
purposes. Such loading may be taken by the company prior
to or after the setting up of the reserve payment or pay­
ments for such year and the reserve payment or payments
for such year may be graduated and adjusted to cor­
respond with the amount of the gross payment or pay­
ments made by the certificate holder for such year less the
loading so taken;
(B) if the foregoing minimum percentages of the gross
annual payments required under the provisions of such
certificate should produce reserve payments larger than
are necessary at 3 1/2 per centum per annum compounded
annually to provide the minimum maturity or face amount
of the certificate when due, the reserve shall be based
upon reserve payments accumulated as provided under
preceding subparagraph (A) of this paragraph except that
in lieu of the 3 1/2 per centum rate specified therein, such
rate shall be lowered to the minimum rate, expressed in
multiples of one-eighth of 1 per centum, which will accu­
mulate such reserve payments to the maturity value when
due;
(C) if the actual annual gross payment to be made by
the certificate holder on any certificate issued prior to or
after the effective date of this Act is less than the amount
of any assumed reserve payment or payments for a certifi­
cate year, such company shall maintain as a part of such
minimum certificate reserves a deficiency reserve equal to
the total present value of future deficiencies in the gross
payments, calculated at a rate not to exceed 3 1/2 per cen­
tum per annum compounded annually;
(D) for each certificate of the installment type the
amount of the reserve shall at any time be at least equal
to (1) the then amount of the reserve payments set up

Sec. 28

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

80


under section 28(a)(2) (A) or (B); (2) the accumulations on
such reserve payments as computed under subparagraphs
(A) or (B) of this paragraph (2); (3) the amount of any defi­
ciency reserve required under subparagraph (C) hereof;
and (4) such amount as shall have been credited to the ac­
count of each certificate holder in the form of any credit,
or any dividend, or any interest in addition to the min­
imum maturity amount specified in such certificate, plus
any accumulations on any amount or amounts so credited,
at a rate not exceeding 3 1/2 per centum per annum com­
pounded annually;
(E) for each certificate which is fully paid, including
any fully paid obligations resulting from or effected upon
the maturity of the previously issued certificate, and for
each paid-up certificate issued as provided in subsection (f)
of this section prior to maturity, the amount of the reserve
shall at any time be at least equal to (1) such amount as
and when accumulated at a rate not to exceed 3 1/2 per
centum per annum compounded annually, will provide the
amount or amounts payable when due and (2) such
amount as shall have been credited to the account of each
such certificate holder in the form of any credit, or any
dividend, or any interest in addition to the minimum ma­
turity amount specified in the certificate, plus any accumu­
lations on any amount or amounts so credited, at a rate
not exceeding 3 1/2 per centum per annum compounded
annually;
(F) for each certificate of the installment type under
which gross payments have been made by or credited to
the holder thereof covering a payment period or periods or
any part thereof beyond the then current payment period
as defined by the terms of such certificate, and for which
period or periods no reserve has been set up under sub­
paragraph (A) or (B) hereof, an advance payment reserve
shall be set up and maintained in the amount of the
present value of any such unapplied advance gross pay­
ments, computed at a rate not to exceed 3 1/2 per centum
per annum compounded annually;
(G) such appropriate contingency reserves for death
and disability benefits and for reinstatement rights on any
such certificate providing for such benefits or rights as the
Commission shall prescribe by rule, regulation, or order
based upon the experience of face-amount companies in re­
lation to such contingencies.
At no time shall the aggregate certificate reserves herein required
by subparagraphs (A) to (F), inclusive, be less than the aggregate
surrender values and other amounts to which all certificate holders
may be then entitled.
For the purpose of this subsection (a), no certificate of the in­
stallment type shall be deemed to be outstanding if before a sur­
render value has been attained the holder thereof has been in con­
tinuous default in making his payments thereon for a period of one
year.

81

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 28


(b) It shall be unlawful for any registered face-amount certifi­
cate company to issue or sell any face-amount certificate, or to col­
lect or accept any payment on any such certificate issued by such
company on or after the effective date of this title, unless such com­
pany has, in cash or qualified investments, assets having a value
not less than the aggregate amount of the capital stock require­
ment and certificate reserves as computed under the provisions of
subsection (a) hereof. As used in this subsection, ‘‘qualified invest­
ments’’ means investments of a kind which life-insurance compa­
nies are permitted to invest in or hold under the provisions of the
Code of the District of Columbia as heretofore or hereafter amend­
ed, and such other investments as the Commission shall by rule,
regulation, or order authorize as qualified investments. Such in­
vestments shall be valued in accordance with the provisions of said
Code where such provisions are applicable. Investments to which
such provisions do not apply shall be valued in accordance with
such rules, regulations, or orders as the Commission shall prescribe
for the protection of investors.
(c) The Commission shall by rule, regulation, or order, in the
public interest or for the protection of investors, require a reg­
istered face-amount certificate company to deposit and maintain,
upon such terms and conditions as the Commission shall prescribe
and as are appropriate for the protection of investors, with one or
more institutions having the qualifications required by paragraph
(1) of section 26(a) for a trustee of a unit investment trust, all or
any part of the investments maintained by such company as certifi­
cate reserve requirements under the provisions of subsection (b)
hereof: Provided, however, That where qualified investments are
maintained on deposit by such company in respect of its liabilities
under certificates issued to or held by residents of any State as re­
quired by the statute of such State or by any order, regulation, or
requirement of such State or any official or agency thereof, the
amount so on deposit, but not to exceed the amount of reserves re­
quired by subsection (a) hereof for the certificates so issued or held,
shall be deducted from the amount of qualified investments that
may be required to be deposited hereunder.
Assets which are qualified investments under subsection (b)
and which are deposited under or as permitted by this subsection
(c), may be used and shall be considered as a part of the assets re­
quired to be maintained under the provisions of said subsection (b).
(d) It shall be unlawful for any registered face-amount certifi­
cate company to issue or sell any face-amount certificate, or to col­
lect or accept any payment on any such certificate issued by such
company on or after the effective date of this title, unless such cer­
tificate contains a provision or provisions to the effect—
(1) that, in respect of any certificate of the installment
type, during the first certificate year the holder of the certifi­
cate, upon surrender thereof, shall be entitled to a value pay­
able in cash not less than the reserve payments as specified in
subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (2) of subsection (a) and
at the end of such certificate year, a value payable in cash at
least equal to 50 per centum of the amount of the gross annual
payment required thereby for such year;

Sec. 28

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

82


(2) that, in respect of any certificate of the installment
type, at any time after the expiration of the first certificate
year and prior to maturity, the holder of the certificate, upon
surrender thereof, shall be entitled to a value payable in cash
not less than the then amount of the reserve for such certifi­
cate required by numbered items (1) and (2) of subparagraph
(D) of paragraph (2) of subsection (a) hereof, less a surrender
charge that shall not exceed 2 per centum of the face or matu­
rity amount of the certificate, or 15 per centum of the amount
of such reserve, whichever is the lesser, but in no event shall
such value be less than 50 per centum of the amount of such
reserve. The amount of the surrender value for the end of each
certificate year shall be set out in the certificate;
(3) that, in respect of any certificate of the installment
type, the holder of the certificate, upon surrender thereof for
cash or upon receipt of a paid-up certificate as provided in sub­
section (f) hereof, shall be entitled to a value payable in cash
equal to the then amount of any advance payment reserve
under such certificate required by subparagraph (F) of para­
graph (2) of subsection (a) hereof in addition to any other
amounts due the holder hereunder;
(4) that at any time prior to maturity, in respect of any
certificate which is fully paid, the holder of the certificate,
upon surrender thereof, shall be entitled to a value payable in
cash not less than the then amount of the reserve for such cer­
tificate required by item (1) of subparagraph (E) of paragraph
(2) of subsection (a) hereof, less a surrender charge that shall
not exceed 2 per centum of the face or maturity amount of the
certificate, or 15 per centum of the amount of such reserve,
whichever is the lesser: Provided, however, That such sur­
render charge shall not apply as to any obligations of a fully
paid type resulting from the maturity of a previously issued
certificate. The amount of the surrender value for the end of
each certificate year shall be set out in the certificate;
(5) that in respect of any certificate, the holder of the cer­
tificate, upon maturity, upon surrender thereof for cash or
upon receipt of a paid-up certificate as provided in subsection
(f) hereof, shall be entitled to a value payable in cash equal to
the then amount of the reserve, if any, for such certificate re­
quired by item (4) of subparagraph (D) of paragraph (2) of sub­
section (a) hereof or item (2) of subparagraph (E) of paragraph
(2) of subsection (a) hereof in addition to any other amounts
due the holder hereunder.
The term ‘‘certificate year’’ as used in this section in respect of
any certificate of the installment type means a period or periods for
which one year’s payment or payments as provided by the certifi­
cate have been made thereon by the holder and the certificate
maintained in force by such payments for the time for which the
same have been made, and in respect of any certificate which is
fully paid or paid-up means any year ending on the anniversary of
the date of issuance of the certificate.
Any certificate may provide for loans or advances by the com­
pany to the certificate holder on the security of such certificate
upon terms prescribed therein but at an interest rate not exceeding

83

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 28


6 per centum per annum. The amount of the required reserves, de­
posits, and the surrender values thereof available to the holder
may be adjusted to take into account any unpaid balance on such
loans or advances and interest thereon, for the purposes of this
subsection and subsections (b) and (c) hereof.
Any certificate may provide that the company at its option
may, prior to the maturity thereof, defer any payment or payments
to the certificate holder to which he may be entitled under this sub­
section (d), for a period of not more than thirty days: Provided,
That in the event such option is exercised by the company, interest
shall accrue on any payment or payments due to the holder, for the
period of such deferment at a rate equal to that used in accumu­
lating the reserves for such certificate: And provided further, That
the Commission may, by rules and regulations or orders in the
public interest or for the protection of investors, make provision for
any other deferment upon such terms and conditions as it shall
prescribe.
(e) It shall be unlawful for any registered face-amount certifi­
cate company to issue or sell any face-amount certificate, or to col­
lect or accept any payment on any such certificate issued by such
company on or after the effective date of this title, which certificate
makes the holder liable to any legal action or proceeding for any
unpaid amount on such certificate.
(f) It shall be unlawful for any registered face-amount certifi­
cate company to issue or sell any face-amount certificate, or to col­
lect or accept any payment on any such certificate issued by such
company on or after the effective date of this title, (1) unless such
face-amount certificate contains a provision or provisions to the ef­
fect that the holder shall have an optional right to receive a paidup certificate in lieu of the then attained cash surrender value pro­
vided therein and in the amount of such value plus accumulations
thereon at a rate to be specified in the paid-up certificate equal to
that used in computing the reserve on the original certificate under
subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this
section, such paid-up certificate to become due and payable at the
end of a period equal to the balance of the term of such original
certificate before maturity; and during the period prior to maturity
such paid-up certificate shall have a cash value upon surrender
thereof equal to the then amount of the reserve therefor; and (2)
unless such face-amount certificate contains a further provision or
provisions to the effect that if the holder be in continuous default
in his payments on such certificate for a period of six months with­
out having exercised his option to receive a paid-up certificate, as
herein provided, the company at the expiration of such six months
shall pay the surrender value in cash if such value is less than
$100 or if such value is $100 or more shall issue such paid-up cer­
tificate to such holder and such payment or issuance, plus the pay­
ment of all other amounts to which he may be then entitled under
the original certificate, shall operate to cancel his original certifi­
cate: Provided, That in lieu of the issuance of a new paid-up certifi­
cate the original certificate may be converted into a paid-up certifi­
cate with the same effect; and (3) unless, where such certificate
provides, in the event of default, for the deferment of payments
thereon by the holder or of the due dates of such payments or of

Sec. 28

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

84


the maturity date of the certificate, it shall also provide in effect
for the right of reinstatement by the holder of the certificate after
default and for an option in the holder, at the time of reinstate­
ment, to make up the payment or payments for the default period
next preceding such reinstatement with interest thereon not ex­
ceeding 6 per centum per annum, with the same effect as if no such
default in making such payments had occurred.
The term ‘‘default’’ as used in this subsection (f) shall, without
restricting its usual meaning, include a failure to make a payment
or payments as and when provided by the certificate.
(g) The foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply to
a face-amount certificate company which on or before the effective
date of this Act has discontinued the offering of face-amount certifi­
cates to the public and issues face-amount certificates only to the
holders of certificates previously issued pursuant to an obligation
expressed or implied in such certificates.
(h) It shall be unlawful for any registered face-amount certifi­
cate company which does not maintain the minimum certificate re­
serve on all its outstanding face-amount certificates issued prior to
the effective date of this Act, in an aggregate amount calculated
and adjusted as provided in section 28, to declare or pay any divi­
dends on the shares of such company for or during any calendar
year which shall exceed one- third of the net earnings for the next
preceding calendar year or which shall exceed 10 per centum of the
aggregate net earnings for the next preceding five calendar years,
whichever is the lesser amount, or any dividend which shall have
been forbidden by the Commission pursuant to the provision of the
next sentence of this paragraph. At least thirty days before such
company shall declare, pay, or distribute any dividend, it shall give
the Commission written notice of its intention to declare, pay, or
distribute the same; and if at any time it shall appear to the Com­
mission that the declaration, payment or distribution of any divi­
dend for or during any calendar year might impair the financial in­
tegrity of such company or its ability to meet its liabilities under
its outstanding face-amount certificates, it may by order forbid the
declaration, distribution, or payment of any such dividend.
(i) The foregoing provisions of this section shall apply to all
face-amount certificates issued prior to the effective date of this
subsection; to the collection or acceptance of any payment on such
certificates; to the issuance of face-amount certificates to the hold­
ers of such certificates pursuant to an obligation expressed or im­
plied in such certificates; to the provisions of such certificates; to
the minimum certificate reserves and deposits maintained with re­
spect thereto; and to the assets that the issuer of such certificate
was and is required to have with respect to such certificates. With
respect to all face-amount certificates issued after the effective date
of this subsection, the provisions of this section shall apply except
as hereinafter provided.
(1) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) of sub­
section (a), the reserves for each certificate of the installment type
shall be based on assumed annual, semiannual, quarterly, or
monthly reserve payments according to the manner in which gross
payments for any certificate year are made by the holder, which re­
serve payments shall be sufficient in amount, as and when accumu­

85

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 28


lated at a rate not to exceed 3 1/2 per centum per annum com­
pounded annually, to provide the minimum maturity or face
amount of the certificate when due. Such reserve payments may be
graduated according to certificate years so that the reserve pay­
ment or payments for the first three certificate years shall amount
to at least 80 per centum of the required gross annual payment for
such years; the reserve payment or payments for the fourth certifi­
cate year shall amount to at least 90 per centum of such year’s re­
quired gross annual payment; the reserve payment or payments for
the fifth certificate year shall amount to at least 93 per centum of
such year’s gross annual payment; and for the sixth and each sub­
sequent certificate year the reserve payment or payments shall
amount to at least 96 per centum of each such year’s required gross
annual payment: Provided, That such aggregate reserve payments
shall amount to at least 93 per centum of the aggregate gross an­
nual payments required to be made by the holder to obtain the ma­
turity of the certificate. The company may at its option take as
loading from the gross payment or payments for a certificate year,
as and when made by the certificate holder, an amount or amounts
equal in the aggregate for such year to not more than the excess,
if any, of the gross payment or payments required to be made by
the holder for such year, over and above the percentage of the gross
annual payment required herein for such year for reserve purposes.
Such loading may be taken by the company prior to or after the
setting up of the reserve payment or payments for such year and
the reserve payment or payments for such year may be graduated
and adjusted to correspond with the amount of the gross payment
or payments made by the certificate holder for such year less the
loading so taken.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (d),
(A) in respect of any certificate of the installment type, during the
first certificate year, the holder of the certificate, upon surrender
thereof, shall be entitled to a value payable in cash not less than
80 per centum of the amount of the gross payments made on the
certificate; and (B) in respect of any certificate of the installment
type, at any time after the expiration of the first certificate year
and prior to maturity, the holder of the certificate, upon surrender
thereof, shall be entitled to a value payable in cash not less than
the then amount of the reserve for such certificate required by
clauses (1) and (2) of subparagraph (D) of paragraph (2) of sub­
section (a), less a surrender charge that shall not exceed 2 per cen­
tum of the face or maturity amount of the certificate, or 15 per cen­
tum of the amount of such reserve, whichever is the lesser, but in
no event shall such value be less than 80 per centum of the gross
payments made on the certificate. The amount of the surrender
value for the end of each certificate year shall be set out in the cer­
tificate.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 28, 54 Stat. 829; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 17, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1426; Pub. L. 100-181, title VI,
Sec. 620, 621, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1262.)

Sec. 29

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

86


BANKRUPTCY OF FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE COMPANIES

SEC. 29. [Section 29 amended section 67 and section 44 of the
Bankruptcy Act, with respect to the bankruptcy of face-amount cer­
tificate companies, as defined in section 4(1) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940.]
PERIODIC AND OTHER REPORTS; REPORTS OF AFFILIATED PERSONS

SEC. 30. (a) Every registered investment company shall file an­
nually with the Commission such information, documents, and re­
ports as investment companies having securities registered on a
national securities exchange are required to file annually pursuant
to section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the
rules and regulations issued thereunder.
(b) Every registered investment company shall file with the
Commission—
(1) such information, documents, and reports (other than
financial statements), as the Commission may require to keep
reasonably current the information and documents contained
in the registration statement of such company filed under this
title; and
(2) copies of every periodic or interim report or similar
communication containing financial statements and trans­
mitted to any class of such company’s security holders, such
copies to be filed not later than ten days after such trans­
mission.
Any information or documents contained in a report or other com­
munication to security holders filed pursuant to paragraph (2) may
be incorporated by reference in any report subsequently or concur­
rently filed pursuant to paragraph (1).
(c)(1) The Commission shall take such action as it deems nec­
essary or appropriate, consistent with the public interest and the
protection of investors, to avoid unnecessary reporting by, and min­
imize the compliance burdens on, registered investment companies
and their affiliated persons in exercising its authority—
(A) under subsection (f); and
(B) under subsection (b)(1), if the Commission requires the
filing of information, documents, and reports under that sub­
section on a basis more frequently than semiannually.
(2) Action taken by the Commission under paragraph (1) shall
include considering, and requesting public comment on—
(A) feasible alternatives that minimize the reporting bur­
dens on registered investment companies; and
(B) the utility of such information, documents, and reports
to the Commission in relation to the costs to registered invest­
ment companies and their affiliated persons of providing such
information, documents, and reports.
(d) The Commission shall issue rules and regulations permit­
ting the filing with the Commission, and with any national securi­
ties exchange concerned, of copies of periodic reports, or of extracts
therefrom, filed by any registered investment company pursuant to
subsections (a) and (b), in lieu of any reports and documents re­

87

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 30


quired of such company under section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.
(e) Every registered investment company shall transmit to its
stockholders, at least semiannually, reports containing such of the
following information and financial statements or their equivalent,
as of a reasonably current date, as the Commission may prescribe
by rules and regulations for the protection of investors, which re­
ports shall not be misleading in any material respect in the light
of the reports required to be filed pursuant to subsections (a) and
(b):
(1) a balance sheet accompanied by a statement of the ag­
gregate value of investments on the date of such balance sheet;
(2) a list showing the amounts and values of securities
owned on the date of such balance sheet;
(3) a statement of income, for the period covered by the re­
port, which shall be itemized at least with respect to each cat­
egory of income and expense representing more than 5 per cen­
tum of total income or expense;
(4) a statement of surplus, which shall be itemized at least
with respect to each charge or credit to the surplus account
which represents more than 5 per centum of the total charges
or credits during the period covered by the report;
(5) a statement of the aggregate remuneration paid by the
company during the period covered by the report (A) to all di­
rectors and to all members of any advisory board for regular
compensation; (B) to each director and to each member of an
advisory board for special compensation; (C) to all officers; and
(D) to each person of whom any officer or director of the com­
pany is an affiliated person; and
(6) a statement of the aggregate dollar amounts of pur­
chases and sales of investment securities, other than Govern­
ment securities, made during the period covered by the report:
Provided, That if in the judgment of the Commission any item re­
quired under this subsection is inapplicable or inappropriate to any
specified type or types of investment company, the Commission
may by rules and regulations permit in lieu thereof the inclusion
of such item of a comparable character as it may deem applicable
or appropriate to such type or types of investment company.
(f) The Commission may, by rule, require that semiannual re­
ports containing the information set forth in subsection (e) include
such other information as the Commission deems necessary or ap­
propriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(g) Financial statements contained in annual reports required
pursuant to subsections (a) and (e), if required by the rules and
regulations of the Commission, shall be accompanied by a certifi­
cate of independent public accountants. The certificate of such
independent public accountants shall be based upon an audit not
less in scope or procedures followed than that which independent
public accountants would ordinarily make for the purpose of pre­
senting comprehensive and dependable financial statements, and
shall contain such information as the Commission may prescribe,
by rules and regulations in the public interest or for the protection
of investors, as to the nature and scope of the audit and the find­
ings and opinion of the accountants. Each such report shall state

Sec. 31

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

88


that such independent public accountants have verified securities
owned, either by actual examination, or by receipt of a certificate
from the custodian, as the Commission may prescribe by rules and
regulations.
(h) Every person who is directly or indirectly the beneficial
owner of more than 10 per centum of any class of outstanding secu­
rities (other than short-term paper) of which a registered closedend
company is the issuer or who is an officer, director, member of an
advisory board, investment adviser, or affiliated person of an in­
vestment adviser of such a company shall in respect of his trans­
actions in any securities of such company (other than short-term
paper) be subject to the same duties and liabilities as those im­
posed by section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 upon
certain beneficial owners, directors, and officers in respect of their
transactions in certain equity securities.
(i) DISCLOSURE TO CHURCH PLAN PARTICIPANTS.—A person
that maintains a church plan that is excluded from the definition
of an investment company solely by reason of section 3(c)(14) shall
provide disclosure to plan participants, in writing, and not less fre­
quently than annually, and for new participants joining such a
plan after May 31, 1996, as soon as is practicable after joining such
plan, that—
(1) the plan, or any company or account maintained to
manage or hold plan assets and interests in such plan, com­
pany, or account, are not subject to registration, regulation, or
reporting under this title, the Securities Act of 1933, the Secu­
rities Exchange Act of 1934, or State securities laws; and
(2) plan participants and beneficiaries therefore will not be
afforded the protections of those provisions.
(j) NOTICE TO COMMISSION.—The Commission may issue rules
and regulations to require any person that maintains a church plan
that is excluded from the definition of an investment company sole­
ly by reason of section 3(c)(14) to file a notice with the Commission
containing such information and in such form as the Commission
may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
consistent with the protection of investors.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 30, 54 Stat. 836; Pub. L. 104­
290, title II, Sec. 206, title V, Sec. 508(g), Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat.
3430, 3449; Pub. L. 105-353, title III, Sec. 301(c)(5), Nov. 3, 1998,
112 Stat. 3237.)
ACCOUNTS AND RECORDS

SEC. 31. (a) MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each registered investment company,
and each underwriter, broker, dealer, or investment adviser
that is a majority-owned subsidiary of such a company, shall
maintain and preserve such records (as defined in section
3(a)(37) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) for such period
or periods as the Commission, by rules and regulations, may
prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors. Each investment adviser that is
not a majority-owned subsidiary of, and each depositor of any

89

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 31


registered investment company, and each principal under­
writer for any registered investment company other than a
closed-end company, shall maintain and preserve for such pe­
riod or periods as the Commission shall prescribe by rules and
regulations, such records as are necessary or appropriate to
record such person’s transactions with such registered com­
pany. Each person having custody or use of the securities, de­
posits, or credits of a registered investment company shall
maintain and preserve all records that relate to the custody or
use by such person of the securities, deposits, or credits of the
registered investment company for such period or periods as
the Commission, by rule or regulation, may prescribe, as nec­
essary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protec­
tion of investors.
(2) MINIMIZING COMPLIANCE BURDEN.—In exercising its au­
thority under this subsection, the Commission shall take such
steps as it deems necessary or appropriate, consistent with the
public interest and for the protection of investors, to avoid un­
necessary recordkeeping by, and minimize the compliance bur­
den on, persons required to maintain records under this sub­
section (hereafter in this section referred to as ‘‘subject per­
sons’’). Such steps shall include considering, and requesting
public comment on—
(A) feasible alternatives that minimize the recordkeeping burdens on subject persons;
(B) the necessity of such records in view of the public
benefits derived from the independent scrutiny of such
records through Commission examination;
(C) the costs associated with maintaining the informa­
tion that would be required to be reflected in such records;
and
(D) the effects that a proposed recordkeeping require­
ment would have on internal compliance policies and pro­
cedures.
(b) EXAMINATIONS OF RECORDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—All records required to be maintained
and preserved in accordance with subsection (a) shall be sub­
ject at any time and from time to time to such reasonable peri­
odic, special, and other examinations by the Commission, or
any member or representative thereof, as the Commission may
prescribe.
(2) AVAILABILITY.—For purposes of examinations referred
to in paragraph (1), any subject person shall make available to
the Commission or its representatives any copies or extracts
from such records as may be prepared without undue effort,
expense, or delay as the Commission or its representatives
may reasonably request.
(3) COMMISSION ACTION.—The Commission shall exercise
its authority under this subsection with due regard for the ben­
efits of internal compliance policies and procedures and the ef­
fective implementation and operation thereof.
(4) RECORDS OF PERSONS WITH CUSTODY OR USE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Records of persons having custody
or use of the securities, deposits, or credits of a registered

Sec. 32

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

90


investment company that relate to such custody or use, are
subject at any time, or from time to time, to such reason­
able periodic, special, or other examinations and other in­
formation and document requests by representatives of the
Commission, as the Commission deems necessary or ap­
propriate in the public interest or for the protection of in­
vestors.
(B) CERTAIN PERSONS SUBJECT TO OTHER REGULATION.—Any person that is subject to regulation and exam­
ination by a Federal financial institution regulatory agency
(as such term is defined under section 212(c)(2) of title 18,
United States Code) may satisfy any examination request,
information request, or document request described under
subparagraph (A), by providing to the Commission a de­
tailed listing, in writing, of the securities, deposits, or cred­
its of the registered investment company within the cus­
tody or use of such person.
(c) REGULATORY AUTHORITY.—The Commission may, in the
public interest or for the protection of investors, issue rules and
regulations providing for a reasonable degree of uniformity in the
accounting policies and principles to be followed by registered in­
vestment companies in maintaining their accounting records and in
preparing financial statements required pursuant to this title.
(d) EXEMPTION AUTHORITY.—The Commission, upon applica­
tion made by any registered investment company, may by order ex­
empt a specific transaction or transactions from the provisions of
any rule or regulation made pursuant to subsection (e), if the Com­
mission finds that such rule or regulation should not reasonably be
applied to such transaction.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 31, 54 Stat. 838; Pub. L. 104­
290, title II, Sec. 207, Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3430; Pub. L. 105­
353, title III, Sec. 301(c)(6), Nov. 3, 1998, 112 Stat. 3237; Pub. L.
111-203, title IX, Secs. 929I(b), 929Q(a), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat.
1858, 1865; Pub. L. 111-257, Sec. 1(b), Oct. 5, 2010, 124 Stat.
2646.)
ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS

SEC. 32. (a) It shall be unlawful for any registered manage­
ment company or registered face-amount certificate company to file
with the Commission any financial statement signed or certified by
an independent public accountant, unless—
(1) such accountant shall have been selected at a meeting
held within thirty days before or after the beginning of the fis­
cal year or before the annual meeting of stockholders in that
year by the vote, cast in person, of a majority of those members
of the board of directors who are not interested persons of such
registered company;
(2) such selection shall have been submitted for ratification
or rejection at the next succeeding annual meeting of stock­
holders if such meeting be held, except that any vacancy occur­
ring between annual meetings, due to the death or resignation
of the accountant, may be filled by the vote of a majority of

91

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 32


those members of the board of directors who are not interested
persons of such registered company, cast in person at a meet­
ing called for the purpose of voting on such action;
(3) the employment of such accountant shall have been
conditioned upon the right of the company by vote of a major­
ity of the outstanding voting securities at any meeting called
for the purpose to terminate such employment forthwith with­
out any penalty; and
(4) such certificate or report of such accountant shall be
addressed both to the board of directors of such registered com­
pany and to the security holders thereof.
If the selection of an accountant has been rejected pursuant to
paragraph (2) or his employment terminated pursuant to para­
graph (3), the vacancy so occurring may be filled by a vote of a ma­
jority of the outstanding voting securities, either at the meeting at
which the rejection or termination occurred or, if not so filled, at
a subsequent meeting which shall be called for the purpose. In the
case of a common- law trust of the character described in section
16(c), no ratification of the employment of such accountant shall be
required but such employment may be terminated and such ac­
countant removed by action of the holders of record of a majority
of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest in such trust in the
same manner as is provided in section 16(c) in respect of the re­
moval of a trustee, and all the provisions therein contained as to
the calling of a meeting shall be applicable. In the event of such
termination and removal, the vacancy so occurring may be filled by
action of the holders of record of a majority of the shares of bene­
ficial interest either at the meeting, if any, at which such termi­
nation and removal occurs, or by instruments in writing filed with
the custodian, or if not so filed within a reasonable time then at
a subsequent meeting which shall be called by the trustees for the
purpose. The provisions of paragraph (42) of section 2(a) as to a
majority shall be applicable to the vote cast at any meeting of the
shareholders of such a trust held pursuant to this subsection.
(b) No registered management company or registered faceamount certificate company shall file with the Commission any fi­
nancial statement in the preparation of which the controller or
other principal accounting officer or employee of such company par­
ticipated, unless such controller, officer or employee was selected,
either by vote of the holders of such company’s voting securities at
the last annual meeting of such security holders, or by the board
of directors of such company.
(c) The Commission is authorized, by rules and regulations or
order in the public interest or for the protection of investors, to re­
quire accountants and auditors to keep reports, work sheets, and
other documents and papers relating to registered investment com­
panies for such period or periods as the Commission may prescribe,
and to make the same available for inspection by the Commission
or any member or representative thereof.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 32, 54 Stat. 838; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 18, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1427; Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 28(4),
June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 165.)

Sec. 33

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

92


FILING OF DOCUMENTS WITH COMMISSION IN CIVIL ACTIONS

SEC. 33. Every registered investment company which is a party
and every affiliated person of such company who is a party defend­
ant to any action or claim by a registered investment company or
a security holder thereof in a derivative or representative capacity
against an officer, director, investment adviser, trustee, or deposi­
tor of such company, shall file with the Commission, unless already
so filed, (1) a copy of all pleadings, verdicts, or judgments filed with
the court or served in connection with such action or claim, (2) a
copy of any proposed settlement, compromise, or discontinuance of
such action, and (3) a copy of such motions, transcripts, or other
documents filed in or issued by the court or served in connection
with such action or claim as may be requested in writing by the
Commission. If any document referred to in clause (1) or (2)—
(A) is delivered to such company or party defendant, such
document shall be filed with the Commission not later than ten
days after the receipt thereof; or
(B) is filed in such court or delivered by such company or
party defendant, such document shall be filed with the Com­
mission not later than five days after such filing or delivery.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 33, 54 Stat. 839; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 19, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1428.)
DESTRUCTION AND FALSIFICATION OF REPORTS AND RECORDS

SEC. 34. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person, except as per­
mitted by rule, regulation, or order of the Commission, willfully to
destroy, mutilate, or alter any account, book, or other document the
preservation of which has been required pursuant to section 31(a)
or 32(c).
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to make any untrue
statement of a material fact in any registration statement, applica­
tion, report, account, record, or other document filed or transmitted
pursuant to this title or the keeping of which is required pursuant
to section 31(a). It shall be unlawful for any person so filing, trans­
mitting, or keeping any such document to omit to state therein any
fact necessary in order to prevent the statements made therein, in
the light of the circumstances under which they were made, from
being materially misleading. For the purposes of this subsection,
any part of any such document which is signed or certified by an
accountant or auditor in his capacity as such shall be deemed to
be made, filed, transmitted, or kept by such accountant or auditor,
as well as by the person filing, transmitting, or keeping the com­
plete document.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 34, 54 Stat. 840.)
UNLAWFUL REPRESENTATIONS AND NAMES

SEC. 35. (a) MISREPRESENTATION OF GUARANTEES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for any person,
issuing or selling any security of which a registered investment

93

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 36


company is the issuer, to represent or imply in any manner
whatsoever that such security or company—
(A) has been guaranteed, sponsored, recommended, or
approved by the United States, or any agency, instrumen­
tality or officer of the United States;
(B) has been insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation; or
(C) is guaranteed by or is otherwise an obligation of
any bank or insured depository institution.
(2) DISCLOSURES.—Any person issuing or selling the secu­
rities of a registered investment company that is advised by,
or sold through, a bank shall prominently disclose that an in­
vestment in the company is not insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. The
Commission may, after consultation with and taking into con­
sideration the views of the Federal banking agencies (as de­
fined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act), adopt
rules and regulations, and issue orders, consistent with the
protection of investors, prescribing the manner in which the
disclosure under this paragraph shall be provided.
(3) DEFINITIONS.—The terms ‘‘insured depository institu­
tion’’ and ‘‘appropriate Federal banking agency’’ have the same
meanings as given in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insur­
ance Act.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person registered under any
section of this title to represent or imply in any manner whatsoever
that such person has been sponsored, recommended, or approved,
or that his abilities or qualifications have in any respect been
passed upon by the United States or any agency or officer thereof.
(c) No provision of subsection (a) or (b) shall be construed to
prohibit a statement that a person or security is registered under
this Act, the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, if such statement is true in fact and if the effect of such
registration is not misrepresented.
(d) DECEPTIVE OR MISLEADING NAMES.—It shall be unlawful
for any registered investment company to adopt as a part of the
name or title of such company, or of any securities of which it is
the issuer, any word or words that the Commission finds are mate­
rially deceptive or misleading. The Commission is authorized, by
rule, regulation, or order, to define such names or titles as are ma­
terially deceptive or misleading.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 35, 54 Stat. 840; Pub. L. 104­
290, title II, Sec. 208, Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3432; Pub. L. 106­
102, title II, Sec. 214, Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1398.)
BREACH OF FIDUCIARY DUTY

SEC. 36. (a) The Commission is authorized to bring an action
in the proper district court of the United States, or in the United
States court of any territory or other place subject to the jurisdic­
tion of the United States, alleging that a person who is, or at the
time of the alleged misconduct was, serving or acting in one or
more of the following capacities has engaged within five years of

Sec. 36

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

94


the commencement of the action or is about to engage in any act
or practice constituting a breach of fiduciary duty involving per­
sonal misconduct in respect of any registered investment company
for which such person so serves or acts, or at the time of the al­
leged misconduct, so served or acted—
(1) as officer, director, member of any advisory board, in­
vestment adviser, or depositor; or
(2) as principal underwriter, if such registered company is
an open-end company, unit investment trust, or face-amount
certificate company.
If such allegations are established, the court may enjoin such per­
sons from acting in any or all such capacities either permanently
or temporarily and award such injunctive or other relief against
such person as may be reasonable and appropriate in the cir­
cumstances, having due regard to the protection of investors and
to the effectuation of the policies declared in section 1(b) of this
title.
(b) For the purposes of this subsection, the investment adviser
of a registered investment company shall be deemed to have a fidu­
ciary duty with respect to the receipt of compensation for services,
or of payments of a material nature, paid by such registered invest­
ment company, or by the security holders thereof, to such invest­
ment adviser or any affiliated person of such investment adviser.
An action may be brought under this subsection by the Commis­
sion, or by a security holder of such registered investment company
on behalf of such company, against such investment adviser, or any
affiliated person of such investment adviser, or any other person
enumerated in subsection (a) of this section who has a fiduciary
duty concerning such compensation or payments, for breach of fidu­
ciary duty in respect of such compensation or payments paid by
such registered investment company or by the security holders
thereof to such investment adviser or person. With respect to any
such action the following provisions shall apply:
(1) It shall not be necessary to allege or prove that any de­
fendant engaged in personal misconduct, and the plaintiff shall
have the burden of proving a breach of fiduciary duty.
(2) In any such action approval by the board of directors
of such investment company of such compensation or pay­
ments, or of contracts or other arrangements providing for
such compensation or payments, and ratification or approval of
such compensation or payments, or of contracts or other ar­
rangements providing for such compensation or payments, by
the shareholders of such investment company, shall be given
such consideration by the court as is deemed appropriate under
all the circumstances.
(3) No such action shall be brought or maintained against
any person other than the recipient of such compensation or
payments, and no damages or other relief shall be granted
against any person other than the recipient of such compensa­
tion or payments. No award of damages shall be recoverable
for any period prior to one year before the action was insti­
tuted. Any award of damages against such recipient shall be
limited to the actual damages resulting from the breach of fi­
duciary duty and shall in no event exceed the amount of com­

95

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 38


pensation or payments received from such investment com­
pany, or the security holders thereof, by such recipient.
(4) This subsection shall not apply to compensation or pay­
ments made in connection with transactions subject to section
17 of this title, or rules, regulations, or orders thereunder, or
to sales loads for the acquisition of any security issued by a
registered investment company.
(5) Any action pursuant to this subsection may be brought
only in an appropriate district court of the United States.
(6) No finding by a court with respect to a breach of fidu­
ciary duty under this subsection shall be made a basis (A) for
a finding of a violation of this title for the purposes of sections
9 and 49 of this title, section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, or section 203 of title II of this Act, or (B) for an in­
junction to prohibit any person from serving in any of the ca­
pacities enumerated in subsection (a) of this section.
(c) For the purposes of subsections (a) and (b) of this section,
the term ‘‘investment adviser’’ includes a corporate or other trustee
performing the functions of an investment adviser.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 36, 54 Stat. 841; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 20, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1428; Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 28(7),
June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 166; Pub. L. 100-181, title VI, Sec. 622, Dec.
4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1262; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec. 929F(f), July
21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1854.)
LARCENY AND EMBEZZLEMENT

SEC. 37. Whoever steals, unlawfully abstracts, unlawfully and
willfully converts to his own use or to the use of another, or embez­
zles any of the moneys, funds, securities, credits, property, or as­
sets of any registered investment company shall be deemed guilty
of a crime, and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to the pen­
alties provided in section 49. A judgment of conviction or acquittal
on the merits under the laws of any State shall be a bar to any
prosecution under this section for the same act or acts.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 37, 54 Stat. 841.)
RULES, REGULATIONS, AND ORDERS; GENERAL POWERS OF

COMMISSION


SEC. 38. (a) The Commission shall have authority from time to
time to make, issue, amend, and rescind such rules and regulations
and such orders as are necessary or appropriate to the exercise of
the powers conferred upon the Commission elsewhere in this title,
including rules and regulations defining accounting, technical, and
trade terms used in this title, and prescribing the form or forms in
which information required in registration statements, applica­
tions, and reports to the Commission shall be set forth. For the
purposes of its rules or regulations the Commission may classify
persons, securities, and other matters within its jurisdiction and

Sec. 39

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

96


prescribe different requirements for different classes of persons, se­
curities, or matters.
(b) The Commission, by such rules and regulations or order as
it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the
protection of investors, may authorize the filing of any information
or documents required to be filed with the Commission under this
title, title II of this Act, the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, or the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, by incor­
porating by reference any information or documents theretofore or
concurrently filed with the Commission under this title or any of
such Acts.
(c) No provision of this title imposing any liability shall apply
to any act done or omitted in good faith in conformity with any
rule, regulation, or order of the Commission, notwithstanding that
such rule, regulation, or order may, after such act or omission, be
amended or rescinded or be determined by judicial or other author­
ity to be invalid for any reason.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 38, 54 Stat. 841; Pub. L. 111­
203, title IX, Sec. 986(c)(3), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1936.)
RULES AND REGULATIONS; PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE

SEC. 39. Subject to the provisions of the Federal Register Act
and regulations prescribed under the authority thereof, the rules
and regulations of the Commission under this title, and amend­
ments thereof, shall be effective upon publication in the manner
which the Commission shall prescribe, or upon such later date as
may be provided in such rules and regulations.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 39, 54 Stat. 842.)
ORDERS; PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE

SEC. 40. (a) Orders of the Commission under this title shall be
issued only after appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing.
Notice to the parties to a proceeding before the Commission shall
be given by personal service upon each party or by registered mail
or certified mail or confirmed telegraphic notice to the party’s last
known business address. Notice to interested persons, if any, other
than parties may be given in the same manner or by publication
in the Federal Register.
(b) The Commission may provide, by appropriate rules or regu­
lations, that an application verified under oath may be admissible
in evidence in a proceeding before the Commission and that the
record in such a proceeding may consist, in whole or in part, of
such application.
(c) In any proceeding before the Commission, the Commission,
in accordance with such rules and regulations as it may prescribe,
shall admit as a party any interested State or State agency, and
may admit as a party any representative of interested security
holders, or any other person whose participation in the proceeding
may be in the public interest or for the protection of investors.

97

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 42


(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 40, 54 Stat. 842; Pub. L. 86­
507, Sec. 1(15), June 11, 1960, 74 Stat. 201.)
HEARINGS BY COMMISSION

SEC. 41. Hearings may be public and may be held before the
Commission, any member or members thereof, or any officer or offi­
cers of the Commission designated by it, and appropriate records
thereof shall be kept.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 41, 54 Stat. 842.)
ENFORCEMENT OF TITLE

SEC. 42. (a) The Commission may make such investigations as
it deems necessary to determine whether any person has violated
or is about to violate any provision of this title or of any rule, regu­
lation, or order hereunder, or to determine whether any action in
any court or any proceeding before the Commission shall be insti­
tuted under this title against a particular person or persons, or
with respect to a particular transaction or transactions. The Com­
mission shall permit any person to file with it a statement in writ­
ing, under oath or otherwise as the Commission shall determine,
as to all the facts and circumstances concerning the matter to be
investigated.
(b) For the purpose of any investigation or any other pro­
ceeding under this title, any member of the Commission, or any of­
ficer thereof designated by it, is empowered to administer oaths
and affirmations, subpena witnesses, compel their attendance, take
evidence, and require the production of any books, papers, cor­
respondence, memoranda, contracts, agreements, or other records
which are relevant or material to the inquiry. Such attendance of
witnesses and the production of any such records may be required
from any place in any State or in any Territory or other place sub­
ject to the jurisdiction of the United States at any designated place
of hearing.
(c) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpena issued
to, any person, the Commission may invoke the aid of any court of
the United States within the jurisdiction of which such investiga­
tion or proceeding is carried on, or where such person resides or
carries on business, in requiring the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of books, papers, correspondence,
memoranda, contracts, agreements, and other records. And such
court may issue an order requiring such person to appear before
the Commission or member or officer designated by the Commis­
sion, there to produce records, if so ordered, or to give testimony
touching the matter under investigation or in question; any failure
to obey such order of the court may be punished by such court as
a contempt thereof. All process in any such case may be served in
the judicial district whereof such person is an inhabitant or wher­
ever he may be found. Any person who without just cause shall fail
or refuse to attend and testify or to answer any lawful inquiry or
to produce books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, contracts,

Sec. 42

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

98


agreements, or other records, if in his or its power so to do, in obe­
dience to the subpena of the Commission, shall be guilty of a mis­
demeanor, and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for a term of not more than
one year, or both.
(d) Whenever it shall appear to the Commission that any per­
son has engaged or is about to engage in any act or practice consti­
tuting a violation of any provision of this title, or of any rule, regu­
lation, or order hereunder, it may in its discretion bring an action
in the proper district court of the United States, or the proper
United States court of any Territory or other place subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States, to enjoin such acts or practices
and to enforce compliance with this title or any rule, regulation, or
order hereunder. Upon a showing that such person has engaged or
is about to engage in any such act or practice, a permanent or tem­
porary injunction or decree or restraining order shall be granted
without bond. In any proceeding under this subsection to enforce
compliance with section 7, the court as a court of equity may, to
the extent it deems necessary or appropriate, take exclusive juris­
diction and possession of the investment company or companies in­
volved and the books, records, and assets thereof, wherever located;
and the court shall have jurisdiction to appoint a trustee, who with
the approval of the court shall have power to dispose of any or all
of such assets, subject to such terms and conditions as the court
may prescribe. The Commission may transmit such evidence as
may be available concerning any violation of the provisions of this
title, or of any rule, regulation, or order thereunder, to the Attor­
ney General, who, in his discretion, may institute the appropriate
criminal proceedings under this title.
(e) MONEY PENALTIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.—
(1) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.—Whenever it shall appear
to the Commission that any person has violated any provision
of this title, the rules or regulations thereunder, or a cease­
and-desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to sec­
tion 9(f) of this title, the Commission may bring an action in
a United States district court to seek, and the court shall have
jurisdiction to impose, upon a proper showing, a civil penalty
to be paid by the person who committed such violation.
(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY.—
(A) FIRST TIER.—The amount of the penalty shall be
determined by the court in light of the facts and cir­
cumstances. For each violation, the amount of the penalty
shall not exceed the greater of (i) $5,000 for a natural per­
son or $50,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross
amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of
the violation.
(B) SECOND TIER.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A),
the amount of penalty for each such violation shall not ex­
ceed the greater of (i) $50,000 for a natural person or
$250,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross amount of
pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the viola­
tion, if the violation described in paragraph (1) involved
fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless dis­
regard of a regulatory requirement.

99

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 43


(C) THIRD TIER.—Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A)
and (B), the amount of penalty for each such violation
shall not exceed the greater of (i) $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross
amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of
the violation, if—
(I) the violation described in paragraph (1) in­
volved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or
reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and
(II) such violation directly or indirectly resulted in
substantial losses or created a significant risk of sub­
stantial losses to other persons.
(3) PROCEDURES FOR COLLECTION.—
(A) PAYMENT OF PENALTY TO TREASURY.—A penalty
imposed under this section shall be payable into the Treas­
ury of the United States, except as otherwise provided in
section 308 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and section
21F of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(B) COLLECTION OF PENALTIES.—If a person upon
whom such a penalty is imposed shall fail to pay such pen­
alty within the time prescribed in the court’s order, the
Commission may refer the matter to the Attorney General
who shall recover such penalty by action in the appro­
priate United States district court.
(C) REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE.—The actions authorized
by this subsection may be brought in addition to any other
action that the Commission or the Attorney General is en­
titled to bring.
(D) JURISDICTION AND VENUE.—For purposes of section
44 of this title, actions under this paragraph shall be ac­
tions to enforce a liability or a duty created by this title.
(4) SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO A VIOLATION OF A
CEASE-AND- DESIST ORDER.—In an action to enforce a cease­
and-desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to sec­
tion 9(f), each separate violation of such order shall be a sepa­
rate offense, except that in the case of a violation through a
continuing failure to comply with the order, each day of the
failure to comply shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 42, 54 Stat. 842; Oct. 15, 1970,
Pub. L. 91-452, title II, Sec. 215, 84 Stat. 929; Dec. 4, 1987, Pub.
L. 100-181, title VI, Sec. 623, 101 Stat. 1262; Oct. 15, 1990, Pub.
L. 101-429, title III, Sec. 302, 104 Stat. 945; Pub. L. 107-204, title
III, Sec. 308(d)(4), July 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 785; Pub. L. 111-203,
title IX, Sec. 923(a)(2), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1849.)
COURT REVIEW OF ORDERS

SEC. 43. (a) Any person or party aggrieved by an order issued
by the Commission under this title may obtain a review of such
order in the court of appeals of the United States within any circuit
wherein such person resides or has his principal place of business,
or in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Colum­
bia, by filing in such court, within sixty days after the entry of such

Sec. 44

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

100


order, a written petition praying that the order of the Commission
be modified or set aside in whole or in part. A copy of such petition
shall be forthwith transmitted by the clerk of the court to any
member of the Commission or any officer thereof designated by the
Commission for that purpose, and thereupon the Commission shall
file in the court the record upon which the order complained of was
entered, as provided in section 2112 of title 28, United States Code.
Upon the filing of such petition such court shall have jurisdiction,
which upon the filing of the record shall be exclusive, to affirm,
modify, or set aside such order, in whole or in part. No objection
to the order of the Commission shall be considered by the court un­
less such objection shall have been urged before the Commission or
unless there were reasonable grounds for failure so to do. The find­
ings of the Commission as to the facts, if supported by substantial
evidence, shall be conclusive. If application is made to the court for
leave to adduce additional evidence, and it is shown to the satisfac­
tion of the court that such additional evidence is material and that
there were reasonable grounds for failure to adduce such evidence
in the proceeding before the Commission, the court may order such
additional evidence to be taken before the Commission and to be
adduced upon the hearing in such manner and upon such terms
and conditions as to the court may seem proper. The Commission
may modify its findings as to the facts by reason of the additional
evidence so taken, and it shall file with the court such modified or
new findings, which, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be
conclusive, and its recommendation, if any, for the modification or
setting aside of the original order. The judgment and decree of the
court affirming, modifying, or setting aside, in whole or in part, any
such order of the Commission shall be final, subject to review by
the Supreme Court of the United States upon certiorari or certifi­
cation as provided in section 1254 of title 28, United States Code.
(b) The commencement of proceedings under subsection (a) to
review an order of the Commission issued under section 8(e) shall
operate as a stay of the Commission’s order unless the court other­
wise orders. The commencement of proceedings under subsection
(a) to review an order of the Commission issued under any provi­
sion of this title other than section 8(e) shall not operate as a stay
of the Commission’s order unless the court specifically so orders.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 43, 54 Stat. 844; June 25, 1948,
ch. 646, Sec. 32(a), 62 Stat. 991; May 24, 1949, ch. 139, Sec. 127,
63 Stat. 107; Pub. L. 85-791, Sec. 25, Aug. 28, 1958, 72 Stat. 949;
Pub. L. 91-547, Sec. 21, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1430.)
JURISDICTION OF OFFENSES AND SUITS

SEC. 44. The district courts of the United States and the
United States courts of any Territory or other place subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States shall have jurisdiction of violations
of this title or the rules, regulations, or orders thereunder, and,
concurrently with State and Territorial courts, of all suits in equity
and actions at law brought to enforce any liability or duty created
by, or to enjoin any violation of, this title or the rules, regulations,
or orders thereunder. Any criminal proceeding may be brought in

101

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 45


the district wherein any act or transaction constituting the viola­
tion occurred. A criminal proceeding based upon a violation of sec­
tion 34, or upon a failure to file a report or other document re­
quired to be filed under this title, may be brought in the district
wherein the defendant is an inhabitant or maintains his principal
office or place of business. Any suit or action to enforce any liability
or duty created by, or to enjoin any violation of, this title or rules,
regulations, or orders thereunder, may be brought in any such dis­
trict or in the district wherein the defendant is an inhabitant or
transacts business, and process in such cases may be served in any
district of which the defendant is an inhabitant or transacts busi­
ness or wherever the defendant may be found. In any action or pro­
ceeding instituted by the Commission under this title in a United
States district court for any judicial district, a subpoena issued to
compel the attendance of a witness or the production of documents
or tangible things (or both) at a hearing or trial may be served at
any place within the United States. Rule 45(c)(3)(A)(ii) of the Fed­
eral Rules of Civil Procedure shall not apply to a subpoena issued
under the preceding sentence. Judgments and decrees so rendered
shall be subject to review as provided in sections 1254, 1291, 1292,
and 1294 of title 28, United States Code. No costs shall be assessed
for or against the Commission in any proceeding under this title
brought by or against the Commission in any court. The Commis­
sion may intervene as a party in any action or suit to enforce any
liability or duty created by, or to enjoin any noncompliance with,
section 36(b) of this title at any stage of such action or suit prior
to final judgment therein.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 44, 54 Stat. 844; Pub. L. 91­
547, Sec. 22, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1430; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX,
Sec. 929E(c), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1853.)
INFORMATION FILED WITH COMMISSION

SEC. 45. (a) The information contained in any registration
statement, application, report, or other document filed with the
Commission pursuant to any provision of this title or of any rule
or regulation thereunder (as distinguished from any information or
document transmitted to the Commission) shall be made available
to the public, unless and except insofar as the Commission, by
rules and regulations upon its own motion, or by order upon appli­
cation, finds that public disclosure is neither necessary nor appro­
priate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. Ex­
cept as provided in section 24(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, it shall be unlawful for any member, officer, or employee of
the Commission to use for personal benefit, or to disclose to any
person other than an official or employee of the United States or
of a State, for official use, or for any such official or employee to
use for personal benefit, any information contained in any docu­
ment so filed or transmitted, if such information is not available to
the public.
(b) Photostatic or other copies of information contained in docu­
ments filed with the Commission under this title and made avail­
able to the public shall be furnished any person at such reasonable

Sec. 46

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

102


charge and under such reasonable limitations as the Commission
shall prescribe.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 45, 54 Stat. 845; Pub. L. 101­
550, title II, Sec. 202(b)(1), Nov. 15, 1990, 104 Stat. 2715.)
ANNUAL REPORTS OF COMMISSION; EMPLOYEES OF THE COMMISSION

SEC. 46. (a) The Commission shall submit annually a report to
the Congress covering the work of the Commission for the pre­
ceding year and including such information, data, and rec­
ommendations for further legislation in connection with the mat­
ters covered by this title as it may find advisable.
(b) The provisions of section 4(b) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 shall be applicable with respect to the power of the
Commission—
(1) to appoint and fix the compensation of such employees
as may be necessary for carrying out its functions under this
title, and
(2) to lease and allocate such real property as may be nec­
essary for carrying out its functions under this title.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 46, 54 Stat. 845; Oct. 28, 1949,
ch. 782, title XI, Sec. 1106(a), 63 Stat. 972; Pub. L. 101-550, title
I, Sec. 104(c), Nov. 15, 1990, 104 Stat. 2714.)
VALIDITY OF CONTRACTS

SEC. 47. (a) Any condition, stipulation, or provision binding any
person to waive compliance with any provision of this title or with
any rule, regulation, or order thereunder shall be void.
(b)(1) A contract that is made, or whose performance involves,
a violation of this title, or of any rule, regulation, or order there­
under, is unenforceable by either party (or by a nonparty to the
contract who acquired a right under the contract with knowledge
of the facts by reason of which the making or performance violated
or would violate any provision of this title or of any rule, regula­
tion, or order thereunder) unless a court finds that under the cir­
cumstances enforcement would produce a more equitable result
than nonenforcement and would not be inconsistent with the pur­
poses of this title.
(2) To the extent that a contract described in paragraph (1) has
been performed, a court may not deny rescission at the instance of
any party unless such court finds that under the circumstances the
denial of rescission would produce a more equitable result than its
grant and would not be inconsistent with the purposes of this title.
(3) This subsection shall not apply (A) to the lawful portion of
a contract to the extent that it may be severed from the unlawful
portion of the contract, or (B) to preclude recovery against any per­
son for unjust enrichment.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 47, 54 Stat. 845; Pub. L. 96­
477, title I, Sec. 104, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2277.)

103

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 50


LIABILITY OF CONTROLLING PERSONS; PREVENTING COMPLIANCE WITH
TITLE

SEC. 48. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or in­
directly, to cause to be done any act or thing through or by means
of any other person which it would be unlawful for such person to
do under the provisions of this title or any rule, regulation, or order
thereunder.
(b) For purposes of any action brought by the Commission
under subsection (d) or (e) of section 42, any person that knowingly
or recklessly provides substantial assistance to another person in
violation of a provision of this Act, or of any rule or regulation
issued under this Act, shall be deemed to be in violation of such
provision to the same extent as the person to whom such assistance
is provided.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person without just cause to
hinder, delay, or obstruct the making, filing, or keeping of any in­
formation, document, report, record, or account required to be
made, filed, or kept under any provision of this title or any rule,
regulation, or order thereunder.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 48, 54 Stat. 846; Pub. L. 111­
203, title IX, Sec. 929M(b), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1861.)
PENALTIES

SEC. 49. Any person who willfully violates any provision of this
title or of any rule, regulation, or order hereunder, or any person
who willfully in any registration statement, application, report, ac­
count, record, or other document filed or transmitted pursuant to
this title or the keeping of which is required pursuant to section
31(a) makes any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to
state any material fact necessary in order to prevent the state­
ments made therein from being materially misleading in the light
of the circumstances under which they were made, shall upon con­
viction be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more
than five years, or both; but no person shall be convicted under this
section for the violation of any rule, regulation, or order if he
proves that he had no actual knowledge of such rule, regulation,
or order.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 49, 54 Stat. 846; Pub. L. 94­
29, Sec. 27(e), June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 163.)
EFFECT ON EXISTING LAW

SEC. 50. Except where specific provision is made to the con­
trary, nothing in this title shall affect (1) the jurisdiction of the
Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Ex­
change Act of 1934, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, or title II of
this Act, over any person, security, or transaction, or (2) the rights,
obligations, duties, or liabilities of any person under such Acts; nor
shall anything in this title affect the jurisdiction of any other com­
mission, board, agency, or officer of the United States or of any

Sec. 51

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

104


State or political subdivision of any State, over any person, secu­
rity, or transaction, insofar as such jurisdiction does not conflict
with any provision of this title or of any rule, regulation, or order
hereunder.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 50, 54 Stat. 846; Pub. L. 111­
203, title IX, Sec. 986(c)(4), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1936.)
SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS

SEC. 51. If any provision of this title or any provision incor­
porated in this title by reference, or the application of any such
provision to any person or circumstances, shall be held invalid, the
remainder of this title and the application of any such provision to
person or circumstances other than those as to which it is held in­
valid shall not be affected thereby.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 51, 54 Stat. 846.)
SHORT TITLE

SEC. 52. This title may be cited as the ‘‘Investment Company
Act of 1940’’.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 52, 54 Stat. 847.)
EFFECTIVE DATE

SEC. 53. The effective date of the provisions of this title, so far
as the same relate to face-amount certificates or to face-amount
certificate companies, is January 1, 1941. The effective date of pro­
visions hereof, insofar as the same do not apply to face-amount cer­
tificates or face- amount certificate companies, is November 1,
1940. Except as herein otherwise provided, every provision of this
title shall take effect on November 1, 1940.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 53, 54 Stat. 847; Dec. 4, 1987,
Pub. L. 100-181, title VI, Sec. 624, 101 Stat. 1262.)
ELECTION TO BE REGULATED AS A BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMPANY

SEC. 54. (a) Any company defined in section 2(a)(48) (A) and
(B) may elect to be subject to the provisions of sections 55 through
65 by filing with the Commission a notification of election, if such
company—
(1) has a class of its equity securities registered under sec­
tion 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; or
(2) has filed a registration statement pursuant to section
12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for a class of its eq­
uity securities.
(b) The Commission may, by rule, prescribe the form and man­
ner in which notification of election under this section shall be
given. A business development company shall be deemed to be sub­

105

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 55


ject to sections 55 through 65 upon receipt by the Commission of
such notification of election.
(c) Whenever the Commission finds, on its own motion or upon
application, that a business development company which has filed
a notification of election pursuant to subsection (a) of this section
has ceased to engage in business, the Commission shall so declare
by order revoking such company’s election. Any business develop­
ment company may voluntarily withdraw its election under sub­
section (a) by filing a notice of withdrawal of election with the
Commission, in a form and manner which the Commission may, by
rule, prescribe. Such withdrawal shall be effective immediately
upon receipt by the Commission.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 54, as added Pub. L. 96-477,
title I, Sec. 105, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2278; amended Pub. L. 100­
181, title VI, Sec. 625, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1262.)
FUNCTIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMPANIES

SEC. 55. (a) It shall be unlawful for a business development
company to acquire any assets (other than those described in para­
graphs (1) through (7) of this subsection) unless, at the time the
acquisition is made, assets described in paragraphs (1) through (6)
below represent at least 70 per centum of the value of its total as­
sets (other than assets described in paragraph (7) below):
(1) securities purchased, in transactions not involving any
public offering or in such other transactions as the Commission
may, by rule, prescribe if it finds that enforcement of this title
and of the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to such trans­
actions is not necessary in the public interest or for the protec­
tion of investors by reason of the small amount, or the limited
nature of the public offering, involved in such transactions—
(A) from the issuer of such securities, which issuer is
an eligible portfolio company, from any person who is, or
who within the preceding thirteen months has been, an af­
filiated person of such eligible portfolio company, or from
any other person, subject to such rules and regulations as
the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate
in the public interest or for the protection of investors; or
(B) from the issuer of such securities, which issuer is
described in section 2(a)(46) (A) and (B) but is not an eligi­
ble portfolio company because it has issued a class of secu­
rities with respect to which a member of a national securi­
ties exchange, broker, or dealer may extend or maintain
credit to or for a customer pursuant to rules or regulations
adopted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System under section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, or from any person who is an officer or employee of
such issuer, if—
(i) at the time of the purchase, the business devel­
opment company owns at least 50 per centum of—
(I) the greatest number of equity securities of
such issuer and securities convertible into or ex­
changeable for such securities; and

Sec. 55

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

106


(II) the greatest amount of debt securities of
such issuer,
held by such business development company at any
point in time during the period when such issuer was
an eligible portfolio company, except that options, war­
rants, and similar securities which have by their
terms expired and debt securities which have been
converted, or repaid or prepaid in the ordinary course
of business or incident to a public offering of securities
of such issuer, shall not be considered to have been
held by such business development company for pur­
poses of this requirement; and
(ii) the business development company is one of
the 20 largest holders of record of such issuer’s out­
standing voting securities;
(2) securities of any eligible portfolio company with respect
to which the business development company satisfies the re­
quirements of section 2(a)(46)(C)(ii);
(3) securities purchased in transactions not involving any
public offering from an issuer described in sections 2(a)(46) (A)
and (B) or from a person who is, or who within the preceding
thirteen months has been, an affiliated person of such issuer,
or from any person in transactions incident thereto, if such se­
curities were—
(A) issued by an issuer that is, or was immediately
prior to the purchase of its securities by the business de­
velopment company, in bankruptcy proceedings, subject to
reorganization under the supervision of a court of com­
petent jurisdiction, or subject to a plan or arrangement re­
sulting from such bankruptcy proceedings or reorganiza­
tion;
(B) issued by an issuer pursuant to or in consumma­
tion of such a plan or arrangement; or
(C) issued by an issuer that, immediately prior to the
purchase of such issuer’s securities by the business devel­
opment company, was not in bankruptcy proceedings but
was unable to meet its obligations as they came due with­
out material assistance other than conventional lending or
financing arrangements;
(4) securities of eligible portfolio companies purchased
from any person in transactions not involving any public offer­
ing, if there is no ready market for such securities and if im­
mediately prior to such purchase the business development
company owns at least 60 per centum of the outstanding equity
securities of such issuer (giving effect to all securities presently
convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities of such
issuer as if such securities were so converted or exchanged);
(5) securities received in exchange for or distributed on or
with respect to securities described in paragraphs (1) through
(4) of this subsection, or pursuant to the exercise of op­
tions, warrants, or rights relating to securities described in
such paragraphs;

107

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 57


(6) cash, cash items, Government securities, or high qual­
ity debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time
of investment in such high quality debt securities; and
(7) office furniture and equipment, interests in real estate
and leasehold improvements and facilities maintained to con­
duct the business operations of the business development com­
pany, deferred organization and operating expenses, and other
noninvestment assets necessary and appropriate to its oper­
ations as a business development company, including notes of
indebtedness of directors, officers, employees, and general part­
ners held by a business development company as payment for
securities of such company issued in connection with an execu­
tive compensation plan described in section 57(j).
(b) For purposes of this section, the value of a business devel­
opment company’s assets shall be determined as of the date of the
most recent financial statements filed by such company with the
Commission pursuant to section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, and shall be determined no less frequently than annually.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 55, as added Pub. L. 96-477,
title I, Sec. 105, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2278; amended Pub. L. 100­
181, title VI, Sec. 626, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1263; Pub. L. 104­
290, title V, Sec. 505, Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3446.)
QUALIFICATIONS OF DIRECTORS

SEC. 56. (a) A majority of a business development company’s
directors or general partners shall be persons who are not inter­
ested persons of such company.
(b) If, by reason of the death, disqualification, or bona fide res­
ignation of any director or general partner, a business development
company does not meet the requirements of subsection (a) of this
section, or the requirements of section 15(f)(1) of this title with re­
spect to directors, the operation of such provisions shall be sus­
pended for a period of 90 days or for such longer period as the
Commission may prescribe, upon its own motion or by order upon
application, as not inconsistent with the protection of investors.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 56, as added Pub. L. 96-477,
title I Sec. 105, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2280.)
TRANSACTIONS WITH CERTAIN AFFILIATES

SEC. 57. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person who is related
to a business development company in a manner described in sub­
section (b) of this section, acting as principal—
(1) knowingly to sell any security or other property to such
business development company or to any company controlled
by such business development company, unless such sale in­
volves solely (A) securities of which the buyer is the issuer, or
(B) securities of which the seller is the issuer and which are
part of a general offering to the holders of a class of its securi­
ties;

Sec. 57

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

108


(2) knowingly to purchase from such business development
company or from any company controlled by such business de­
velopment company, any security or other property (except se­
curities of which the seller is the issuer);
(3) knowingly to borrow money or other property from such
business development company or from any company con­
trolled by such business development company (unless the bor­
rower is controlled by the lender), except as permitted in sec­
tion 21(b) or section 62; or
(4) knowingly to effect any transaction in which such busi­
ness development company or a company controlled by such
business development company is a joint or a joint and several
participant with such person in contravention of such rules
and regulations as the Commission may prescribe for the pur­
pose of limiting or preventing participation by such business
development company or controlled company on a basis less
advantageous than that of such person, except that nothing
contained in this paragraph shall be deemed to preclude any
person from acting as manager of any underwriting syndicate
or other group in which such business development company or
controlled company is a participant and receiving compensa­
tion therefor.
(b) The provisions of subsection (a) of this section shall apply
to the following persons:
(1) Any director, officer, employee, or member of an advi­
sory board of a business development company or any person
(other than the business development company itself) who is,
within the meaning of section 2(a)(3)(C) of this title, an affili­
ated person of any such person specified in this paragraph.
(2) Any investment adviser or promoter of, general partner
in, principal underwriter for, or person directly or indirectly ei­
ther controlling, controlled by, or under common control with,
a business development company (except the business develop­
ment company itself and any person who, if it were not directly
or indirectly controlled by the business development company,
would not be directly or indirectly under the control of a person
who controls the business development company), or any per­
son who is, within the meaning of section 2(a)(3) (C) or (D), an
affiliated person of any such person specified in this para­
graph.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection
(a), any person may file with the Commission an application for an
order exempting a proposed transaction of the applicant from one
or more provisions of such paragraphs. The Commission shall grant
such application and issue such order of exemption if evidence es­
tablishes that—
(1) the terms of the proposed transaction, including the
consideration to be paid or received, are reasonable and fair
and do not involve overreaching of the business development
company or its shareholders or partners on the part of any per­
son concerned;
(2) the proposed transaction is consistent with the policy
of the business development company as recited in the filings
made by such company with the Commission under the Securi­

109

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 57


ties Act of 1933, its registration statement and reports filed
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and its reports to
shareholders or partners; and
(3) the proposed transaction is consistent with the general
purposes of this title.
(d) It shall be unlawful for any person who is related to a busi­
ness development company in the manner described in subsection
(e) of this section and who is not subject to the prohibitions of sub­
section (a) of this section, acting as principal—
(1) knowingly to sell any security or other property to such
business development company or to any company controlled
by such business development company, unless such sale in­
volves solely (A) securities of which the buyer is the issuer, or
(B) securities of which the seller is the issuer and which are
part of a general offering to the holders of a class of its securi­
ties;
(2) knowingly to purchase from such business development
company or from any company controlled by such business de­
velopment company, any security or other property (except se­
curities of which the seller is the issuer);
(3) knowingly to borrow money or other property from such
business development company or from any company con­
trolled by such business development company (unless the bor­
rower is controlled by the lender), except as permitted in sec­
tion 21(b); or
(4) knowingly to effect any transaction in which such busi­
ness development company or a company controlled by such
business development company is a joint or a joint and several
participant with such affiliated person in contravention of such
rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe for the
purpose of limiting or preventing participation by such busi­
ness development company or controlled company on a basis
less advantageous than that of such affiliated person, except
that nothing contained in this paragraph shall be deemed to
preclude any person from acting as manager of any under­
writing syndicate or other group in which such business devel­
opment company or controlled company is a participant and re­
ceiving compensation therefor.
(e) The provisions of subsection (d) of this section shall apply
to the following persons:
(1) Any person (A) who is, within the meaning of section
2(a)(3)(A), an affiliated person of a business development com­
pany, (B) who is an executive officer or a director of, or general
partner in, any such affiliated person, or (C) who directly or in­
directly either controls, is controlled by, or is under common
control with, such affiliated person.
(2) Any person who is an affiliated person of a director, of­
ficer, employee, investment adviser, member of an advisory
board or promoter of, principal underwriter for, general part­
ner in, or an affiliated person of any person directly or indi­
rectly either controlling or under common control with a busi­
ness development company (except the business development
company itself and any person who, if it were not directly or
indirectly controlled by the business development company,

Sec. 57

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

110


would not be directly or indirectly under the control of a person
who controls the business development company).
For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘‘executive officer’’ means
the president, secretary, treasurer, any vice president in charge of
a principal business function, and any other person who performs
similar policymaking functions.
(f) Notwithstanding subsection (d) of this section, a person de­
scribed in subsection (e) may engage in a proposed transaction de­
scribed in subsection (d) if such proposed transaction is approved
by the required majority (as defined in subsection (o)) of the direc­
tors of or general partners in the business development company
on the basis that—
(1) the terms thereof, including the consideration to be
paid or received, are reasonable and fair to the shareholders or
partners of the business development company and do not in­
volve overreaching of such company or its shareholders or part­
ners on the part of any person concerned;
(2) the proposed transaction is consistent with the inter­
ests of the shareholders or partners of the business develop­
ment company and is consistent with the policy of such com­
pany as recited in filings made by such company with the Com­
mission under the Securities Act of 1933, its registration state­
ment and reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, and its reports to shareholders or partners; and
(3) the directors or general partners record in their min­
utes and preserve in their records, for such periods as if such
records were required to be maintained pursuant to section
31(a), a description of such transaction, their findings, the in­
formation or materials upon which their findings were based,
and the basis therefor.
(g) Notwithstanding subsection (a) or (d), a person may, in the
ordinary course of business, sell to or purchase from any company
merchandise or may enter into a lessor-lessee relationship with any
person and furnish the services incident thereto.
(h) The directors of or general partners in any business devel­
opment company shall adopt, and periodically review and update
as appropriate, procedures reasonably designed to ensure that rea­
sonable inquiry is made, prior to the consummation of any trans­
action in which such business development company or a company
controlled by such business development company proposes to par­
ticipate, with respect to the possible involvement in the transaction
of persons described in subsections (b) and (e) of this section.
(i) Until the adoption by the Commission of rules or regula­
tions under subsections (a) and (d) of this section, the rules and
regulations of the Commission under subsections (a) and (d) of sec­
tion 17 applicable to registered closed-end investment companies
shall be deemed to apply to transactions subject to subsections (a)
and (d) of this section. Any rules or regulations adopted by the
Commission to implement this section shall be no more restrictive
than the rules or regulations adopted by the Commission under
subsections (a) and (d) of section 17 that are applicable to all reg­
istered closed-end investment companies.

111

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 57


(j) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (d) of this section, any
director, officer, or employee of, or general partner in, a business
development company may—
(1) acquire warrants, options, and rights to purchase vot­
ing securities of such business development company, and se­
curities issued upon the exercise or conversion thereof, pursu­
ant to an executive compensation plan offered by such com­
pany which meets the requirements of section 61(a)(3)(B); and
(2) borrow money from such business development com­
pany for the purpose of purchasing securities issued by such
company pursuant to an executive compensation plan, if each
such loan—
(A) has a term of not more than ten years;
(B) becomes due within a reasonable time, not to ex­
ceed sixty days, after the termination of such person’s em­
ployment or service;
(C) bears interest at no less than the prevailing rate
applicable to 90-day United States Treasury bills at the
time the loan is made;
(D) at all times is fully collateralized (such collateral
may include any securities issued by such business devel­
opment company); and
(E)(i) in the case of a loan to any officer or employee
of such business development company (including any offi­
cer or employee who is also a director of such company),
is approved by the required majority (as defined in sub­
section (o)) of the directors of or general partners in such
company on the basis that the loan is in the best interests
of such company and its shareholders or partners; or
(ii) in the case of a loan to any director of such busi­
ness development company who is not also an officer or
employee of such company, or to any general partner in
such company, is approved by order of the Commission,
upon application, on the basis that the terms of the loan
are fair and reasonable and do not involve overreaching of
such company or its shareholders or partners.
(k) It shall be unlawful for any person described in subsection
(l)—
(1) acting as agent, to accept from any source any com­
pensation (other than a regular salary or wages from the busi­
ness development company) for the purchase or sale of any
property to or for such business development company or any
controlled company thereof, except in the course of such per­
son’s business as an underwriter or broker; or
(2) acting as broker, in connection with the sale of securi­
ties to or by the business development company or any con­
trolled company thereof, to receive from any source a commis­
sion, fee, or other remuneration for effecting such transaction
which exceeds—
(A) the usual and customary broker’s commission if
the sale is effected on a securities exchange;
(B) 2 per centum of the sales price if the sale is ef­
fected in connection with a secondary distribution of such
securities; or

Sec. 57

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

112


(C) 1 per centum of the purchase or sale price of such
securities if the sale is otherwise effected,
unless the Commission, by rules and regulations or order in the
public interest and consistent with the protection of investors, per­
mits a larger commission.
(l) The provisions of subsection (k) of this section shall apply
to the following persons:
(1) Any affiliated person of a business development com­
pany.
(2)(A) Any person who is, within the meaning of section
2(a)(3) (B), (C), or (D), an affiliated person of any director, offi­
cer, employee, or member of an advisory board of the business
development company.
(B) Any person who is, within the meaning of section
2(a)(3) (A), (B), (C), or (D), an affiliated person of any invest­
ment adviser of, general partner in, or person directly or indi­
rectly either controlling, controlled by, or under common con­
trol with, the business development company.
(C) Any person who is, within the meaning of section
2(a)(3)(C), an affiliated person of any person who is an affili­
ated person of the business development company within the
meaning of section 2(a)(3)(A).
(m) For purposes of subsections (a) and (d), a person who is a
director, officer, or employee of a party to a transaction and who
receives his usual and ordinary fee or salary for usual and cus­
tomary services as a director, officer, or employee from such party
shall not be deemed to have a financial interest or to participate
in the transaction solely by reason of his receipt of such fee or sal­
ary.
(n)(1) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(4) of this section, a busi­
ness development company may establish and maintain a profitsharing plan for its directors, officers, employees, and general part­
ners and such directors, officers, employees, and general partners
may participate in such profit-sharing plan, if—
(A)(i) in the case of a profit-sharing plan for officers and
employees of the business development company (including any
officer or employee who is also a director of such company),
such profit-sharing plan is approved by the required majority
(as defined in subsection (o)) of the directors of or general part­
ners in such company on the basis that such plan is reasonable
and fair to the shareholders or partners of such company, does
not involve overreaching of such company or its shareholders
or partners on the part of any person concerned, and is con­
sistent with the interests of the shareholders or partners of
such company; or
(ii) in the case of a profit-sharing plan which includes one
or more directors of the business development company who
are not also officers or employees of such company, or one or
more general partners in such company, such profit-sharing
plan is approved by order of the Commission, upon application,
on the basis that such plan is reasonable and fair to the share­
holders or partners of such company, does not involve over­
reaching of such company or its shareholders or partners on

113

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 60


the part of any person concerned, and is consistent with the in­
terests of the shareholders or partners of such company; and
(B) the aggregate amount of benefits which would be paid
or accrued under such plan shall not exceed 20 per centum of
the business development company’s net income after taxes in
any fiscal year.
(2) This subsection may not be used where the business devel­
opment company has outstanding any stock option, warrant, or
right issued as part of an executive compensation plan, including
a plan pursuant to section 61(a)(3)(B), or has an investment ad­
viser registered or required to be registered under title II of this
Act.
(o) The term ‘‘required majority’’, when used with respect to
the approval of a proposed transaction, plan, or arrangement,
means both a majority of a business development company’s direc­
tors or general partners who have no financial interest in such
transaction, plan, or arrangement and a majority of such directors
or general partners who are not interested persons of such com­
pany.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 57, as added Pub. L. 96-477,
title I, Sec. 105, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2280; amended Pub. L. 100­
181, title VI, Sec. 627, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1263.)
CHANGES IN INVESTMENT POLICY

SEC. 58. No business development company shall, unless au­
thorized by the vote of a majority of its outstanding voting securi­
ties or partnership interests, change the nature of its business so
as to cease to be, or to withdraw its election as, a business develop­
ment company.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 58, as added Pub. L. 96-477,
title I, Sec. 105, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2285.)
INCORPORATION OF PROVISIONS

SEC. 59. Notwithstanding the exemption set forth in section
6(f), sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10(f), 15 (a), (c), and (f), 16(b), 17
(f) through (j), 19(a), 20(b), 32 (a) and (c), 33 through 47, and 49
through 53 of this title shall apply to a business development com­
pany to the same extent as if it were a registered closed-end invest­
ment company.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 59, as added Pub. L. 96-477,
title I, Sec. 105, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2285.)
FUNCTIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMPANIES

SEC. 60. Notwithstanding the exemption set forth in section
6(f), section 12 shall apply to a business development company to
the same extent as if it were a registered closed-end investment
company, except that the Commission shall not prescribe any rule,

Sec. 61

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

114


regulation, or order pursuant to section 12(a)(1) governing the cir­
cumstances in which a business development company may borrow
from a bank in order to purchase any security.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 60, as added Pub. L. 96-477,
title I, Sec. 105, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2285.)
CAPITAL STRUCTURE

SEC. 61. (a) Notwithstanding the exemption set forth in section
6(f), section 18 shall apply to a business development company to
the same extent as if it were a registered closed-end investment
company, except as follows:
(1) The asset coverage requirements of section 18(a)(1) (A)
and (B) applicable to business development companies shall be
200 per centum.
(2) Notwithstanding section 18(c), a business development
company may issue more than one class of senior security rep­
resenting indebtedness.
(3) Notwithstanding section 18(d)—
(A) a business development company may issue war­
rants, options, or rights to subscribe or convert to voting
securities of such company, accompanied by securities, if—
(i) such warrants, options, or rights expire by
their terms within ten years;
(ii) such warrants, options, or rights are not sepa­
rately transferable unless no class of such warrants,
options, or rights and the securities accompanying
them has been publicly distributed;
(iii) the exercise or conversion price is not less
than the current market value at the date of issuance,
or if no such market value exists, the current net asset
value of such voting securities; and
(iv) the proposal to issue such securities is author­
ized by the shareholders or partners of such business
development company, and such issuance is approved
by the required majority (as defined in section 57(o))
of the directors of or general partners in such company
on the basis that such issuance is in the best interests
of such company and its shareholders or partners;
(B) a business development company may issue, to its
directors, officers, employees, and general partners, war­
rants, options, and rights to purchase voting securities of
such company pursuant to an executive compensation
plan, if—
(i)(I) in the case of warrants, options, or rights
issued to any officer or employee of such business de­
velopment company (including any officer or employee
who is also a director of such company), such securi­
ties satisfy the conditions in clauses (i), (iii), and (iv)
of subparagraph (A); or (II) in the case of warrants,
options, or rights issued to any director of such busi­
ness development company who is not also an officer
or employee of such company, or to any general part­

115

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 61


ner in such company, the proposal to issue such secu­
rities satisfies the conditions in clauses (i) and (iii) of
subparagraph (A), is authorized by the shareholders or
partners of such company, and is approved by order of
the Commission, upon application, on the basis that
the terms of the proposal are fair and reasonable and
do not involve overreaching of such company or its
shareholders or partners;
(ii) such securities are not transferable except for
disposition by gift, will, or intestacy;
(iii) no investment adviser of such business devel­
opment company receives any compensation described
in section 205(a)(1) of title II of this Act, except to the
extent permitted by paragraph (1) or (2) of section
205(b); and
(iv) such business development company does not
have a profit-sharing plan described in section 57(n);
and
(C) a business development company may issue war­
rants, options, or rights to subscribe to, convert to, or pur­
chase voting securities not accompanied by securities, if—
(i) such warrants, options, or rights satisfy the
conditions in clauses (i) and (iii) of subparagraph (A);
and
(ii) the proposal to issue such warrants, options,
or rights is authorized by the shareholders or partners
of such business development company, and such
issuance is approved by the required majority (as de­
fined in section 57(o)) of the directors of or general
partners in such company on the basis that such
issuance is in the best interests of the company and its
shareholders or partners.
Notwithstanding this paragraph, the amount of voting securi­
ties that would result from the exercise of all outstanding war­
rants, options, and rights at the time of issuance shall not ex­
ceed 25 per centum of the outstanding voting securities of the
business development company, except that if the amount of
voting securities that would result from the exercise of all out­
standing warrants, options, and rights issued to such com­
pany’s directors, officers, employees, and general partners pur­
suant to any executive compensation plan meeting the require­
ments of subparagraph (B) of this paragraph would exceed 15
per centum of the outstanding voting securities of such com­
pany, then the total amount of voting securities that would re­
sult from the exercise of all outstanding warrants, options, and
rights at the time of issuance shall not exceed 20 per centum
of the outstanding voting securities of such company.
(4) For purposes of measuring the asset coverage require­
ments of section 18(a), a senior security created by the guar­
antee by a business development company of indebtedness
issued by another company shall be the amount of the max­
imum potential liability less the fair market value of the net
unencumbered assets (plus the indebtedness which has been
guaranteed) available in the borrowing company whose debts

Sec. 62

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

116


have been guaranteed, except that a guarantee issued by a
business development company of indebtedness issued by a
company which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the business
development company and is licensed as a small business in­
vestment company under the Small Business Investment Act
of 1958 shall not be deemed to be a senior security of such
business development company for purposes of section 18(a) if
the amount of the indebtedness at the time of its issuance by
the borrowing company is itself taken fully into account as a
liability by such business development company, as if it were
issued by such business development company, in determining
whether such business development company, at that time,
satisfies the asset coverage requirements of section 18(a).
(b) A business development company shall comply with the
provisions of this section at the time it becomes subject to sections
55 through 65, as if it were issuing a security of each class which
it has outstanding at such time.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 61, as added Pub. L. 96-477,
title I, Sec. 105, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2286; amended Pub. L. 104­
290, title V, Sec. 506, Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3446; Pub. L. 111­
203, title IX, Sec. 985(d)(5), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1934.)
LOANS

SEC. 62. Notwithstanding the exemption set forth in section
6(f), section 21 shall apply to a business development company to
the same extent as if it were a registered closed-end investment
company, except that nothing in that section shall be deemed to
prohibit—
(1) any loan to a director, officer, or employee of, or general
partner in, a business development company for the purpose of
purchasing securities of such company as part of an executive
compensation plan, if such loan meets the requirements of sec­
tion 57(j); or
(2) any loan to a company controlled by a business devel­
opment company, which companies could be deemed to be
under common control solely because a third person controls
such business development company.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 62, as added Pub. L. 96-477,
title I, Sec. 105, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2287.)
DISTRIBUTION AND REPURCHASE OF SECURITIES

SEC. 63. Notwithstanding the exemption set forth in section
6(f), section 23 shall apply to a business development company to
the same extent as if it were a registered closed-end investment
company, except as follows:
(1) The prohibitions of section 23(a)(2) shall not apply to
any company which (A) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of, or di­
rectly or indirectly controlled by, a business development com­
pany, and (B) immediately after the issuance of any of its secu­

117

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Sec. 64


rities for property other than cash or securities, will not be an
investment company within the meaning of section 3(a).
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 23(b), a busi­
ness development company may sell any common stock of
which it is the issuer at a price below the current net asset
value of such stock, and may sell warrants, options, or rights
to acquire any such common stock at a price below the current
net asset value of such stock, if—
(A) the holders of a majority of such business develop­
ment company’s outstanding voting securities, and the
holders of a majority of such company’s outstanding voting
securities that are not affiliated persons of such company,
approved such company’s policy and practice of making
such sales of securities at the last annual meeting of
shareholders or partners within one year immediately
prior to any such sale, except that the shareholder ap­
proval requirements of this subparagraph shall not apply
to the initial public offering by a business development
company of its securities;
(B) a required majority (as defined in section 57(o)) of
the directors of or general partners in such business devel­
opment company have determined that any such sale
would be in the best interests of such company and its
shareholders or partners; and
(C) a required majority (as defined in section 57(o)) of
the directors of or general partners in such business devel­
opment company, in consultation with the underwriter or
underwriters of the offering if it is to be underwritten,
have determined in good faith, and as of a time imme­
diately prior to the first solicitation by or on behalf of such
company of firm commitments to purchase such securities
or immediately prior to the issuance of such securities,
that the price at which such securities are to be sold is not
less than a price which closely approximates the market
value of those securities, less any distributing commission
or discount.
(3) A business development company may sell any common
stock of which it is the issuer at a price below the current net
asset value of such stock upon the exercise of any warrant, op­
tion, or right issued in accordance with section 61(a)(3).
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 63, as added Pub. L. 96-477,
title I, Sec. 105, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2288.)
ACCOUNTS AND RECORDS

SEC. 64. (a) Notwithstanding the exemption set forth in section
6(f), section 31 shall apply to a business development company to
the same extent as if it were a registered closed-end investment
company, except that the reference to the financial statements re­
quired to be filed pursuant to section 30 shall be construed to refer
to the financial statements required to be filed by such business de­
velopment company pursuant to section 13 of the Securities Ex­
change Act of 1934.

Sec. 65

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

118


(b)(1) In addition to the requirements of subsection (a), a busi­
ness development company shall file with the Commission and sup­
ply annually to its shareholders a written statement, in such form
and manner as the Commission may, by rule, prescribe, describing
the risk factors involved in an investment in the securities of a
business development company due to the nature of such com­
pany’s investment portfolio and capital structure, and shall supply
copies of such statement to any registered broker or dealer upon
request.
(2) If the Commission finds it is necessary or appropriate in
the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors
and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of
this title, the Commission may also require, by rule, any person
who, acting as principal or agent, sells a security of a business de­
velopment company to inform the purchaser of such securities, at
or before the time of sale, of the existence of the risk statement
prepared by such business development company pursuant to this
subsection, and make such risk statement available on request.
The Commission, in making such rules and regulations, shall con­
sider, among other matters, whether any such rule or regulation
would impose any unreasonable burdens on such brokers or dealers
or unreasonably impair the maintenance of fair and orderly mar­
kets.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 64, as added Pub. L. 96-477,
title I Sec. 105, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2289; amended Pub. L. 104­
290, title V, Sec. 507, Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3446.)
SEC. 65. LIABILITY OF CONTROLLING PERSONS; PREVENTING

COMPLIANCE WITH TITLE


SEC. 65. Notwithstanding the exemption set forth in section
6(f), section 48 shall apply to a business development company to
the same extent as if it were a registered closed-end investment
company, except that the provisions of section 48(a) shall not be
construed to require any company which is not an investment com­
pany within the meaning of section 3(a) to comply with the provi­
sions of this title which are applicable to a business development
company solely because such company is a wholly-owned subsidiary
of, or directly or indirectly controlled by, a business development
company.
(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, Sec. 65, as added Pub. L. 96-477,
title I, Sec. 105, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2289.)

