INITIAL DECISION RELEASE NO. 1004
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
FILE NO. 3-16795
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

In the Matter of

INITIAL DECISION
April 25, 2016

JOSEPH J. FOX

APPEARANCES:

Anne C. McKinley and Jedediah B. Forkner, for the Division of
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission
Joseph J. Fox, pro se

BEFORE:

Cameron Elliot, Administrative Law Judge
Summary

Respondent Joseph J. Fox consented to the entry of an order issued by the Securities and
Exchange Commission finding that he willfully violated Section 5(a) and (c) of the Securities Act of
1933, and he was ordered to cease and desist from committing such violations and to pay
disgorgement and civil penalties. This proceeding was then held to determine what, if any,
additional non-financial remedial sanctions under Section 15(b)(6) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 are in the public interest. In this initial decision, I grant the Division of Enforcement’s
motion for summary disposition and find that it is in the public interest that Fox be barred for five
years from associating with a broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer,
municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization, and from
participating in an offering of penny stock.
Procedural Background
On September 8, 2015, the Commission issued an order instituting administrative and
cease-and-desist proceedings (OIP) against Fox, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and
Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act. The OIP alleges that Fox violated Section 5(a) and (c) of the
Securities Act by selling shares of Ditto Holdings, Inc., of which he was CEO, without either
registering the shares or meeting the requirements for an exemption from registration. OIP at 2,
4-5. The OIP followed Fox’s submission, and the Commission’s acceptance, of an offer of
settlement, pursuant to which Fox was ordered to pay monetary sanctions and cease and desist
from violations of Securities Act Section 5(a) and (c). Id. at 1, 5. Fox agreed that, solely for
purposes of determining additional non-financial sanctions, the allegations of the OIP “shall be

accepted as and deemed true by the hearing officer.” Id. at 6-7. The OIP provides that the issues
raised in this proceeding may be determined “on the basis of affidavits, declarations, excerpts of
sworn deposition or investigative testimony, and documentary evidence.” Id. at 7.
On November 6, 2015, the Division filed a motion for summary disposition, to which
were attached a declaration and two exhibits. On January 12, 2016, Fox filed an opposition to
the motion, accompanied by seven exhibits, and on January 15, the Division filed a reply. After
reviewing the parties’ papers, I determined that my evaluation of the public interest factors
outlined in Steadman v. SEC, 603 F.2d 1126, 1140 (5th Cir. 1979), aff’d on other grounds, 450
U.S. 91 (1981), would be aided by additional information regarding Fox’s scienter, if any.
Joseph J. Fox, Admin. Proc. Rulings Release No. 3514, 2016 SEC LEXIS 171 (ALJ Jan. 15,
2016). The Division filed a supplemental brief addressing the issue of scienter on February 4,
and Fox filed a reply with three exhibits on February 26, 2016.
Legal Standard
A motion for summary disposition may be granted if there is no genuine issue with
regard to any material fact and the party making the motion is entitled to summary disposition as
a matter of law. 17 C.F.R. § 201.250(b). In accordance with the OIP’s instructions, I accept and
deem true the factual allegations in the OIP. OIP at 6-7. I have also considered stipulations and
admissions made by Fox, uncontested affidavits, and facts officially noticed pursuant to 17
C.F.R. § 201.323. See 17 C.F.R. § 201.250(a). The filings, documents, and exhibits of record
have been fully reviewed and carefully considered. Preponderance of the evidence has been
applied as the standard of proof. See Steadman, 450 U.S. at 101-04. All arguments and
proposed findings and conclusions that are inconsistent with this initial decision have been
considered and rejected.
Findings of Fact
Fox, age 49 at the time the OIP was issued, is a resident of Los Angeles, California. OIP
at 2. He is the CEO of Ditto Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation which previously
maintained offices in Los Angeles and Chicago. Id.; Prehearing Tr. 17. Ditto Holdings owns
100% of Ditto Trade, Inc., an Illinois corporation headquartered in Chicago. OIP at 2. Ditto
Trade was a registered broker-dealer from July 2010 to December 18, 2015, when it withdrew its
registration. Id.; Ditto Trade, Inc. Broker Check report at 2.1 Fox was CEO of Ditto Trade from
its inception until December 2014. OIP at 2. He was also a registered representative with Ditto
Trade from 2010 to December 2014, when he voluntarily withdrew his broker’s license. Id.
While Fox has held Series 7, 24, 27, 28, and 63 licenses at various points in his career, he
currently has no active licenses. Prehearing Tr. 21-22, 32; Joseph J. Fox Broker Check report at
3. Ditto Holdings is no longer operating and has several judgments from creditors outstanding
against it. Prehearing Tr. 17, 32.
From April 2009 to September 2013, Ditto Holdings raised approximately $10 million
from more than two hundred U.S. investors through a series of common and preferred stock
1

Official notice of this report and of Fox’s Broker Check report is taken pursuant to 17 C.F.R.
§ 201.323.
2

offerings. OIP at 2. Fox played an integral role in these capital-raising efforts, helping
determine the timing and terms of the offerings, the types of securities offered, and the manner in
which the offerings were communicated to potential investors. Id. The purchasers of Ditto
Holdings stock ultimately included both accredited and non-accredited investors. Id. at 2-3.
Accordingly, in order for the offerings to qualify for an exemption to registration under Rule 506
of Regulation D, the exemption Fox attempted to utilize, all of the non-accredited investors
should have received certain financial statements and information regarding Ditto Holdings. See
17 C.F.R. §§ 230.502(b), .506(b); see, e.g., Form D filed by Ditto Holdings on June 27, 2013.2
But Ditto Holdings did not maintain a complete and accurate set of financial records, did not
regularly prepare financial statements, and was never audited during the period at issue. OIP at
3. Although some investors received financial information regarding Ditto Trade, no investor
received the audited financial statements and other information required under Rule 506 relating
to Ditto Holdings. Id. & n.3.
In order to reach more potential investors, Ditto Holdings entered into a series of
agreements with Marc Mandel pursuant to which Mandel provided marketing advice and other
services to Ditto Holdings. Id. Mandel hosted a radio program on which Ditto Trade advertised,
and he distributed an investing newsletter introducing his roughly 350 subscribers to Ditto
Holdings’ securities offerings and to Ditto Trade’s features and services. Id. Subscribers also
received numerous emails from Mandel regarding Ditto Holdings, and Mandel hosted a series of
online webinars and in-person meetings for investors with Fox. Id. More than seventy of
Mandel’s subscribers ultimately purchased securities from Ditto Holdings, amounting to $3.7
million of the $10 million total raised by Ditto Holdings. Id. at 2-3.
Between April 2013 and July 2013, Fox sold some of his own Ditto Holdings shares to
investors. Id. at 4. He did so with the help of Mandel, who again emailed his newsletter
subscribers praising Ditto Holdings and telling them about the opportunity to buy shares of Ditto
Holdings stock. Id. When individuals expressed interest, Mandel gave them a copy of a stock
purchase agreement provided to him by Fox, and told them to contact Fox if they needed more
information. Id. Fox told Mandel that the stock purchase agreement was the only document
interested purchasers would need to complete. Id. Neither Fox nor anyone acting on his behalf
took any steps to determine whether the purchasers were sophisticated investors, despite the fact
that at least two had previously identified themselves to Ditto Holdings as non-accredited
investors. Id. Twenty-eight of Mandel’s subscribers purchased a total of $1.25 million of Fox’s
common stock, but none of the investors had access to financial statements or other required
information about Ditto Holdings. Id.
No registration statements were filed in connection with any of Ditto Holdings’
securities, and exemptions from registration were not available for all of the transactions
described above. Id. at 4. As a result, the OIP found that Fox willfully violated Section 5(a) and
(c) of the Securities Act, which prohibit the direct or indirect offer and sale of securities through
the mails or interstate commerce unless a registration statement has been filed or is in effect or
an exemption from registration is available. Id. at 5; see 15 U.S.C. § 77e(a), (c).
2

Pursuant to 17 C.F.R. § 201.323, I take official notice of this document and of Ditto Holdings’
and Ditto Trade’s other filings on the Commission’s EDGAR database.
3

Conclusions of Law
The Division seeks to bar Fox from the securities industry3 pursuant to Exchange Act
Section 15(b)(6), with the right to apply for reentry after five years. Div. Mot. at 4, 12. Section
15(b)(6) authorizes the Commission to censure, limit the activities of, suspend, or bar Fox from
the industry if the following criteria are met: (1) at the time of the alleged misconduct, Fox was
associated or seeking to become associated with a broker or dealer; (2) Fox has willfully violated
any provision of the Securities Act or its rules or regulations; and (3) the sanction imposed is in
the public interest. 15 U.S.C. §78o(b)(4)(D), (6)(A)(i). The first requirement is met because
during the majority of the time he engaged in his misconduct, Fox was the CEO and a registered
representative of Ditto Trade, a registered broker-dealer. OIP at 2. Because Fox consented to an
order finding that he willfully violated Section 5(a) and (c) of the Securities Act, the second
requirement is also met. Id. at 1, 5. Accordingly, I will impose a sanction if it is in the public
interest.
A. The Public Interest Factors
The criteria to determine whether a sanction is in the public interest are the Steadman
factors: (1) the egregiousness of the respondent’s actions; (2) the isolated or recurrent nature of
the infraction; (3) the degree of scienter involved; (4) the sincerity of the respondent’s assurances
against future violations; (5) the respondent’s recognition of the wrongful nature of his conduct;
and (6) the likelihood that the respondent’s occupation will present opportunities for future
violations. Steadman, 603 F.2d at 1140; see Gary M. Kornman, Exchange Act Release No.
59403, 2009 SEC LEXIS 367, at *22 (Feb. 13, 2009), pet. denied, 592 F.3d 173 (D.C. Cir.
2010). The Commission also considers the age of the violation, the degree of harm to investors
and the marketplace resulting from the violation, and the deterrent effect of administrative
sanctions. See Schield Mgmt. Co., Exchange Act Release No. 53201, 2006 SEC LEXIS 195, at
*35 & n.46 (Jan. 31, 2006); Marshall E. Melton, Exchange Act Release No. 48228, 2003 SEC
LEXIS 1767, at *4-5 (July 25, 2003). The Commission’s inquiry into the appropriate sanction to
protect the public interest is flexible, and no one factor is dispositive. Gary M. Kornman, 2009
SEC LEXIS 367, at *22. In deciding whether the public interest warrants an industry bar, I must
determine that “such a remedy is necessary or appropriate to protect investors and markets.”
Ross Mandell, Exchange Act Release No. 71668, 2014 WL 907416, at *2 (Mar. 7, 2014).
Fox’s conduct was egregious. “The registration requirements [of Securities Act Section
5] are the heart of the securities regulatory system.” Charles F. Kirby, 56 S.E.C. 44, 49 (2003).
Fox circumvented these critical requirements by selling unregistered securities to dozens of nonaccredited investors without providing them required financial information on Ditto Holdings.
OIP at 2-4. As a result, both investors and the marketplace were harmed by being deprived of
information necessary to make fully informed investment decisions. See Gordon Brent Pierce,
3

The bar sought by the Division is a bar from association with a broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization, and from participating in an offering of penny stock. Div. Mot. at 4,
12; see 15 U.S.C. §78o(b)(6).
4

Securities Act Release No. 9555, 2014 SEC LEXIS 839, at *84 (Mar. 7, 2014). It also appears
that Ditto Holdings’ investors suffered financial losses. Though Fox claims that “[n]o
shareholders were harmed, intentionally or otherwise,” he has also represented that “our
shareholders, and myself, my family, and my mother, we lost our entire investment.” Resp. Opp.
at 11; Prehearing Tr. 17.
I reject Fox’s suggestion that his violations were not egregious because Ditto Trade,
alleged to be Ditto Holdings’ sole operating subsidiary, had its financial statements audited
annually. Resp. Opp. at 11. Investors purchased shares of Ditto Holdings, not of Ditto Trade.
The fact that some investors received information about Ditto Trade’s finances does not cure the
harm inflicted by Fox’s failure to properly disclose Ditto Holdings’ financial information. See
OIP at 3 n.3. Fox also fails to explain why his unsupported allegation that “[m]ost of the
investors in [Ditto Holdings] were unsolicited” mitigates the egregiousness of his actions. Resp.
Opp. at 11. Finally, Section 5 violations are not merely “technical” in nature, as Fox contends.
Div. Mot. Ex. A at 2; Resp. Opp. at 5; mPhase Techs., Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 74187,
2015 SEC LEXIS 398, at *24 n.41 (Feb. 2, 2015) (“The importance of [Section 5’s registration]
provisions undermines [Respondent]’s attempt to characterize [its] violations as merely
‘technical’ in nature.” (citing Owen V. Kane, 48 S.E.C. 617, 623 (1986))).
Fox’s violations were recurrent, involving at least three different offerings and the sale of
Fox’s own stock, over the course of almost four and a half years. OIP at 2-4. They concluded
fewer than three years ago; although not especially recent, they also were not especially remote.
Id. at 2.
The evidence is mixed regarding the sincerity of Fox’s assurances against future
violations and his recognition of the wrongful nature of his conduct. Fox asserts that Ditto
Holdings was audited after he learned of the financial disclosure requirements, and he claims to
have directed a “self-imposed freeze on new capital raising until the audit of the holding
company could be completed.” Resp. Opp. at 12. This suggests that Fox recognized his
misconduct and attempted to avoid it in the future. His settlement with the Commission, though
done on a neither-admit-nor-deny basis, also suggests a recognition of his misconduct. On the
other hand, in an email sent to Ditto Holdings investors shortly after the issuance of the OIP, Fox
described himself as being “vindicated,” and characterized his settlement with the Commission
as the “SEC back[ing] into what we consider inadvertent technical rules violations.” Div. Mot.
Ex. A at 1-2. He also noted that the “[OIP] is clear that we are not admitting or denying the
findings in the order” and indicated that he only settled with the Commission so as “to not drag
out [his] negotiations for the betterment of [Ditto Holdings].” Id. at 2. Fox insists that his use of
the word “technical” was not intended to minimize the severity of his violations. Resp. Opp. at
5-6. But when read as a whole, the email is an obvious attempt to downplay and excuse his
misconduct – Fox even asks the recipients to consider additional investments in Ditto Holdings
now that “the SEC issue [is] behind us.” Div. Mot. Ex. A at 2-3. This calls into question the
degree to which he acknowledges his misconduct and the sincerity of his assurances against
future wrongdoing.
Ditto Holdings and Ditto Trade are no longer operational. Ditto Trade, Inc. Broker
Check report at 2; Prehearing Tr. 16-17, 32. Fox does not hold any active securities licenses, and
5

he has no definite plans to participate in the securities industry in any capacity in the future.
Resp. Opp. at 13; Resp. Supp. Reply at 2; Prehearing Tr. 20-23, 31-33. Accordingly, although
his occupation presents opportunities for future violations, it is uncertain whether he will
continue in that occupation, and this factor does not weigh heavily in favor of a severe sanction.
B. Scienter
There is no evidence that Fox intentionally violated Section 5, and Fox vigorously
disputes that he did so. See Resp. Opp. at 1, 12-13. The Division instead argues that “there is
ample evidence to demonstrate that Fox acted at least recklessly in violating the securities
registration provisions,” pointing to two pieces of evidence – the fact that Fox was “an
experienced securities professional” and, relatedly, the various FINRA licenses held by Fox at
different times in his career. Div. Supp. Br. at 2-3 (emphasis added). “In light of his credentials
and experience,” the Division insists that “Fox must have known the basic requirements for
complying with the securities registration provisions and foreseen the risk of violating those
provisions by selling securities to non-accredited investors.” Id. at 3.
The Division has demonstrated that Fox acted at least recklessly. “Securities
professionals are required to be knowledgeable about, and to comply with, the regulatory
requirements to which they are subject.” Abraham and Sons Capital, Inc., 55 S.E.C. 252, 268
(2001). Failure to meet this standard constitutes an “‘extreme departure from the standards of
ordinary care . . .’ and establishes recklessness.” Id. at 268-69 (alteration in original) (quoting
SEC v. Steadman, 967 F.2d 636, 641-42 (D.C. Cir. 1992)). I am not persuaded by any of Fox’s
arguments on this point.
Fox argues that he confused Rule 504 of Regulation D, which does not require financial
information to be disclosed to unaccredited investors, with Rule 506, which does contain such a
requirement. Resp. Supp. Reply at 3; 17 C.F.R. §§ 230.502(b), .504(b), .506(b). He maintains
that none of his FINRA license exams or study materials went into detail on the disclosure
requirement differences between Rule 504 and Rule 506 offerings, and he claims that he
provided similar financial disclosures in a previous securities offering without any complaint
from the Commission. Resp. Opp. at 2, 6-7; Resp. Supp. Reply at 3. I agree that the Series 7
and 24 exam outlines highlighted by the Division do not establish that the financial disclosure
requirements of Regulation D offerings were covered in detail by either exam. See Div. Supp.
Br. at 2; Resp. Supp. Reply at 3. But that does not absolve Fox of responsibility for selling
securities using an exemption to registration that he failed to adequately understand. His claim
that he mistakenly applied Rule 504’s disclosure requirements to his (attempted) Rule 506
offerings hurts rather than helps his case. Rule 504 is limited, as stated in the title of the rule, to
“offerings and sales of securities not exceeding $1,000,000.” 17 C.F.R. § 230.504. Fox
evidently ascertained that this exemption was not available for Ditto Holdings’ stock offerings,
each of which exceeded $1,000,000. OIP at 2-3. Yet Fox suggests that after correctly selecting
Rule 506 as a potentially available exemption, he was unable to understand the differences
between the two rules because Regulation D is difficult for “most, if not all laypersons” to
understand. Resp. Supp. Reply at 3. Even if true, it was unreasonable for him to assume that
Rules 504 and 506 – which, among other distinctions, are strikingly different in scope – would
contain the same financial disclosure requirements.
6

Fox has also failed to establish that he reasonably relied on prior dealings with the
Commission when making the assumption that Rules 504 and 506 contained similar disclosure
requirements. He describes a series of private offerings and sales and an initial public offering
undertaken by him and his brother in the late 1990s, and asserts that the Commission did not
have “any issues with our level of financial disclosures to non-accredited investors.” Resp. Opp.
at 7. Even if true, it was not reasonable to construe the Commission’s silence or inaction as
approval. Cf. S.W. Hatfield, C.P.A., Exchange Act Release No. 69930, 2013 SEC LEXIS 1954,
at *16-17 (July 3, 2013) (“[T]he supposed silence or inaction of Commission staff in its reviews
of [previously filed] registration statements may not be construed as Commission approval of
those companies’ practices[.]”).
Fox’s claim that he relied on advice of outside counsel when selling his personal shares
of Ditto Holdings stock does not alter my conclusion on scienter. Resp. Opp. at 11. While
reliance on counsel is not a defense to a charge of violating Section 5, it “may be considered as a
mitigating factor in determining what sanction is required in the public interest.” D.F.
Bernheimer & Co., Inc., 41 S.E.C. 358, 364 n.7 (1963); see Rodney R. Schoemann, Securities
Act Release No. 9076, 2009 SEC LEXIS 3939, at *45 (Oct. 23, 2009) (advice-of-counsel is not a
defense to a Section 5 charge), aff’d, 398 F. App’x 603 (D.C. Cir. 2010). But Fox’s reliance
defense relates only to the sale of his personal stock and does nothing to lessen his recklessness
with respect to Ditto Holdings’ stock offerings; Ditto Holdings’ purported inability to afford an
outside securities attorney to advise on the offerings is no excuse. Resp. Opp. at 2, 10. Fox also
undermines the defense by asserting that he “mistakenly believed that all of the individuals that
purchased [his] shares were accredited,” suggesting he also mistakenly failed to make a complete
disclosure to his counsel regarding the facts surrounding the sale. Resp. Opp. at 12; see Rodney
R. Schoemann, 2009 SEC LEXIS 3939, at *46 (advice-of-counsel defense requires a “complete
disclosure to counsel” of the intended conduct).
C. A Bar is in the Public Interest
On the one hand, Fox has made some assurances against future violations, there is little
concrete evidence of investor losses, his violations were not particularly recent, and Fox’s
professional future remains uncertain. On the other hand, he acted with some degree of scienter,
his recognition of the wrongful nature of his misconduct is dubious, and his violations were
egregious and recurrent. I find particularly significant Fox’s admitted confusion regarding Rules
504 and 506, which suggests a lack of current competence and a substantial degree of risk to
investors and securities markets posed by his continuance in the securities industry. See Gregory
Bartko, Exchange Act Release No. 71666, 2014 SEC LEXIS 841, at *34 (Mar. 7, 2014). A fiveyear bar is appropriate in the public interest.
Order
Accordingly, it is ORDERED that the Division’s motion for summary disposition against
Joseph J. Fox is GRANTED, and that pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Joseph J. Fox is BARRED for a period of five years from associating with a broker,
dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or
7

nationally recognized statistical rating organization, and from participating in an offering of
penny stock, including acting as any promoter, finder, consultant, agent, or other person who
engages in activities with a broker, dealer, or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any
penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
This initial decision shall become effective in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of 17 C.F.R. § 201.360. Pursuant to 17 C.F.R. § 201.360, a party may file a petition
for review of this initial decision within twenty-one days after service of the initial decision. A
party may also file a motion to correct a manifest error of fact within ten days of the initial
decision, pursuant to 17 C.F.R. § 201.111. If a motion to correct a manifest error of fact is filed
by a party, then a party shall have twenty-one days to file a petition for review from the date of
the undersigned’s order resolving such motion to correct a manifest error of fact.
The initial decision will not become final until the Commission enters an order of
finality. The Commission will enter an order of finality unless a party files a petition for review
or motion to correct a manifest error of fact or the Commission determines on its own initiative
to review the initial decision as to a party. If any of these events occurs, the initial decision shall
not become final as to that party.

________________________
Cameron Elliot
Administrative Law Judge

8

