INITIAL DECISION RELEASE NO. 614
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
FILE NO. 3-15905
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

In the Matter of
THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT OF
DIAMOND LANE, INC.

:
:
:
:

INITIAL DECISION BY DEFAULT
June 16, 2014

APPEARANCES:

Patrick R. Costello and Jeffrey T. Cook for the Division of Enforcement,
Securities and Exchange Commission

BEFORE:

Carol Fox Foelak, Administrative Law Judge
SUMMARY

This Initial Decision suspends the effectiveness of the registration statement of Diamond
Lane, Inc. (Diamond Lane or Respondent). The basis for this “stop order” is that the registration
statement includes untrue and misleading statements of material facts.
I. BACKGROUND
The Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission) initiated this proceeding on June 3,
2014, with an Order Instituting Proceedings (OIP), pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act of
1933 (Securities Act), 15 U.S.C. § 77h(d). The OIP alleges that, on August 28, 2013, Diamond
Lane filed a Form S-1 registration statement, amended on September 30 and October 21, 2013, that
contained numerous material misstatements and omissions. Diamond Lane was served with the
OIP on June 3, 2014, by personal service in accordance with 15 U.S.C. § 77h(d) and 17 C.F.R. §
201.141(a)(2)(v). 1 To date, Diamond Lane has failed to file an Answer to the OIP, due ten days
after service. See OIP at 3; 17 C.F.R. § 201.220(b). Thus, Diamond Lane failed to answer or
otherwise to defend the proceeding within the meaning of 17 C.F.R. § 201.155(a)(2). Accordingly,
Diamond Lane is in default, and the undersigned finds that the allegations in the OIP are true. See
OIP at 3-4; 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), .220(f). Official notice has been taken of the Commission’s
public official records concerning Diamond Lane, pursuant to 17 C.F.R. § 201.323.

1

Personal service was made on Dronix Suarez, an officer of Respondent, by delivering a copy to
him and on Steven Sanders, Respondent’s appointed agent for service, by delivering a copy to him.
See 17 C.F.R. §§ 141(a)(2)(i), (ii).

II. FINDINGS OF FACT
Diamond Lane is a Florida corporation headquartered in Sunrise, Florida. On August 28,
2013, Diamond Lane filed a Form S-1 registration statement, amended on September 30, 2013, and
October 21, 2013, seeking to register the offer and sale of 3 million common shares in a $30,000
public offering (Registration Statement). The Registration Statement includes multiple untrue
statements of material facts and omits to state material facts necessary to make the statements
contained therein not misleading, for example:
a. The Registration Statement states that “[o]ur sole officer and director will be
responsible for the business plan” to develop and sell a mobile application. The
Registration Statement also states that Respondent “is entirely dependent on the
efforts of our sole officer and director.” The Registration Statement further states
that Respondent is “currently operating out of our sole director and officer’s
office located at 2501 East Aragon Blvd, Suite 1, Sunrise, FL 33313.” These
disclosures are untrue and misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and
director has not engaged in any business activities for Respondent.
b. The Registration Statement states that the “Board of Directors is comprised [ ]
solely of [Respondent’s sole officer and director] who was integral to our business
and who is involved in our day to day operations.” The Registration Statement
also states that Respondent’s sole officer and director “currently devotes 25 to 30
hours per week to our business” and “is prepared to devote more time to our
operations.” The Registration Statement further states that “[t]he functions of [an
Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee or a Nominating Committee] are
being undertaken by our sole director.” These disclosures are untrue and
misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and director has had no
involvement in, and spent no time on, Respondent’s operations.
c. The Registration Statement states that Respondent’s sole officer and director
“meet[s] the conditions of paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of Rule 3a4-1 of the Exchange Act,
in that [he] (A) primarily perform[s], or is intended primarily to perform at the
end of the offering, substantial duties for or on behalf of our Company, other than
in connection with transactions in securities . . . .” These disclosures are untrue
and misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and director has not performed
and does not intend to perform substantial duties for or on behalf of Respondent.
d. The Registration Statement states that “[t]he shares will be sold on our behalf
by our officer” and that “[i]t is our belief [Respondent’s sole officer and director]
had such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that he was
capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the investment and therefore did not
need the protections offered their [sic] shares under Securities and Act of 1933
[sic], as amended. [Respondent’s sole officer and director] certified that he was
purchasing the shares for their [sic] own accounts, with investment intent.” These
disclosures are untrue and misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and
director does not have any knowledge of the shares, does not plan to sell the
2

shares, does not have the described knowledge or experience in financial or
business matters, and made no such certification.
e. The Registration Statement claims that there was a capital contribution by
Respondent’s sole officer and director on June 19, 2013. This disclosure is untrue
and misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and director made no such
capital contribution and has not received any shares related to Respondent.
f. The Registration Statement states that “[p]ursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Act, the registrant has duly caused this registration statement to be
signed on its behalf by [Respondent’s sole officer and director].” This disclosure
is untrue and misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and director did not
sign the Registration Statement.
g. The Registration Statement states that Respondent has “no plans to change our
business activities or to combine with another business and are not aware of any
events or circumstances that might cause us to change our plans.” This disclosure
is untrue and misleading because Respondent has no business of its own, and is an
undisclosed “blank check company” as defined in Securities Act Rule 419.
h. The Registration Statement states that Respondent’s sole officer and director
“is the only ‘parent’ and ‘promoter’ of the company” and will “continue to control
the operations of the Company” after the offering. This disclosure is untrue and
misleading because Respondent is controlled and/or promoted by undisclosed
control persons and/or promoters.
III. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
The record shows that Diamond Lane’s Registration Statement included untrue statements
of material facts, as well as material omissions within the meaning of Securities Act Section 8(d).
A material fact within the meaning of Securities Act Section 8(d) is one to which “there is a
substantial likelihood that a reasonable investor would attach importance in determining whether to
purchase the security.” 17 C.F.R. § 230.405. A reasonable investor would clearly attach
importance to the identity of the persons who control Respondent – the Registration Statement
represents that Respondent’s sole officer and director controls the company, but it is actually
controlled by undisclosed persons. Likewise, a reasonable investor would attach importance to the
involvement and expertise of the person who purportedly devotes 25 to 30 hours a week to
Respondent’s business – the Registration Statement represents that the sole officer and director
devotes 25 to 30 hours a week to Respondent’s business, is knowledgeable and experienced in
financial and business matters, and has made a capital contribution to Respondent, when he has
had no involvement in Respondent’s operations, has not made a capital contribution, and does not
have knowledge or experience in financial or business matters.
IV. SANCTION
The Division requests a stop order suspending the effectiveness of Diamond Lane’s
registration statement. This sanction will serve the public interest and the protection of investors,
pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act, and accords with Commission precedent.
3

Section 8(d) of the Securities Act permits the Commission to issue a stop order suspending
the effectiveness of a registration statement, if after notice and an opportunity for a hearing, it
appears that the registration statement “includes any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to
state any material fact required to be stated.” If an untrue material fact is included in a registration
statement or a material fact is omitted, the registrant’s good faith or scienter does not influence
whether a stop order should issue. Kiwago Gold Mines Ltd., 27 S.E.C. 934, 943 (1948); U.S.
Molybdenum Corp., 10 S.E.C. 796, 804 (1941). In light of Diamond Lane’s multiple material
misstatements and omissions, a stop order is essential in the public interest and for the protection
of investors.
V. STOP ORDER
Based on the findings and conclusions set forth above:
IT IS ORDERED, pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C. §
77h(d), that the EFFECTIVENESS of the REGISTRATION STATEMENT filed by DIAMOND
LANE, INC., IS SUSPENDED.
This Initial Decision shall become effective in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of Rule 360 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.360. Pursuant to
that Rule, a party may file a petition for review of this Initial Decision within twenty-one days after
service of the Initial Decision. A party may also file a motion to correct a manifest error of fact
within ten days of the Initial Decision, pursuant to Rule 111 of the Commission’s Rules of
Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.111. If a motion to correct a manifest error of fact is filed by a party,
then that party shall have twenty-one days to file a petition for review from the date of the
undersigned’s order resolving such motion to correct a manifest error of fact. The Initial Decision
will not become final until the Commission enters an order of finality. The Commission will enter
an order of finality unless a party files a petition for review or a motion to correct a manifest error
of fact or the Commission determines on its own initiative to review the Initial Decision as to a
party. If any of these events occur, the Initial Decision shall not become final as to that party. 2

____________________________
Carol Fox Foelak
Administrative Law Judge

2

A respondent may also file a motion to set aside a default pursuant to 17 C.F.R. § 201.155(b).
See Alchemy Ventures, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 70708, 2013 SEC LEXIS 3459, at *5-6
(Oct. 17, 2013).
4

