IM	 Guidance Update
APRIL 2015

|

No. 2015-02

CYBERSECURITY GUIDANCE
The Division has identified the cybersecurity of registered investment companies
(“funds”) and registered investment advisers (“advisers”) as an important issue. Both
funds and advisers increasingly use technology to conduct their business activities and
need to protect confidential and sensitive information related to these activities from
third parties, including information concerning fund investors and advisory clients. This
guidance update highlights the importance of the issue and discusses a number of
measures that funds and advisers may wish to consider when addressing cybersecurity
risks. Because of the rapidly changing nature of cyber threats, the Division will continue
to focus on cybersecurity and monitor events in this area.
Cyber attacks on a wide range of financial services firms highlight the need for firms to
review their cybersecurity measures. Discussions concerning cybersecurity with fund
boards and senior management at advisers during the course of the Division’s senior
level engagement and monitoring efforts also stressed this need, as did input from the
Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations’ review of adviser cybersecurity
practices.1 In addition, the Cybersecurity Roundtable hosted by the Commission last
spring highlighted the importance of cybersecurity and the issues and challenges it
raises for the financial services sector.2
In the staff’s view, there are a number of measures that funds and advisers may wish to
consider in addressing cybersecurity risk, including the following, to the extent they are
relevant:3
•	

Conduct a periodic assessment of: (1) the nature, sensitivity and location of
information that the firm collects, processes and/or stores, and the technology
systems it uses; (2) internal and external cybersecurity threats to and vulnerabilities
of the firm’s information and technology systems; (3) security controls and
processes currently in place; (4) the impact should the information or technology

US Securities and Exchange Commission
			
Division of Investment Management

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

2

systems become compromised; and (5) the effectiveness of the governance
structure for the management of cybersecurity risk. An effective assessment would
assist in identifying potential cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities so as to
better prioritize and mitigate risk.4
•	

Create a strategy that is designed to prevent, detect and respond to cybersecurity
threats. Such a strategy could include: (1) controlling access to various systems
and data via management of user credentials, authentication and authorization
methods, firewalls and/or perimeter defenses, tiered access to sensitive information
and network resources, network segregation, and system hardening;5 (2) data
encryption; (3) protecting against the loss or exfiltration of sensitive data by
restricting the use of removable storage media and deploying software that
monitors technology systems for unauthorized intrusions, the loss or exfiltration of
sensitive data, or other unusual events;6 (4) data backup and retrieval; and (5) the
development of an incident response plan. Routine testing of strategies could also
enhance the effectiveness of any strategy.

•	

Implement the strategy through written policies and procedures and training
that provide guidance to officers and employees concerning applicable threats
and measures to prevent, detect and respond to such threats, and that monitor
compliance with cybersecurity policies and procedures. Firms may also wish to
educate investors and clients about how to reduce their exposure to cyber security
threats concerning their accounts.

In the staff’s view, funds and advisers should identify their respective compliance
obligations under the federal securities laws and take into account these obligations
when assessing their ability to prevent, detect and respond to cyber attacks. Funds and
advisers could also mitigate exposure to any compliance risk associated with cyber
threats through compliance policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to
prevent violations of the federal securities laws.7 For example, the compliance program
of a fund or an adviser could address cybersecurity risk as it relates to identity theft and
data protection,8 fraud,9 and business continuity,10 as well as other disruptions in service
that could affect, for instance, a fund’s ability to process shareholder transactions.11
Accordingly, funds and advisers may wish to consider reviewing their operations
and compliance programs and assess whether they have measures in place that are
designed to mitigate their exposure to cybersecurity risk. Because funds and advisers
are varied in their operations, they should tailor their compliance programs based on
the nature and scope of their businesses. Additionally, because funds and advisers rely
on a number of service providers in carrying out their operations, funds and advisers
may also wish to consider assessing whether protective cybersecurity measures are in
place at relevant service providers.12

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

3

The staff believes that funds and advisers will be better prepared if they consider the
measures discussed herein based on their particular circumstances when planning to
address cybersecurity and a rapid response capability. The staff also recognizes that
it is not possible for a fund or adviser to anticipate and prevent every cyber attack.
Appropriate planning to address cybersecurity and a rapid response capability may,
nevertheless, assist funds and advisers in mitigating the impact of any such attacks and
any related effects on fund investors and advisory clients, as well as complying with the
federal securities laws.13
Endnotes
1	

See OCIE Cybersecurity Examination Sweep Summary, OCIE, National Exam
Program Risk Alert, Vol. IV, Issue 4 (Feb. 3, 2015), available at http://www.sec.gov/
about/offices/ocie/cybersecurity-examination-sweep-summary.pdf (providing
summary observations from the examinations of 57 broker-dealers and 49 advisers
conducted under OCIE’s Cybersecurity Initiative). See also OCIE Cybersecurity
Initiative, OCIE, National Exam Program Risk Alert, Vol. IV, Issue 2 (Apr. 15, 2014),
available at http://www.sec.gov/ocie/announcement/Cybersecurity-Risk-Alert-Appendix---4.15.14.pdf.

2	

See generally Cybersecurity Roundtable, SEC, available at http://www.sec.gov/
spotlight/cybersecurity-roundtable.shtml.

3 	 These suggested measures are not intended to be comprehensive and other
measures may be better suited depending on the operations of a particular fund or
adviser. Each fund or adviser should determine whether these or other measures
need to be considered in connection with addressing cybersecurity risks.
4	

Funds and advisers that are affiliated with other entities that share common
networks should consider whether it may be appropriate to conduct an assessment
of the entire corporate network.

5	

System hardening refers to making technology systems less susceptible to
unauthorized intrusions by removing all non-essential software programs and
services, unnecessary usernames and logins and by ensuring that software is
updated continuously.

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

4

6 	 Funds and advisers may also wish to consider implementing a mechanism to
monitor for ongoing and new cyber threats by gathering information from outside
resources, such as vendors, third-party contractors specializing in cybersecurity
and technical standards, and topic-specific publications and conferences, as well
as participating in the Financial Services­—Information Sharing and Analysis Center
(FS-ISAC). In addition, participating in information sharing organizations, such as
FS-ISAC, would enable funds and advisers to share cyber threat information with
other members in the financial services sector.
7	

17 CFR 270.38a-1; 17 CFR 275.206(4)-7(a). See also generally Compliance
Programs of Investment Companies and Investment Advisers, Investment Company
Act Release No. 26299 (Dec. 17, 2003), available at www.sec.gov/rules/final/
ia-2204.htm (“Compliance Programs”) (requiring not only the adoption and
implementation of written policies and procedures, but also an annual review for
their adequacy and effectiveness of their implementation); Questions Advisers
Should Ask While Establishing or Reviewing Compliance Programs, SEC Staff
Report (May 2006), available at http://www.sec.gov/info/cco/adviser_compliance_
questions.htm (last modified Feb. 5, 2009) (asking, among other things, whether
an adviser’s “electronic information systems, both internal and those supplied by
third parties, effectively detect and prevent malicious intrusions from internal and
external sources”) (“Establishing or Reviewing Compliance Programs”).

8	

See, e.g., Identity Theft Red Flag Rules, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 3582
(Apr. 10, 2013), available at www.sec.gov/rules/final/2013/34-69359.pdf; Privacy of
Consumer Financial Information (Regulation S-P), Investment Advisers Act Release
No. 1883 (June 22, 2000), available at http://www.sec.gov/rules/final/34-42974.
htm. In formulating or reviewing their compliance programs, firms may also wish
to consider, as appropriate, addressing the protection of commercial or marketsensitive information, the disclosure of which could adversely affect customers’
interests. See generally Information for Newly-Registered Investment Advisers,
SEC Staff Information Sheet, available at http://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/
advoverview.htm (last modified Nov. 23, 2010); Establishing or Reviewing
Compliance Programs, supra note 7.

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

9	

5

Fraudulent activity could result from cyber or data breaches from insiders, such as
fund or advisory personnel, and funds and advisers may therefore wish to consider
taking appropriate precautions concerning information security. See, e.g., 17 CFR
270.17j-1; 17 CFR 275.204A-1. See also generally Personal Investment Activities of
Investment Company Personnel, Investment Company Act Release No. 23958
(Aug. 24, 1999), available at http://www.sec.gov/rules/final/ia-1815.htm (stating that
rule 17j-1 “prohibits fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative acts by fund personnel in
connection with their personal transactions in securities held or to be acquired by
the fund”); Investment Adviser Codes of Ethics, Investment Advisers Act Release
No. 2256 (July 2, 2004), available at http://www.sec.gov/rules/final/ia-2256.htm
(stating that rule 204A-1 will benefit advisers “by renewing their attention to their
fiduciary and other legal obligations, and by increasing their vigilance against
inappropriate behavior by employees”).

10	 See Compliance Programs, supra note 7, at n.22 (stating that an “an adviser’s
fiduciary obligation to its clients includes obligations to its clients from being
placed at risk as a result of the adviser’s inability to provide advisory services”).
11	

If a shareholder of an open-end fund initiated a transaction to redeem his or
her shares in that fund and an ensuing cyber attack prevented the fund from
processing and redeeming the shares, the fund may be in violation of section 22(e)
of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) and rule
22c-1 thereunder. Section 22(e) of the Investment Company Act generally prohibits
an open-end fund from suspending the right of redemption or postponing the
date of payment of redemption proceeds for more than seven days after tender
of a security for redemption, whereas rule 22c-1 under the Investment Company
Act generally requires an open-end fund selling, redeeming or repurchasing a
redeemable security, to do so only at a price based on its net asset value next
computed after receipt of a purchase order or redemption request. Cyber attacks
could also prevent both funds and advisers from investing or managing assets in a
manner consistent with each of their particular representations and/or contractual
provisions.

12 	 For example, service providers may be given limited access to a fund’s technology
systems that may inadvertently enable unauthorized access to data held by the
fund. Funds, as well as advisers, may wish to consider reviewing their contracts with
their service providers to determine whether they sufficiently address technology
issues and related responsibilities in the case of a cyber attack. Funds and advisers
may also wish to consider assessing whether any insurance coverage related to
cybersecurity risk is necessary or appropriate.

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

6

13 	 OCIE’s Cybersecurity Initiative contained a sample list of requests for information,
which included questions that tracked information outlined in the “Framework for
Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity.” See OCIE Cybersecurity Initiative,
supra note 1. Funds and advisers may wish to consult this Framework when
considering a strategy to mitigate exposure to cyber attacks. See National Institute
of Standards and Technology, “Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure
Cybersecurity,” (Feb. 12, 2014), available at http://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/
upload/cybersecurity-framework-021214-final.pdf.

	

IM Guidance Updates are recurring publications that summarize the staff’s views
regarding various requirements of the federal securities laws. The Division generally
issues IM Guidance Updates as a result of emerging asset management industry trends,
discussions with industry participants, reviews of registrant disclosures, and no-action
and interpretive requests.

	
	

The statements in this IM Guidance Update represent the views of the Division of
Investment Management. This guidance is not a rule, regulation or statement of the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Further, the Commission has neither approved
nor disapproved its content. Future changes in rules, regulations and/or staff no-action
and interpretive positions may supersede some or all of the guidance in a particular
IM Guidance Update.

The Investment Management Division works to:
s	

protect investors

s	

promote informed investment decisions and

s	

facilitate appropriate innovation in investment products and services

through regulating the asset management industry.
If you have any questions about this IM Guidance Update, please contact:
Chief Counsel’s Office
Phone: 202.551.6925
Email: IMOCC@sec.gov

