IM	 Guidance Update
JUNE 2016

|

No. 2016-04

BUSINESS CONTINUITY PLANNING FOR REGISTERED INVESTMENT COMPANIES
In this guidance update, the staff of the Division of Investment Management (the
“Division”) underscores the importance of mitigating operational risks related to
significant business disruptions, particularly through proper business continuity
planning for registered investment companies (“funds”). Rule 38a-1 under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) requires funds
to adopt and implement written compliance policies and procedures reasonably
designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws.1 In the staff’s view, fund
complexes2 should consider their respective compliance obligations under the
federal securities laws when assessing their ability to continue operations during a
business continuity event.
As discussed below, the importance of proper business continuity planning was
highlighted in August of 2015 when a systems malfunction at a financial institution
prevented it from calculating accurate net asset values (“NAVs”) for hundreds of
mutual funds and exchange-traded funds. Because fund complexes increasingly
use technologies and services provided by third parties to conduct daily fund
operations, the staff believes such dependencies and arrangements should be
considered as part of comprehensive business continuity planning. This guidance
update discusses a number of measures that the staff believes funds should
consider as they evaluate the robustness of their fund complex’s plan in order to
mitigate business continuity risks for funds and investors.

US Securities and Exchange Commission
			
Division of Investment Management

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

2

Background
Funds are generally externally managed and do not have employees of their own;
they typically are organized by their primary investment advisers (also known as
the funds’ “sponsors”), who often manage a number of funds within a fund complex
and coordinate the activities of other fund service providers. Due to this structure,
we understand that business continuity planning generally is conducted at the
fund complex level and typically business continuity plans (“BCPs”) address fund
activities in conjunction with the activities of the primary investment adviser and
other service providers that are part of the fund complex.3
Business continuity planning is critical to a fund complex’s (or any business entity’s)
ability to continue operations during, and recover from, a significant business
disruption. The development of policies and procedures reasonably designed to
ensure that an entity’s critical functions and business activities can continue to
operate in the face of a significant business disruption has long been considered
an essential aspect of operational risk management.4 For decades, fund complexes
and their service providers have continued to build and improve practices to create
resiliencies designed to mitigate the consequences of disruptive events.5 BCPs are
important tools used by fund complexes and other service providers to prepare for
significant business disruptions and to address fund compliance obligations during
such disruptions.6
In recent history, significant business disruptions have impacted the financial
services industry and, as a result, business continuity and disaster recovery practices
have appropriately taken on more importance in the industry and have been
subject to increased focus by regulators.7 In the years since September 11, 2001, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or “SEC”) has taken numerous
steps to address business continuity practices in the financial services industry and
the ability of market participants to continue operations during times of crisis.8
For example, in 2003, the Commission adopted rule 38a-1 under the Investment
Company Act,9 which, as discussed above, requires funds to adopt and implement
written compliance policies and procedures.10 In the context of the expected
elements of a fund’s compliance program, the Compliance Program Adopting
Release states that funds’ or their advisers’ policies and procedures should address
the issues identified in that release, including BCPs.11 Additionally, in the wake of
Hurricanes Katrina and Sandy, Commission staff reviewed, observed, and addressed
business continuity practices and issued alerts reflecting their observations and
describing notable practices.12

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

3

As noted above, in August 2015, hundreds of mutual funds and exchange-traded
funds (“ETFs”) experienced a business continuity event when a systems malfunction
at a financial institution prevented it from calculating accurate NAVs for these
funds.13 As a result of this malfunction, the critical third-party provider was unable
to deliver timely system-generated NAVs or to publish current ETF baskets for
certain clients for several days.14 Had this outage persisted, the magnitude of this
event could have been much greater.15 Staff in the Division’s Risk and Examinations
Office and the Commission’s Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
conducted outreach to the third-party provider, fund and ETF complexes, and select
intermediaries during the course of the outage and after the incident. The outreach
revealed that some funds could have been better prepared for the possibility
that one of their critical service providers would suffer an extended outage.16 This
outreach also highlighted the importance of robust business continuity planning
for fund complexes, particularly the need to understand the business continuity
and disaster recovery protocols of critical fund service providers, and how the fund
complex’s own BCP addresses the risk that a critical third-party provider could
suffer a significant business disruption.
Fund Compliance
In the staff’s view, fund complexes should consider how to mitigate exposures
through compliance policies and procedures that address business continuity
planning and potential disruptions in services (whether provided internally at the
fund complex or externally by a critical third-party service provider) that could
affect a fund’s ability to continue operations, such as processing shareholder
transactions. Because fund complexes vary in activities and operations, the staff
believes that their policies, procedures, and plans generally should be tailored based
on the nature and scope of their business. Additionally, because fund complexes
also outsource critical functions to third parties, the staff believes that they should
consider conducting thorough initial and ongoing due diligence of those third
parties, including due diligence of their service providers’ business continuity and
disaster recovery plans.
Notable Practices for Fund Complexes
The Division recently conducted outreach to a number of fund complexes and their
advisers regarding business continuity planning generally. The staff recognized
many similarities among fund complexes, including that most funds rely on fund
complex or enterprise-wide business continuity and disaster recovery plans that
incorporate, among other things, the critical functions performed on behalf of funds.

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

4

In the staff’s view, critical fund service providers likely would include, but would not
be limited to, each named service provider under rule 38a-1 (i.e., each investment
adviser, principal underwriter, administrator, and transfer agent), as well as each
custodian and pricing agent.17
Although the types of funds and fund complex business models may vary
significantly, they generally share certain fundamental operational risks, including
their ability to continue operations and service investors during business disruptions,
regardless of the cause. The staff observed the following notable practices in recent
discussions with fund complexes:
•	

Plans typically cover the facilities, technology/systems, employees, and activities
conducted by the adviser and any affiliated entities, as well as dependencies on
critical services provided by other third-party service providers.

•	

A broad cross-section of employees from key functional areas are involved in
BCP programs at the fund complex typically including, but not limited to, senior
management (including officers of the fund), technology, information security,
operations, human resources, communications, legal, compliance, and risk
management to assist in efforts to ensure continuity and resiliency when events
occur.

•	

The fund’s Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”) and/or the CCO of other entities in
the fund complex typically participate in the fund complex’s third-party service
provider oversight process as conducted by key personnel. Service provider
oversight programs generally incorporate both initial and ongoing due diligence
processes, including review of applicable business continuity and disaster recovery
plans for critical providers. The fund complex typically seeks a combination of
information to conduct its oversight, including, but not limited to, service provider
presentations, on-site visits, questionnaires, certifications, independent control
reports,18 and summaries of programs and testing, where appropriate, including
with respect to BCPs.19

•	

Although practices vary, BCP presentations are typically provided to fund boards of
directors, with CCO participation, on an annual basis and are given by the adviser
and/or other critical service providers. These presentations may be provided
separately, as part of periodic presentations related to contractual arrangements
(including as part of the annual section 15(c) process),20 or as part of the CCO’s
annual update to the board.21

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

•

5

For many fund complexes, some form of BCP testing for their plan occurs at least
annually, and the results of the fund complex’s tests may be shared in updates to
fund boards.

•

Business continuity outages, including those incurred by the fund complex or a
critical third-party service provider, are monitored by the CCO and other pertinent
staff and reported to the fund board as warranted.22

Additional Considerations Regarding Critical Service Providers
As described above, advisers of fund complexes, CCOs, and the fund board play a
key role in the selection and ongoing oversight of critical fund service providers.
Key business functions and related activities may be performed by an affiliate of
the fund complex, a third-party service provider, or some combination thereof. In
the staff’s view, a fund complex’s BCP should contemplate such arrangements, and
consider the following lessons learned from past business continuity events and
our outreach efforts when formulating fund complex BCPs as they relate to critical
service providers.
•	

Back-Up Processes and Contingency Plans. The staff believes that fund
complexes should consider examining critical service providers’ backup
processes and redundancies, the robustness of the provider’s contingency
plans, including reliance on other critical service providers, and how these
providers intend to maintain operations during a significant business
disruption. Fund complexes generally should understand how their own BCP
addresses the risk that a critical service provider could suffer a significant
business disruption and how the provider and the fund complex might
respond under certain scenarios.23

•	

Monitoring Incidents and Communications Protocols. The staff believes
that fund complexes should consider how they can best monitor whether
a critical service provider has experienced a significant disruption (such as
a cybersecurity breach24 or other continuity event) that could impair the
service provider’s ability to provide uninterrupted services, the potential
impacts such events may have on fund operations and investors, and the
communication protocols and steps that may be necessary for the fund
complex to successfully navigate such events. Such protocols might include:
–	 Policies and procedures for internal communications across the fund
complex (e.g., involving senior management, legal, compliance, risk
management, technology, information security, operations, human
resources, and communications staff), as well as with fund boards.

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

6

–	 External communications plans that address ongoing discussions
with the affected service provider, as well as other providers as
warranted, and intermediaries, investors, regulators, and the press,
as appropriate.
–	 Maintaining updated and accessible contact information for
essential communications with various constituents during an event.
–	 Providing timely communications that report progress and next
steps, which may include posting updates to websites or portals to
facilitate accessibility and broad dissemination of information.
•	

Understanding the Interrelationship of Critical Service Provider BCPs.
The staff believes that fund complexes should consider how the BCPs of a
fund’s critical service providers relate to each other to better ensure that
funds can continue operations and/or promptly resume operations during a
significant business disruption. For example, if the fund complex relies on a
particular third-party service provider to calculate its NAV on a daily basis,
has the fund complex discussed with the service provider any redundancies
and backup plans the service provider has in the event it experiences a
significant business disruption? Additionally, does the fund complex also
have backup procedures that address the steps that would need to be taken
to successfully navigate through the service provider disruption in order to
mitigate potential risks to impacted funds and investors?

•	

Contemplating Various Scenarios. The staff believes that fund complexes
should consider how a critical service provider disruption could impact
fund operations and investors, and generally have a plan for managing the
response to potential disruptions under various scenarios, whether such
disruptions occur internally or at a critical third-party service provider.

In the staff’s view, to assist fund boards in providing appropriate oversight, boards
generally should discuss with the fund’s adviser and other critical (affiliated and/or
third-party) service providers the steps being taken to mitigate the risks associated
with business disruptions and the robustness of their business continuity planning,
including how the fund complex’s own BCP addresses the risk that a critical thirdparty service provider could suffer a business disruption. 25

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

7

Conclusion
The staff believes that funds will be better prepared to deal with business continuity
events, if and when they occur, if fund complexes consider the robustness of their
BCPs as well as those of their critical third-party service providers. The staff also
believes that fund complexes’ preparedness likely would be enhanced if they
consider their service providers’ interrelationships to one another and how the
fund complex will respond to significant business disruptions that may impact their
internal operations and/or a critical third-party service provider of the fund. The
staff recognizes that it is not possible for a fund or fund complex to anticipate or
prevent every business continuity event. However, the staff believes appropriate
planning includes consideration of these issues and various scenarios in advance of
a significant business disruption. We believe such planning will assist funds and fund
complexes in mitigating the impact of significant business disruptions on operations
and in servicing investors, as well as in complying with the federal securities laws
throughout business continuity events.
Endnotes
1

See 17 CFR 270.38a-1(a)(1).

2

For purposes of this guidance update, we use the term “fund complex” to mean
funds, their primary investment adviser, and other fund service providers that are
affiliated with the funds or their primary investment adviser. See section 2(a)(3) of
the Investment Company Act (defining “affiliated person”).

3

We recognize that some funds do not have a traditional “sponsor” and instead use
a turnkey service provider or third-party administrator to conduct all or most of
the activities of running the fund. Like with other critical service providers, the staff
believes that such funds should consider the BCP of their turnkey service provider
or third-party administrator as it affects the fund. See Additional Considerations
Regarding Critical Service Providers in this guidance update.

4

See, e.g., Summary of “Lessons Learned” from Events of September 11 and
Implications for Business Continuity, Discussion Note Prepared by Staffs of the
Federal Reserve, the New York State Banking Department, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, and the SEC, for discussion at a meeting on February

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

8

26, 2002 at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (Feb. 13, 2002), available at
https://www.sec.gov/divisions/marketreg/lessonslearned.htm; Interagency Paper on
the Sound Practices to Strengthen the Resilience of the Financial System, Securities
Exchange Act Rel. No. 47638 (April 7, 2003) [68 FR 17809 (Apr. 11, 2003)] (setting
forth business continuity objectives for all financial firms and the U.S. financial
system as a whole); Policy Statement: Business Continuity Planning for Trading
Markets, Securities Exchange Act Rel. No. 48545 (Sept. 29, 2003) [68 FR 56656
(Oct. 1, 2003)].
5

See supra note 4; see also Comment Letter of Investment Company Institute on the
Financial Stability Oversight Council’s (“FSOC”) Notice Seeking Comment on Asset
Management Products and Activities (Mar. 25, 2015) (“ICI FSOC Comment Letter”)
at 68 (“Over the past several decades, the fund industry has confronted and
worked through a variety of emergencies …. In addition, since September 11, 2001,
the nature and scope of business continuance has changed significantly, making
fund complexes and their critical service providers more resilient to unexpected
business interruptions.”).

6

See Comment Letter of BlackRock, Inc. on the FSOC Notice Seeking Comment
on Asset Management Products and Activities (Mar. 25, 2015) at 10 (“In the
normal course of business, asset managers implement measures to mitigate the
impact of potentially disruptive events through operational risk management
programs, including maintaining business continuity plans ….”); Comment Letter
of The Capital Group Companies to the FSOC Notice Seeking Comment on Asset
Management Products and Activities (Mar. 25, 2015) at 11 (“Regulatory compliance
and operational risk management are well-developed areas within [the asset
management] industry …. Consequently, asset managers invest significant resources
and employ various tools to avoid operational issues that could adversely affect
their clients or the assets they manage.”); ICI FSOC Comment Letter, supra note
5 at 69 (“[F]unds and key service providers to the industry have robust plans
and strategies in place to facilitate the continuation or resumption of business
operations in the event of an emergency….”).

7

See, e.g., supra note 4; see also FSOC Notice Seeking Comment on Asset
Management Products and Activities, available at http://www.treasury.gov/
initiatives/fsoc/rulemaking/Documents/Notice%20Seeking%20Comment%20
on%20Asset%20Management%20Products%20and%20Activities.pdf, [79 FR 77488
(Dec. 24, 2014)] (requesting public comment on, among other things, operational
risks and transition planning as it relates to the asset management industry).

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

8	

9

See, e.g., infra notes 9 and 12; see also FINRA rule 4370 (requiring broker-dealers
to have BCPs that address certain required elements); SEC Approves NASD
and NYSE Business Continuity Rules (Apr. 2004), available at https://www.sec.
gov/news/press/2004-53.htm. More recently, in 2014, the Commission adopted
Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity, or Regulation SCI, which, among
other things, requires certain entities to establish, maintain, and enforce written
policies and procedures, including business continuity and disaster recovery plans
that include maintaining backup and recovery capabilities sufficiently resilient
and geographically diverse and that are reasonably designed to achieve next
business day resumption of trading and two-hour resumption of critical SCI
systems following a wide-scale disruption. See Regulation Systems Compliance
and Integrity, Securities Exchange Act Rel. No. 73639 (Nov. 19, 2014) [79 FR 72251
(Dec. 5, 2014)]; 17 CFR 242.1001(a)(2)(v).

9	

See Compliance Programs of Investment Companies and Investment Advisers,
Advisers Act Rel. No. 2204 (Dec. 17, 2003) [68 FR 74714 (Dec. 24, 2003)]
(“Compliance Program Adopting Release”). In 2003, the Commission also adopted
rule 206(4)-7 under the Advisers Act, which makes it unlawful for a registered
investment adviser to provide investment advice unless the adviser has adopted
and implemented written policies and procedures that are reasonably designed
to prevent violation by the adviser and its supervised persons of the Advisers
Act and the rules thereunder. See 17 CFR 275.206(4)-7(a). In addition, today the
Commission proposed a new rule under the Advisers Act that would require SECregistered investment advisers to adopt and implement business continuity and
transition plans reasonably designed to address operational and other risks related
to a significant disruption in the investment adviser’s operations and that also
address certain components. See Adviser Business Continuity and Transition Plans,
Advisers Act Rel. No. 4439 (June 28, 2016).

10	 Rule 38a-1 also requires a fund’s compliance policies and procedures to provide
for the oversight of compliance by the fund’s advisers, principal underwriters,
administrators, and transfer agents (collectively, “named service providers”), and
that the fund’s board of directors approve, and review annually, the compliance
policies and procedures of the fund and each of its named service providers. See 17
CFR 270.38a-1(a)(1)-(3).
11	

In the Compliance Program Adopting Release, the Commission stated that it
expected that an adviser’s policies and procedures, at a minimum, should address
(among other things) BCPs to the extent that they are relevant to that adviser. In

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

10

the context of the expected elements of a fund’s compliance program, the release
states that “[f]unds’ or their advisers’ policies and procedures should address the
issues … identified for investment advisers….” See Compliance Program Adopting
Release, supra note 9.
12

See Compliance Alert, June 2007, available at https://www.sec.gov/about/offices/
ocie/complialert.htm; National Exam Program Risk Alert, SEC Examinations of
Business Continuity Plans of Certain Advisers Following Operational Disruptions
Caused by Weather-Related Events Last Year (Aug. 27, 2013), available at https://
www.sec.gov/about/offices/ocie/business-continuity-plans-risk-alert.pdf. The 2012
examination was part of a joint review by the Commission’s Office of Compliance
Inspections and Examinations, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, and
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission of relevant firms’ business continuity
and disaster recovery planning in the wake of Hurricane Sandy. Together, these
entities also issued a joint statement setting forth best practices and lessons
learned as a result of their review. See Joint Review of Business Continuity and
Disaster Recovery of Firms by the Commission’s National Examination Program,
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Division of Swap Dealers and
Intermediary Oversight and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (Aug.
16, 2013), available at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ocie/jointobservationsbcps08072013.pdf.

13

In late August 2015, Bank of New York Mellon (“BNY Mellon”), a service provider
that provides custodial and administrative services to mutual funds, closedend funds, and exchange-traded funds, experienced a breakdown in one of its
third-party systems (SunGard’s InvestOne) used to calculate numerous client
funds’ NAVs. See, e.g., Stephen Foley, BNY Mellon Close to Resolving Software
Glitch, Financial Times (Aug. 31, 2015), available at http://www.ft.com/intl/
cms/s/0/47d5860a-4f2b-11e5-b029-b9d50a74fd14.html; Jessica Toonkel & Tim
McLaughlin, BNY Mellon Pricing Glitch Affects Billions of Dollars of Funds, Reuters
(Aug. 26, 2015), available at http://www.reuters.com/article/bnymellon-fundsnav-idUSL1N1111QY20150826; Barrington Partners White Paper, An Extraordinary
Week: Shared Experiences from Inside the Fund Accounting System Failure of
2015 (Nov. 2015), available at http://www.mfdf.org/images/uploads/blog_files/
SharedExperiencefromFASystemFailure2015.pdf; Transcript of the BNY Mellon
Teleconference Hosted by Gerald Hassell on the Sungard Issue, available at https://
www.bnymellon.com/_global-assets/pdf/events/transcript-of-bny-mellonteleconference-on-sungard-issue.pdf.

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

11

14	 This situation resulted in certain clients pricing their shares using stale or manually
calculated NAVs and certain ETFs using stale baskets. Once the automated system
was restored, ETF baskets were updated and certain funds had to review the NAVs
used while the automated system was down and make any necessary corrections.
See supra note 13.
15	 See Remarks to the Investment Company Institute’s 2016 Mutual Funds and
Investment Management Conference, David W. Grim (Mar. 14, 2016), available at
http://www.sec.gov/news/speech/david-grim-remarks-to-ici-2016-mutual-fundsand-invest-mgmt-conf.html (“[L]ast August, a computer malfunction at one
financial institution prevented it from calculating accurate net asset values for
hundreds of mutual funds and exchange traded funds. The situation could have
been far worse had the outage persisted.”).
16	 See id.
17	 See, e.g., ICI FSOC Comment Letter, supra note 5 at 59-61 (discussing key service
providers for funds); see also Compliance Program Rule Adopting Release, supra
note 9 at n.28 (noting that limiting the service providers named in rule 38a-1 did
not lessen a fund’s obligation to consider compliance as part of its decision to
employ other entities, such as pricing services, auditors, and custodians). The staff
recognizes that not all fund service providers provide critical services to a fund.
In determining whether a service provider is critical, fund complexes may wish
to consider the day-to-day operational reliance on the service provider and the
existence of backup processes or multiple providers.
18	 We understand that many fund complexes review Service Organization Control
(“SOC”) reports, such as SSAE 16 reports that are prepared by an independent
public accountant in accordance with the American Institute of CPAs’ Auditing
Standards Boards’ Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements No. 16,
Reporting on Controls at a Service Organization. These reports provide assurances
that the service provider has established a system of internal controls, that the
internal controls are suitably designed to achieve specified objectives, and that
the internal controls are operating effectively. See http://www.aicpa.org/Research/
Standards/AuditAttest/DownloadableDocuments/AT-00801.pdf.

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

12

19	 Service provider oversight programs also may include the review of a service
provider’s financial condition and resources, insurance arrangements, and any
indemnification provisions covering the service provider and its activities. See, e.g.,
Board Oversight of Certain Service Providers, Independent Directors Council, Task
Force Report (June 2007) (“IDC Report”) at 4-5, available at https://www.idc.org/
pdf/21229.pdf.
20	 Section 15(c) of the Investment Company Act requires fund boards to approve
and renew a fund’s investment advisory agreements and principal underwriting
agreements. We understand that fund boards may consider an adviser’s or principal
underwriter’s BCP in connection with its annual section 15(c) renewal process.
21	 See supra note 9 and 10, and accompanying text (discussing rule 38a-1 under the
Investment Company Act).
22	 Such reports may include, among other things, periodic updates on progress,
resumption, recovery, and remediation efforts during and after such events.
23	 See, e.g., Comment Letter of Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
(Asset Management Group) and Investment Advisers Association to the FSOC
Notice Seeking Comment on Asset Management Products and Activities (Mar. 25,
2015) at 138 (“Typical business-continuity planning and disaster relief programs
articulate the importance of back-ups and explicitly lay out contingency plans
around service providers.”); The Fund Director in 2016: Keynote Address at the
Mutual Fund Directors Forum 2016 Policy Conference, Chair Mary Jo White (Mar.
29, 2016), available at https://www.sec.gov/news/speech/chair-white-mutual-funddirectors-forum-3-29-16.html (discussing back-up plans and redundancies in the
context of service providers).
24	 Our staff recently addressed the importance of cybersecurity for funds and
investment advisers. See Cybersecurity Guidance, IM Guidance Update (Apr. 2015),
available at http://www.sec.gov/investment/im-guidance-2015-02.pdf.
25	 Fund boards oversee the activities of their funds, including the hiring and continued
retention of critical service providers, but they are not involved in the day-to-day
management and business activities conducted by the fund complex. Rather, they
rely on the fund’s adviser and other service providers to perform necessary day-today functions on behalf of the fund. See Compliance Program Adopting Release,
supra note 9 at 29 (“Most of the operations of funds are carried out by service
providers….”); IDC Report, supra note 19 at 1 (“Service providers play a significant
role in the day-to-day operations of a fund….”).

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

	

	
	

IM Guidance Updates are recurring publications that summarize the staff’s views
regarding various requirements of the federal securities laws. The Division generally
issues IM Guidance Updates as a result of emerging asset management industry trends,
discussions with industry participants, reviews of registrant disclosures, and no-action
and interpretive requests.
The statements in this IM Guidance Update represent the views of the Division of
Investment Management. This guidance is not a rule, regulation or statement of the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Further, the Commission has neither approved
nor disapproved its content. Future changes in rules, regulations, and/or staff no-action
and interpretive positions may supersede some or all of the guidance in a particular
IM Guidance Update.

The mission of the Securities and Exchange Commission is to protect investors; maintain fair,
orderly, and efficient markets; and facilitate capital formation.
If you have any questions about this IM Guidance Update, please contact:
Andrea Ottomanelli Magovern
Kathleen Joaquin
Investment Company Rulemaking Office
Phone: 202.551.6792

13

