IM	 Guidance Update
November 2013

|

No. 2013-12

FUND NAMES SUGGESTING PROTECTION FROM LOSS
In the staff’s view, when a mutual fund or other investment company (“fund”) uses a
name that suggests safety or protection from loss, the name may contribute to investor
misunderstanding of the risks associated with an investment in the fund and, in some
circumstances, could be misleading. The staff encourages any fund that exposes investors to market, credit, or other risks, and whose name suggests safety or protection
from loss, to reevaluate the name and to consider changing the name, as appropriate,
to eliminate the potential for investor misunderstanding.
The staff has recently heightened its scrutiny of fund names suggesting safety or protection from loss and has determined to object to names that may create an impression of
protection or safety or absence of risk of loss, where the name does not include qualifying language that defines the scope and limits of such protection. We believe that the
terms “protected,” “guaranteed,” and similar terms, when used in a fund name without
some additional qualification, may contribute to investor misunderstanding about the
potential for loss associated with an investment in the fund. 1 As a result, in the disclosure
review process, the staff recently requested that some existing and new funds change
their names. The staff took this action in response to an increase in the use of the term
“protected” in fund names in situations where that term was used without a qualification
that would adequately describe the nature and limits of any protection offered by the fund.
For example, some funds that seek to manage the fund’s volatility by investing a portion
of the fund’s assets in cash, short-term fixed income instruments, short positions on
exchange-traded futures, or other investments included the term “protected” in their
name. The staff was concerned that these names could convey to investors a level of
protection from loss that was not present because the degree to which a managed
volatility strategy may succeed or fail is uncertain. In response to the staff’s recently
articulated concerns, some funds have chosen to replace the term “protected” with
terms such as “managed risk.”
The staff has also become concerned about the inclusion of the term “protected” in a
fund’s name in some cases where the fund has entered into a contract with a third party

US Securities and Exchange Commission
			
Division of Investment Management

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

2

to make up a shortfall in the net asset value of the fund. In those cases, the protection
may be limited in various ways, including by contractual limits on the amount of
protection or the window of time during which the third party is obligated to make up
any shortfall in the fund’s net asset value, or by contractual provisions for termination
of the third party’s obligation in certain scenarios. In addition, an investor in the fund is
subject to credit risk associated with the third party provider, which could become
unable to fulfill its obligation under the contract. For these reasons, the staff believes
that a fund that has entered into a contract with a third party to make up a shortfall in
the net asset value of the fund should not use a term like “protected” in its name unless
the name adequately communicates the limitations of the “protection” provided by the
third party. To date, the staff has not identified any fund names that use the term “protected” in these circumstances and that adequately communicate the limitations of the
third party “protection.”
The staff acknowledges that a fund’s name, like any other piece of information about a
fund, cannot tell the whole story about the fund.2 We also acknowledge that the staff
has recently requested name changes in situations in which a fund had provided prospectus disclosures that explained limitations on the scope of “protection” provided
by the fund that were not revealed by the name itself. We have made these requests
because we believe that, in practice, investors sometimes focus on a fund’s name to
determine the fund’s investments and risks, either because the name sometimes appears
without the clarifying prospectus disclosures (e.g., in advertisements) or because of the
prominence of a fund’s name or for other reasons.3 As a result, the staff believes that
when a fund uses a name that suggests safety or protection from loss investors may
conclude, at least in certain circumstances, that the fund offers greater protection from
loss than is the case. Accordingly, we encourage investment advisers and funds’ boards
of directors to carefully evaluate any fund name that suggests safety or protection from
loss and to consider whether a name change is appropriate to address any potential for
investor misunderstanding.
Endnotes
1	

The staff of the Division of Corporation Finance has expressed similar concerns
about the titles of structured notes. See Sample Letter Sent to Financial Institutions
Regarding Their Structured Note Offerings Disclosure in Their Prospectus Supplements and Exchange Act Reports (Apr. 2012), www.sec.gov/divisions/corpfin/
guidance/structurednote0412.htm (noting that Division of Corporation Finance
staff had previously indicated that note titles using the term “principal protected”
should also include balanced information about limitations to the principal protection feature and advising issuers in future structured note offerings to evaluate the
titles of the notes and revise them to clearly describe the product in a balanced
manner and avoid titles that stress positive features without also identifying limiting
or negative features).

I M G U I D A N C E U P D AT E

2	

3

Investment Company Act Release No. 24828, Section I (Jan. 17, 2001) [66 FR 8509,
at 8509-10 (Feb. 1, 2001)].

3	

See S. Rep. No. 293, 104th Cong., 2d Sess. 9 (1996) (noting that when making an
investment decision, investors may focus on fund names to determine the fund’s
investment objective and level of risk).

	This IM Guidance Update summarizes the views of the Division of Investment Management
regarding various requirements of the federal securities laws. Future changes in laws or
regulations may supersede some of the discussion or issues raised herein. This IM Guidance
Update is not a rule, regulation or statement of the Commission, and the Commission has
neither approved nor disapproved of this IM Guidance Update.

The Investment Management Division works to:
s	

protect investors

s	

promote informed investment decisions and

s	

facilitate appropriate innovation in investment products and services

through regulating the asset management industry.
If you have any questions about this IM Guidance Update, please contact:
Disclosure Review Office
Phone:	202.551.6921
Email:	IMOCC@sec.gov

