Importance Of
HR Policies
TM

About Floraison

floraison in French means 'flowering'.
The name reflects our objective of

“

”

Accelerating Growth.

Floraison India Compliances Private Limited is a Bangalore-based business consulting
organization. As a company which provides integrated consulting services, we partner our
clients from the stage of inception to assist them in successfully commencing their
operations and further hand-hold them to run their company efficiently.
At Floraison, we strive to cultivate strong relationships with our clients by providing them
with solutions, which cater to their precise requirements. Customizability is therefore the
essence of all the services provided by us. We believe true success is not just fulfilling our
clients' requirements, but exceeding their expectations. And, to be successful, we work as
an cohesive team all the way, using the best of tools and methodologies.
Floraison is a member of:
» Confederation of India Industry
» Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce
» Indo-German Chamber of Commerce
For more information on the company, Please visit us at www.floraison.in

Disclaimer
This publication is a product of Floraison India Compliances Private Limited. The items contained herein are provided
for general information purposes only. Floraison strives to maintain up-to-date information from its own and other
reliable sources; however, no responsibility is accepted for any errors and/or omissions or results of any actions based
upon this information, without consulting Floraison first. Though all efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy of
the content, the same should not be construed as a statement of law or used for any legal purposes. The information is
for reference purposes only and should not be dealt with as advice.

“With regard to excellence,
it is not enough to know,

”

but we must try to have and use it.

Aristotle

Index
Introduction

Page 1

Why Develop An HR Policy?

Page 2

How Do They Help?

Page 3

Preparing HR Policies: The Methodology

Page 4

Some Important HR Policies

Page 5

Introduction
HR Policies can be defined as the strategy for developing, communicating and enforcing
a set of practices that reflect your standards of acceptable behaviour. Successful policies
and practices strategy do more than drawing boundaries; they also recognize and address
people's needs. The focus in any successfully run business is not just about meeting
specific goals, but also about how you achieve them. And the "how" affects the liabilities an
organization creates in the process.
To ensure that the employees have clear expectations and are treated fairly as they work to
help build your company depends largely on the manner in which an organization
addresses the four key elements related to the development and deployment of its policies
and practices: policies, consequences and tools.
Policies
Managers and employees need to share a clear understanding of what is and what is
not acceptable behaviour, what can be said and what can't be said within the
company etc. Setting clear and specific standards, procedures and guidelines in the
form of policies establishes a framework for spotting and addressing violations of
those standards. If an organization relies on loosely defined general standards,
procedures and organization that aren't properly documented, then violations
become subjective and open to interpretation. The result of such ambiguity is often
litigation, which could ultimately lead to dissatisfaction and the exit of the employee.

Consequences
It's important that an organization clearly states consequences for violations of the
standards, guidelines and procedures so that employees know what to expect and
have early warning of those expectations. In addition, clear consequences help to
ensure that the company is not limited in the options for dealing with violations.

Tools
Tools address the question of how the organization supports the people in the
company who manage other employees. When faced with a specific personnel issue,
what resources are available to them? For instance: the employee guide or the
handbook on HR policies. Tools like these are vital not just to help avoid litigation, but
also to minimize the time it takes for you to deal with productivity-draining people
issues instead of core business matters.

1

Why Develop An HR Policy?
To help the
e

employees and management teams run the organisation in an
efficient manner.

To help take
e

major human resource decisions, develop company guidelines and
procedures that can make the organisation a better run entity.

To help in documenting and communicating to all the employees the management’s
e
plans, rules, intents and business procedures.

To help in comparing the policy alternatives, understanding their importance and
e
evaluating the company’s current practices.

To save countless hours of management time.
e

To prevent mere legal issues from becoming serious legal problems.
e

e
To organize

and announce the management’s plans for the growth of the
organisation and also explain employee benefits and workplace issues.

To define management
e

standards for making decisions on various personal and

organisational issues

To help an
e

organisation run at its most cost-effective and efficient level thereby
bringing about additional revenue.

To protect
e

the legal interest of the company as well as define the rights and
obligation of the employees and the company.

2

How Do They Help?
HR Policies also provide guidance in the following highlighted areas:
e
Ensures that

the employees dedicate themselves to total quality and constant,
never ending improvement of the organisation.

e
Hiring people

on the basis of skill, training, attitude, ability and character, being
oblivious to other discriminatory factors like age, color, sex, race, creed, national
origin, religion, political belief or disability that does not prohibit performance of
essential job functions.

e
Pay all the employees according to their effort and contribution to the success of the
business.

e
Operating an economically successful business so that a consistent level of steady
work is available.

e
Review wages,

employee benefits and working conditions constantly with
objectives of providing maximum benefits in these areas, consistent with sound
business practice.

e
Provide paid

vacations and holidays to all eligible employees. Provide eligible
employees with medical and other benefits.

e
Develop competent people who understand and meet organization's objectives and
who accept ideas, suggestions and constructive criticism of fellow employees with
an open mind.

e
Address complaints which may arise in everyday conduct of the business, promptly
in a practical way.

e
Respect individual rights and treat all employees with courtesy and consideration
and help in maintaining mutual respect in the workplace leading to an amicable
ambience

3

Preparing HR Policies: The Methodology
Research

Collect Information

Draft the manual text

Select Appropriate policies

Design and Format the document

Revise and Fine tune

Prepare & Design the final
document

4

Some Important HR Policies
Following are a few HR policies that could / should be a part of all organisations:
Employment Policies
Guide in hiring practices, orientation of new employees

Employment Status & Records
Define issues such as employment classifications, provide access to
personal files and guidance on carrying out background checks and
performance reviews

Employee Benefits
Explain employee benefits such as insurance, vacations, holidays,
leave and employee reimbursements

Payroll
Related to salary and wage administration including deductions, pay
advances, and time keeping

Workplace Guidelines
Defines certain work arrangements like flex time and telecommuting
to offering guidelines on the use of company assets and record retention

5

Some Important HR Policies
Employee Conduct
Controls employees' behaviour and conduct, takes preventive measures
to check substance abuse, smoking, harassment and workplace violence

E-Policies
Guides staff in proper usage of the organisation’s information technology,
defines acceptable and prohibited activities, fair use of the internet

The

buck doesn't stop at drafting policies. Helping the employees to get wellacquainted with the new/revised policies is also a major requirement. To help the staff
gain a better understanding of the policies, the HR personnel should take steps to create
interactive PowerPoint presentations or spread the information through emails.
A company without an HR policy is in a risky position. Documented policies can protect a
company down the road from potential misuse of company resources. Replacing the
grey areas with concrete guidelines can also help settle employee misunderstandings,
avoid confusions and remove the chance for future conflicts.

6

Credits: Ashwini S Bhuma

Our Other Publications:
c
HR Services

@ Floraison

c
HR Support

Services @ Floraison

c
Residential

Status of an individual in

India
c
Some important
c
Internal

Corporate Communication

c
Group Dynamics
c
Employee

Separation Formalities

c
Employee

Welfare Measures - the

FAQ's on Fringe

Benefit Tax
c
Introduction

to Transfer Pricing
Regulation in India

c
Mandatory

Internal Audit for
companies - When is it applicable?

essentials
c
VAT in Karnataka
c
Defining

organizational culture through mission, vision and values

c
Importance

c
Everything

you ever wanted to know
about 'A DIRECTOR'

of Vendor Satisfaction

Surveys
c
Importance

c
Formation

of a new private limited
company in india

of Customer Satisfaction

Surveys

c
Fact File

c
ISO Certification

c
Budget

on INDIA

2008-09 - a synopsis company

And more...

Floraison India Compliances Pvt. Ltd.,
#185/7, 2nd Floor, "Chandra Plaza",
25th Cross, 8th F Main Road,
Jayanagar 3rd Block
Bangalore - 560 011,
India
Tel: + 91-80-26538257 / 58 / 59
Fax: + 91-80-26538273
E-mail: inflo@floraison.in

www.floraison.in

TM

