Chapter 8:

guid e

Human Resources

Cover photo: CRS staff and those of partner agency Caritas Haiti at work at the
United Nations compound in Gonaives. Photo by David Snyder for CRS.
© 2011 Catholic Relief Services – United States Conference of Catholic Bishops
228 West Lexington Street
Baltimore, MD 21201 – USA
pqsdrequests@crs.org
Download this and other CRS publications at www.crsprogramquality.org.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
HR Process Map............................................................................................................ 2
Purpose of This Guide.................................................................................................... 3
What Function Does HR Serve?.................................................................................... 3
Summary........................................................................................................................ 6
Key Principles................................................................................................................. 7
HR Business Process 8.1 – Staffing, Recruitment, and Orientation......................... 9
Step 8.1.1 – Human Resources Staffing Plan................................................................ 12
Step 8.1.2 – Job Descriptions......................................................................................... 13
Step 8.1.3 – Recruitment and Hiring.............................................................................. 15
Step 8.1.4 – Orientation and Onboarding...................................................................... 20
HR Business Process 8.2 – Compensation and Benefits......................................... 21
Step 8.2.1 – Create an Overall Salary Scale.................................................................. 24
Step 8.2.2 – Determine Salary Offers............................................................................ 26
Step 8.2.3 – Determine Salary Increases...................................................................... 27
Step 8.2.4 – Institute Benefits........................................................................................ 30
Step 8.2.5 – Timekeeping............................................................................................... 32
Step 8.2.6 – Payroll Administration................................................................................ 34
HR Business Process 8.3 – Performance Management.......................................... 36
Step 8.3.1 – Performance and Development Planning................................................. 39
Step 8.3.2 – Coaching and Feedback............................................................................ 43
Step 8.3.3 – Performance Review and Assessment..................................................... 45
Step 8.3.4 – Rewards and Recognition.......................................................................... 48
Step 8.3.5 – Staff Development and Learning.............................................................. 51
HR Business Process 8.4 – Employee Relations...................................................... 57
Step 8.4.1 – Establish a Code of Conduct..................................................................... 59
Step 8.4.2 – Monitor Staff Satisfaction......................................................................... 62
Step 8.4.3 – Address Conflict Between Staff Members................................................ 64
Step 8.4.4 – Ensure Mechanisms for Representing and Protecting Employer and
Employee Rights............................................................................................................... 66
Step 8.4.5 – Ensure Confidentiality................................................................................ 68
HR Business Process 8.5 – Staff Care and Safety.................................................... 70
Step 8.5.1 – Safety and Security.................................................................................... 73
Step 8.5.2 – Staff Care.................................................................................................... 76
Step 8.5.3 – Risk Management...................................................................................... 77
HR Business Process 8.6 – Separations................................................................... 79
Step 8.6.1 – Resignation................................................................................................. 81
Step 8.6.2 – Retirement.................................................................................................. 83
Step 8.6.3 – Fixed Term Contract................................................................................... 85
Step 8.6.4 – Redundancy................................................................................................ 86
Step 8.6.5 – Termination for Cause............................................................................... 88
Step 8.6.6 – Death.......................................................................................................... 90
Compliance Checklist for HR...................................................................................... 91
Glossary........................................................................................................................ 97
References.................................................................................................................100
Appendix A: Sample Staff Requisition Form.................................................................102
Appendix B: Sample Job Description Format...............................................................103
Appendix C: Sample Interview Score Sheet.................................................................104
Appendix D: Giving and Receiving Feedback...............................................................105
Appendix E: Unsatisfactory Performance Termination Checklist................................ 107
Appendix F: Sample Performance Ratings...................................................................108
Appendix G: Sample Confidentiality Statement/Acknowledgment.............................109
Appendix H: Conflicts of Interest...................................................................................110
Appendix I: Organizational Training/Learning Plan......................................................111

i

Acronyms

ii

CV	

Curriculum Vitae

HR	

Human Resources

JD	

Job Description

PMS	

Performance Management System

SHRM	

Society for Human Resource Management

Chapter 8:
HUMAN RESOURCES

Jim Stipe/CRS

In Pakistan, a CRS
community organizer
shakes hands with
several Afghan refugee
women after a meeting
at the Information and
Legal Advice Center,
which provides free
support to refugees.

1

HR Process map

2

Staffing,
Recruitment,
and Orientation

Compensation,
Benefits,
and Payroll

Process 8.1

Process 8.2

Do you have a process used
in all new-hire, transfer, and
promotion decisions?
see page 9

Do you follow best
practices when
compensating employees?
see page 21

Do you assist your employees
in maintaining and improving
performance?
see page 36

Employee
Relations

Staff Care
and Safety

Separations

Process 8.4

Process 8.5

Are mechanisms in place
to ensure employee
rights are met?
see page 57

Are policies in place to protect
employees and minimize risk?
see page 70

Performance
Management
Process 8.3

Processing 8.6

Do you have defined
procedures for all instances
of employee separation?
see page 79

P u rpos e o f T h i s G u i d e
Organizations interested in developing or improving their human resources (HR)
business processes, procedures, and related policies will use the information in
this guide in different ways, as different organizations have unique contexts and
business needs that will require “personalization” of human resources systems.
This human resources management guide addresses the need to use good
business practices, systematize the HR process, ensure the effective and
efficient management of HR resources, avoid confusion, and ensure fair and
consistent treatment of everyone in the organization.

W h at F u n ct i o n Do e s H u m a n R e so u rc e s S e r v e ?
Human resources management is the organizational function that deals
with issues related to all the people in the organization who individually and
collectively contribute to the achievement of the organization’s objectives.
Among these issues are staffing and recruitment, compensation and
benefits, performance management, safety, well-being, communication,
spirituality, employee motivation, development, and growth. HR management
activities are intended primarily to attract, develop, retain, and transition
employees. People are the organization’s most valued assets; human
resources management promotes and administers policies and procedures
that ensure that staff members have the skills, motivation, and opportunities
to make their best contributions to the mission of the organization.
Staffing, Recruitment, and Orientation
The organization must plan what type of staff and positions are needed in
the short and long term, based on organizational goals and action plans.
This plan informs recruitment decisions and helps new hires integrate into
the organization’s culture; engender trust, cooperation, and motivation; and
be effective in contributing to the organization’s achievements. This is the
process that introduces new hires to the systems, structures, policies, and
communication flow in the organization.
Compensation and Benefits
The purpose of a compensation and benefits system is to pay employees
for their work in a just manner. By offering competitive compensation and
benefits packages, the organization can meet the needs of employees,
thus attracting and retaining employees. Total compensation is a term that
describes the entirety of what the organization is providing to an employee
including salary and benefits.

3

Staff Care and Safety
Staff care pertains to assisting employees with self-care techniques and
institutional responses to stress in particularly challenging environments.
Staff safety procedures are designed to eliminate death, injury, or illnesses
from occurring in the workplace or during the performance of work duties
off-site and to secure and protect all assets of the organization.
Performance Management
Performance management is the process of assisting employees in
maintaining or improving performance through defining clear expectations
and development needs, ongoing employee coaching and development,
and assessment of results. Performance management clarifies expected
performance; helps the employee develop knowledge, skills, and attitudes;
and holds the employee accountable for her or his work and behavior. Strong
performance management is crucial to the success of any organization
and/or project.
Employee Relations
Organizations are responsible for ensuring that the workplace is a positive
and just environment in which to work. They should therefore institute
mechanisms for maintaining positive employer-employee relationships, as
well as mechanisms for employees to express their needs and to ensure that
their rights are protected. By ensuring that employee relations practices are
in place, the organization can more quickly and proactively address difficult
problems such as grievances, low staff morale, or poor relationships among
staff members.
Separations
The process of terminating employees varies depending on the reasons for
termination. Separations should be handled with the utmost care, especially
in cases in which it is the employer’s decision to terminate an employment
relationship. Organizations should ensure that the process is respectful of
each person involved.
Timekeeping and Payroll Administration
In managing timekeeping and payroll administration, HR provides accurate
and timely information to the finance department/unit on employees’
time and attendance data, as well as on changes in employment status,
pay rates, deductions, etc. This information will be used by the finance
department/unit to prepare and execute payment of salaries.

4

Personnel Policies and Procedures
Personnel policies and procedures define the HR practices and processes
required in the organization and define employees’ rights, roles, and
responsibilities. HR leads the development of these policies and procedures
after careful consideration of local law requirements. Once approved by
top management, the policies need to be communicated and explained to
all employees and applied consistently. While this guide does not contain
a separate section dedicated to personnel policies and procedures, all the
processes described provide guidance to organizations to assist them with
developing their own policies.

5

Summary
The HR function encompasses many different areas, each involving various
activities and processes. Although HR management can be a daunting task,
this guide provides definitions and descriptions of various HR processes that
should be considered as best practices that assist organizations to perform
the key components of the HR function.
While organizations may not necessarily have an HR department/unit per se,
there should be staff assigned the responsibilities associated with the human
resources function. This HR management guide refers to an HR manager/
designate as the only organizational HR role; organizations are responsible
for defining job titles and responsibilities for this and additional roles based
on their specific needs. The distribution of responsibility for each component
of the HR function varies in different organizations depending on factors such
as size of the organization, organizational budget, organizational structure,
and management decision to outsource certain activities. Regardless,
top management should ensure that at a minimum key elements of all
components of the HR function are performed one way or another.

6

David Snyder/CRS

Key Principles
As with any functional area, human resources is guided by principles. These
principles inform quality standards of performance for HR systems and
processes. They also address the organizational environment in which HR
takes place. In addition, they ensure that the organization’s management
sets appropriate policies and procedures on internal control. Management
regularly assures that appropriate processes are functioning effectively and
monitors and manages the risks to which the organization is exposed. Finally,
HR ensures that effective internal controls are in place to reduce those risks to
an acceptable level. Moreover, the guiding HR principles assist organizations
in ensuring their employees are empowered, motivated, and engaged in
performing to the best of their potential and thus contribute to overall
organizational success.
The following key principles should be observed when instituting HR in an
organization:
•	 Top Management Commitment – Top management commitment is
essential to having comprehensive HR systems and processes linked

Farmers in Guatemala
listen to CRS partners
explain a method of
farming designed to
prevent soil run off.

to the organization’s mission and strategy. The systems and processes
should be instituted in the organization and applied consistently in order
to help drive organizational success.
•	 Compliance with Local Legal Requirements and Donor Regulations –
Organizations must ensure that all HR systems and processes comply
with local legal requirements and donor regulations. This protects
the organization from liabilities that could affect staff morale and the
organization’s reputation and existence.
•	 A Fair and Just Workplace – A fair and just workplace affirms the dignity
of each employee in an organization. It ensures that everyone receives
equal treatment irrespective of race, color, age, religion, sex, national
origin, disability or handicap, or level in the organizational structure. Among
the elements of a fair and just workplace are consistent application of
HR business processes and policies, a fair compensation and benefits
package for all employees, safe and healthy working environment, and
equal opportunities for recognition, learning, and growth.
•	 Communication – Every organization should establish mechanisms for
clear, open, and direct communication among all staff members at all
levels of the organization. There should be feedback mechanisms from
the top of the organization down to the lowest level and from the bottom
up to ensure accurate, consistent, and timely information is shared as
needed. This ensures employees have access to the information they

7

need to do their jobs successfully and provides them with the opportunity
to have a voice in decisions that affect them.
•	 Confidentiality – Most of the information relating to HR activities is of
a confidential nature and should be treated as such. It is considered
unethical to disclose certain types of HR-related information to persons or
entities outside of those authorized to have access to such information.
Failure to do so may expose the organization to risks and liabilities.

8

HR Business Process 8.1 –
Staffing, Recruitment,
and Orientation
P roc e ss D e scr i pt i o n
Robust staffing and recruitment processes along with a robust orientation
process help to ensure a smooth transition into a new job or new organization
and will help new employees integrate into the work environment and
organizational culture. With these processes in place, it is likely that their
needs will be met, enabling them to be successful in their new job.
Staffing and recruitment is the formal system used in all new hire, transfer,
and promotion decisions. A successful staffing and recruitment system will be
fair and transparent, ensuring that candidates are hired based on job skills,
experience, certification, education, and other qualifications. By implementing
a fair and transparent staffing and recruitment system, an organization is
taking meaningful steps to ensure that diversity is valued and a candidate
or employee is not discriminated against on the basis of age, race, religion,
ethnicity, gender, or disability.
Effective recruitment ensures that organizations have the right people in the
right job at the right time. The goal is to hire or promote staff with skills and
qualifications that contribute to organization’s goals and mission. A proper
process attracts qualified internal and external candidates from which to
choose the best-fit candidate. “Attracting the appropriate quantity of applicants
is necessary but not sufficient.The quality of applicants is the critical factor in
meeting recruitment goals.”1
The benefits of having a clear and strong staffing and recruitment system in an
organization include the following:
•	 Qualified and skilled people are hired.
•	 The organization, through the development of a staffing plan, has
an adequate number and quality of staff to successfully achieve the
organizational mission and complete strategic objectives and
program plans.
•	 The organization, through use of the staffing plan, can evaluate gaps in
staffing more easily.

1 Society for Human Resource Management Learning System (2009). Module Two: Workforce Planning and
Employment. Page 2-132.

9

•	 Individuals are encouraged to maximize career opportunities within an
organization rather than leaving for outside opportunities.
•	 Hiring the wrong person into a job can be prevented, therefore avoiding
“selection errors [that] can negatively affect the organization’s human
capital management plan as well as corporate morale, management time,
training budgets, productivity, and profitability.”2
•	 Discriminatory hiring practices are avoided therefore reducing liability.
Always consult local law when instituting recruitment systems.
The benefits of an orientation program include the following:
•	 There is reduced confusion with job roles, reporting structures, and
expectations, resulting in decreased turnover rates.
•	 Job effectiveness and impact is increased.
•	 Awareness of the organization’s history, mission, vision, values, priorities,
goals, and work is increased, which helps the employee to identify with his
or her new employer.
•	 Employee integration and socialization into the organization’s culture is
supported, creating a sense of belonging.
•	 Orientation builds an optimistic attitude towards the organization.
•	 There is a reduction in new employee anxiety.
•	 Orientation sets performance expectations.
•	 The program provides a baseline of relevant information, therefore
decreasing the learning curve associated with a new position.

2 S
 ociety for Human Resource Management Learning System (2009). Module Two: Workforce Planning and
Employment. Page 2-186

10

P roc e ss Flow

HR Process 8.1 –
Staffing, recruitment, and orientation

HR TEAM

Start
Process

Human
Resources
Staffing Plan
8.1.1

Job
Descriptions
8.1.2

Recruitment
and Hiring
8.1.3

Orientation
and
Onboarding
8.1.4

End
Process

11

S t e p 8 . 1 . 1 – H u m a n R e so u rc e s S ta f f i n g P l a n
STEP NAME

Human Resources Staffing Plan

Step Number

8.1.1

Inputs

•	 Organizational goals and action plans
•	 Needs in the programmatic sectors
•	 Funding available

Outputs

Human resources staffing plan

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate, head of organization

Integration Points

•	 Finance department/unit
•	 Programming department/unit

Summary

The organization first builds a staffing plan based on
organizational goals and action plans and on needs in
the programmatic sectors. Then, finance is brought in for
their knowledge of available funding. Finally, a staffing
plan is put into place. The purpose of a staffing plan is
to look ahead at needs for a defined period, usually a
year. The staffing plan allows the organization to plan in
advance the resources needed for recruitment and hiring
for the positions indicated in it. A staffing plan does not
always require hiring from outside the organization.
Realigning or promoting internal staff is also an option.

The human resources staffing plan is implemented, evaluated, and used for
long-range (yearly) strategic planning. Human resource planning is used by the
organization to ensure that it is neither over- nor understaffed.
It is very important for the organization to plan what type of staff and positions
are needed in the short and long term based on organizational goals and
action plans. Available funding, introduction of new programmatic sectors, and
other factors inform the staffing plan.
When a member of the organization wants to hire a new staff member,
typically she or he submits this request in the form of a requisition. The
information on the requisition is checked against the staffing plan to confirm
that the additional or replacement position is in line with the overall plan
of the organization for that year. Please see Appendix A for a sample staff
requisition form.

12

S t e p 8 . 1 . 2 – J ob D e scr i pt i o n s
STEP NAME

Job Descriptions

Step Number

8.1.2

Inputs

HR staffing plan

Outputs

Job description document

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate, direct supervisor, hiring manager

Integration Points

N/A

Summary

The HR manager/designate, direct supervisor, or
hiring manager, as applicable, prepares a detailed
job description for each position to be filled. The job
description specifies the responsibilities, required
qualifications and skills, reporting relationships, and
other important aspects of the position based on the
organization’s strategy, goals, and plans.

Based on the staffing plan as well as emerging organizational development
and programmatic needs, the organization makes the decision to hire staff.
A well-written job description helps the organization create criteria to ensure
that only candidates with the right training and experience are considered. The
development of job descriptions for new positions makes it easier to establish
selection criteria and evaluate applicants. Once the right person is hired,
the job description is a valuable management tool to help set performance
expectations, evaluate performance, and identify staff development, learning
needs, and approaches (see Step 8.3: Performance Management). Together
with the employee, the direct supervisor should review job descriptions from
time to time. Both direct supervisors and employees are responsible for
revising job descriptions to make them current and meaningful.
Job descriptions should be developed based on the type of employees
needed. There are core and temporary types of employees. Temporary
employees include “floaters,” on-call workers, and seasonal workers. Usually
local labor law defines types of employment; the organization should adhere
to these definitions.
Please note that individual contractors are not employees of the
organization. They provide specialized services to the organization, including
project data management, data administration, evaluation consulting, IT,
and cleaning. The relationship between an individual contractor and the
organization is defined in a contract or agreement that is different from that

13

of an employment contract and is defined by local law. Individual contractors
are not governed by the organization’s HR systems, policies, and procedures.
They do not enter into supervisor-supervisee relationships with any of the
organization’s staff. However, the contract should clearly indicate who is the
contact person between the organization and the contractor. The contract/
agreement should either define or refer to a scope of work outlining the
nature of services, the deliverables to be accomplished, the timeframe
within which the work will be accomplished, and how deliverables will be
monitored and verified. The organization needs to ensure compliance with
local tax laws regarding payment to individual contractors and withhold tax
and any other deductions as required. Please see Chapter 7: Procurement
for further detail on service contracts.

14

STEP NAME

Charles J.Schisla

S tep 8 . 1 . 3 – R ecr u i tment and H i r i ng
Recruitment and Hiring

Step Number

8.1.3

Inputs

•	 Job vacancy announcement
•	 Candidate application and supporting documents
•	 Interview
•	 Testing and background check
•	 Employment offer

Outputs

The offer is accepted by the best-qualified candidate

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate, direct supervisor, hiring
manager

Integration Points

Finance department/unit – payroll

Summary

The hiring process is the main part of the recruitment
process. Make the job vacancy available to internal
and external pools of candidates by posting the job
to bulletin boards, email bulletins, media outlets, etc.
Once the organization has identified a pool of qualified
applicants, the selection process includes analyzing
applicant documents, interviewing, testing and
background investigation, and making an
employment offer.

Attendees at a CRS
even in Cuba.

The organization can choose either to look for candidates internally or to
seek candidates externally from the general labor pool. The appropriateness
of the approach depends on the organization’s needs, culture, and strategy.
The decision to recruit internally will be based on the organization’s
willingness to provide opportunities for staff promotion. If the organization
has a culture and strategy that puts internal posting first, this gives
opportunity to current staff for professional growth. (For more on staff
promotion please see Step 8.3.4: Rewards and Recognition.)
Once the decision is made, the position is posted internally and/or externally
as appropriate.
Job Posting/Vacancy Announcement
Positions can be announced internally and externally. The internal job posting
is a good practice as it gives current employees the chance to respond to
vacancies. Again, this provides equal opportunity to all to apply for a job. It also
allows all qualified employees to compete for positions. The organization should
decide on the duration of the internal and external posting based on criteria

15

such as timeline, expected time to fill the job, and operational needs. Internal
and external postings can run concurrently.
Job postings may be communicated by posting notices on a bulletin board
or communicating position announcements through newsletters, memos,
electronic bulletins, or by phone. For external announcements, third party
sources include state (public) employment agencies, employment agencies,
media advertising, and the Internet. Other great sources for announcing an
available position are through networking at all times for “sourcing,” sharing
through coordination groups and professional associations, and so on.
Selection Process
Once the organization has identified a pool of qualified applicants, there is
a need to gather the balance of information necessary to make a selection
decision. This process should be based on local laws. The selection process
involves the following stages:
•	 Analyzing applicant forms
•	 Interviewing
•	 Testing
•	 Reference and background checks
•	 Employment offer and employment contract
Analyzing Applicant Forms (Shortlisting)
In this stage, staff with HR responsibilities (specifically recruitment and
orientation responsibilities) in conjunction with the hiring manager “analyze
the candidates’ application forms and CVs/résumés to identify applicants
who fit the minimum selection criteria.” 3 Application forms should include
information that will point to the applicant’s ability to perform the position
successfully. In other words, the application should include information
beyond biodata.
Applicant qualifications should always be compared to the job requirements
indentified in the job description.
Interviewing
Some organizations choose to prescreen candidates. Brief interviews, often
conducted over the phone, are conducted with shortlisted candidates to
confirm each candidate’s interest, experience, availability, and expectations.
The short conversation is also useful in helping applicants to understand
3 S
 ociety for Human Resource Management Learning System. (2009). Module Two: Workforce Planning and
Employment. Page 2-169.

16

the position and the organization as well as their fit for position and salary
needs. If both parties are still interested, the candidate is asked to come in
for an interview.
A carefully selected interview panel should interview the shortlisted
candidates. Panel interviews that include participants with diverse
backgrounds from the organization mitigate the chances of bias, favoritism,
corruption, etc. A panel should consist of the person responsible for HR
functions (e.g., recruitment), the hiring manager, and others as appropriate.
Interviews are designed to probe the interviewer’s areas of interest in order
to determine how well the candidate meets the criteria of the position and
the needs of the organization. It is important that the interviewers are
properly prepared to conduct the interview, as the interview is a critical
selection device.
“Some organizations conduct a series of interviews ranging from short
prescreening interviews (20 minutes or less) to long in-depth interviews
(one hour or more). Interviewing styles depend upon the preference of the
interviewers and the situation, but consistency with each candidate for the
position must be maintained.”4
One of the most important guidelines of the interview is the need to plan for
interview. The applicant’s CV or résumé and other application materials should
be reviewed and compared to the job requirements in the job description. This
provides an opportunity to plan interview questions that will yield relevant
job-based information.
The panel should have the list of pre-determined questions to ask, which
may be accompanied by a rating system. Interview questions should include
behavioral questions.
The following are tips for conducting a panel interview:
•	 The same questions should be asked of each candidate for a given
position.
•	 Panel interview members should not interrupt each other and should ask
the questions in a pre-determined sequence.
•	 Provide the applicant with an opportunity to ask questions.
•	 Tell the applicant when a decision is expected to be made and how it will
be communicated.

4 Society for Human Resource Management Learning System (2009). Module Two: Workforce Planning and
Employment. Page 2-172

17

Testing (skills assessment)
Organizations may choose to test applicants before or after in-depth
interviews. If the organization chooses to conduct testing, the test must be
valid, reliable, and job-related. Tests help to reveal more about the applicant’s
pertinent skills and knowledge for the particular position. For example, testing
is often conducted for positions in accounting, driving, and report writing
because these positions require a particular set of technical skills.
Reference and background checks
Based on the evaluation of the applicants, recommendations are made for the
top candidates for the position. In order to avoid hiring unqualified candidates
(e.g., those without the requested education, skills, or experience) or candidates
who present risks (e.g., theft, fraud, or misconduct), organizations should check
references thoroughly. Preferably, three references should be checked. References
should be obtained from former employers or supervisors. Organizations should
ask for permission from the applicant to conduct reference checks.
Organizations may also choose to conduct background checks. This may
include verification of academic credentials, credit history checks, criminal
records, and other records. Local laws concerning background checks should
be consulted. The employer may be legally required to request verification of
certain documents prior to signing an employment contract and there might
be legal restrictions on requesting other documents. Background checks are
usually conducted following an employment offer.
Employment offer and employment contract5
An employment offer should immediately follow the final decision to hire a
candidate. An employment offer makes the hiring decision official and is
formally communicated through an offer letter. The organization may verbally
extend the job offer and at the same time discuss the details of the offer. The
offer should specify by when the candidate must respond before the offer is
no longer valid. It is important to remember that employment offers must be
worded carefully to avoid misunderstandings.
“An employment contract is a legally binding agreement that explains the
relationship between the employer and employee.”6 The employment contract
should be written to clarify employment terms that can otherwise be subject
to misunderstanding and misinterpretation. The template of the employment
contract should undergo legal review.

5 Also referred to as an employment agreement
6 S
 ociety for Human Resource Management Learning System (2009). Module Two: Workforce Planning and
Employment. Page 2-195

18

There are many items to consider in written employment contracts depending
on the organization, the job, and applicable local law. The following are
recommended to be included in the employment contract:
•	 Terms and conditions of employment, including timeframe and working
hours
•	 Length of probationary period
•	 Job description
•	 Confidentiality and nondisclosure terms
•	 Compensation and benefits
•	 Reference to policies
•	 Terms of resignation and termination
•	 Appropriate signatures and date
Personnel file
A personnel filing system should be maintained. Each employee’s file should
consist of all documents related to the employment relationship such as
contract, job description, CV/résumé, warning letters, leave documents, and
performance plans and appraisal. The documents should be accessible to
employees upon request but otherwise kept confidential. The local law on
employee filing and document retention should be consulted.

19

S t e p 8 . 1 . 4 – O r i e n tat i o n a n d O n bo a r d i n g
STEP NAME

Orientation and Onboarding

Step Number

8.1.4

Inputs

•	 Job description
•	 Organizational mission and principles
•	 Organizational charts
•	 Annual plan
•	 Personnel policies and procedures
•	 Forms the employee will be using
•	 Technical manuals and guides

Outputs

•	 Checklist for completion of orientation process (optional
but highly recommended)
•	 Proper forms are collected for payroll and benefits

Organizational Role

•	 HR manager/designate
•	 Direct supervisor

Integration Points

Heads of various departments need to collaborate to
ensure that the employee experiences an appropriate
and comprehensive orientation.

Summary

Orientation and onboarding is designed to introduce
new hires to the organization, fellow employees, their
immediate supervisors, and the policies, practices, and
objectives of the organization directly related to the
employee’s job function.

The orientation and onboarding process is usually spread out over a few
months. It includes frequent feedback, relationship building, and mentoring.
It is designed to help the new hire integrate into the culture and become
a productive member of the organization. An orientation and onboarding
process “not only helps new hires to understand job-specific information,
but also provides organizational information to help the new hire fully
understand the organization.”7
An organization should have an orientation and onboarding checklist to guide
the direct supervisor and employee. The employee should sign the checklist to
validate that it was completed at the end of the orientation period. A copy of
this signed checklist should be kept in the employee’s personnel file.8

7 CARE. (2007). Welcome Package. Manuscripts on compact disc.
8 C
 atholic Relief Services. (2010). Institutional Capacity Development Tools for Local Partners, Human
Resource Policies and Procedures. Unpublished Manuscript.

20

HR Business Process 8.2 –
Compensation and Benefits
P roc e ss D e scr i pt i o n
The purpose of a compensation and benefits system is to compensate
employees for their work in a just manner. By offering competitive salary
and benefits packages, the organization can meet the needs of employees,
thus attracting and retaining employees. Total compensation is a term that
describes the entirety of what the organization is providing to an employee,
including salary and benefits.
The following are among the benefits of a compensation and benefits system:
•	 Each staff member is paid fairly and equitably and can understand
how his or her salary was calculated, reducing possible tension around
compensation.
•	 If the organization cannot pay competitive salaries, there may be other
benefits, such as increased leave, which may be very attractive to
potential candidates.
•	 By communicating the entire package of compensation and benefits the
organization may be more competitive and better positioned to attract
and retain staff.
•	 An organization will be able to approach total compensation and salary
increases consistently.
Strong HR systems take a systematic approach to compensation and benefits.
The following are among the best practices related to the compensation and
benefits system:
•	 Determine salary levels and benefits that, at a minimum, meet the
minimum requirements of local law. Seek legal advice to ensure
compliance with local regulations.
•	 Use a documented system for determining salaries and salary increases.
While salary information for individual employees is kept confidential,
this system should be accessible to all staff. This ensures transparency
and guarantees that salaries are determined based on the systematic
approach approved by the organization.
•	 Related to the above, a documented system lowers the legal risk to the
organization, as it eliminates the potential of paying salaries based on
unclear and/or illegal criteria such as gender, disability, or religion.

21

•	 Ensure benefits are offered consistently. If the organization offers
benefits to one individual they must be offered to other employees in the
same employee category or location. Care must be taken to ensure that
benefits are offered consistently and without discrimination.
•	 Maintain confidentiality of health information. Supervisors and coworkers
do not need to know any specific information beyond whether and how
much an employee is able to work. HR staff may be required by law to
decline to answer questions—even from senior leaders—regarding the
health of an employee.

22

P roc e ss Flow

HR Process 8.2 –
Compensation, benefits, and payroll
Start
Process

HR TEAM

Create an
Overall Salary
Scale
8.2.1

Institute
Benefits
8.2.4

Determine
Salary Offers
8.2.2

Timekeeping
8.2.5

Payroll
Administration
8.2.6

Determine
Salary
Increases
8.2.3

End
Process

23

David Snyder/CRS

S t e p 8 . 2 . 1 – C r e at e a n O v e r a ll S a l a r y S c a l e
STEP NAME

Create an Overall Salary Scale

Step Number

8.1.1

Inputs

•	 Job descriptions
•	 Market salary analysis

Outputs

Salary scale

Organizational Role

HR manager/delegate

Integration Points

Finance department/unit
Head of organization

Gladys Omboi, a
Clinical Officer at the
Nazareth Holy Family
Center in rural Limuru,
Kenya, keeps track
of the condition of
her patients through
careful record keeping.

Summary

An overall compensation structure should be developed
to guide the organization in what to pay for each
position. The compensation structure is a framework
that groups positions that receive the same range of
remuneration. The organization may choose to design
the structure by assigning each job to a band or grade
giving maximum and minimum salaries for each job.
Note that there may be legal requirements to pay staff in
certain positions a specific wage.

The first step in creating a salary scale is to evaluate jobs based on criteria in
order to group them. The organization will decide what criteria to use. Typical
criteria include the following:
•	 Level of responsibility for financial, material, or human resources
•	 Complexity of responsibilities
•	 Decision-making authority
•	 Extent of external representation and relationship responsibilities
Please note that job evaluations are not in any way an evaluation of the worth
of the staff member who fills that position. One method of job evaluation
involves grouping jobs after ranking all jobs in the organization according to
criteria such as those listed above.
The organization may choose to group jobs in tiers of salaries with a smaller
range of salaries. The resulting salary scale will result in a salary grade
structure, an example of which follows. A salary grade structure arranges jobs
into many levels of salaries and may have as many as 20 levels. Each level is
called a salary grade. Each grade has a narrow salary width and is comprised
of a minimum, a midpoint, and a maximum.

24

Illustration of a sample salary grade structure:
Grade	

Minimum	

Midpoint	

Maximum	

Percent Spread	

No. of Jobs in Grade

1	

$32,000	$38,500	 $45,000		 40%		

10

2	

$36,880	$44,275	 $51,669		 40%		

5

20	

$85,300	 $102,400	$120,000		

2

40%		

Once jobs are assigned to a grade, maximum and minimum salaries should
be determined for each job. The government may require a minimum salary
for a particular job or for all employees, so be sure that minimum salaries are
consistent with these requirements. In addition to the minimum and maximum
salaries, also include possible salaries at any point within the range.
The salary grade scale is just one example of a salary structure; broad band
structure is another example. The broad band structure consists of several
levels called bands. A broad band structure typically has four to six bands. Each
band has a broad salary width covering many jobs with similar salaries and
levels of responsibility. Every job has a designated maximum and minimum
salary and any salary amount within that range could be offered to an employee
depending on the type of job, years of experience, internal equity among the
other employees, and a host of other criteria. Within a single band the salary
ranges for different jobs may overlap but do not need to be the same.
Illustration of a sample broad band structure:
Band 	

Minimum	 Midpoint	

Maximum	

Percent Spread 	 No. of Jobs in Band

1	

$32,000	$51,000	 $70,000		 120%		

50

2	

$41,000	$66,000	 $91,000		 120%		

100

3	

$60,000	$98,000	 $136,000		 130%		

55

Knowing the organization’s needs and culture will help to determine the
salary structure. If hierarchy is important to the agency, then a grade system
may be a good fit. If the organizational structure is flat and requires flexibility
to accommodate employees moving from one position to another, then the
broad band structure is best as it allows changes with or without a salary
increase or decrease.

25

S t e p 8 . 2 . 2 – D e t e rm i n e S a l a r y O f f e rs
STEP NAME

Determine Salary Offers

Step Number

8.2.2

Inputs

•	 Compensation structure
•	 CV or résumé
•	 Applicant’s salary expectations

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate

Integration Points

•	 Head of organization
•	 Budget manager

Summary

When the recruitment process reaches the point of
making an offer of employment, the organization will need
to determine the appropriate salary for the candidate. Use
the compensation structure and organization-determined
criteria along with the candidate’s CV or résumé to
determine a salary for the new employee.

Now that the organization has established a compensation structure defining
what salaries may be offered to staff, this task is much easier.
The steps for determining a salary offer are as follows:
•	 Determine in advance what criteria the organization will use to place the
candidate within the range for that job (broad band) or the criteria for
selecting a particular step in the salary grade for that job. For example,
the organization might decide that in order to receive the midpoint of the
range for a particular job, an employee must have five years of relevant
experience in a similar position and certification in her or his field.
•	 Next, examine the candidate’s CV or résumé to determine to what extent
the candidate meets each of the criteria. Evaluate education level, years
of experience, type of experience to make a judgment that best matches
the candidate’s qualifications to the salary structure.
•	 Consider the salaries, qualifications, and experience of existing
employees whose roles and responsibilities are similar to those expected
of the employee whose salary is to be determined.
•	 Use the compensation structure and established criteria to determine
the offered salary for the new employee.
When communicating the salary offer, be sure to specify whether the offer
includes or excludes employee and employer contributions required by local law.

26

S t e p 8 . 2 . 3 – D e t e rm i n e S a l a r y I n cr e a s e s
STEP NAME

Determine Salary Increases

Step Number

8.2.3

Inputs

Depending on the method of providing an increase
selected use the following:
Merit increase plan
Salary survey schedule
Budget

Outputs

Adjusted employee salary

Organizational Role

HR manager/delegate
Direct supervisor

Integration Points

Finance department/unit
Head of organization

Summary

The organization has several choices in to its approach
to salary increases. Decisions about how to pay
employees and on what basis to increase their pay will
vary based on legal requirements and the values and
needs of the organization. Pick an approach that meets
the legal requirements of your country and is the best
fit for the culture and values of the organization. When
selecting one or more methods of increasing employee
pay, it is important to consult with senior leaders in order
to have appropriate buy-in and approval.

There are five approaches that organizations use for determining salary increases.
•	 Merit/performance-based – Many organizations adopt a compensation
approach that offers larger increases to higher performing staff. This
system does not characterize a person as a high performer permanently.
Instead, it rewards the employee’s performance for that particular review
period. The increase may be in the form of an increase in base pay, a
bonus, or an incentive. The merit/performance-based approach assumes
that there is a functioning performance management system in use by
the organization. Please see Step 8.3: Performance Management for
more information.
Example 1: A staff member performed excellent work last year and received a
substantial salary increase for that year. This year, she did not perform to her
potential and will therefore receive a smaller salary increase this year.
Example 2: Based on predetermined criteria, a microfinance facilitator will
receive a particular salary increase and will also receive an extra amount for

27

each new group started, or each group that maintains a rate of repayment that
is above a certain target.
•	 Market – Often organizations offer increases based on the market value
of the positions. This approach considers salaries for staff in comparable
positions in other organizations. With this approach the organization
needs to decide whether to pay staff above or below salaries offered in
organizations of a similar size. It must be noted that that not all staff will
receive the same increase, or any increase at all, with this approach.
Example: If a program manager is underpaid in comparison with the market
value for this position but an accountant is currently paid more than the
market value, the organization may decide to offer an increase to the program
manager but not to the accountant.
•	 Cost of living – Some organizations offer all employees the same
percentage increase for a given year. This is generally linked to inflation,
with the intent that the position has the same purchasing power from
one year to the next.
Example: All staff members received a large increase last year since inflation
was high. As inflation is lower this year, all staff members will receive the same
lower percentage increase.
•	 Tenure – Some organizations will link pay increases to how long the
employee has worked at the organization. Designated increases will
come after meeting certain timeframes, whichs can be the same or
differ across all positions. In some countries laws regulate this with
a mandatory, and often small, percentage increase for designated
positions or across all employees.
Example: A driver has been with the organization for six years and received an
increase after reaching year two and year five but will not receive an increase
in the sixth year.
•	 Combination – Often organizations will combine two or more
approaches from the above. One approach is to combine market and
merit compensation. This combination rewards employees for strong
performance and assists in retention because salaries are compared
with those offered by other organizations so they will not be too different
from competitors.
•	 Adjust the salary scale over time – Over time the minimum and
maximum salaries in a compensation structure will need to be adjusted.
The following are possible reasons:
•	 Government may establish new minimum standards for salaries

28

•	 Shifts in the labor market affect salaries
•	 Inflation may decrease purchasing power of a given salary
•	 Cost of living may increase
The organization has several options in determining the rate at which salaries
increase. Governmental agencies may publish statistics on inflation and cost
of living that can be used as a basis for changes. Research organizations
may also provide information on the basket of goods to show cost of living
increases. Purchased salary surveys may be used to determine shifts in the
local labor market.
Regardless of the method chosen for determining salary increases, please
remember the following best practices for sharing information:
•	 Individual salaries are confidential and should not be shared.
•	 The organization may decide to share salary ranges. If they are shared,
the organization should also explain the criteria for salaries, which
may include the number of years of relevant experience, education, or
certification and performance.
•	 The method for determining salary increases should be communicated
so that it is clearly understood by all employees.

29

S tep 8 . 2 . 4 – Inst i t u te B enef i ts
STEP NAME

Institute Benefits

Step Number

8.2.4

Inputs

Market survey
Local labor law

Outputs

Benefits

Organizational Role

HR manager/delegate

Integration Points

Head of organization
Finance department/unit (payroll)

Summary

The purpose of benefits is to complement the
employee’s salary in order to meet their needs, thus
attracting and retaining employees. There are various
types of employee benefits that an organization can
offer. Clear communication of benefits available to
employees will ensure transparency and consistency.

The following are some things to remember when managing employee benefits:
•	 Before making a decision about what benefits the organization should
provide, it should be confirmed whether or not the benefits are tax
deductible. Organizations need to determine what types of benefits they
will provide based on local laws, the organization’s mission and culture,
and local culture and context.
•	 Clearly communicate the benefits to ensure transparency and consistency.
•	 Staff members should be clear about what will happen to their benefits if
they separate from the organization. For example, they should know what
happens if they leave the organization before using all of their leave.
•	 It should be noted that some donors do not allow coverage of certain
benefits with their funds.
•	 Account for benefits in donor budgets. When discussing a budget from
a potential funder, it is advisable to discuss whether the compensation
line item includes benefits. If benefits are excluded, this represents
an added expense to the organization. If benefits are included in the
compensation line item, it is recommended that staff salaries be offered
at a percentage below that listed in the budget so that these funds may
be used to cover health, retirement, or other benefits. Ask the donor for
guidance on how this should documented, as premiums are likely paid
for all staff rather than the few who are working with this donor.

30

The common types of benefits an employer can offer include the following:
•	 Leave and paid holidays: Leave may also include paid or unpaid time
off for maternity or paternity, at the time of death of a family member,
military service, or civic duty.
•	 Health coverage: Benefits can range from monetary allowances for
medical expenses to a reimbursable fund. Health coverage varies widely.
Some health benefits cover only basic procedures but not more serious
illnesses. Some organizations will cover dental and vision care in addition
to basic health coverage. Regardless of the health benefit, be sure to
define who is eligible: The staff member only? Spouse and children?
Extended family members?
•	 Compensation for work-related injuries: A percentage of his or her
salary may be offered to the employee in the case of work-related injury.
•	 Disability: In the event that the employee becomes unable to work due to
health, the employer may contribute a pre-determined amount of money
or ongoing salary to the former employee.
•	 Retirement: The organization may provide a payment defined either
as a benefit, which specifies the amount that will be given at time of
retirement, or as contribution, which specifies the amount contributed
to a retirement plan. In the case of contribution, the actual amount to be
given to the employee at time of retirement may vary.
•	 Life insurance: Some organizations assist employees in paying funeral
expenses of family members, others pay a beneficiary in the event of
employee death. Depending on local law, life insurance does not always
go to a designated beneficiary; it may go to the estate or to “survivors.”
•	 Transportation to work: This may take several forms, including a
designated pick up and drop off service, particularly where security is an
issue; an allowance; or purchase of transportation vouchers.
•	 Moving expenses: The organization may also choose to pay to move a
current employee who is relocating or a newly hired employee who is
accepting a position with the organization in another location.
•	 Other benefits may include dependent care and medical expense accounts.

31

S tep 8 . 2 . 5 – T i mekeep i ng
STEP NAME

Timekeeping

Step Number

8.2.5

Inputs

Timesheet form

Outputs

Completed and approved timesheets for all employees

Organizational Role

Employees
Direct supervisors
HR department/Unit

Integration Points

Coordination between the HR department/unit and all
direct supervisors

Summary

Timekeeping is the process of compiling information on
each employee’s time and attendance data. It aids in
the accurate and timely compensation of employees and
demonstrate accountability to donors by ensuring each
employee’s time and attendance data reflect his or her
actual activity.

Timekeeping is the process of compiling information on each employee’s
time and attendance data. It aids in the accurate and timely compensation
of employees and demonstrates accountability to donors by ensuring each
employee’s time and attendance data reflect his or her actual activity.
Payroll consists of all employee salaries, wages, bonuses, cash benefits, and
deductions. The HR department/unit is responsible for providing accurate
and timely information to the finance department/unit on employees’ time
and attendance data, as well as on changes in employment status, pay rates,
deductions, etc. This information will be used by the finance department/
unit to prepare payroll calculations, do the payroll accounting, and disburse
employees’ salaries.
Timekeeping is done using timesheet forms, which should contain the
following information at a minimum:
•	 Employee name (first and last names)
•	 Employee identification number
•	 Department/unit name
•	 Assigned activities during the pay period (numerical codes may be used
for this purpose)
•	 Hours worked each day

32

•	 Paid time off (e.g., vacation or holidays)
•	 Signature of the employee and date of signing
•	 Signature of the employee’s direct supervisor and date of signing
•	 Time period during which the activity was performed
Each timesheet should meet the following standards:
1.	 It must show an after-the-fact determination of the actual activity of the
reporting employee.
2.	 All hours worked by the employee and all work-related activities in
which the employee was engaged must be reported on the timesheet.
The employee must specify the hours worked each day of the
reporting period.
3.	 If the organization’s practice is to submit timesheets manually, the timesheet
must be prepared in ink, signed, and dated by the reporting employee.
4.	 It must be prepared on a basis consistent with the employee’s pay
period, but not less frequently than once a month.
Each employee should submit a timesheet for each payroll period using the
organization’s standard form. The timesheet should be submitted to the
employee’s direct supervisor for approval and then routed by the supervisor
to the HR department/unit for preparation of the payroll information sheet.
The timesheet preparation and submission process may be either manual or
automated. In no case will salary be paid to an employee if she or he has not
submitted a timesheet.

33

S t e p 8 . 2 . 6 – Pay roll A d m i n i str at i o n
STEP NAME

Payroll Administration

Step Number

8.2.6

Inputs

Master salary record for each employee
Tax notices
HR (administration) memoranda

Outputs

Payroll information sheet

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate
Department/unit heads
Head of organization

Integration Points

All department/unit heads
Finance department/unit

Summary

Payroll consists of all employee salaries, wages,
bonuses, cash benefits, and deductions. Provision
of accurate and timely information from employees’
personnel files and master salary records in the form of
a payroll information sheet to the finance department/
unit is a prerequisite for payroll calculation, accounting,
and disbursement.

Payroll consists of all employee salaries, wages, bonuses, cash benefits,
and deductions. The employer must retain all records pertaining to
payroll. Such records include salary and wage histories and all salary
and wage deductions for the periods of time stipulated by statute and
standard business practices. Both the HR department/unit and the finance
department/unit have responsibilities related to payroll administration but
it is critical that the two departments/units are independent in executing
those responsibilites. Due to the sensitive and confidential nature of payroll,
it must be administered with due care and diligence. Strong internal controls
should be in place to ensure segregation of duties and checks and approvals
at the appropriate level of authority.
The main HR function in payroll administration is to compile the information
needed for payroll calculation and accounting, as well as for executing
payment. In order for the HR department/unit to be able to compile the
information needed, it should maintain the following:
•	 Personnel files (please refer to Process 8.1)
•	 For each employee, a master salary record showing the current rate of
pay, allowances, and statutory and voluntary deductions

34

Using these sources of information, the HR department/unit prepares the payroll
information sheet for each payroll period considering the following information:
•	 New hires
•	 Terminations
•	 Changes in employment status
•	 Changes in pay rates
•	 Changes in employee deductions
•	 Employee time and attendance data
Upon verification and approval by the HR manager/designate, the payroll
information sheet is presented to the finance department/unit for payroll
calculation and accounting, as well as for executing payment. For more
information on the payroll management function of the finance department/
unit please refer to Chapter 6: Finance.

35

HR Business Process 8.3 –
Performance Management
P roc e ss D e scr i pt i o n
Performance management is the process of defining clear performance
expectations and development needs and ensuring ongoing employee coaching,
development, monitoring, and assessment. This process assists employees
in maintaining or improving performance and in developing knowledge, skills,
and attitudes. It holds employees accountable for their work and behavior
and is crucial to the success of any organization. As in all areas of personnel
policy, local labor law should be consulted before designing and implementing
a performance management system (PMS) to ensure compliance with the law.
Employees and their direct supervisors are collaborators in implementing the
PMS, as they all work toward the same goals.
The following are some of the benefits of an effective PMS:
•	 Sets employees up to succeed, so they can serve the best interests of the
organization
•	 Provides guidance so employees understand what they are expected to
achieve and the work-related behaviors that will lead to achievement of
their goals
•	 Provides enough flexibility that individual creativity and strengths are
nurtured
•	 Provides enough control that people understand what the organization is
trying to accomplish
•	 Ensures accountability of both employees and supervisors
•	 Develops the skills and careers of employees
•	 Ensures employees are empowered, motivated, and engaged to perform to
their best potential
•	 Increases job satisfaction and morale among employees
•	 Reduces employee turnover and ensures employee retention
•	 Drives organizational success
•	 Promotes a positive organizational image and reputation
Performance management should be a component of the job description for
each supervisory position. Each supervisor needs to have the skills necessary
to assist employees in achieving performance standards and growing

36

professionally. More specifically, the direct supervisor’s role in performance
management includes the following:
•	 Assist employees in setting individual objectives that contribute to the
achievement of their unit/departmental plans
•	 Ensure each staff member has a clear understanding of what is expected
of her or him
•	 Serve as a coach, counselor, and guide assisting employees on an ongoing
basis in achieving set targets
•	 Work with employees to revisit and revise performance and development
plans as necessary when organizational priorities change
•	 Be responsible for providing development opportunities and resources in line
with organizational priorities and needs and with employees’ growth plans
•	 Motivate employees to succeed by rewarding their accomplishments
Employees are primarily accountable for how they perform on the job. Each
employee’s role in performance management includes the following:
•	 Proactively examine how his or her overall role relates to the objectives and
action plans of their department/unit
•	 Be familiar with the behaviors that reflect the organization’s mission
and values
•	 Examine the knowledge and skill requirements for her or his role and
performance targets
•	 Reflect on his or her achievements during the past performance period
and define what strengths can be made stronger
•	 Reflect on her or his career goals and how they link to her or his current job
and organizational needs
•	 Be accountable for honoring commitments made
•	 Be proactive in seeking feedback and assistance from his or her supervisor
as needed
In order to be effective, a performance management system should include
the following five components:
1.	 Performance and development planning
2.	 Coaching and feedback
3.	 Performance review and assessment
4.	 Rewards and recognition
5.	 Staff development and learning

37

P roc e ss Flow

HR TEAM

HR Process 8.3 –
Performance management

Performance and
Development
Planning
8.3.1

Performance
Review and
Assessment
8.3.3

38

Coaching
and
Feedback
8.3.2

Rewards
and
Recognition
8.3.4

Staff
Development
and Learning
8.3.5

STEP NAME

Mike Spingler/CRS

S t e p 8 . 3 . 1 – P e r f orm a n c e a n d D e v e lopm e n t
P lann i ng
Performance and Development Planning

Step Number

8.3.1

Inputs

The strategic objectives of the organization along with
the vision, mission, and values statements.
The department/unit (as applicable) objectives and
annual action plans
Job description
Employee’s performance results from the previous
performance period
Performance, development, and assessment form

Outputs

Employee’s performance and development plan

Organizational Role

Employee

CRS partners working
on a microfinance
project in Cambodia.

Direct supervisor
Integration Points

Collaboration among various departments/units on
setting objectives that contribute to achieving common
targets/results

Summary

Performance and development planning assists the
employee in understanding what must be accomplished
during the performance period and how duties
and responsibilities should be performed to best
suit organizational needs and values. This process
contributes to organizational success only when
individual performance and development plans are
aligned with the organization’s mission, values, and
annual work plans.

Performance and development planning is a collaborative effort between
employees and their supervisors, as they are both accountable for the end
results. The performance and development plan lists the performance and
development objectives for each performance period. It clarifies expectations
and sets standards for
•	 the results to be accomplished,
•	 the knowledge and skills to be acquired or improved, and
•	 the behavior best suited for the specific job responsibility and work
environment.

39

Performance objectives
Performance objectives define the specific results an employee needs to
accomplish during each performance cycle. The basis of the individual
performance objectives is the strategic objectives of the organization along
with the vision, mission, and values. These drive the department’s/unit’s (as
applicable) objectives and annual action plans. Each employee’s performance
objectives should contribute to those plans.
Performance objectives are different from the duties and responsibilities
of the employee outlined in her or his job description (please refer to
Process 8.1). The job description provides an overview of the employee’s
function, while performance objectives focus on the good, but long.fe
examples be in an appendix? management process, to ensure compliance
with the law,r law should be copriorities for each performance cycle. As such,
they focus on end results for the particular performance cycle and not on
detailed everyday activities.
Development objectives
Development objectives define the knowledge, skills, and attitudes an
employee needs to fulfill the specific job requirements and complete
her or his annual performance objectives. They may also be focused on
acquiring knowledge, skills, and attitudes the employee needs for her or
his future career goals. As such, those are sometimes defined as learning
objectives. Step 8.3.5 provides more information on how to manage the staff
development and learning process.
The standard performance period is usually one year, which coincides
with the annual reporting period within the organization. Performance
and development plans can be set for a period of less than the standard
performance period for employees who join the organization or get a new job
assignment during the performance period.
The performance and development plan for the defined performance period
is signed by both the employee and his or her direct supervisor and should
be retained in the employee’s personnel file. It is revisited during formal
coaching sessions/meetings or as often as needed. For example, change in
organizational priorities or a shift in the employee’s scope of responsibilities
may lead to changes in employees’ performance and development plans. This
plan will also serve as the basis for each employee’s performance review and
assessment at the end of the performance period.
Best practices show that it is not effective to expect employees to set
more than four or five performance objectives and more than two or three

40

development areas on which to focus during a performance cycle. Usually,
achievement of development objectives requires a long period of time, so
deadlines should be set carefully. Development needs learning and learning
needs time.
In order to develop performance and development plans, employees and their
direct supervisors should discuss and set performance and development
objectives, taking into account the following:
•	 Organizational mission and values
•	 Annual department/unit objectives and action plans
•	 Job responsibilities as outlined in the job description
•	 Knowledge and skills required for the job
•	 Behaviors that reflect the organization’s values and principle
•	 Employee’s performance results from the previous performance cycle
(please refer to Step 8.3.3)
•	 Employee’s career goals in comparison to organizational needs
•	 Available resources and opportunities for development and learning
within the organization
Since performance and development objectives focus on end results, they are
best defined in a quantifiable way to the extent this is possible. This makes it
easier to measure results at the end of the performance cycle. Employees and
supervisors should consider how the employee will express stated objectives
and how the supervisor will evaluate achievements against those objectives. In
other words, the objectives need to specify clear expectations with indicators
to be used when assessing performance.
Performance and development objectives are most effective when
expectations are SMART:
S

Specific

Help the employee understand exactly what is expected

M

Measurable

Help the employee and supervisor understand when the expectation is achieved

A

Achievable

Expectations should be realistic

R

Results-oriented

Expectations should focus on end results

T

Time-bound

Deadlines should be identified where applicable

41

The following is an example of a performance objective:
“By the end of March <number> training sessions for <number>
participants in <subject/sector/theme> are conducted within budget and
are assessed by the participants as successful.”
The performance objective above focuses on results and involves numerical
measurements: timeliness (deadlines, dates), cost (budget constraints,
limits), and quantity (how many). It also includes a quality indictor (client
satisfaction).9
The following is an example of a development (learning) objective:
“By the end of the performance period, enhance capacity to balance
multiple functions and tasks. Read a time management book, complete
an online course on setting clear priorities, and work with a mentor to
develop these skills. The percentage of work completed on time will
increase from XX to XX within the performance year.”	
The development objective above focuses on results (balance multiple tasks)
and involves specific measurements: actions (book, course, mentoring)
that are achievable and time-bound (percentage improvement within the
performance period set by employee and supervisor).

9 G
 upta, D, Gupta, M, & Gurnani, H. C. (2006). Are standards standard? Integration of goals & performance
management. Retrieved from http://www.indianmba.com/Faculty_Column/FC347/fc347.html

42

S t e p 8 . 3 . 2 – C o ach i n g a n d F e e d b a c k
STEP NAME

Coaching and Feedback

Step Number

8.3.2

Inputs

Job description
Employee’s performance and development plan
Input from employee’s colleagues and other
stakeholders

Outputs

Documented dates of conducted formal coaching
sessions on the employee’s performance and
development plan
Revised performance and development plan, as needed

Organizational Role

Employee
Direct supervisor

Integration Points

Direct supervisors should solicit input on the
employee’s performance from those who have regular
direct working relationships with the employee, either
within or outside of the employee’s department/
unit. Depending on the employee’s role, input may be
solicited from external stakeholders such as partners,
beneficiaries, or vendors.

Summary

The process of providing coaching and feedback is
critical in management as it supports performance
and personal development through an open,
genuine dialog between the direct supervisor and
the employee. This process provides opportunities
to monitor employee performance and development
plans, affirm good performance, identify potential
performance problems, and examine how learning is
applied to work.

Coaching is the activity of one person assisting another in developing her or
his knowledge, skills, and attitudes. The coaching process provides employees
and their supervisors with the opportunity to do the following:
•	 Reflect on overall job satisfaction, performance, development, and
relationships
•	 Affirm good performance and relationships
•	 Address inadequate performance and relationships
•	 Examine how learning is being applied to work
Feedback is structured information that one person offers to another about
the impact of his or her actions or behavior. It is a process of communicating
what you experience, observe, think, and feel about certain aspects of

43

the employee’s performance. In this process, the giver and receiver of the
feedback engage one other.
The benefits of an effective coaching and feedback process include the
following:
•	 Enhanced performance
•	 Improved work environment and relations
•	 Increased job satisfaction
•	 Improved employee retention
To be effective, coaching and feedback should take into consideration
various diversity factors such as culture, religion, ethnicity, and so on. Direct
supervisors should use coaching to assist employees to do their jobs well. By
recognizing the employee’s strengths rather than focusing entirely on areas for
improvement, direct supervisors will maintain employees’ self-esteem.
The coaching and feedback process should be ongoing throughout the
performance period. Ongoing coaching and feedback usually focuses on how
employees perform their day-to-day activities and how they behave in their
daily interactions with others. This ongoing process ensures that the employee
is not surprised at the performance review and assessment at the end of the
performance period.
In addition to the ongoing coaching and feedback, organizations should also
mandate two to three formal coaching sessions at defined times during the
performance period. Formal coaching sessions are used to monitor and
discuss progress on overall performance and development plans and reflect
on relationships between the employee and the direct supervisor as well as
between the employee and other colleagues and stakeholders. They also provide
the opportunity to revise performance and development plans, if needed, based
on organizational needs/priorities and individual progress and capacities.
The coaching and feedback process is also used by the direct supervisor
to initiate the development of a performance improvement plan in cases in
which an employee consistently does not meet expected performance and/
or behavioral standards. For details on the performance improvement plan,
please refer to Step 8.3.3.
For practical ideas about how to provide and receive feedback effectively,
please refer to Appendix D: Giving and Receiving Feedback.

44

S t e p 8 . 3 . 3 – P e r f orm a n c e R e v i e w a n d
A ssessment
STEP NAME

Performance Review and Assessment

Step Number

8.3.3

Inputs

Employee’s performance and development plan
(performance, development, and assessment form)
Input from employee’s colleagues and other
stakeholders

Outputs

Performance results
Performance ratings
Performance improvement plan

Organizational Role

Employee
Direct supervisor
Next-level supervisor

Integration Points

Communication among all supervisors in the
organization on the meaning and use of performance
ratings, so that they are applied consistently and
employees are rated fairly and equitably

Summary

The performance review and assessment process
determines individual performance results, which
should be used to celebrate achievements, recognize
professional development, and identify strengths
as well as opportunities for improvement. Overall,
it is used to motivate staff to enhance individual
performance and thus contribute meaningfully to
organizational excellence.

Performance review and assessment is a formal process through which the
employee’s work performance is reviewed and assessed at the end of the
performance period. This process is used to determine performance results
against the performance and development objectives set at the beginning of
the performance period. Usually it takes the form of a discussion between a
direct supervisor and an employee. In many organizations additional input is
collected in various ways from each employee’s colleagues (e.g., supervisees,
the next-level manager, or peers) and other stakeholders (e.g., partners,
beneficiaries, or vendors). The purpose is to identify strengths as well as
opportunities for improvement and development.
The performance review and assessment works best when it is oriented to the
future and not the past, i.e., when it is about improvement rather than blame.
It should recognize the employee’s accomplishments and assist him or her in
performing more successfully over the new performance cycle.

45

Some organizations may choose to apply the performance review and
assessment only to employees who have been with the organization for at
least three to six months. Often, during the initial months on the job the
employee is on probation or is still acquiring the knowledge and skills specific
for the job. Additionally, the employee is still learning the organizational
culture, mission, vision, and values. Of course, it is critical to conduct
performance-coaching sessions during this initial period.
If an employee changes positions or supervisors during the performance
period, her or his performance should be reviewed and assessed for the
whole period by all supervisors, who should reach an agreement on the final
performance results.
Performance Ratings
To provide for an objective and fair assessment of each employee’s
performance, it is strongly recommended that organizations use performance
ratings. These are clearly defined measures of performance standards or criteria
for successful performance. Performance ratings should be communicated to all
employees and used consistently by all supervisors in performance review and
assessment. Organizations usually set three to five performance ratings. (See
Appendix F: Sample Performance Ratings for an example.)
Whenever an employee and her or his direct supervisor hold different views
with regard to the employee’s performance results, the next-level supervisor
should be consulted to provide further input and make the final decision on
the employee’s performance rating.
Performance results and performance ratings should be documented and kept
confidential in employees’ personnel files. (Please refer to Process 8.1.)
Use of Performance Results
Performance results are used to do the following:
•	 Determine reward outcomes, i.e., staff awards and performance-based
pay increases such as merit increases or bonuses for the current job.
(see Process 8.2)
•	 Promote an employee to another position
•	 Identify staff development and learning needs (see Step 8.3.5: Staff
Development and Learning for more details)
•	 Identify the poorer performers, who may require coaching, mentoring,
and/or learning to improve performance and/or behavioral standards
that are not being met

46

•	 Make decisions to terminate employees who consistently do not meet
performance and/or behavioral standards after they have been provided
with coaching, mentoring, and/or learning opportunities (refer to
Appendix E: Unsatisfactory Performance Termination Checklist, which
can be used by direct supervisors to ensure adequate measures were
taken before making a final decision for termination)
Performance Improvement Plan
When performance results show that an employee may require some form
of coaching, mentoring, and/or learning to improve performance and/or
behavioral standards that are not being met, the direct supervisor may initiate
the development of a performance improvement plan. This plan is developed
following a constructive discussion between the direct supervisor and the
employee of the deficiencies in performance. It documents specific areas
for improvement and describes what actions will be taken to improve or gain
the knowledge, skills, and attitudes needed. This plan can be set at any time
during the performance period based on ongoing monitoring and coaching, not
only as a result of the annual performance review and assessment. The plan
should cover a time period no longer than three to six months, during which
time the supervisor will assist the employee in achieving set targets.
If the employee continues to miss or fall short of performance standards, the
supervisor may take steps to initiate termination of employment. This step
should be considered only after all performance improvement options have
been explored. Local laws should be consulted to ensure that steps taken
meet legal requirements.

47

David Snyder for CRS

S t e p 8 . 3 . 4 – R e wa r d s a n d R e cog n i t i o n
STEP NAME

Rewards and Recognition

Step Number

8.3.4

Inputs

Monitoring of employee performance
Performance results

Outputs

N/A

Organizational Role

Employees
Direct supervisors
Department/unit managers
Head of organization

Working through
local partner Caritas
Bangladesh, CRS
has provided support
for people who lost
everything to Cyclone
Sidr, which struck the
country in 2007.

Integration Points

Communication among all staff in the organization is
essential to having a clear understanding of how to
reward and recognize individual and team performance

Summary

A rewards and recognition program is used to reward
and recognize employees for exceptional efforts
and accomplishments in serving their units and
the organization in line with organizational mission
and values. It establishes an environment in which
employees feel valued. It motivates not only those
rewarded but also others to achieve a better quality of
work and higher productivity. It also results in stronger
employee loyalty to the organization.

A rewards and recognition program is designed to recognize both individuals
and teams for their performance results. This program is meant to reward
and recognize employees for their exceptional efforts and accomplishments
in serving their units and the organization in line with organizational mission
and values. A rewards and recognition program establishes an environment
in which employees feel valued. It motivates not only those rewarded but also
others to achieve a better quality of work and higher productivity. It also drives
organizational excellence and results in improved employee retention and
stronger employee loyalty to the organization.
To be effective, the rewards and recognition program must be supported at all
levels of the organization. Rewards and recognition must be distributed fairly
and consistently and various types of accomplishments should be rewarded.
They should not be used as substitutes for a competitive salary plan, supplies,
support services, or development and learning activities.
The process for rewarding and recognizing staff accomplishments should
be documented and communicated to all staff. This ensures transparency

48

and fair and consistent treatment of all staff. This process will define what
performance standards are rewarded and when, the types of awards and
recognition mechanisms used in the organization, and how rewards and
recognition are determined and communicated (e.g., who may nominate
whom, who approves, who communicates and how). Receiving one type of
award should not preclude an employee from being receiving other types of
rewards as well.
Types of Rewards and Recognition
•	 Ongoing positive feedback: Providing specific, descriptive, positive
feedback to praise staff for good work is a proven and effective
performance management tool.
•	 Pay for performance: Please refer to Process 8.2.
•	 Length of service recognition: Length of service milestones (e.g.,
five years of service, 10 years of service, etc.) recognize employees’
dedication and contributions.
•	 Promotion/career advancement: Promotion is another way to recognize
the exceptional work of employees who have proven they can take on
higher-level responsibilities. (Please refer to Process 8.1.)
•	 Spot awards: The most critical factor distinguishing this type of award
from the others is that it is given soon after the accomplishment occurs
in order to give timely recognition for a single outstanding achievement
above and beyond normal duty.
In defining the types, organizations should consider both monetary and
non-monetary awards. While monetary awards are important, employees value
non-cash recognition as well. When monetary awards are provided, these
should be clearly spelled out along with the cash limits.
Design
In designing a rewards and recognition program, organizations may consider
the following factors:
•	 Cultural context: What is the culturally appropriate way to recognize one’s
achievements?
•	 Local standards for value: What is the minimum monetary price value
that is considered of value in any given context?
•	 Custom and religion: These can dictate types of rewards, who can
give rewards, and how they are delivered and by whom (e.g., an
award ceremony, an organization’s newsletter, a memo to all staff, an
announcement on the office bulletin board).

49

•	 Organizational mission, goals, culture: What are the organizational
standards of excellence to be awarded?
•	 Teamwork: When teamwork is a crucial element of a successful
employee’s performance, consider a mix of team and individual rewards.
•	 Timing: Some types of rewards might be distributed at defined intervals,
others might not be linked to any specific time during the performance
cycle and are awarded as needs arise.
It is beneficial to solicit employee input in the design of a rewards and
recognition program via surveys, focus groups, or group meetings. This will
ensure the program is meaningful to them and achieves its objectives.

50

S t e p 8 . 3 . 5 – S ta f f D e v e lopm e n t a n d L e a r n i n g
STEP NAME

Staff Development and Learning

Step Number

8.3.5

Inputs

Performance results
Performance ratings
Audit findings
Learning needs assessment
Performance gap analysis
Staff development and learning budget*
*A special budget is not needed for all types of
staff development and learning. This step provides
recommendations on staff development and learning
activities that do not require specially designated funds.

Outputs

Staff development and learning plan

Organizational Role

Employees
Direct supervisors
Department/unit heads
HR manager/designate

Integration Points

Collaboration among direct supervisors from various
departments/units in ensuring staff development
and learning resources, human and material, when
a development and learning need can be addressed
internally in the organization.

Summary

Staff development and learning is the PMS component
concerned with various activities intended to support
staff in meeting performance expectations and growing
professionally. It also supports the organization in, over
time, preparing someone to take a new position in the
future. Monitoring and evaluating staff development
and learning is important in determining whether the
acquired learning has been applied in the job and in
ensuring identified needs are met and development
(learning) objectives have been achieved. When
managed effectively, staff development and learning
contributes to building, maintaining, and expanding
institutional memory.

Staff development and learning encompasses various activities intended to
support staff in meeting performance expectations and growing professionally.
Organizations are more likely support staff development and learning activities
when individual needs and goals are in line with those of the organization. As
staff development and learning deals with a performance improvement need,
it targets bridging performance gaps that can be classified as either current

51

or potential. Current gaps call for addressing the organizational need to invest
in a staff member for purposes of improving performance and development
to contribute more effectively to achieving high organizational performance.
Potential gaps call for addressing the organizational need to invest in a staff
member for purposes of that member taking on a new job assignment (e.g., in
cases of promotion and/or succession).
As staff development and learning have a major impact on the organizational
success, supervisors and employees are held equally accountable for their
effectiveness. Supervisors should provide staff with opportunities and
resources to learn and grow; monitor results; and make sure systems are
in place for capturing, sharing, and disseminating knowledge. Employees,
including supervisors, should take initiative and responsibility for their own
professional development and growth, take advantage of development and
learning opportunities that best suit the organization’s needs, effectively apply
the knowledge and skills acquired, and be accountable to contribute to the
institutional memory.
In order for staff development and learning to be effective and efficient,
organizations should ensure the following:
•	 Staff development and learning is accessible to all employees,
irrespective of position, hierarchy, age, and so on.
•	 In providing staff development and learning opportunities, accountability
for return on investment and improved performance is everyone’s
responsibility.
•	 Systems are set to ensure employees stay with the organization for
a certain period of time (defined by the organization) after being
sponsored/funded by the organization to attend a learning or
development opportunity.
•	 Staff development and learning requiretime and should not simply be
shoehorned into a busy work schedule. There should be respect for the
time needed, and for staff members to build that time into their regular
work schedules with their direct supervisor’s approval.
A systematic process should be followed if an organization would like to
implement an effective staff development and learning system. The critical
components of such a process are the following:
•	 Defining staff development and learning needs
•	 Defining the root causes of the performance gap
•	 Matching needs with an appropriate development and learning solution

52

•	 Monitoring and evaluating staff development and learning
•	 Setting a system for building, maintaining, and sharing institutional
memory
Using this process, organizations are encouraged to develop a staff
development and learning plan at the beginning of each reporting year. This
plan should be compiled and updated as needed by the HR manager/designate
and will contain information such as the type of staff development and learning
activities to be undertaken, by whom, when, and how; the funding required, if
any; and the people responsible for assisting/providing the activities.
Defining staff development and learning needs
The following methods are used to assist supervisors and staff in identifying
gaps between current and required knowledge, skills, and attitudes (i.e., staff
development and learning needs):
•	 Performance reviews and assessments (Refer to Step 8.3.3)
•	 Audit findings
•	 Learning needs assessments
Defining the root causes of the performance gap
Once a performance gap is identified, it is not advisable to jump immediately
to defining development and learning activities to be undertaken. It is
essential to first analyze the root causes or the underlying issues of the
gap, as not all performance gaps might be the result of a lack of adequate
knowledge, skills, and attitudes. Not every gap needs to be addressed by staff
development and learning activities. The following are examples of such gaps:
•	 A mismatch between the talents of an individual and the job (Can the
staff member be moved to another position for which her/his knowledge,
skills, and attitudes are better suited?)
•	 Lack of clarity with regard to the business process (Can the business
process be clarified or simplified? Is there a need to develop a tool to aid
that process?)
•	 Failure to provide staff with the resources needed to perform the job
well (Does the staff member not have access to proper equipment or
software? Are there other resources that would help the staff member?)
•	 Lack of clear distribution of roles and responsibilities (Do staff members
complain that certain roles are overlooked?)
This step is usually referred to as a performance gap analysis. Supervisors
use it in determining whether staff development and learning is the solution

53

to the performance gap(s) identified or other actions should be taken to
address the issue.
Matching needs with an appropriate development and learning
solution
If the performance gap analysis leads to the conclusion that the gap is the
result of lack of adequate knowledge, skills, and/or attitudes, careful attention
must be paid to selecting the appropriate development and learning solution.
A direct supervisor and an employee can discuss and choose from many
options, including the following:
•	 Self-study
•	 On-the-job coaching and mentoring
•	 Job shadowing: observing another employee’s day-to-day activities
•	 Job rotation: performing a different job at the same level
•	 Acting as a member of a committee
•	 Attending meetings and conferences
•	 Study tours (exchange visits)
•	 Training sessions
Formal training is not the answer for everything and not all development and
learning activities require resources in addition to what has already been
budgeted for salaries and regular unit or project activities. Lack of budget
should not be a constraint in meeting critical learning needs; rather, it should
challenge both management and staff to be more creative in making learning
a continuous process using available resources and the various options
defined above. By all means, staff development and learning is an investment
and should be considered with both short- and long-term impact in mind.
When staff development and learning require funding, as in the event of
attending a conference, going on a study tour, or participating in a training
course, there should be a transparent process for allocating these funds. This
process sets criteria for the type of learning opportunities to be sponsored
and ceilings on spending. It may require employees to formally apply for
access to staff development and learning funds and justify their needs. It
clarifies considerations for selection and sets requirements for the sponsored
employee to remain with the organization for at least a certain period of time.
The process also defines how funds are requested, approved, and accounted
for. It may specify a requirement for return of funds if the sponsored employee
leaves the organization prior to the expiration of the required period of time.

54

Monitoring and evaluating staff development and learning
This process provides evidence to the direct supervisor that the identified
needs have been met and development or learning objectives have been
achieved. It also assists the organization in assessing return on investment.
The organization has invested resources (human, material, and financial)
in enhancing employee knowledge, skills, and attitudes. To benefit the
organization, employees need to bring the new and/or improved knowledge
and skills to the workplace.
As development takes time to bear fruit, it is not sufficient to evaluate the
knowledge and skills acquired at the end of the learning activity. Organizations
must also evaluate whether the person applied the learning in her/his job. The
performance review and assessment process and the coaching and feedback
process outlined in Step 8.3.2 and Step 8.3.3 will assist the organization to do
that. These help define what changes have taken place as a result of the learning:
Is the employee performing at the expected standards? Does she or he behave
according to organizational values? How does the employee’s performance affect
the achievement of organizational strategic and annual plans?
In order for application of learning to be effective, the following must be true:
•	 Employees are provided the opportunity and time to test new learning
and skills on the job.
•	 Creativity and innovation are not punished.
•	 Resources such as equipment and Internet access are provided.
•	 Managers ensure the whole team understands the need for and benefits
of sharing knowledge.
Setting a system for building, maintaining, and sharing institutional
memory
Last but not least, organizations must set systems for building, maintaining,
and sharing institutional memory. Institutional memory is the organization’s
collective set of information and experience. Knowledge is an asset that
must be captured, preserved, and used by the organization. This will ensure
that the investment in individual staff development and learning is not lost
when people leave the organization, and will help the organization operate
successfully in the future.
Systems and mechanisms that contribute to building, maintaining, and sharing
institutional memory include the following:
•	 Folders (paper and/or electronic) with materials and documents received
at various learning events, available to all staff

55

•	 Communities of practice
•	 Debriefing colleagues or making a presentation on the purpose and
key learning points relevant to others after a staff member attends a
learning event
•	 Documenting key learning points in a report
•	 Writing a case study
•	 Preparing a trip report referencing learning points most relevant to the
employee’s work or ideas that he or she would like to implement.

56

HR Business Process 8.4 –
Employee Relations
P roc e ss D e scr i pt i o n
Employee relations is an area of HR that focuses on improving relationships
between the employer and the employee and providing them the opportunity
to communicate openly. Organizations are responsible to ensure that the
workplace is a positive and just environment. Organizations must therefore
institute mechanisms for employees to express their needs and to ensure that
their rights are protected. By ensuring that employee relations practices are in
place, the organization can more proactively and expeditiously address difficult
problems in the working environment, such as grievances, staff morale, and
poor relationships among staff.
A policy alone will not create a positive or just work environment;
communication about the policy and enforcement of the policy ensures a high
standard for behavior. After communicating the code of conduct to employees,
obtain a signed copy from each employee at time of hire and keep that signed
copy in the employee’s personnel file. All reports of code of conduct violation
must be investigated in a timely manner. 	
Some of the benefits of establishing employee relations practices include
the following:
•	 All employees are treated fairly and equitably
•	 Staff are more easily retained if the workplace environment is positive
•	 Lower risk that the organization will be sued
•	 Lower risk that the organization’s reputation will be damaged
•	 Fulfillment of moral and ethical responsibilities to employees
•	 Open lines of communication so that problems can be addressed before
they reach a critical stage
Strong HR systems include proactive employee relations measures. This
chapter will encourage the organization to do the following:
•	 Establish a code of conduct to create a positive work environment
•	 Monitor staff satisfaction and engagement, taking action as appropriate
•	 Address conflict between staff members in a timely neutral manner
•	 Ensure mechanisms for representing and protecting employee rights
•	 Ensure confidentiality
•	 Follow HR policies consistently
57

P roc e ss Flow

HR TEAM

HR Process 8.4 –
employee relations

58

Establish
a Code of
Conduct
8.4.1

Monitor
Staff
Satisfaction
8.4.2

Address
Conflicts
Between
Staff
Members
8.4.3

Ensure
Mechanisms for
Representing
and Protecting
Employee
Rights
8.4.4

Ensure
Confidentiality
8.4.5

S t e p 8 . 4 . 1 – Esta bl i sh a C o d e o f C o n d u ct
STEP NAME

Establish a Code of Conduct

Step Number

8.4.1

Inputs

Local law
Organizational mission and values

Outputs

A well-communicated code of conduct

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate
Head of organization

Integration Points

Finance department/unit
Procurement
Compliance
Governance – board of directors

Summary

To clearly communicate expected behaviors for all
employees, organizations should institute a policy that
protects the rights of staff, beneficiaries, and other
stakeholders. This policy is called a code of conduct. This
code will include a section on conflict of interest. The
code of conduct creates a standard that is consistent
with the values of an organization and is always created
in accordance with local law.

Reasons to establish a code of conduct include the following:
•	 Clarifies what behavior is expected from all staff
•	 Provides a basis on which to hold staff members accountable for their
behavior
•	 Protects the organization in case of an individual employee’s misconduct
•	 May be required by an organization’s board of directors or local law
•	 Fulfills the organization’s obligation to protect the rights of employees,
steward the resources of the organization, and uphold the reputation of
the organization
Topics covered in an organization’s code of conduct may include the following:
•	 Embezzlement/fraud (to improperly appropriate money or property for
one’s own use, including the misapplication of funds, mishandling of
cash, and bookkeeping errors)
•	 Falsification of contracts, reports, or records (including altering,
fabricating, falsifying, or forging all or any parts of a document, contract,
or record)

59

Rick D’Elia for CRS

•	 Improper supplier or contractor activity (including an improper negotiation
or diversion or illegal activity with respect to supplier or contractor awards)
•	 Theft
•	 Harassment (sexual or otherwise), discrimination, physical or verbal abuse,
intimidation, favoritism, or exploitative sexual relations
•	 Inappropriate use of resources (including use of organization or donated
resources such as cash, food, commodities, or materials for purposes
other than those for which they have been intended)
•	 Gifts and solicitations
•	 Other illegal or criminal use of organization property or assets
•	 Kickbacks, bribery, or the pay or giving of anything of value to a
government official directly or indirectly for the purpose of securing an

It is common for
family and community
members to join forces
to quickly accomplish
a needed task on each
others’ farms.

improper advantage
•	 A conflict of interest section, if it is in the interest of the organization,
dictating that no employee take any action or make any statement
intended to influence the action of another, including donors and
beneficiaries, to benefit the private interest of the employee or the
employee’s family members, rather than the interest of the organization.
(Please see Appendix H for examples of what might be included in a
conflict of interest statement.)
For employees in specific job functions such as accounting, auditing, and
procurement an addendum to the code of conduct may be needed as follows:
Accounting and Auditing
The following inclusions may apply:
•	 Fraud or deliberate error in the preparation, evaluation, review, or
audit of any financial statement of the organization
•	 Fraud or deliberate error in the recording and maintaining of financial
records
•	 Deficiencies in compliance with the organization’s internal accounting
controls
•	 Misrepresentation or false statements to or by a senior officer,
employee, or accountant regarding a matter contained in financial
records, financial reports, or audit reports
•	 Deviations from full and fair reporting of the organization’s financial
position
•	 Any fraud or violation of law relating to acts of financial misconduct

60

Procurement
Some organizations may want a specific code of conduct for staff who work in
the area of procurement.
Reports of violation
Reports of actions that violate the standards described in the code of conduct
policy are serious and must be addressed in a timely manner. Violations of the
code of conduct will require disciplinary action. See Step 8.4.4 for more details.

61

S t e p 8 . 4 . 2 – M o n i tor S ta f f S at i s fact i o n
STEP NAME

Monitor Staff Satisfaction

Step Number

8.4.2

Inputs

Employee feedback
Survey and interview data

Outputs

Survey and interview data analysis

Organizational Role

Survey and interview data analysis

Integration Points

Governance – board of directors

Summary

A strong HR system is intentional about listening to
staff. There are several methods the organization may
use to monitor staff satisfaction. In order to maintain
transparency, the HR department/unit should let staff
know that it hears them and build confidence that
any issues raised will be addressed, outcomes will be
shared, and next steps will be communicated.

Employees want to work in a positive environment in which they are part of
an effective team successfully reaching their objectives. Over time, obstacles
may develop, creating different dynamics in the workplace. In order for the
organization to address these issues, leaders must first know they exist.
Monitoring staff satisfaction is not only the responsibility of HR; managers and
all staff have a responsibility to participate in creating a positive environment.
These methods of gathering information do not replace the practice of
managers and employees being approachable and available to one another on
a daily basis.
There are several ways to solicit information from employees to identify if there
are any issues that should be addressed, including the following:
•	 Many organizations conduct an annual survey of employee satisfaction
and engagement.
•	 Organizations may also interview staff members who are leaving,
asking them to share their experiences as employees. For details on exit
interviews please see Process 8.6.
•	 Organizations may work with employee representatives through internal
committees, associations, or unions.
Regardless of what method the organization uses to gather information, state
that the organization strives to be a better environment for staff and that the

62

information will be used for this purpose. Share how the information will be
used and to what extent it will be kept confidential. Be careful not to raise
expectations that cannot be met.
Though gathering the information is a positive step it will not make a
difference unless further action is taken. Consider carefully what staff are
sharing. Disclose an overview of general ideas with decision makers, keeping
specific comments confidential. Involve leaders and staff in any resulting
action steps. Share the outcome and steps with staff to demonstrate the
organization is responding to their concerns.

63

S t e p 8 . 4 . 3 – A d d r e ss C o n f l i ct B e tw e e n S ta f f
M embers
STEP NAME

Address Conflict Between Staff Members

Step Number

8.4.3

Inputs

Employee conflict

Outputs

Mediation
Arbitration

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate

Integration Points

Governance

Summary

When an employee approaches organizational
leadership to identify a conflict there are several types of
constructive outlets including mediation and arbitration.
At a minimum, careful listening is important.

Conflict is inevitable when individuals work closely together over a long period
of time. This can be exacerbated when individuals have different cultures or
are at different levels of management, and during times of intense work or
uncertainty. The organization must support employees in addressing their
conflicts in an effective way.
When an employee approaches organizational leadership to identify a
conflict there are several types of constructive reactions. At a minimum,
careful listening is important. During such an interaction, keep in mind the
following guidelines:
•	 Be supportive but remain neutral after hearing only one side of the
situation.
•	 Affirm the person but avoid agreeing with him or her about specific
complaints.
•	 Ask the person if he or she would like further assistance.
•	 Mention that action may involve disclosure of some of the sensitive
information that was shared.
•	 Be clear about whether or not the leader has consent of the individual to
disclose information with others.
Mediation
If requested, it may be appropriate to provide mediation to the staff members
who are in conflict. A mediator role does not involve judging between two

64

Richard Lord for CRS

people. Instead, the HR staff member facilitates a discussion between the
staff members who are in conflict in order to come to greater understanding
and to agree to work together to come to a positive resolution.
Arbitration
Alternatively, arbitration can be set up for the parties in conflict. Arbitration
involves a neutral party who hears both sides of a conflict and decides what
action must be taken. Decisions made in arbitration are binding. Arbitration is
often used in workplaces with unions.

At a clinic in Cambodia,
a community health
worker talks to an
expectant mother about
safe labor and delivery.

65

S t e p 8 . 4 . 4 – E n s u r e M e ch a n i sms f or
R e pr e s e n t i n g a n d P rot e ct i n g Employ e r a n d
Employ e e R i ghts

STEP NAME

Ensure Mechanisms for Representing and
Protecting Employer and Employee rights

Step Number

8.4.4

Inputs

Employee reports of policy violation
Employee grievances
Audit report

Outputs

N/A

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate
Head of organization

Integration Points

Compliance
Finance department/unit
Governance

Summary

The organization should implement communication
mechanisms that will allow everyone to share
information openly. The rights of employees should
be protected from possible retaliation should one
file a grievance or report a violation of policy such as
the code of conduct. By having a process in place for
receiving grievances and reports of policy violation, the
organization has a means to resolve differences and
protect each employee’s rights.

If an employee accuses another staff member of misconduct such as sexual
harassment, threats, or fraud, the HR department is obligated to investigate.
Create a comprehensive process for investigations for accusations of harassment,
threats, and other actions covered in the code of conduct policy. Make every
effort to stay neutral when conducting an investigation. Consider carefully who
will lead the investigation. Local laws will regulate whether it is legal to suspend
an employee with pay when an investigation is being conducted. Conducting an
investigation in a timely way after the accusation has been reported is key. If
the process results in progressive discipline that leads to termination, steps are
explained in Process 8.6. Remember to maintain confidentiality during and after
the investigation, which is discussed in the next section.
The following are among the best practices to ensure protection of an
employee who files a grievance:
•	 To the fullest extent possible, the identity of the employee who files the
grievance will be kept confidential.

66

•	 Do not discharge, demote, suspend, threaten, harass, or discriminate
against any individual for making a report in good faith under a policy of
the organization.
•	 Reports shall be deemed made in good faith if the individual had
reasonable grounds to believe or suspect misconduct, even if the belief
or suspicion later proves to be unsubstantiated.
•	 If a conflict cannot be resolved informally, the employee will submit
a formal grievance statement and file it with the organization directly
or with a representative of the employee. Organizational leaders will
consider the statement and depending on the situation will either hear
from each of the parties involved or conduct an investigation.
•	 Document actions the organization takes as well as the statements of
each party involved.
•	 Once information has been gathered, the organization makes a decision
as to what action, if any, will be taken and informs the employee who filed
the grievance of the outcome.
•	 There should be an appeal process in place if the employee is not
satisfied with the outcome of the grievance process.
•	 Be sure that the organization has a policy outlining a process that is in
compliance with local law.
Discipline
Sometimes a grievance or report of policy violation and the resulting
investigation will lead to disciplinary action. Supervisors use progressive
discipline, a “system of increasingly severe penalties for employee
discipline.”10 This typically involves verbal and written communication to the
employee regarding the behavior that must be addressed. It clearly warns the
employee of the consequences if the employee fails to make changes. Local
law may dictate the steps that must be followed and the circumstances that
may lead to termination, so confirm requirements for the organization.

10 Bliss, W., Gamlem, C., Keary, D., Kushner, G., Losey, M., Outwater, L., …White, C. (2009) The SHRM Learning
System (2009 ed., vols. 1-6).

67

Step 8.4.5 – Ensure Confidentialit y
STEP NAME

Ensure Confidentiality

Step Number

8.4.5

Inputs

Local law
The organization’s definition of confidential information

Outputs

Confidentiality policy

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate
Finance

Integration Points

Compliance
Finance department/unit
Governance

Summary

By defining confidential information for the organization,
instituting a confidentiality policy, and restricting access
to confidential information, the organization can avoid
potential conflict and violation of local law concerning
disclosure of information.

The organization may be legally required to maintain the confidentiality of
certain types of employee information.
The following are among the reasons for protecting confidential information:
•	 Avoid embarrassing incident and potential conflict
•	 The organization and HR staff may be required by law
•	 The employee may take legal actions against the employer
First, define what is confidential information for the organization so that
employees understand what they need to protect. Examples of confidential
information may include salary, birth date, performance review details, and
medical status. Some information is not specifically confidential but is best to
keep private and the policy may include this as well. This information is often
called sensitive information and may include religion or political party. The
difference between confidential and sensitive information will vary by country
due to both culture and local laws.
Second, institute a confidentiality policy for staff to sign. As with all policies,
be sure to follow local laws. Drafting a policy is not enough. Before employees
sign the policy, explain why the organization established the policy. For staff
members who handle confidential information on a regular basis, periodically
remind them of the organization’s expectations and encourage them to

68

ask questions that may arise as they conduct their responsibilities. (For an
example of a confidentiality policy, please see Appendix G.)
Third, restrict access to confidential information. Now that the organization has
identified what information is confidential, consider where this information is
both processed and stored. Put measures in place to secure this information.
Typically, organizations lock employee files and limit which employees have
access to those files. Remember that electronic files and email may also
contain confidential information.
Staff members with HR responsibilities have access to confidential information
on a daily basis. Ask staff to follow the following best practices each time when
stepping away from their desks:
•	 Put away and lock confidential files
•	 Put away or cover any sensitive information on the desk
•	 Password protect computers and set short idle periods

69

HR Business Process 8.5 –
Staff Care and Safety
P roc e ss D e scr i pt i o n
Safety and security, staff care, and risk management are linked and may be
defined as the following:
•	 Safety and Security: Policies and procedures based on local laws and
best practices, designed to eliminate death, injury, or illnesses from
occurring in the workplace or during the performance of work duties offsite and to secure and protect all tangible and intangible assets of the
organization.
•	 Staff Care: Self-care techniques and institutional responses to stress
among employees in particularly difficult or stressful environments.
•	 Risk Management: The identification, assessment, and prioritization of
risks followed by actions to minimize, monitor, and control the probability
and/or impact of those risks.
The benefits of safety, security, risk management, and staff care include the
following:
•	 Employees at all levels who perform their duties without fear of harm
are more productive and have greater retention than those worried for
their safety.
•	 Policies and procedures protect the organization in times of crisis by
avoiding wasted effort, lessening the impact of the event.
•	 Protecting staff and property from harm reduces the risk that the
organization will be sued after an event.
•	 Positive perception of the organization’s commitment to staff and
property enhances its reputation with the public, donors, government,
and potential employees.
•	 Protecting the assets of the organization contributes to its long-term
sustainability.
•	 Finally, and most importantly, the people who work for the organization
are not just employees. They are fellow citizens, family members, and
friends. Protecting their health and safety is a moral obligation.
The following guidelines allow the HR department/unit to determine the
appropriate roles and responsibilities of employees, management, and of
the organization in maintaining safety and security. In order to have access

70

to all the information needed to develop and implement safety, security, risk
management, and staff care policies and procedures, the HR department/unit
must work collaboratively across the organization.
Important Considerations
National labor and occupational safety law
The first responsibility of the organization is to review and immediately adopt
all relevant national and local laws pertaining to the safety and security of
employees and of the workplace. Many governments provide checklists or
will help conduct an organizational audit (investigation) for health and safety.
Alternatively, an organization may engage an occupational health consultant.
No practices in this chapter should be adopted without first reviewing all
relevant national and local laws pertaining to the safety and security of
employees and of the workplace.
Many HR departments/units create a task force composed of staff and
management from across the organization. This task force helps to do the
following:
•	 Develop policies and procedures for safety, security, risk management,
and staff care
•	 Design and conduct staff training
•	 Prepare for the annual organizational safety and security audit
•	 Confirm compliance with the requirements of national and local laws
•	 Communicate to management and the board of directors
recommendations for improvements
In particular, the HR department/unit is charged with developing and enforcing
staff policies and procedures for safety and security.

71

P roc e ss Flow

HR TEAM

HR Process 8.5 –
Staff care and safety

72

Safety and
Security
8.5.1

Staff Care
8.5.2

Risk
Management
8.5.3

Step 8.5.1 – Safet y and Securit y
STEP NAME

Safety and Security

Step Number

8.5.1

Inputs

Establishing appropriate security policies based on risk
assessment

Outputs

Safety and security plan including standard operating
procedures, contingency plans and supporting
information

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate manages the plan
Security officer/designate implements and maintains the
plan
Head of organization/designate monitors the plan

Integration Points

Finance department/unit
Governance

Summary

In order to provide a safe and healthy working environment,
the organization should implement safety and security
systems that will protect an organization from liabilities.

Establishing appropriate security policies based on risk assessment
While the responsibility for maintaining safety and security is shared by staff
throughout the organization, HR often plays a lead role in ensuring that risks
are mitigated in the work environment. Safety and security policies must
be rooted in the organization’s mission and guiding principles and should
contain clearly defined expectations for staff. Indentifying safety priorities
and security policies as well as the potential risks an organization might face
is fundamental in developing a successful plan.
Some basic priorities to be considered are:
•	 The physical and mental well being of staff
•	 Minimizing or eliminating potential risk to staff and organizational
property
•	 Recommencing operations in a safe and timely manner after an incident
•	 The media and community image of the organization
Although each organization will face its own unique risks, the following is a list
of risks that may be relevant:
•	 Travel risks (due to poor roads and vehicle conditions, hazardous traffic
or civil unrest)

73

•	 Physical/sexual assault
•	 Health risks (due to disease or poor sanitation)
•	 Dangers to the organization’s image in the media or local community
•	 War/civil unrest conditions
•	 Unsafe building sites
•	 Fires
•	 Kidnapping
After indentifying both priorities and risks it is prudent to assess the
organization’s resources before the creation of a safety and security plan.
Below is a list of possible resources that the organization may already access:
•	 Security officers/armed guards
•	 Local governing authorities
•	 Communication devices such as walkie-talkies, radios
•	 Reputable drivers
•	 Policies and checklists
•	 First aid kits, flares
Writing a Safety and Security Plan
The three main sections of a comprehensive safety and security plan are:
standard operating procedures, contingency plans and supporting information.
Standard Operating Procedures
Standard operating procedures outline the way the organization conducts its
daily operations: who is responsible for what tasks, the manner in which tasks
should be completed, constraints on undesirable behavior, and where and in
what time frame tasks are to be completed.
Contingency Plans
Contingency plans outline the course of action for atypical operations of the
organization. Although it is impossible to predict all potential situations that
might arise, it is a good idea to identify as many as possible and develop
contingency plans for them. Clear and comprehensive contingency plans
are vital to an organization’s smooth operation--when crises arise they often
require an immediate and multifaceted response involving multiple staff.
Contingency plans should contain the same who, what, where, and when as
the standard operating procedures, but clear chains of communication and
back-up procedures should be put in place.

74

Successful contingency plans develop teams of staff members for emergency
evacuations. Employees are usually grouped according to the area in which
they work. Each team is appointed a leader to ensure the safety of the
team during emergency situations. This model is sometimes referred to as
the warden system. Sometimes, other team members are selected to play
supporting roles to the leader, or to take his/her place in the event of an
absence. It is important to ensure that at least two people on each team have
emergency first aid training.
Supporting Information
Supporting information is the supporting documentation for the standard
operating procedures and the contingency plans. The following are
some examples of things one might use as supporting information to a
contingency plan:
•	 Incident reporting forms
•	 Map of evacuation routes with reunion points
•	 Emergency contact information for staff
•	 List of reliable drivers for transportation
•	 Contact information for local authorities,
•	 Inventory of emergency supplies
•	 Security briefing checklist
Maintaining an updated Safety and Security Plan
A safety and security plan is only effective if it is readily accessible to staff,
updated on a regular basis, and presented to and practiced by staff. Keeping
a safety and security plan online allows staff members to access it at will, and
allows for changes to be made to the policies without waste. However, if many
staff members do not have access to the Internet, or if regular power outages
make internet access unreliable, it is wise to have some print copies of the
safety and security plan available.
As events occur the organization’s policies and procedures should be
reviewed, evaluated and changed, if necessary. Staff should be made aware
of changes and should practice emergency procedures on a regular basis.

75

Sean Sprague for CRS

S tep 8 . 5 . 2 – S taff C are
STEP NAME

Staff Care

Step Number

8.5.2

Inputs

Local labor laws/acts on staff care
Local labor environment assessment on staff care

Outputs

Staff care program and policy that will govern the staff
care aspect of employment in the organization

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate manages and maintains the plan
Head of organization/designate monitors the plan

Integration Points

Members of a
micro-credit savings
club dancing near
Bembereke, Benin.

Finance department/unit
Governance

Summary

Staff care is an important concept that should be put in
place in the form of a policy ensuring well-being of the
organization’s staff.

Staff care programs exist to provide physical, mental, and emotional health
support to the organization’s employees.
The following is a simple step-by-step planning process used to increase the
success of any staff care program in an organization:
1.	 Identifying the need for the program.
•	 Consider flexible work hours, workplace safety, improved working
conditions, nursing mothers, employees with a handicap, HIV in the
workplace, others eligible for special accommodations
•	 Protect against sexual discrimination; child labor; physical or verbal
abuse; harassment based on race, religion, national origin, ethnicity,
or physical ability; smoking; drinking; etc.
2. Assess employee needs and interests
3. Define a timeline and budget
4. Design the program
5. Submit it to the board for approval and implement
6. Assess and update the policies as necessary

76

S tep 8 . 5 . 3 – R i sk M anagement
STEP NAME

Risk Management

Step Number

8.5.5

Inputs

Local labor laws
Other applicable laws

Outputs

Annual risk assessment
Risk tracking schedule

Organizational Role

Finance department/unit and HR managers/designates
manage and maintain the plan
Head of organization/designate monitors the plan

Integration Points

Finance department/unit
HR managers/designates
Program department/unit managers

Summary

Identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks
followed by coordinated and economical application
of resources to minimize, monitor, and control the
probability and/or impact of unfortunate events
and/or to maximize the realization of opportunities
is a vital aspect of HR in an organization.

HR risks vary depending on the type of organization; its HR management
structures, processes, policies, and procedures; and the country and applicable
local labor and other laws. The following are some HR risk examples:
•	 Unfair labor practice claim
•	 Unaccounted late taxes that the organization is responsible for collecting
on employees’ behalf and paying to the government
•	 HR actions taken by an organization based on HR policy/procedure that
do not comply with local labor laws
HR risk management may differ from organization to organization. The
following is an example of an HR risk management system:
1. Identification of existing or potential HR risk
2. Analysis of existing or potential HR risk
3. Development of existing or potential HR risk handling models such as
the following:
•	 Avoid the risk
•	 Accept the risk for a reason (e.g., organization reputation issue,

77

importance of the activity to the organization no matter what the risk
would be, or insignificance of the risk)
•	 Outsource/transfer the risk (e.g., rather than owning motor vehicles,
outsource to transport companies to avoid risk of damage, injuries,
or death)
•	 Apply/resolve (assign responsible people a clearly outlined plan to
resolve and close the risk)
4. Assess and monitor implementation at least on an annual basis.
Restrategize risk handling models from Section 3 above as appropriate.

78

HR Business Process 8.6 –
Separations
P roc e ss D e scr i pt i o n
To manage employee separations, an organization must establish policies and
procedures for managing the risks involved (e.g., conflict, legal action due to
non adherence to the labor laws/employment policy).
The benefits of establishing separations procedures include the following:
•	 Ensure the organization adheres to local laws, lowering the risk of staff
taking legal action
•	 Ensure that a separating staff member is aware of his or her obligations
and rights
•	 Ensure staff members are treated fairly at the point of separation
•	 Enhance possibility of rehiring the same staff member if her or his
services are needed in the future
•	 Lower the risk of the separation process having negative impact on the
organization’s reputation and staff morale
•	 Establish and define the different types of separations and the
separation clearance process
•	 Define benefits payable to separating staff
•	 Define the balances of accounts receivable of the employee and recover
from final dues
•	 Promote fairness when dealing with staff separations
Important considerations applicable to all steps include the following:
•	 Except in the event of death, all employees are required to complete a
handover note as per the termination/clearance checklist. The handover
note section of the termination/clearance checklist can be customized
based on the nature of the job.
•	 Except in the event of death or termination for cause, the organization
should conduct a face-to-face or written exit interview. The aim of the
interview is to gather information from the exiting staff member on
areas such as conditions of employment, working environment, and
staff relations.

79

P roc e ss Flow

HR Process 8.6 – Separations

Registration
8.6.1

HR TEAM

Retirement
8.6.2

Fixed Term
Contract
8.6.3
End
Process

Start
Process
Redundancy
8.6.4

Termination
for Cause
8.6.5

Death
8.6.6

80

S t e p 8 . 6 . 1 – R e s i g n at i o n
STEP NAME

Resignation

Step Number

8.6.1

Inputs

Resignation letter
Local labor laws
Interaction with employee
Exit interview
Payment of final dues
Termination/clearance checklist

Outputs

Efficient and effective management of resignations

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate manages in consultation with
direct supervisor
Department/unit head
Resigning employee
Head of organization/designate monitors

Integration Points

Program management
Finance department/unit
Governance

Summary

When an employee gives notice of resignation, the
employer and employee should communicate clearly
regarding the specifics of the resignation as well as
what the organization will offer the employee upon
separation.  The employer should provide a written
acknowledgement of the resignation, including all
pertinent details.

Resignation is a willful and deliberate decision by the employee to leave
employment with or without giving reasons.11 It is expected that the employee
will give written notice of his or her intention to resign indicating the expected
last day of work. Usually local labor laws specify the required notice period;
employees should follow this.
Once the notice is received, take the following actions:
•	 Where practical, the employer should meet with the employee and
discuss the resignation including reason for resignation, mutually agreedupon last work day, benefits due, clearance, and handover process.

11 Catholic Relief Services. (2010). CRS Institutional Capacity Development Tools for Local Partners, Human
Resource Policies and Procedures. Unpublished Manuscript.

81

•	 The employer should acknowledge the resignation in writing, indicating the
last working day, benefits payable, clearance, and the handover process.
Following the resignation, the staff member is entitled to payment of the
following:
•	 Salary up to last work day
•	 Separation benefits as defined by local laws and organizational policies
•	 Information on how leave accrued and not taken will be compensated
•	 Certificate of service/letter of recommendation (as per local laws)

82

S tep 8 . 6 . 2 – R et i rement
STEP NAME

Retirement

Step Number

8.6.2

Inputs

HR policy on retirement
Local labor laws
Payment of final dues
Termination/clearance checklist

Outputs

Efficient and effective management of retirement

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate manages in consultation with
direct supervisor
Department/unit head
Retiring employee
Head of organization/designate monitors

Integration Points

Program management
Finance department/unit
Governance

Summary

When creating HR policies, employers should base
retirement and early retirement ages on local labor laws. 
The employer and employee should communicate clearly
regarding what the organization will offer the employee
upon separation.

Organizations determine an age after which an employee ceases to work
on the basis of retirement. This is guided by the local labor laws and the
organization’s HR policy on retirement.
In some cases, early retirement can be applied. Where applicable, it must
be in line with local laws and circumstances must be clearly defined.
Organizations may allow early retirement on medical grounds, meaning a
staff member is allowed to access retirement benefits in the event that she
or he is unable to work due to long-term illness or injury.
The last working day should be in line with provisions of local labor laws
and HR policy on retirement.
Other issues to consider and communicate are whether or not
the organization plans to hire post-retirement employees and the
circumstances and status of any retirement benefits they are receiving
when rehired.

83

Retired employees will be entitled to payment of the following:
•	 Salary up to last work day
•	 Retirement benefits as defined by local laws and organizational policies
•	 Information on how leave accrued and not taken will be compensated
•	 Certificate of service/letter of recommendation (as per local laws)

84

S t e p 8 . 6 . 3 – F i x e d T e rm C o n tr a ct
STEP NAME

Fixed Term Contract

Step Number

8.6.3

Inputs

HR policy on separation
Local labor laws
Payment of final dues
Termination/clearance checklist

Outputs

Efficient and effective management of separation under
fixed term contracts

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate manages in consultation with
direct supervisor
Department/unit head
Separating employee
Head of organization/designate monitors

Integration Points

Program management
Finance department/unit
Governance

Summary

Fixed term positions often rely on external funding and
must comply with local labor laws.  The employer and
employee should communicate clearly regarding the
specifics of the contract as well as what the organization
will offer the employee upon separation.

Fixed term contracts are common in organizations that rely on external
funding. Local laws should be consulted to verify they provide for the option of
terminating fixed term contracts prior to the expiration of the term specified in
the contract. If needed, the employer may extend the contract term in writing
with agreement from employee.
Discussions should be held between the employee and the employer on the
benefits, responsibilities, and liabilities of this type of contract. The discussions
should clarify circumstances of contract extension/renewal, the length of the
new contract, and when the benefits related to the ended contract are payable.
After the end of contract, the separating staff is entitled to payment of the following:
•	 Salary up to last work day
•	 Information on how leave accrued and not taken will be compensated
•	 Certificate of service/letter of recommendation (as per local laws)
•	 Any other benefit as provided by local laws or the organization’s policies

85

S t e p 8 . 6 . 4 – R e d u n da n c y
STEP NAME

Redundancy

Step Number

8.6.4

Inputs

HR policy on separation
Local labor law
Payment of final dues
Termination/clearance checklist

Outputs

Efficient and effective management of separation due to
redundancy

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate manages in consultation with
direct supervisor
Department/unit head
Separating employee
Head of organization/designate monitors

Integration Points

Program management
Finance department/unit
Governance

Summary

An employee’s position may be eliminated due to
redundancy. The employee must be notified in writing
of the reason for and details of the separation.  The
employer and employee should communicate clearly
regarding what the organization will offer the employee
upon separation.

Redundancy refers to the employee’s involuntary loss of employment through
structural changes, reduced funding, or unplanned project closure, causing
existing employment positions to be rendered redundant or inactive.
In compliance with local laws and HR policy on separation, the employer
should notify affected employees in writing, including the reasons for the
separation and the conditions. The conditions include benefits payable,
management of unused leave, clearance, the handover process, and so on
(e.g., if the law provides for the redundancy benefit of half a month’s salary
for each year of service and the employee leaves the organization after three
years of service, the organization is obligated to pay an equivalent of oneand-a-half month’s salary based on the salary at the time of separation.)
Staff members who separate due to redundancy are entitled to payment of
the following:

86

•	 Salary up to last work day
•	 Redundancy benefits as defined by local laws
•	 Information on how leave accrued and not taken will be compensated
•	 Certificate of service/letter of recommendation (as per local laws)

87

S t e p 8 . 6 . 5 – T e rm i n at i o n f or C a u s e
STEP NAME

Termination for Cause

Step Number

8.6.5

Inputs

HR policy on separation
Local labor laws
Payment of final dues
Termination/clearance checklist

Outputs

Efficient and effective management of separation under
circumstances like termination for just cause

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate manages in consultation with
direct supervisor
Department/unit head
Separating employee
Head of organization/designate monitors

Integration Points

Program management
Finance
Governance

Summary

When terminating an employee for cause, employers
should take great care to comply with current company
policy and local labor laws.  Proper investigations should
be conducted and the employee given the chance to
appeal the decision.  The employer and employee should
communicate clearly regarding what the organization will
offer the employee upon separation.

An employee will be subject to termination for cause for violating the
organization’s policies, for consistently not meeting performance
standards, or for committing major offenses. In cases in which the
termination is for consistently not meeting performance standards,
supervisors should refer to Process 8.3 to ensure that all steps for
assisting employees in meeting performance standards have been taken
prior to making a decision for termination.
In cases in which the termination is in relation to not following the
organization’s policies, the employer must refer to the policy the employee
has violated. Please refer to Process 8.4.
In cases when the termination is for a major offenses, the employer must
first consider what constitutes a major offense under local labor laws. The
following is a sample list of major offenses that may be cause for immediate
dismissal unless local law provides limitations or other provisions. Major

88

offences may include but are not limited to the following:
•	 Stealing/theft including theft from the organization, partners and
beneficiaries, or from other employees
•	 Inaccurate reporting of business expenses, bribery, or other offenses
involving graft or corruption
•	 Sexual harassment
•	 Violence or threats of violence against other employees, partners,
beneficiaries, etc., and/or any behavior which endangers other
employees or creates a safety hazard
•	 Absence without giving notice and without obtaining employer permission
•	 Other as specified by local laws
All terminations for cause will be in writing, using the appropriate format as
per local labor laws. The head of the organization should sign all termination
documentation.
All major offenses should be fully investigated, maintaining strict confidentiality
during and after the investigations. It is important for the affected employee to
be given a chance to appeal the decision. Appeal mechanisms should be welldefined and should include to whom within the organization the staff member
should make his or her appeal.
Organizations should ensure that any separation benefits withheld or not paid
in cases of termination for cause are in compliance with local labor laws. Staff
members terminated for a cause may be entitled to payment of the following:
•	 Salary up to last work day
•	 Information on how leave accrued and not taken will be compensated
•	 Certificate of service (as per local laws)
•	 Any other benefit defined in local laws

89

S tep 8 . 6 . 6 – D eath
STEP NAME

Death

Step Number

8.6.6

Inputs

HR policy on separation in the event of death
Local labor law
Payment of final dues
Termination/clearance checklist

Outputs

Efficient management of separation in case of death

Organizational Role

HR manager/designate manages in consultation with
direct supervisor
Department/unit headHead of organization/designate
monitors

Integration Points

Finance
Governance

Summary

Upon the death of an employee, the employer must
determine the last day of service and pay all appropriate
salary and benefits.

The following steps should be followed in separation in case of death:
•	 Define last recognized work day for salary and benefits computation. The
salary and benefits may be paid up to day of the death of the employee
or up to the last day of the month in which the employee died.
•	 Define death benefits in accordance with benefits policy and local
labor law.
•	 Notify relevant insurance and government offices.
Benefits will be paid in line with local labor laws and/or provisions of the
organization’s policies and guidelines. In circumstances in which local laws
and the policies provide for employees to nominate beneficiaries, payment
should be in line with the nomination list.
Payment normally includes the following:
•	 Salary up to last work day
•	 Death benefits as provided by local laws and HR policy on separation
in the event of death. This may include payment of funeral-related
expenses, insurance benefits, and other payments.

90

Compliance Checklist for HR
The compliance review aims to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of
the human hesources function in the organization. The reviewer should
obtain copies of HR documents and assess their existence, adequacy, and
completeness. The review covers the following key areas of the human
resources function: human resources policies and procedures, payroll
management, recruitment and separation process, staff development and
training, staff records, and staff performance appraisal.
Human Resources Review Checklists
The following checklist may be used in the review.
Human Resources Policies and Procedures
Does the organization have written human resources (HR) policies and a
procedures manual?
•	 Are the HR policies and procedures based on local labor laws?
•	 Are the HR policies and procedures regularly updated and revised?
•	 Is there staff dedicated to handling the HR function in the organization?
•	 Are staff members oriented on the HR policies and procedures when
they join the organization?
Review of Personnel Records
A review of this section seeks to establish if appropriate personnel records
are maintained for each employee and confidentiality of information is
preserved.
•	 Do staff members have written contracts of employment?
•	 Do staff members have written job descriptions?
•	 Are personnel files maintained for each employee?
•	 Are the personnel files updated with all required staff documents (e.g.,
contract of employment, job description, educational certificates and
testimonials, performance appraisals, leave records)?
•	 Is access to the personnel files restricted to authorized personnel?
Review of Payroll
Payroll consists of all employees’ salaries, wages, bonuses, and deductions.
An employer must retain all records pertaining to payroll. Such records
include salary and wage histories and all salary and wage deductions for the
periods of time stipulated by statute and standard business practices.

91

The compliance review of payroll management seeks to establish that the
payroll management system is well established and functioning and that
the payroll is accurate, approved, and in line with organizational policies on
payroll management.
•	 Does the organization maintain a payroll register for monthly staff
salaries and allowances?
•	 Is there a person dedicated to preparing the payroll register?
•	 What records are used as the basis for the preparations of payroll?
•	 What procedures exist for verifying and dealing with non-routine
circumstances such as employee absence?
•	 Is payroll reviewed for accuracy and approved by someone other than the
person preparing payroll?
•	 Does a staff member other than the one preparing the payroll register
pay salaries?
•	 Are net salaries paid to staff members through direct deposits to their
bank accounts?
•	 Are salaries on the payroll register in agreement with the amounts on the
contracts of employment?
•	 Is there comparison of payroll register of the current month to that of the
prior month?
•	 Is the removal or addition of employees to the payroll register
approved by the relevant persons and supported with the
relevant documents?
•	 Is appropriate authority granted for the current staff grading/salary and
is it in agreement with the formal salary structure?
•	 Does each staff member have a unique identification number and is this
used on payroll and in personnel files?
•	 Does the individual employee exist and is he or she a bona fide staff
member? Obtain independent evidence.
•	 Are changes in staff salaries and allowances on the payroll supported
with official communications to staff as per the personnel files?
•	 Do the relevant persons in the organization approve changes to staff
salaries and allowances?
•	 Are statutory deductions made on the payroll and remitted on time as per
statutory requirements?
•	 Is the calculation of the statutory deductions accurate?

92

•	 Are non-statutory deductions on staff salaries on the payroll authorized
through written communication from the employees as per the
personnel files?
•	 Do the deductions from employee salaries comply with organization/local
labor law requirements governing the maximum amount of voluntary
deductions that can be taken from an employee’s monthly salary?
•	 Are payroll costs charged to the appropriate cost centers/account codes
and posted to the cashbook and ledger?
•	 Is access to payroll restricted to authorized staff only?
•	 For employees who maintain time cards/timesheets for time worked, do
the time records reflect the actual hours/minutes worked rather than the
hours scheduled to work?
•	 Do payment dates agree with the attendance register/timesheets
maintained?
•	 Are timesheets accurate, authorized, and signed by the supervisor?
•	 Are payroll costs charged to appropriate account codes in proportion to
the actual hours worked as per the timesheets?
•	 If salaries are paid in cash, is money securely stored?
•	 Does the safe have a lock?
•	 Is access to unclaimed wages restricted to authorized personnel?
•	 Does the person responsible for payroll payment have access to the safe?
•	 If payment is by cash, how long is the cash payroll kept before payment?
•	 Is there a document the payer and the payee sign before payment is made?
•	 Are unclaimed wages properly accounted for?
•	 Are the unclaimed wages recorded? If yes, how?
•	 Is there a person responsible for unclaimed wages?
•	 Where are unclaimed wages kept?
•	 How long are unclaimed wages kept?
•	 Is authority in writing required before a representative of an employee
is paid?
•	 Does the organization allow salary advances? If so, are they properly
accounted for during payroll?
•	 Does the organization employ casual labor?
•	 Are casual laborers paid in accordance with the organization’s personnel
policies, local laws, and regulations?

93

Laura Sheahen/CRS

•	 Are taxes withheld from the casual labor wages?
•	 Does the organization hire consultants locally? If so, does the
organization have contracts for the hired consultants?
•	 Does the organization give staff loans? If so, does the organization have
a written agreement with staff concerning terms of the loan repayment?
•	 Are recoveries made on the loans as stipulated in the loan agreement?
•	 From sample employee records reviewed, do holidays taken in the last
year exceed holiday entitlement stated in the contract of employment or
approved holiday schedule?
•	 Have holiday days been properly authorized?
•	 Are there instances of staff members who have not taken leave for long
periods of time?

A teacher conducts
a writing lesson at a
school for the deaf in
Kabul run by ANAD, the
Afghanistan National
Association of the Deaf.

•	 Are there instances of staff being paid in lieu of taking leave?
Review of Staff Recruitment and Separation
Compliance review of this section seeks to establish if adequate policies and
procedures for staff recruitment and separation are in place and observed in
all cases as applicable. Since separation through termination can be a cause
of conflict and legal action, organizations should adhere to labor laws and set
policies and procedures for separations from employment.
•	 Was the recruitment process followed as per written HR policies and
procedures?
•	 If not, was there approval from the relevant authority within the
organization for the exception?
•	 Are new staff members properly oriented to the organization?
•	 Have separated staff members completed the staff exit clearance form?
•	 Except for separations by death or termination for cause, are face-to-face
and/or written exit interviews conducted by the HR department/unit for
all separated staff?
•	 When staff members have separated by way of termination of services,
has the termination process been followed as per HR policies and
procedures?
•	 Are there any subsequent payments to separated staff after termination
of employment? If so, verify appropriateness, approval, and collection of
such payments.
•	 Have terminated staff members been issued certificates of service or
letters of recommendation (as per local laws)?

94

•	 In the case of separation by death, have the necessary notifications been
given to insurance and government offices and due salaries and benefits
paid in accordance with HR policies and procedures?
Review of Staff Development and Learning
The review of this section seeks to establish if the organization has
established and complies with policies and procedures of staff development
and learning, which is one of the key components of an effective performance
management system.
•	 Are there any costs incurred by the organization for staff development
and learning? If so, are the costs in line with HR policies and procedures
for staff development and learning?
•	 Are opportunities for staff development and learning considered with
regard to the provisions of staff development and learning policies and
procedures?
Staff Performance Appraisal
The review of this section seeks to confirm staff performance is reviewed
regularly and according to standards across the organization regardless of
the position.
•	 Is there a policy for staff performance appraisal?
•	 Are staff performance appraisals conducted regularly as per the policies
and procedures manual?
Compensation and Benefits
The review of this section serves to minimize risk regarding total compensation
of employees.
•	 Are benefits and compensation awarded to staff in line with HR policies
and procedures?
•	 Does the benefits and compensation policy comply with government
policies?
•	 Have statutory deductions to benefits been made and remitted as per
statutory requirements?
•	 Is calculation of the statutory deductions accurate?
•	 In case of severance benefits accrued, verify mathematical accuracy and
compliance with HR policy.
Safety and Security of Office and Staff
Every organization is obligated to take measures to support the safety of
the staff and office. Some of the measures taken may include security and

95

safety policies in the workplace and guidelines for implementation of the
policies and measures that can be undertaken in case of emergency, terror
attack, and others.
The compliance officer’s main objectives in this regard is to establish
•	 existence of security and safety arrangements in the organization,
•	 evidence of implementation of the guidelines for security and safety
procedures, and
•	 staff awareness and preparedness for the policies.
The compliance officer should test to establish the existence of the security
and safety policies with the following checklist:
•	 Does the organization have safety and security policies in place?
•	 Are the copies of the policies distributed to all staff members?
•	 Are staff members aware of the safety plans?
•	 Are new staff members inducted into the security and safety plans?
•	 Test to establish the coverage of the policies.
•	 Do the security and safety policies cover all organizational activities and
movements?
•	 Do the policies cover staff movement and travel via office vehicles, public
means, air, and sea?
•	 Do the policies define the roles and responsibilities of the officers
handling safety matters?
•	 Are security and risk assessments carried out periodically and if so are
major security risks analyzed?
Test the organization’s preparedness in managing safety and security matters
using the following checklist:
•	 Does the organization issue security and safety guidelines to all staff
members and visitors?
•	 Does the organization have safety and security relocation plans? If so,
are the plans known to all the staff?
•	 Does the organization issue maps and guidance for their visitors and new
staff members? How often is this guidance updated?
•	 Does the organization have contingency plans? If so, do they cover all
possible occurrences?

96

Glossary
Annual action plan: A document that outlines the major objectives or
initiatives of an organization for a given year, typically including a timeline for
implementation.
Arbitration: A procedure in which disputes are submitted to one or more
impartial persons for final determination. (SHRM)
Background check: A process of confirming appropriateness of a candidate
for a position by verifying personal information such as academic credentials,
credit history, or criminal records.
Broad Band Structure: A specific salary structure characterized by a few levels
of grouped salaries as opposed to a salary grade structure.
Coaching: The process in which a supervisor assists his/her employee in
developing her or his knowledge, skills, and attitudes.
Compensation structure: A framework that groups positions that receive the
same range of remuneration.
Development objective: The knowledge, skills, and attitudes an employee
needs to fulfill his or her specific job requirements and complete his or her
annual performance objectives.
Defined benefit plan: A plan that promises an employee a retirement benefit
amount based on a formula. (SHRM)
Defined contribution plan: A plan in which the employer and sometimes the
employee make an annual payment to the employee’s retirement account.
(SHRM)
Employment contract: An agreement between an employer and an employee
that explains the employment relationship. (SHRM)
Feedback: Structured information that one person offers to another about the
impact of her or his actions or behavior. It is a process of communicating what one
experiences, observes, thinks, and feels about the other’s actions or behavior.
Formal grievance statement: A document created on behalf of an employee
or employees that is submitted to an organization as part of a formal process
for resolving workplace issues.
Job analysis: A systematic study of jobs to determine what activities and
responsibilities they include, relative importance and relationship with other
jobs. (SHRM)

97

Job description: A summary of the most important features of a job including
required tasks, knowledge, skills, abilities, responsibilities and reporting
structure. (SHRM)
Learning needs assessment: A tool used to identify individual job-related
knowledge or skills an individual lacks.
Market salary analysis: An assessment that matches positions of an
organization to positions with similar responsibilities in other organizations for
the purpose of comparing compensation.
Mediation: A method of non-binding dispute resolution involving a third party
who helps disputing parties reach a mutually agreeable decision. (SHRM)
Nondisclosure terms: Information that while shared between an employer and
employee is restricted from third parties
Organizational Charts: A visual representation of the reporting relationships
among a group of employees within an organization or department within an
organization.
Performance improvement plan: An action plan set to assist an employee
in meeting the desired level of performance and professionalism when
performance monitoring, review, and assessment results show that the
employee needs to improve his or her work.
Performance management: The process of assisting employees in
maintaining or improving performance through ongoing employee coaching,
monitoring and assessment, and development.
Performance objective: The specific results an employee needs to accomplish
during each performance cycle.
Performance rating: A clearly defined measure of performance standards/criteria.
Performance review and assessment: A formal process through which
the employee’s work performance is reviewed and assessed against set
performance and development objectives.
Prescreen: A brief interview that serves to confirm the candidate possesses
the minimum qualifications.
Progressive discipline: A system of increasingly severe penalties for employee
discipline. (SHRM)
Redundancy: An employee’s involuntary loss of employment through structural
changes, reduced funding, or unplanned project closure.

98

Reference check: A process of confirming appropriateness of a candidate for
a position, typically involving input from former supervisors.
Return on investment: A calculation that measures the economic return on a
project or investment. (SHRM)
Rewards and recognition program: A system designed to recognize both
individuals and teams for exceptional efforts and accomplishments in serving
their units and the organization.
Risk Management: The identification and ranking of risks, based on
probability of occurrence and impact to an organization and its employees,
together with the implementation of plans to minimize the probability or
impact of these risks.
Safety and Security: Policies and procedures based on local laws and best
practices, designed to eliminate death, injury, or illnesses from occurring in
the workplace or during the performance of work duties off-site and to secure
and protect all tangible and intangible assets of the organization.
Salary grade structure: A specific salary structure characterized by multiple
tiers of salaries as opposed to a broad band structure.
Salary structure: The manner in which an organization groups jobs with a
large range of salaries together.
Sourcing: Identification of traditional and non-traditional means to identify
potential candidates.
Staffing plan: The systematic identification of positions, structured to meet the
needs of an organization given its funding and alignment with strategic goals.
Staff Care: Self-care techniques and institutional responses to employee
stress in particularly difficult or stressful environments.
Timekeeping: The process of compiling information on each employee’s time
and attendance data.
Total compensation: All rewards an employee receives including salary
and benefits.

99

References
Aidworkers Network. (2002-2007). Safety, Security and Aid Workers. Retrived
from http://www.aidworkers.net/?q=advice/security
Bliss, W., Gamlem, C., Keary, D., Kushner, G., Losey, M., Outwater, L., …White,
C. (2009) The SHRM Learning System
Leaning System (Vols. 1-6). Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource
Management
Buckner, M. and Slavenski, L. (1998). Succession Planning. Info-line, Issue
9312. Alexandria. VA: American Society for Training and Development.
CARE welcome package. (2007). Manuscripts on compact disc. Atlanta, GA:
CARE USA
Catholic Relief Services. (2011). CRS Conflict of Interest Policy. Unpublished
Manuscript.
Catholic Relief Services. (2011). CRS Europe/Middle East Training/Learning
Plan. Unpublished manuscript.
Catholic Relief Services. (2011). CRS Europe/Middle East Unsatisfactory
Performance Termination Checklist. Unpublished manuscripts.
Catholic Relief Services. (2010). CRS human resources confidentiality
agreement. Unpublished manuscript.
Catholic Relief Services. (2006). CRS/Middle East toolkit for giving, receiving
and responding to feedback. Unpublished manuscript.
Catholic Relief Services. (2007). CRS overall performance ratings.
Unpublished manuscript.
Catholic Relief Services. (2004). CRS performance gap checklist. Unpublished
manuscript.
Catholic Relief Services. (2007). Pro Pack II: The CRS project package.
Baltimore, MD: Hahn, S., Leege, D., Reynold, D., Sharrock, G., & Stetson, V.
Catholic Relief Services. (2010). Institutional Capacity Development Tools for
Local Partners, Human Resource Policies and Procedures. Unpublished
Manuscript.
Garber, John E. (2008). Introduction to the human resources discipline
of workplace safety and security. Retrived from http://www.shrm.org/
hrdisciplines/safetysecurity/Pages/SafetyIntro.aspx
Gupta, D., Gupta, M., & Gurnani, H. C. (2006). Are standards standard?
Integration of goals & performance management. Retrieved from http://
www.indianmba.com/Faculty_Column/FC347/fc347.html

100

Sara A. Fajardo/CRS

Heathfield, S. M. (n.d.) About.com guide to human resources. Retrieved from
http://humanresources.about.com
InterAction minimum operating security standards. (2005). Retrieved from
http://security-risk.org/background_reading/191.pdf
Mager, Robert F and Pipe, Peter. (1997). Analyzing Performance Problems
(3rd ed.). Atlanta, GA: Center for Effective Performance.
McNamara, C. (n.d.) Employee performance management. Retrieved from
http://www.managementhelp.org/emp_perf/emp_perf.htm
Salvo, T. (2004). Practical tips for successful progressive discipline.
Retrieved from http://www.shrm.org/Research/Articles/Articles/Pages/
CMS_009030.aspx
University of Michigan-Flint. (2007). HR confidentiality statement. Retrieved
from http://www.umflint.edu/hr/ConfState.htm

A man works in his
family’s garden in
the highlands of El
Salvador. With the
help of CRS, the small
mountain community
replaced the rocky
terrain surrounding their
homes with heavy loads
of fertile soil.

101

Appendix A
S a mpl e S ta f f R e q u i s i t i o n Form 1

To be completed by requesting department
Position requested by:

(name, position & signature of department head)

Date:

Title of position to be filled:

(Attach job description)

Category of employee:	 Regular Employee / Temporary Employee / Other (specify)
	

Replacement Position / New Position

Duration of employment: To be hired from: 			

to

To be completed by HR department
Job group/grade level for the position: 				 Salary Range:
Included in the staffing plan
HR manager/designee’s signature

Date:

To be completed by Finance/budgeting
Salary is included in the annual budget
Finance manager/designee’s signature

Date:

To be completed by person responsible for final approval of hire

Name and signature of president/designee:

Date:

1 Adapted with permission from the Christian Health Association of Kenya 2008 “Generic Policy Document for CHAK Member Health Facilities.”

102

Appendix B
S a mpl e J ob D e scr i pt i o n Form at 2
Title:
Department:
Reporting to:
Job group/level/grade:
Location of the position: (if the organization has multiple offices)

Summary of the purpose of the position

List of key responsibilities

Knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform the job
•	 Qualilfications (education, certification)

•	 Experience required for the job and length of that experience

•	 Skills such as computer, writing ability, or languages

•	 Behaviors such as ability to multi-task, attention to detail, team player

Drafted by:

Date:

Approved* by:

Date:

*indicates this job description is consistent with the staffing plan for this year

2 Adapted with permission from the Christian Health Association of Kenya 2008 “Generic Policy Document for CHAK Member Health Facilities.”

103

Appendix C
S a mpl e I n t e r v i e w S cor e S h e e t

3

POSITION:
DATE OF INTERVIEW:
NAME OF CANDIDATE:
RATINGS:
1 poor; 2 below expectation; 3 good, meets expectations; 4 strong, exceeds expectations; 5 exceptional, far exceeds expectations
QUESTIONS

INTERVIEWER’S COMMENTS

RATING (1–5)

TOTAL SCORE

Overall Comments and Recommendations:

Name and signature of interviewer:

3 Adapted with permission from the Christian Health Association of Kenya’s 2008 “Generic Policy Document for CHAK Member Health Facilities.”

104

Appendix D
G i v i ng and R ece i v i ng F eedback 4
Guidelines for Receiving Feedback

Solicit feedback in clear and specific areas

Ask, “How might we as CRS staff improve the usefulness of
our project site visits?”

Make it a point to understand the feedback

Use paraphrasing skills, and ask clarifying questions, such
as “What I’m hearing is… ”

Help the giver to be specific

Ask, “Could you give me a specific example of what you
mean?”

Avoid making it more difficult for the giver of feedback

Reacting defensively, angrily or arguing are all ways to turn
feedback off.

Don’t give explanations

It may be hard to remain silent, but keep in mind that
explanations often seem defensive.

Show appreciation

Thank the person for making the effort to give you
feedback.

Respond to key points

Say what you intend to do as a result of the comments you
are receiving.

Remember that feedback is one person’s perceptions—not
universal truth

Keeping this in mind can help you to be less defensive.
Confirm the feedback with others to determine if there is a
pattern.

Pay attention to non-verbal feedback

Are people falling asleep as you speak? Do they look
uncomfortable?

4 Adapted from Catholic Relief Services. (2007). Pro Pack II: The CRS Project Package. Baltimore: Hahn, S., Leege, D. , Reynold, D., Sharrock, G., and Stetson, V.

105

Appendix D
G i v i ng and R ece i v i ng F eedback 5 continued
Guidelines for Giving Feedback
Give specific, descriptive examples of the behavior or performance that you have
observed.
Be specific and descriptive,
but concise

Don’t use judgmental language like, “You are unprofessional.” Instead, say, “You
have missed three deadlines.”
Speak only for yourself (avoid “Everyone is saying…”), and restrict examples to
things you know for certain.
Don’t take good work for granted; tell people when they do a job well.

Provide positive feedback

As above, avoid general praise like, “Keep up the good work!” Be specific. Say, “I
noticed that partners were engaged and pleased with the excellent preparation and
strong facilitation of the last project review meeting you organized.”

Direct feedback towards behavior
that the person can control

Saying, “Your English is unclear” is not a constructive comment. Focus on areas that
the person can improve.

Be direct, clear, and to the point

Not being clear can create misunderstanding and discomfort. Don’t leave the
person guessing.

Time your feedback appropriately

Feedback is most effective right after the behavior or performance occurs or after
it’s asked for. Ensure privacy, and allow time for discussion. Is the moment right?
Consider more than your own need to give feedback.

Be calm

Don’t attack, dump (overload), blame or vent your anger. If you are not calm, do not
provide feedback at that time. Wait until you cool off.

“When you do x, I feel y”

Say, “When you are late for meetings, I feel frustrated” instead of “You are always
late for meetings!”

Watch out for non-verbal
communication

Avoid giving feedback with inappropriate non-verbal gestures such as raised
eyebrows, rolled eyes, or a sarcastic or haughty tone of voice.

5 Adapted from Catholic Relief Services. (2007). Pro Pack II: The CRS Project Package. Baltimore: Hahn, S., Leege, D. , Reynold, D., Sharrock, G., and Stetson, V.

106

Appendix E
U n s at i s factor y P e r f orm a n c e T e rm i n at i o n C h e c k l i st
Employee:
Employee’s Initial Employment Date with CRS:
1.	
	

Does the employee have a Performance and Development Plan (P&D Plan)
for the current appraisal period?	
o Yes	
o No

2.	
	

Were the time frames for actual results/outputs set in
the employee’s P&D Plan reasonable? 	

o Yes	

o No

3.	
	

Were there regular coaching sessions with the employee
during the current appraisal period?	

o Yes	

o No

4.	
	

Was the employee given:
Instructions on how to perform his/her duties?	

o Yes	

o No

	

Feedback on what standards of performance the supervisor
considers to be satisfactory?	

o Yes	

o No

5.	

Was a Performance Improvement Plan developed?	

o Yes	

o No

6.	
	

Was the employee given a fair opportunity and assistance
to improve performance?	

o Yes	

o No

7.	
	

Have all the steps/actions, as outlined in the Performance
Improvement Plan, prior to termination been followed?	

o Yes	

o No

8.	
	

Was an evaluation completed on the employee at the end of
the Performance Improvement period?	

o Yes	

o No

9.	
	

Does the evaluation state that progress on improvement
and performance are unsatisfactory citing specific areas?	

o Yes	

o No

10.	 Have other alternatives to the termination been considered,
	
i.e., demotion or transfer?	

o Yes	

o No

11.	 Was the Operations Manager/Designate or the Regional
	
HR Specialist consulted?	

o Yes	

o No

12.	 Has a local legal counsel been advised on the termination?	

o Yes	

o No

	

If you have answered “No” to any question above, you should reconsider termination of the employee at this time.
Sufficient opportunity or guidance may not have been given to the employee to insure that the employee is fully aware
of the expected standards of performance and that the employee has had the opportunity to improve.

If you have answered “Yes” to all of the questions above, termination may be considered. The employee must be
notified, in writing, and be offered the opportunity to resign.

107

Appendix F
S a mpl e P e r f orm a n c e R at i n gs
Exceptional Contributor – Outstanding. Performance usually far exceeds expectations and is well above the
performance objectives set for this position. Overall performance is characterized by exceptionally high quality and
quantity of work in the accomplishment of position duties. The employee assumes responsibilities beyond position
requirements, uses job-related skills in an exceptional manner, requires substantially less supervision than is typical
for the position, and models in an exceptional manner the organizational-values-based behaviors. The employee’s
individual performance has been recognized outside of his or her department and has made a significant impact to
the organization. This rating requires detailed justification including specific instances of achievement. It is expected
that five to 15 percent of staff fall into this category.
Strong Contributor – Performance often exceeds expectations. Overall performance is characterized by high quality
and quantity of work in the accomplishment of position duties. The employee uses job-related skills in a more
than acceptable manner, requires a degree of supervision that is somewhat less than typical for the position, and
demonstrates effectively organizational-values-based behaviors. The employee’s individual performance has been
recognized within his or her department. It is expected that 25 to 35 percent of staff fall into this category.
Positive Contributor – Exhibits successful performance and job-related behaviors. Overall performance indicates
the employee is accomplishing assigned position duties. The employee uses job-related skills in an adequate
manner, requires appropriate amount of direct supervision in order to produce work of acceptable quality and
quantity, and regularly acts in accordance with organizational-values-based behaviors. Goals and performance
objectives have been accomplished and the job requirements have been met. It is expected that 45 to 55 percent
of staff fall into this category.
Improvement Needed – Partially meets performance expectations. Overall performance indicates the employee
is approaching but not quite accomplishing assigned position duties. The employee uses job related skills in a
less than adequate manner, requires a higher degree of direct supervision in order to produce work of acceptable
quality and quantity, and does not consistently demonstrate organizational-values-based behaviors. A performance
improvement plan should be developed to address deficiencies. No specific distribution within a division is set for
this overall rating.
Unsatisfactory – Did not meet performance expectations. Performance is consistently below expectations.
Deficiencies should be addressed as noted in the performance appraisal. The employee has had a reasonable
period of time (initiated by documented evaluation of below-satisfactory performance) to improve performance. The
employee continues to fail to accomplish assigned position duties, and/or continues to use job-related skills in an
inadequate manner. He or she does not often act in accordance with organizational-values-based behaviors. No
specific distribution within a division is set for this overall rating.

108

Appendix G
S a mpl e C o n f i d e n t i a l i t y S tat e m e n t / Ac k n owl e d gm e n t
The purpose of this document is to ensure that each employee understands his or her responsibility with regard to
confidential and sensitive information. Employees who have access to confidential and sensitive material must thoroughly
understand what his or her responsibilities are. Disclosure of confidential information may result in disciplinary action
up to and including termination. No employee shall disclose confidential information acquired by or available to him or
her in the course of employment or use such information for speculation or personal gain. Confidential information shall
be used only as required in the course of official business with authorized personnel. Employees should exercise diligent
care to ensure non-authorized persons do not overhear or otherwise gain access to confidential information.
The areas of confidential information are as follows:
1. Staffing/Interviewing: Staff undertaking HR responsibilities must not take any action that might give special
advantage of any kind to anyone who plans to seek employment with the organization. When an employee learns
that a friend or relative plans on applying for employment she or he must notify the person responsible for hiring the
staff member.
2. Personnel Records: Information contained in personnel records is confidential and is not to be divulged to or
discussed with anyone except as needed to complete assigned duties. This information includes but is not limited to
disciplinary action, medical data, legal actions, performance assessments, salary, and benefits.
3. Other Confidential Information: Confidential information and materials obtained from staff meetings,
department projects, management meetings, or staff must be controlled so that it is not available to anyone who
is outside the scope of those who need to know. This information can be sensitive in nature and may easily be
misunderstood by persons not having complete information on the subject(s). If inquiries are made, they should be
referred to the appropriate staff member. If you are uncertain of whether to divulge certain requested information,
refer the party to someone who may be able to assist them rather than give out incorrect or confidential
information. Although certain information may be given, only designated employees are to release this information.
When in doubt, employees are to consult their supervisor.
4. Computer Security: Employees who have access to personnel information by either passwords or other security
codes are to respect the privacy of data and not disclose or misuse any information contained in confidential records
or reports. Passwords are not to be released to any employee except as deemed necessary by the president.
5. Security Violations: Every employee must take whatever steps are necessary to safeguard confidential materials
in his or her custody, and must notify immediately his or her supervisor if a situation indicates a violation of security.
6. Human Resources Information: Any HR-related information will be limited to a “need to know” basis and
accessed only in line with assigned duties to uphold confidentiality.
Acknowledgment
I acknowledge that I have read this statement regarding confidentially and will abide by the standards set forth in
this confidentiality agreement.
Signature:

Date:

Name (printed)

109

Appendix H
C o n f l i cts o f I n t e r e st
A. PURCHASING POWER
1. No employee will use the buying power of THE ORGANIZATION to acquire goods or services for the benefit of the
employee or his/her family members.     
2. No employee may use the THE ORGANIZATION tax-exempt number for any private purchases whatsoever.
B. GIFTS AND GRATUITIES
1. No employee may solicit or accept, directly or indirectly, any gift, gratuity or favor that has substantial economic
value, where either party could infer any obligation.        
2. All offers of donations to THE ORGANIZATION must be directed to DESIGNATED PARTY, who will accept on behalf
of THE ORGANIZATION.      
3. All honoraria received should be sent to the Finance Department.
C. PROCUREMENT
No employee shall authorize for use by THE ORGANIZATION any product or service furnished by a firm in which the
employee or the employee’s immediate family members has a financial interest. Such decisions should be referred
to the interested employee’s supervisor.
D. USE OF FUNDS
All applicable rules and procedures regarding use and accounting of THE ORGANIZATION and/or Government funds
should be specifically followed. Any questions about these procedures or the possible appearance of impropriety
should be referred to the Director.
E. BANKING
Employee shall not use THE ORGANIZATION name on any, or for any, personal banking accounts.
F. REIMBURSEMENTS
No employee may authorize their own reimbursements for expenses.
G. NON-COMPETE
No employee may provide services for compensation to any organization engaged in similar activities as THE
ORGANIZATION, except with prior authorization.

110

Name of
Training

Staff and
Partners
to attend

Priority
(high, mid,
low)

Internal
Training
Capacities
(who)
External
Training
Capacities
Cost
(projected)
Funding

Date(s)

Location

Appendix I

O rg a n i z at i o n a l T r a i n i n g / L e a r n i n g P l a n

111

Catholic Relief Services (CRS)
228 W. Lexington Street
Baltimore, MD 21201, USA
Tel: (410) 625-2220

www.crsprogramquality.org

