Understanding
Human Resource
Challenges
in the Indian Social
Enterprise Sector
April 2012

About Intellecap

Acknowledgements

Intellecap works at the intersection of the private sector and
development. It provides consulting and investment banking
services driven by innovative thought processes, to business
and development communities globally, helping them bring
entrepreneurship solutions to development challenges at the
Base of the Pyramid and beyond. Intellecap’s interventions are
designed to catalyze initiatives for both large corporates and
social entrepreneurs in pursuit of rapid global development.
Our footprint extends to several locations globally, and we
service a prestigious global client base including Development
Finance Institutions, private sector investors, foundations,
governments, and inclusive and social businesses. The
Knowledge & Insights practice at Intellecap adds value to the
global development dialogue through publications and events
of varying size and scale that help create a more integrated
ecosystem for knowledge sharing.

This study was made possible with funding and support from
Potencia Ventures and the International Finance Corporation
(IFC). The Intellecap Research Team would like to thank Kelly
Michel and Vivianne Naigeborin of Potencia Ventures for their
feedback and suggestions through the course of this study.
The Intellecap Research Team would also like to thank all the
Intellecap Social Enterprise Landscape Survey respondents
and interviewees who generously shared their experiences
and insights to shape this study. We are also grateful to all the
sector enablers and impact investors we contacted for their
support, insights and suggestions. (Please see Annexure 1 for
a complete list of enterprises that participated in this study.)
Finally, our team would like to thank our colleagues at
Intellecap, especially the Sankalp Forum Team, in their
unfailing help with names, contacts, suggestions and feedback
at every stage of research.

Contact Information
Supported By

For any queries on this study,
please contact Usha Ganesh
or Nisha Kumar Kulkarni.
Intellecap (Hyderabad)
5th Floor, Building no 8-2-682/1
Next to Ohris, Road No 12, Banjara Hills
Hyderabad – 500 034 INDIA
Phone: +91 40 4030 0200
Intellecap (Mumbai)
512, Palm Spring, Beside D-Mart,
Link Road, Malad (West),
Mumbai – 400064, INDIA
Phone: +91 22 4035 9222

On the Path to Sustainability and Scale
On the Path to Sustainability and Scale provides insights on the for-profit
social enterprise landscape in India. Drawing from an in-depth survey of 101
social enterprises in India, this report analyzes the state of these missiondriven businesses including their geographic and sector distribution, business structure, stage of development, financial viability, funding sources
and key challenges. This analysis and the actionable recommendations that
follow will assist investors, donors, sector enablers, policy-makers and academics in making informed decisions about their involvement in the social
enterprise industry.

Contents

Introduction 6 - 7

Inside On the Path to
Sustainability and Scale:
Major trends defining the landscape

About the Study 08
Survey Findings 11
Finding the Social Intrapreneur 17

Financial sustainability and social impact
Enterprise development across the growth cycle
Financing needs and sources of funding
Key barriers to sustainability and scale
Recommendations for supporting the industry’s growth

Read On the Path to Sustainability and Scale: A Study
of India’s Social Enterprise Landscape to find out more!

Leveraging HR for Scale,
Sustainability and Social Impact 22

Retaining Talent 27
Addressing HR Challenges 31
List of Study Participants 35
The Intellecap Research Team 38

Download your free copy at www.sankalpforum.com today
or contact us at info@intellecap.com or
call +91 22 40359222 to receive your copy by email.

For further information on this report reach out to:
kanika.kumar@intellecap.com
usha.ganesh@intellecap.com

Introduction

Inclusive growth is now on the political and economic agendas
of most nations around the world. Policy and public sector
action form only one part of the equation to achieving inclusive
growth. The private sector component – especially the forprofit social enterprises (socents) and inclusive business
models of corporations – is considered to have stronger and
more sustainable potential to achieve inclusive growth. The
spotlight is on socents, and there are high expectations of
them to create avenues for inclusion and set off a ripple effect
in the economy through scaling up.
Socents are, first and foremost, about people – with missions
that drive social change in an underserved market, they are
only as effective as the collective passion and drive of their
human resources. Social entrepreneurs, already juggling to
bring together capital, a viable business model and plan and
market knowledge, face human resource (HR) challenges that
could impact their ability to scale, become sustainable and
achieve social impact.
There is a general acceptance of the fact that socents are
unable to get the right people at the right time for the right tasks.
In addition to facing severe resource constraints, socents
also work in different and difficult markets than do traditional
businesses focused on profit alone. HR management,
then, emerges as a key challenge to scale up, growth and
sustainability. This Intellecap study on HR Challenges in the
Indian Social Enterprise Sector seeks to understand and
decode the nature of these challenges. This study has mapped
the current people practices including hiring, training, benefits
and promotions, and HR systems. It explores the importance of
culture and work environment for people retention in socents.
Finally, it examines the importance of mission alignment and
how socents reinforce the mission with their people, new and
existing.
The study aims to deliver findings that might serve as triggers
for the design of new, more effective methods of addressing
HR challenges in this space, and hopes that the collected

insights will contribute to accelerating the development of the
socent ecosystem. Further, while this study focuses on India,
it hopes to also share insights that would be relevant to other
parts of the world, and encourage similar research around HR
practices in other regions.
The study comprises an online survey followed by in-depth
interviews. Intellecap’s online survey of social enterprises
garnered over 100 responses from founders and leadership
teams of organizations pursuing a dual bottom line in sectors
as diverse as agriculture and livelihoods, water and sanitation,
healthcare, education, and energy. These socents are in
different stages of their life cycle. They operate in different
parts of India, in markets that are both, urban and rural. Not
surprisingly, HR emerged as a top challenge.
Study findings indicate that socents deal with diverse and
complex HR challenges that differ substantially from those
of traditional organizations. These organizations attract and
retain a workforce that is achieving social impact against
some difficult odds. Founders, who very often wear the HR
manager’s hat, have to not only deal with constantly up-skilling
and motivating a young workforce, but also guard against
mission drift. If building a second layer of leadership is tough,
handing over the reins to this second layer of leadership
through effective delegation is tougher.
The study also highlights the need for support to the sector
in setting up HR systems that not only promote transparency,
but also help to develop and grow the organization’s human
resources. Good quality and context-rich training is yet another
need, although entrepreneurs are likely to avoid investing in it
if it is prohibitively expensive. They invest heavily, however,
on internal training delivered to staff by seniors or internal
experts. This report shares these and more insights from the
survey findings as well as in-depth qualitative interviews of
over 50 social entrepreneurs.

Research Objectives
Seen as one of the key barriers to scale and sustainability, HR
challenges can range from recruitment to retention of talent.
This study seeks to examine the nature of human resource
challenges faced by social enterprises in India today. An
important step in mitigating these challenges is to determine
whether they emerged due to lack of resources to invest in
people processes or due to insufficient market strategies and
supporting infrastructure to attract the best talent to this sector.

About the study

The research explored current people management practices
pertaining to recruitment, capacity building and training as well
as retention. It examined how social enterprises approached
the need for setting up systems and processes for managing
human resources. Recognizing that social enterprises also
aimed to achieve social impact in addition to becoming
profitable and financially sustainable, the study explored
their views on the importance of mission alignment and how
founders reinforced the mission with their growing number of
employees. Finally, the research team evaluated the nature
of demand and supply of manpower in this sector. Based on
empirical evaluations of the findings, the study aims to propose
solutions and recommendations that can help alleviate the
human resource challenges faced by socents in India.

Primary Research
The Intellecap team compiled a comprehensive database of
social enterprises, in addition to lists of sector enablers and
impact investors. The database included:
For-profit entities, focused on social impact and financial
sustainability, with clear products and/or services that
cater to the needs of the poor;
Organizations segregated into seven focus sectors –
financial inclusion, agri-business, education, clean energy, healthcare, water and sanitation, and technology;
Organizations that enabled for-profit entities to cater to
the needs of the poor;
Networks that support and facilitate social enterprises/
other enablers to better reach out and showcase their
products; and
Impact investors and incubators engaged in funding
and supporting social enterprises.

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / About the Study / 9

The research comprised three distinct phases. In the first
phase, focus group discussions (FGDs) were conducted in
order to collate non-linear data of complex issues surrounding
HR challenges faced by social enterprises. Two FGDs – one
each of sector enablers and social enterprises - were carried
out using bridge phone lines. Each FGD comprised five
participants, a moderator and one or more documenters. The
FGDs helped build consensus on areas to be further explored
in later phases of research.
In the second phase, an online survey was conducted using
Survey Monkey, where social enterprises from the database
were invited to participate and share information. The survey
remained open for three weeks and the Intellecap research
team received over 100 responses from founders, CEOs and
core members of leadership teams. Of these, 95 responses
were filtered and used for further analysis in the study.
The third and last phase involved in-depth interviews that
covered questions on HR challenges, current practices and
potential solutions. The sample set consisted of 40 social
enterprises that were representative across sectors, employee
size and revenue bands. An additional set of 10 impact
investors and sector enablers were interviewed for their
perspectives on social enterprises’ HR challenges and their
current practices.

Secondary Research
In addition to primary research, the research team also
conducted secondary research to understand prevailing
insights on human resource management in socents and
mainstream organizations. The team primarily scanned online
information sources such as business and development
publications, websites focused on social entrepreneurship and
development issues, enterprise websites and publications and
online articles on human resource management.

Panel of Advisors
The research team set up an advisory committee comprising
key sector stakeholders. The team shared progress on the
study at key milestones with the advisors, and sought their
feedback for course correction as well as their perspectives
and insights on issues that emerged during the research. The
advisory council comprised the following members:
	
	
Ms. Pooja Warier, Co-founder, UnLtd. India
	
	
Prof. Madhukar Shukla, Professor in Organizational 		
	
Behavior and Strategic Management, XLRI Jamshedpur
	
	
Ms. Pari Jhaveri, Founder, Director
	
Third Sector Partners
	
	
Mr. P. Pradeep, Chief Operating Officer, Aavishkaar 		
	
Venture Management Services
	
	
Mr. Anish Thakkar, Co-founder, Greenlight Planet

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / About the Study / 10

Survey Findings

Survey Overview

Small workforce

The online survey garnered over 100 responses from
founders, CEOs and core members of the leadership teams of
social enterprises in India. Overall, survey statistics reveal that
the highest number of respondents was from the agriculture
(28%) and energy (25%) sectors, followed by livelihood
and development (18%), healthcare (14%), and water and
sanitation (11%). Education accounted for the lowest number
of respondents, at close to 4% of total responses.

An increase in the average number
of employees does not necessarily
correlate to the stage of growth of
the social enterprise.

Both

24 %
35 %

Rural
41 %

Urban

Focus on soft skills

Survey findings indicate that a majority of the surveyed
socents have small teams, and this holds true across sectors.
Close to 64% of the respondents have less than 20 employees
on staff and 14% have fewer than 40 employees, while just
4% have more than 200 employees. The survey also reveals
that an increase in the average number of employees does
not necessarily correlate to the stage of growth of the social
enterprise. Number of employees is likely to be impacted by
the sector they operate in, with the healthcare and water &
sanitation sectors having a greater percentage of organizations
with over 100 employees.

Employee Motivation

Drive to learn & perform

69 %

Passion for company’s
social mission

62 %

40 %

Prior work experience

38 %

Technical skills
Ciommitment to staying
with the company

33 %

Recommendation from
a trusted colleague

Educational background

19 %

11 %

Strong references from
previous employers

5%

Perfomance on skill
or aptitude test

5%

Other

4%

Employees are motivated to join
socents as they offer opportunities
to take on leadership roles.
The survey questioned entrepreneurs and leadership teams
on what they believed motivated employees to join their
organizations. Over 75% of respondents indicated that the
opportunity to take on leadership roles and a belief in the
company’s mission were the most common motivations
for joining a social enterprise. Compensation was ranked
much lower, for candidates focused on salary alone would
likely apply to and join traditional for-profit and mainstream
organizations. Follow-up interviews indicate that at nearly all
levels of hierarchy, social enterprises offer candidates greater

Figure 03 Hiring Priorities
Opportunity to take on leadership roles
77 %

Figure 01 Rural vs Urban Market

4%
7%

Our survey indicates that India’s for-profit social enterprise
landscape is young. Nearly 50% of respondents have been
operational for two years or less, while 80% have been
operational for five years or less. The youth of India’s social
enterprise landscape can also be seen in their annual turnover.
Half of the survey respondents are generating less than INR 50
lakh (USD 100,000), while just 4% are turning over more than
INR 20 crore (USD 4 million). Despite their youth and modest
size, the socents are operating across India. 41% target rural
markets, where the vast majority of India’s BoP resides, and
another 35% target both, rural and urban markets. They
tend to base their headquarters in major metropolitan areas
in the South and West, but disperse from these locations to
rural parts of the state and to other regions. Sixty percent
of enterprises have operations in at least one low-income
state, and one-third of the respondents are operating in more
than 100 locations. One-quarter of survey respondents also
report that they are serving over 50,000 BoP beneficiaries – an
impressive number given the industry’s youth. This section
presents survey findings focused on HR challenges. (For more
information on the socent landscape, please read our report
titled “On the Path to Sustainability and Scale – A Study of
India’s Social Enterprise Landscape”)

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Survey Findings / 12

26 %

11 %

0-5

21 - 40

14 %

6 - 20

41 - 100

38 %

101 - 200

> 200

Figure 02 Staff Capacity

Many socents are looking to
hire senior managers for specific
functions.
Increasingly, however, a large number of socents are looking
to expand their management team. The survey shows that
three out of four enterprises have expanded their leadership
teams beyond core founding members. This could indicate
their growth into the next phase of the business life cycle,
and reflect socents’ efforts to build a foundation that will get
them to the next stage. In follow-up interviews, socents have
indicated that they are focused on hiring senior management
for specific roles such as finance or marketing – as opposed to
the earlier stage when the founder or founding team members
wore multiple hats. This could also be seen as a strong move
towards planning for scale up of operations.

The survey statistics suggest that a majority of social
enterprises place greater emphasis on ‘soft skills’ over work
experience and technical knowledge when recruiting. Drive
to learn and perform was selected as a top hiring priority by
nearly 70% of survey respondents. This was supported by
findings in the follow-up interviews where founders stated
they seek ‘intrapreneurial’ talents over hard functional skills.
Sixty two percent of survey respondents selected passion for
the company’s social mission as the second most important
hiring priority. This finding was emphasized in interviews
where mission alignment was seen as a critical criterion by
most socents. Interestingly, commitment to staying with the
organization ranked higher than educational background and
performance on a skill test.
The recruitment priorities among social enterprises show that
they seek characteristics and skills that are not always taught
in educational institutions. Given their unique concepts and
business models, along with their distinct target audience, they
seek and are likely to find these candidates in a very niche
talent pool. This underscores the need for strong in-house and
external training facilities. These findings could also reflect the
fact that socents are unable to attract human resources that
are highly educated, and bring relevant experience and talent
to the organization.

Belief in the company’s mission

77 %

Opportunity to learn from the founder
50 %

Company Reputation

41 %

Compensation
22 %

Other

7%
0 % 10 % 20 % 30 % 40 % 50 % 60 % 70 % 80 % 90 %

Figure 04 Employee Motivation

opportunity to move up the ladder. In contrast to mainstream
businesses, educational background is not a primary criterion
for hiring. Given that most socents are start-ups and have small
teams, there is ample opportunity for employees to showcase
their drive and ability to do higher-order tasks.
Interview findings indicate that while not all socents expect staff
at every level in the hierarchy to be committed to the mission,
they do agree that employees tend to be drawn towards the
idea of combining a reasonable income with the satisfaction of
achieving social impact.

Training
Given the limited pool of talent and the prioritization of other
factors over skills in hiring decisions, organizations often teach
employees the necessary skills after they are recruited. This

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Survey Findings / 13

focus on training reflects the need as well as commitment of
socents to work with a less-than-perfect, but local talent pool.
On-the-job-training is the most common form of employee
development across all socents. Induction or orientation was
offered to new employees by over 60% of respondents. Nearly
50% of enterprises invested in skill-building – this could be
through workshops or courses for employees, conducted
in-house or with external consultants or NGOs. Interviews
indicated that these training workshops tended to focus
around written and verbal communication skills and office
processes such as accounting. Some socents have invested
in leadership training for promising employees at junior levels
with the intention of skilling them up for middle management
positions.

Positive, fun work environment

16 %

Emphasize the social impact

14 %

Incentive schemes / Performance bonus

13 %

Internal promotion opportunities

11 %

Structured opportunities
for professional development

11 %

Flexible timings

11 %

Compititive salary

10 %

Stock options or part ownership

8%

Compititive benefits package

5%

Minimum service period bond

2%

Figure 06 Retention Strategies
On the job traning from peers
or supervtisers

84 %

emphasized the need to adopt non-monetary retention
strategies.

Orientation for new employees
62 %

Company- sponsored skill-building
workshop or course

48 %

Compensation for off site workshops
or course

22 %

Other
8%

Figure 05 Employee Training
& Professional Development

On-the-job-training is the most
common form of employee
development.
In follow-up conversations, founders shared that in their
experience, training conducted by senior or experienced
employees was more fruitful than that conducted by external
trainers. Training is seen to gain prominence as a challenge
as well as something organizations invest in as staff size
increases. Having said that, nearly a quarter of enterprises
with 0-5 employees offer this kind of training.

Major Human Resource
Challenges
Recruiting qualified staff (70%) is indicated as the biggest
human resource challenge in the socent space. Many socents
are growing, and therefore, are on the constant lookout for
qualified employees. Given that socents are perceived to
be more risky and less well paying compared to traditional
organizations, they tend to struggle with attracting the best
talent. This challenge is further emphasized by the limited
availability of talent to socents. The second and third biggest
HR challenges cited by respondents include clearly defining
roles and responsibilities (39%), and distributing decisionmaking authority beyond the founding team (34%). These
challenges indicate that socents possibly struggle to create a
strong layer of middle managers.

Recruiting qualified staff

70 %

Clearly defining roles and
responsibilities

39 %

Disrtibuting decision-making authority
beyond the founding team

34 %

Establishing HR policies
and procedures

26 %

Training employees in new skills

25 %

Retaining employees

Retention Strategies
The top three retention strategies of survey respondents
are providing a positive work environment, emphasizing the
social impact and rewarding performance. Following close
in terms of ranking are offering opportunities for flexible
work hours and work from home as well as opportunities for
personal development. In follow-up conversations, founders

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Survey Findings / 14

24 %

Managing lower-level employees

23 %

Keeping up morale among employees

20 %

None at present
Other

While other obstacles appear to
ebb and flow across the enterprise
growth cycle, finding and keeping
good talent is a challenge facing
enterprises from their first hire to
most recent.

13 %
6%

Figure 07 Biggest HR Challenges

While “perfect” candidates are tough to come by for any
organization in any sector, social enterprises have had to
make considerable compromises in hiring. Around 40% of
respondents report that they have had to compromise on the
candidates’ qualifications or experience level in at least one
out of five hires, while 17% have compromised on more than
40% of hires.
While rural hiring challenges are significant,
enterprises based in large urban centers such as Mumbai
and Delhi face equally strong, but different challenges. While
urban-based organizations have access to a larger pool of
applicants, competition for the same talent is more acute than
in smaller cities and rural areas.

17 %

10 %

Less than
10%

31 - 40%

11 - 20%

More than
41%

43 %

12 %
18 %

21 - 30%

6%

Senior
leadership
27 %

Middle
management

67 %

Junior or
field staff

Figure 09 Most Challenging to Retain

in terms of hierarchy. This reduces their propensity to move
out of the organization.

Over 60% of respondents indicate
that retention at the junior level is a
challenge.
Recruitment challenges seem to be more evenly spread out
across levels of hierarchy. Social enterprises however, find it
easier to access talent at the junior levels – in part, perhaps
because they are able to compromise more at these levels
than if they were hiring at the middle and senior management
levels. At the junior levels, employees who demonstrate the
drive to learn can be trained more easily. Also, most socents
seek to fill junior positions by recruiting locally to mitigate
locational challenges. In contrast, employees at the senior
levels can at best be sensitized to the social enterprise ethos.
Socents are keen to ensure that there is mission alignment at
these levels to ensure that strategies and key decisions are
aligned to the organization’s mission.

Figure 08 Compromised Hires

Analysis across levels of hierarchy indicates that while some
levels are easier to hire, others are easier to retain. Over
60% of respondents indicate that retention at the junior level
is a challenge. For most socents, the junior levels are the
employees with functional hard skills such as electricians,
drivers, construction technicians, as well as service providers
such as nurses and teachers, or field sales people with local
knowledge. This is found to be a highly mobile and fluid level,
where candidates change jobs frequently and may even quit
without an alternate job in hand. On the other hand, retention
is not seen as an acute problem at the senior levels, and this
has been validated by follow-up interviews. Once on board,
senior level employees buy in to the organization’s mission
and wish to make a difference. They are also more likely to
have opted to work in a socent in order to scale a level or two

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Survey Findings / 15

Senior
leadership

23 %
41 %

Middle
management
36 %

Junior or
field staff

Figure 10 Most Challenging to Recruit

Respondents cite a limited pool of qualified candidates and the
inability to offer a competitive salary as the top two recruitment
constraints. These two are followed by poor branding and
stability compared to larger, more established organizations.

While relocation and limited HR resources come a distinct
fourth and fifth, interview conversations indicate that socents
face significant location challenges, particularly when recruiting
for remote, rural branches.

Limited pool of qualified candidates
42 %
Inability to offer competitive salary
40 %
Inability to offer the stability and name
recognition of larger companies

27 %

Limited HR resources in the enterprise
18 %
Reluctance of candidates to relocate
16 %
Limited resources to provide
adequate training

11 %

None at present
11 %

Other
6%

Figure 11 Constraints to Hiring and Retention

Deep Dive into Survey
Findings
Building on the survey findings, the study extracted a
representative sample to delve deeper into organization
specific challenges and understand the nuances of the
challenges discussed above. Phase 3 involved in-depth
interviews with 50 sector enablers, socents and impact
investors. The following sections share qualitative findings and
insights from this phase of the study.

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Survey Findings / 16

Finding the Social
‘Intrapreneur’

Survey respondents unanimously voted recruitment as the toughest HR
challenge. Upon delving deeper into this challenge in the interview phase,
findings indicate that the problem is more nuanced. Founders shared that
the real challenge was in finding a candidate with the right mix of talents
to meet all the recruitment criteria. Admittedly, most founders are looking
for the elusive ‘intrapreneurial’ quality – employees with the ability to work
with little information, thrive in ambiguity and not only make do, but also
deliver with little resources. Below is a decomposition of the recruitment
conundrum.

Recruitment at Different
Levels of Hierarchy
While recruitment is a challenge across the board, socents
report that recruitment of junior staff is easier. This is probably
because they hire at the junior levels in relatively larger
numbers from a larger talent pool, and are more amenable
to compromising on skill sets. Educational qualifications are
minimal for this level - for socents in agriculture and livelihoods,
this level comprises farmers and artisans. In the healthcare
sector, this layer would include junior nurses, helpers, junior
laboratory technicians and junior paramedical staff. For energy
companies, sales staff, electricians and construction staff form
the junior level. Water and sanitation companies have drivers,
installation crew and cleaners at this level. Therefore, key
characteristics that socents look for in these candidates are
the drive to learn and the motivation and ability to work hard
in less than ideal circumstances. The common wisdom is that
these candidates can be trained on the job over the initial three
to six months.
Recruitment is particularly tough at the senior management
levels for a number of reasons. For one, senior managers
come with significantly more educational qualifications and
experience. They cannot be trained at the nuanced skill sets
they need to bring to their jobs – at best they could be oriented
culturally and perhaps sensitized to the social impact mission.
Secondly, founders find these positions critical for the mission,
hence alignment and buy-in to the organization’s mission is
non-negotiable. Finally, these candidates are expected to
hit the ground running – they are expected to come in with
mainstream professionalism and start delivering on profitability
and social impact as soon as they join. The talent pool of
interested candidates for this level, which is small to begin
with, further shrinks when faced with these requirements.

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Finding the Social ‘Intrapreneur’ / 18

Ability to Pay

Socents indicate that they have lost
capable employees because of their
inability to meet compensation
expectations.
In our survey, socents cited access to capital and funding as a
key challenge to scaling up. While many socents reported they
were breaking even, and even profitable, the kind of funding
socents receive determines their ability to pay competitive
salaries. Founders realize that providing equity as a form of
compensation is not well accepted in India, especially at junior
levels, and employees prefer current higher salary to future
gain. Socents accept that salary is often the deal breaker and
admit that they have lost employees because they failed to
meet their compensation expectations. Many founders felt that
it was not that socents paid less, but that expectations were
higher now. Having said this, socents have increased their
offered salaries in order to match overall salary increases in
traditional businesses and to accommodate for inflation.
Constraints notwithstanding, salary levels are inching up closer
to market rates for different types of junior staff. Noticeably,
sales and field staff are being paid what they would get paid at
most small and medium mainstream firms. Salaries for nursing
staff in healthcare organizations are also similarly close to
market rates or, in some cases, even slightly higher.
Socent salaries, however, are much lower than mainstream
salaries at the middle and senior levels. It is at these levels that
founders find it tough to attract talent unless they significantly
bridge the salary gap.

Hiring Practices
Across sectors, socents report that their manpower situation
is so fluid and often crippling that they have had to resort to
ad-hoc solutions. This has left them with little time or breathing
space to scope the talent pool and strategically plan their
hiring with a view to cast a wide and comprehensive net.
Given the high levels of attrition at the junior levels, most
socents admit to be constantly seeking junior staff. Given that
these are positions with relatively low mobility and broadly
available skill sets, most of the candidates that apply to these
positions have graduated from high school or are college
graduates, and are largely from villages and smaller towns.
When hiring to fill few positions, socents tend to rely on word
of mouth – they tell their employees and partners like dealers
and suppliers about the vacancy and hire from the pool of
applications that come in this route. When the requirement
is for a larger number or in a new geographical area, they
additionally rely on newspaper advertisements for walkin interviews. A few socents reported utilizing the services
of HR consultants and agents for gathering applications for
junior positions, and found them to be successful. They also
engaged in tie-ups with technical training institutions and
nursing colleges for positions that needed a clear technical
qualification and training. In cases where the socent needs to
hire a new sales team for a new market, they hire the area
sales manager or branch manager first and then rely on him to
put the team together. This, founders say, has been a lesson
learnt from the more experienced microfinance institutions.
Interestingly, a few socents – especially those that plan
to expand their geographic reach - reported to be hiring for
middle level managers. A few indicated that these positions
are tougher to fill as this layer forms the bridge between the
junior and senior levels, and needs to bring functional and
strategic skills to the table. Since not many socents are

Most socents report that they are
constantly hiring, especially at the
junior levels.
currently working to create this layer, criteria for selection
at this level seem to again be more focused on aptitude for
managing a team and some on-the-ground experience. In
addition to word of mouth, founders also rely on online portals
such as Naukri and Monster, as well as popular forums and
events for potential candidates.
Founders also scan candidate pools for CEOs – a position
they see as critical to the future growth of their organization

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Finding the Social ‘Intrapreneur’ / 19

and their toughest challenge yet. Some founders expressed
concern over this role because a lot of their current staff
followed the founder, and are motivated by their belief in him/
her. Founders felt responsible for these employees who often
had left higher paying and more stable jobs based on this
faith. For these CEO candidates, founders trawl online portals,
networks like LinkedIn, popular forums and events, and as rely
on recommendations from board members, funding agencies
and impact investors.

Locational Challenges

Socents find it tough to convince
staff and management to relocate
from cities and towns to rural and
peri-urban areas.
As per the survey data, 41% of responding socents work
exclusively in rural markets, with 35% working in both rural
and urban markets. Only 24% respondents work exclusively
in urban markets. Socents, therefore, tend to work more often
than not in non-city locations – striving to bring necessary
goods and services to the BoP by traversing the last mile.
Romantic as the notion is, socents find it tough to convince
staff and management to relocate from cities and towns to
rural and peri-urban areas.
From information shared by socents in interviews, it was
found that many socents are currently working with a mix of
junior staff that is locally hired and supervisors and trainers
who periodically travel from bigger towns and cities. They find
the local hires low on skills but willing to learn and work onsite. Founders admit this is not a sustainable arrangement
because having supervisory and training staff travel to and fro
is not only expensive but also takes away the focus on the
task – quality is compromised to some extent. This, they add,
happens because these supervisory or traning staff are not
on the ground all the time and possibly tend to be removed
from day-to-day activities, focusing instead on resolving critical
issues during their periodic visits. Socents serving the urban
poor, on the other hand, face different locational challenges.
Cities are more expensive to live in; they also have competing
firms that are willing to compensate employees better. Attrition
levels are higher than that in smaller towns, as are the costs of
hiring and retaining talent in cities.

Poor Branding and Visibility
Socents, share entrepreneurs, tend to be largely unknown to
candidates who are not already closely associated with the
sector. They add that candidates, across levels of hierarchy,
use an organization’s branding, its media presence and the
founder’s visibility to form opinions about the organization and
its potential for success or failure. Given their limited funding
and years in operation, socents are unable to compete with
established mainstream brands that leverage years of market
presence and a substantially larger advertising and public
relations budget to consciously build an image for potential
employees.
Candidates see socents as start-ups which may or may
not survive through to the next stage, and are, therefore,
concerned about the organization’s risk of failure. Indians are,
traditionally, more risk averse than their Western counterparts.
There has been a small perception shift, due to greater positive
media attention given to entrepreneurship in general and
social enterprises in particular, but it really has not percolated
to the junior levels.
In addition to seeking a stable career track, employees also
leverage their employer’s brand for social standing in their
community. Parents and family take pride in their association
with a well-known organization. The organization an individual
works for can make a lot of difference to his/her ability to gain
the interest of prospective brides or grooms. At the junior level,
government jobs are seen as more desirable than positions
in social enterprises. Founders shared experiences of losing
employees who said they were unwilling to leave, but had to
do so for a government job under pressure from their family.

Candidates are concerned about
the socents’ risk of failure.
Finally, while working for a tech startup, for example, may
seem glamorous, socents for the most part are not high on
the glamour quotient. Organizations in the sanitation sector
especially reported employees feeling uncomfortable to share
the nature of their work with family and friends.

Role Definition
Potential employees decide on a position and organization
based on the job description; however small and growing
teams have great difficulty in defining this upfront. Sector
enablers that were interviewed shared that founders were

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Finding the Social ‘Intrapreneur’ / 20

Investors and enablers cite socents’
inability to craft clear and detailed
job descriptions as one reason for
attrition.

Founders of hybrid organizations shared that they did better
with finding volunteers, interns and employees for their notfor-profit arm. In this space, salary expectations are lower and
passion for the social mission is high – resulting in near perfect
alignment of candidate and role requirements. They reported
struggling to find institution builders at the salaries they could
afford to pay for their for-profit arm – particularly where they
wanted social impact-motivated personnel.

unable to detail tasks accurately because they did everything
themselves. They found it difficult to break these down into
smaller tasks to be done by different individuals. Investors and
enablers alike mentioned that this inability to craft clear and
detailed job descriptions was often the reason for socents’
high attrition levels. Added to this is the poor clarity around
a growth path – of the few socents who reported planning a
growth path for their employees, even fewer actually shared
these growth plans with them. While this is not an intentional
lapse on the part of the entrepreneurs, enablers emphasize
that there is a need to make these details clearer to current
and potential employees.

Perception of Socents

Founders of hybrid organizations
shared that they did better with
finding volunteers, interns and
employees for their not-for-profit
arm.
Founders shared interesting insights into how their
organizations are perceived. To the uninitiated, these
organizations seem to be the same as NGOs doing what is
usually termed as “social service”. They further assume
that salaries will be relatively low to non-existent and that
there would be little or no accountability – in other words, the
environment is one of low expectations. This could put off ideal
candidates and attract candidates who are likely looking for an
easy job and are unprepared for hard work – in other words,
candidates that the entrepreneurs would not otherwise hire.
To others, socents are no different from mainstream start-ups,
and they do not note the social impact focus. Founders who
want to ensure they hire people who understand and buy in
to the mission often conduct pre-interview talks to weed out
these candidates.

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Finding the Social ‘Intrapreneur’ / 21

Given their recruitment challenges, socents tend to almost exclusively focus
their human resource management efforts on hiring. While they do realize
that they need to manage the talent they hire, they tend to get caught
up in putting out fires everyday. In most socents, the HR hat is worn by
the founder. This section deconstructs efforts by socents to manage their
human resources for best results.

Leveraging HR
for Scale,
Sustainability and
Social Impact

Alternative Hiring Options
Socents have felt the need to bolster their efforts at recruitment
of full-time employees with other options. Recognizing that
they struggle to find the right talent combination and gauge
this at the interview stages, socents have found it a good
practice to hire candidates on a part-time basis initially. On
being convinced of mutual suitability, the organization and
employee work towards a full-time commitment. While this
arrangement has been reported to work for socents, founders
do cite instances of losing part-time employees to full-time
and more stable alternatives. They also share that part-time
workers are unable to focus on the bigger picture, and tend
to do their allotted task and move on to the next assignment.

Socents have found it a good
practice to hire candidates on a
part-time basis initially.
Increased and positive media attention on social
entrepreneurship, and the efforts of educational institutions in
India and overseas to encourage talent flow towards the social
sector, has resulted in an increasing number of interested
candidates wishing to take up internship positions with
socents. These candidates come with talent that socents are
unable to hire full-time and passion for work that delivers social
impact. It’s a win-win for the candidates and the organization,
except that very few of them convert into full-time hires. The
short-term nature of these arrangements limits the kinds of
tasks and projects interns can take up. Founders also share
that these candidates need more focused hand-holding and
supervision for their output to be effective.

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Leveraging HR / 23

Mission Alignment

In the absence of immediate
financial returns, the mission is
seen as the one element that kept
the core team together.
The online survey explored how socents deal with the tradeoff between profit and social impact. The survey found 34%
socents prioritize impact, 35% try to balance impact and profit,
and 27% prioritize profit. In interviews, entrepreneurs stated
that mission alignment is very important, especially because it
is already very difficult for employees to understand that they
had to achieve social impact along with being sustainable. The
sooner personal goals and organizational goals were aligned,
the better the chances of the organization achieving its dual
goal.
There was unanimous agreement from all socents on mission
alignment being especially important at the senior management
level, which was perceived to be “mission-critical,” and seen as
the level where key decisions about the product or service are
taken. Also, in the absence of immediate financial returns, the
mission was seen as the one element that kept the core team
together. An absence of mission alignment usually meant a
parting of ways at this level, which would not only be painful,
but also expensive.
Most founders felt it was critical for everyone in the organization
to buy into the mission – in fact, many pointed out that this
alignment was often the reason why employees stayed with the
organization for longer tenures. While a significant number of
founders felt that the mission for social impact must percolate
down to the lowest level of hierarchy, there were many others
who felt that it was not as necessary at the junior levels,

especially the sales force, to be aligned to the mission. It was
felt that they should focus on doing their jobs well, and social
impact would happen because the “right” decisions were made
at the senior level. A similar response also came from socents
who believed that their mission was embedded in their product
or service since they provide a critical product or service at
affordable prices and that there was no need to further work
on alignment. And how often did founding teams revisit their
mission? For some, it was a daily activity to measure up every
decision against the mission. For others, it was something
they visited every three-to-six months, and hoped to grow to a
stage where they needed to visit it annually.

Many socents reinforce the mission
through awards that recognize
contributions towards sustainability
and social impact.
Similarly, there were variations in responses around
reinforcing the mission with employees. Some founders
felt that leadership behavior reinforced the mission, which
automatically percolated to the lower levels. In addition, many
socents offered individual awards to recognize contributions
towards sustainability and social impact, and these were
presented across the organization, irrespective of levels of
hierarchy. Some socents, especially those with geographically
spread out operations and a sizable employee base, had
an interesting array of activities to reinforce the mission
with employees throughout the year. These include annual
organization-wide retreats, fortified by weekly, monthly and
management team calls. Some had weekly/monthly updates
that were showcased to the leadership team, who then not
only appreciated mission-critical achievements, but also
broadcast it company-wide. Others embed the social impact
mission within performance appraisals where performance is
not measured by numbers alone, but also by the quality of
those numbers which delivers the social impact.

Induction Programs
Most socents report having induction or orientation sessions
for new recruits since there is so little information about the
social enterprise space in the public domain. These range from
informal chats with seniors and peers during the first week
to a more detailed two-to-three week program at leadership
development centers or at the organizations’ head offices.
Socents have devised interesting ways to introduce the new
recruit to the rigors of the job. Some have the new recruit

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Leveraging HR / 24

shadow a veteran on the job, and others ask the new recruit to
spend a week at another branch. These tactics help maximize
learning as the new employee can ask questions without fear,
and is not expected to start performing from the first day as he
may have been at his own designated branch.
Some socents, interestingly, have an orientation session even
before the interview stage. They prefer to inform candidates
about the organization, its mission, and the jobs on offer
upfront, so that those who lose interest could back out of the
recruitment process. Other founders shared that they tend to
talk more than the candidates do at the first interview, so that
they can share as much information about the sector and the
organization with the candidate. If the candidate continues
to show an interest, they settle down to the actual interview.
One founder shared that her organization implements onthe-ground tests for candidates at the branch or areas sales
manager level: where candidates spend a week or two in the
market, build sample networks, create potential pools of junior
staff and present this to the leadership team.

HR Systems

Socents that have more detailed HR
systems often get them as a legacy
from a larger or more established
partner organization.
Systems and processes laying down the rules of engagement
such as leave policy, travel policy, expense reimbursement and
dress code, among others, are usually ad hoc, and created onthe-go at most socents. Sector enablers and impact investors
say that socents focus on getting things done and not on
setting up systems and processes. They advise socents to
ensure they build these systems as early as possible because
they are difficult to superimpose on a group of people who
have got used to working without any systems. They warn
that delaying the setup of such processes could even lead to
discontent and attrition in a team that is critical to seamlessly
carrying out daily activities.
Many founders felt their teams are currently too small to need
elaborate systems. A very small number of socents with less
than 10 employees have set up systems with an eye on scale
and growth, upon the advice of their investors who conducted
workshops for their investees. These workshops – notably
those by Dasra and Seedfund – which involved speakers
from mainstream consulting firms and organizations also

advise founders to think about setting in HR systems for talent
management and leadership development.
Socents that have more detailed systems either get them as a
legacy from a larger or more established partner organization
or gain learning and insights from friends who manage human
resources in mainstream companies. Most organizations
with over 20 employees tend to have most of the critical
components in place, including basic leave policy and travel
expense reimbursements at the minimum. A few have created
HR manuals, pieced together from their experiences and
insights from other organizations.

Performance Appraisal

Performance appraisals are
often not very structured or
documented, but a few socents
embed the social impact mission
within performance appraisal
criteria.
Many founders reported conducting performance appraisals
every quarter or bi-annually for junior staff, with annual
appraisals for the senior management. Appraisals to discuss
salary increases and promotions are done annually across
all levels. Most founders, however, also shared that these
appraisals are not very structured, and often not documented
rigorously. Some founders said that performance appraisals
were also done ad hoc, when a valuable employee wanted to
leave and the organization and, after a performance appraisal,
and retained him with a subsequent hike in salary.
In contrast, a few founders shared the different ways their
organization embeds the mission within performance appraisal
criteria. At an energy company, for example, a salesperson is
appraised by the number of low-value solar lamps sold rather
than the total value of his sales. At a sanitation organization,
a technician is assessed not only on his timely and efficient
installation of a portable toilet at a construction site, but also
on his choice of a clean location to do so. Sales staff in another
sanitation organization is assessed on whether they speak
about the need and importance of sanitation and hygiene in
their sales pitch to potential customers rather than focusing
on sales alone.

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Leveraging HR / 25

Training
Our survey pointed out that a significant number of socents
conducted on-the job training, as well as planned in-house
training. In interviews, entrepreneurs added that not all
employees had the standard business skills seen among their
peers in traditional or mainstream organizations, particularly,
at the junior levels. They also needed an orientation to the
specific target market and the socent’s culture. In order to
meet these gaps, socents work with a mix of in-house training
and training delivered by external trainers. Entrepreneurs
added that they also work with local universities or technical
training institutes to create and deliver training modules for
technical and functional skills. Socents indicated that while
there was a need for some basic functional skills development
– specifically, written and verbal English skills training – to be
delivered by professional trainers, they found these efforts
to be very expensive, often out of context, and therefore,
irrelevant for their employees. Founders indicated an interest
in investing in relevant training that was affordable and
appropriate to the organization’s context.

Socents provide in-house training
to improve employees’ business
skills and orient them to the
specific target market and the
organization culture.
Some sector enablers do create training content and work
with external trainers to conduct sessions for socents. Their
feedback, however, has been that socents do not prioritize
training due to capital constraints. They add that while training
alone would not retain people, it signals to employees that
their task is important and the organization is investing in it.

Delegation
While most socents are in the early stages of their business
life cycle, and are still working with a top core management
layer and a bottom junior layer, they are all showing clear
signs of gearing up for scale. Several socents are hiring for
middle managers and supervisory staff that could form an
effective second layer after the core or senior management
team. Those socents that are not currently looking to fill this
level are soon likely to do so. Sector enablers highlight several
challenges in socents being able to create this second layer
and empower it effectively.

Socents are likely to face challenges
in building a strong middle
management team that will help
them scale up.
The “Founder Syndrome”, which refers to the situation in
which a founder should be passing control to others and isn’t,
is a commonly cited challenge in the social enterprise space.
Where the mission of one individual has given rise to an
organization, the founder or core team often appears inflexible.
They are good at most of the tasks they take on, passionate
about their mission, have clarity and are articulate, yet they
can no longer do everything alone. At the same time, they are
reluctant to hand over the reins to others and are reportedly
uncomfortable with someone questioning their concept or its
potential to scale. They thrive in unstructured environments
and resist implementing the processes and procedures that
accompany growth. As a result, people who work for such
founders are often disappointed with their poor consistency.
Founders share sector enablers’ concerns around delegation.
More than one founder mentioned that the second layer does
not feel ready to take charge even when they are offered it,
preferring to be led for some more time. Other founders state
that many current employees have followed them, often giving
up more stable jobs, and seek a continual direct connection
with them. Building a second layer could create distance and,
thereby, mission drift.

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Leveraging HR / 26

Retaining Talent

Survey respondents placed retention lower down on the list of top HR
challenges, giving it 24% of their votes. Interviews with founders also
highlighted that retention was a lower order issue than was recruitment,
although the social enterprise landscape clearly does not score high on
its ability to pay competitive salaries. Moreover, respondents have clearly
indicated a challenge in attracting and recruiting talent and on occasion
having to compromise on hires. A deeper study of attrition in the sector
indicates that there are significant variations across hierarchical levels. Also,
socents have been able to meet some expectations of employees that are
not based on salaries. While these are likely not all conscious retention
strategies, the sector would gain insights from understanding what works
and what does not, and institutionalize practices that have worked to retain
valuable talent. This section examines successes and “pain points” for
socents in retaining talent.

Attrition
Sector enablers and investors feel that attrition levels are
high across the sector and that socents often do not enjoy the
benefits of the investment they make in terms of training and
up-skilling. Founders agree that attrition is at its highest at the
junior levels and poses a challenge which translates into their
constantly being in recruiting mode. Attrition at junior levels
is, however, reported to be lower for staff that is hired locally,
especially in rural areas or small towns. This is because these
employees are reluctant to move away from family, and these
areas do not have many alternate jobs. This finding spans
most sectors, namely microfinance, sanitation, energy and
healthcare.
Junior staff usually tends to leave most often for higher paying
salaries and more established or stable jobs. A telling fact is
that socents lose a number of good employees to government
jobs. Founders share that employees at this level, irrespective
of gender, also leave due to personal circumstances and
because they do not want to work at all.
Attrition is less endemic at the middle and senior levels, but
is no less crippling. There is agreement on the fact that once
senior managers buy into the organization’s mission, they are
less likely to scout for new jobs. Attrition at these levels is very
often due to differences in ideology with other founding team

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Retaining Talent / 28

members, or lower autonomy or decision-making powers that
they expected to have when they joined the organization.
Middle managers more often than not leave for better career
prospects, a higher level in hierarchy and a larger remuneration
package. These are also employees with greater aspirations
for their career and with growing family commitments.

Socents offer non-monetary
benefits such as flexible work
environments, opportunities
for growth and learning and the
satisfaction of achieving social
impact.
Founders were asked what they actively did to retain
people and what kept people back with their organizations.
Responses ranged from monetary benefits, such as providing
competitive salaries, performance bonuses and cash awards
for performance, to non-monetary benefits such as a flexible
work environment, emphasis on the social impact, and
opportunities for growth and learning.

Growth Path
Employees, founders shared, were happy to work in a
knowledge environment where nearly everyone learned on the
job. This perhaps works well because most of the workforce in
socents is young and keen to learn. What employees sorely
missed was seeing a clear growth path that told them where
they would be in the next two-to-three years. Many founders
agreed that while this was valid, it was also a tall ask when the
organization was in its early years. There were clear growth
paths, however, for people who are willing to stay on for more
than two or three years. And it is for this reason that founders
seek the aforementioned “intrapreneurs” who are willing to
work hard for lower salaries in exchange for exciting growth
a few years down the line. The missing link perhaps is that
founders, with very few but notable exceptions, seldom share
these growth paths explicitly with employees. Those that do
share have a higher track record of retention.

Internal promotions help socents
build a strong middle layer and
retain talent.
Many founders also make it a policy to promote middle
managers from within the junior levels. This not only allows
for upward mobility within the organization, but also serves
to indicate to juniors that they too can grow if they perform
well. For the organization, it is also another way to address
the challenge in attracting candidates for middle management
levels.

Work Environment
Most founders said that socents had to live with attrition, as
potential employees have set expectations of the job and
salary levels, which they cannot always meet. One of the key
ways they tried to make up for not offering “MNC salaries” was
to provide a congenial work environment.
They have been effective in doing this to some extent. Many
socents reported having flexible and even informal working
arrangements with low levels of tracking time or progress.
Many decisions are taken after brainstorming sessions in
which employees from all levels participate and are given
the opportunity to present their thoughts. This kind of work
environment is seen to be “Western” and collaborative rather
than top-down. Socents ensure there are activities to keep
employees motivated peppered throughout the year, often
worked around major festivals. Yet there are other comfort

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Retaining Talent / 29

factors that they seem to miss out on.
Dealing with ambiguity is something most employees accept
as a given and learn on-the-go. The infrastructure and
limited resources are less comfortable than that they would
enjoy at more established organizations. The market is more
unpredictable. Employees usually take these issues in their
stride. However, employees are less accepting of continued
chaos in HR management, for example, regarding delegation
and reporting arrangements. In these cases, staff attention is
diverted from mission-critical tasks as they struggle for clarity
on these issues. In exit interviews, some former employees
explained that while they found the environment exciting and
learned a lot, they were now interested in more settled jobs
with clearer systems in place.

Employees find it difficult to deal
with continued chaos around
reporting and delegation, and often
leave to join organizations with
clearer systems and processes.
Socents successful in retention share that transparency in all
areas is critical. They point out that employees need to see the
whole picture to truly feel part of decision-making. They need
to be able to understand top management decisions around
operations, hiring, promotions, benefits policy and reporting
arrangements to feel a sense of belonging. Finally, employees
also need clarity from top management during tough times
such as when they are losing important clients or facing a
funding crisis: as one founder points out, employees trust in
the management and the organization is often a reflection of
how the leadership behaves during such crises.

Role in Institution Building
Founders indicated that they were looking for institution
builders at all levels of the hierarchy, and this inadvertently
works well as a retention strategy. One of the key motivations
for employees to work with socents is the opportunity to take
increased responsibility for their own tasks. Most functions
or teams have a flat hierarchy, relying upon a senior
manager and junior staff. With such lean and small teams,
socents are ideal organizations for those who wish to gain
leadership positions early in their career. The junior staff has
opportunities to showcase their abilities and fill lead positions.
In healthcare, for instance, junior doctors would not be able to
head departments in mainstream hospitals, while they do so

with socents. In some healthcare socents, experienced nurses
also head centers.
Founders also encouraged employees to innovate and
experiment with their tasks. One socent has a policy of not
blaming employees for mistakes; any failure is treated as that of
the organization as a whole and not of the individual. This was
seen as a way to promote risk-taking and entrepreneurship.

Socents with a policy of ensuring
work life balance are more
successful at retaining talent.
The flip side of this, however, is that employees often feel
the burden of management’s expectations. Sector enablers
point out that founders often look for clones of themselves in
their employees in terms of the dedication to the organization,
regardless of time commitment or personal sacrifices. These
expectations, they say, are unrealistic and can only lead to
discontent and attrition. While job satisfaction is one reason
employees will take a salary drop, they are not willing to give
up leisure hours or family time beyond a point. If anything, it
is likely to be the reverse, with employees expecting family
time to compensate for lower salaries. In this context, sector
enablers also discussed what they termed as the “Indian way”
of time keeping – founders, they said, were disappointed when
employees left for home after the designated eight or nine hour
workday. Socents that have been successful with retention
highlight their policy of ensuring work-life balance, and the
importance they give to starting and closing work on schedule.

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Retaining Talent / 30

Social impact Focus and Nonmonetary Appreciation

Emphasis on social impact
motivates the team, enhances job
satisfaction and aligns personal
goals with organization goals.
More than one founder pointed out the importance of
emphasizing the social impact a team creates - not only to
motivate the team to achieve greater impact but also to
drive home job satisfaction and to align personal goals with
organization goals. They ensure that employees see the
bigger picture whenever they are given set targets or achieve
some milestones.
Many founders pointed out that being very mission-driven
ensured that they hired people who are not only working
for salaries. In addition to the satisfaction of participating in
activities that deliver social impact, employees also responded
favorably to non-monetary compensation. Some founders
share promotion stories and scoring pattern for assessments,
reward and recognition for their best employees with everyone
in the organization. These are done through specially
organized rewards functions, meetings, company-wide mailers
or newsletters etc.

Addressing
HR Challenges

Human resource challenges are, therefore, multi-hued and extremely layered.
Founders have an understanding of many of the nuances and are attempting
to resolve issues as they become critical. These efforts to plug holes as they
emerge might help organizations stay afloat but, as sector enablers and
impact investors say, are unlikely to propel the organization forward. The
findings we have discussed in the earlier chapters raise some clear gaps that
need to be addressed if socents are to leverage their human resources to
scale up. This section examines these areas and indicates potential solutions
or areas for further research.

Planning Manpower for Scale
Hiring for scale is perhaps the single most important
recommendation that emerges from all the sector enablers
and impact investors that were contacted. Socents tend to hire
to meet immediate needs, and the candidates thus selected
may not be able to contribute once the organization moves to
the next level. Building a second layer of leadership, investing
in HR management and ensuring transparent performance
monitoring are some of the ways socents can plan manpower
for scale.

Employees appreciate clarity in
terms of job specifications, performance benchmarks and reporting
structure.
Informal decisions are easy when socents have smaller
teams. Once the team size crosses five employees, however,
the need for HR management becomes clearer. Typically,
entrepreneurs invest in an HR coordinator only after a
while, choosing to manage people themselves. While the
founding team does not necessarily have to be in charge of
institutionalizing the organization, it is a fundamental step
for the enterprise to scale up and grow. Sector enablers
recommend that socents develop middle management at the
same time as they start expanding the junior staff, usually in
the second or third year of operations. This allows for more
time to deeply train middle management before they assume
more critical roles.
Similarly, performance management systems come in at
the transition when the firm moves from a pilot stage to an

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Addressing HR Challenges / 32

organization. Once there are more than two layers, people
need clarity in terms of job specifications, performance
benchmarks and reporting structure. While all of these issues
happen in mainstream start-ups too, they are tougher to
address in socents. Key performance indicators are not as
clear, because they include measuring social impact, and
managers in socents need to incorporate softer issues also
such as educating customers and their value chain partners.
The geographic challenges that founders shared for this study
are significant. India’s education system is expanding to serve
rural areas and smaller towns. Yet the lure of working in big
cities remains, and finding talent willing to work in non-metro
markets is very tough. Socents are working with stop-gap
solutions that include hiring junior staff locally, and bringing
in supervisory and middle level staff in from cities for short
durations. A clear gap that emerges in this study, therefore,
is the need for creating talent pools ready to work in remote
areas. One possible way would be to delineate the skill gaps
in local talent, and fix those with targeted educational courses
or workshops.

Supporting Recruitment
Practices
From our conversations with founders on the sources of
manpower they utilize when hiring, it appears that they work
with solutions within reach, and these are not necessarily the
solutions that will get them the most candidates or the most
suitable applications. Word of mouth was the most opted for
mechanism to gather applications, and has been reported to
be effective. Even accounting for the networking abilities of
existing employees and value chain partners, this may not
really ensure maximum and focused gathering of applications.
Such mechanisms do not build in the need to creating a robust

job description. At best, desired skill sets would be verbally
described to get diluted as it moves down the line. Also, these
networks, being informal, would pass on the information not to
the best ears but the most available set of ears.

Socents would benefit from
targeted support to mobilize a
talent pool and suitable candidates
at all levels.
Findings seemed to indicate that socents had to force-fit
mainstream mechanisms to hiring when it was clear they
were looking for candidates with a difference. A consistent
call from all interviewees – socents and sector enablers –
has been for a forum or a community network that speaks
to potential employees about the dual bottom line focus, the
social impact mission and about various job opportunities in
the sector. There is a need to provide targeted support to the
sector for mobilizing a talent pool and suitable candidates
at all levels. Sector enablers suggest that socents should
focus less on people who look good on paper, and utilize
recruitment methodology to spot talent. In addition to typical
online sources and word of mouth, they could ramp up the
process to create a full outreach strategy. Ideally they would
benefit from databases of alumni and fellows from suitable
academic programs and student exchange networks, train
focus on catchment areas and customize these sources for
their requirements. While this seems to be a tall ask for cashstrapped socents, it is a support that sector enablers and
existing networks could provide for the sector as a whole.

Defining Roles with a
Difference
While many socents said they do build competent job
descriptions, and that the real problem is in finding people who
match those requirements, sector enablers felt that socents
very often do not work on creating effective descriptions with
key result areas and defined roles. As a result, the employee
is hired for a job that is not clear to begin with, and finds that
the job she is ultimately handed is not what she thought it
would be. It often keeps changing, pushing her to ultimately
resign. Enablers add that even if employees stay on, they may
only do so for a cushion until the next job change, and they
would not be aligned to delivery of social impact. Often, people
that are attracted towards socents are not the people that the
organization needs – but hires them nevertheless because
they are available. Enablers call this “a mismatch between the
heart and head” – some have the social angle figured, but skill

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Addressing HR Challenges / 33

Support in crafting effective job
descriptions would be one way to
ensure the right talent is targeted,
attracted and ultimately hired.
sets and business capability is a problem, while others have
the business capacity but do not have the social impact angle.
Support in crafting effective job descriptions would be one way
to ensure the right talent is targeted, attracted and ultimately
hired.
Challenges around the perception of the sector notwithstanding,
founders find it tough to explain their unique concepts to
their investors. Explaining it to potential employees via job
descriptions is even more difficult. Moreover, tags like “CEO”
come with stereotypes created in the mainstream. Some
experts suggest that there is a need to change the mental
imagery of these designations or positions – for instance, that
of a CEO. Organizations they assist feel a potential candidate
for the CEO position cannot be very young, yet they clearly
cannot pay for the experience of an older person. Socents
could explore out-of-the-box alternatives such as getting more
than one person to fill this complex role, and make their roles
complementary. Alternately, they could look to hire a candidate
who has most of the qualities and can build the rest on the
job, and call her “CEO-in-training”. While these innovative
suggestions may not fit every organization or position, there
is a clear need to revisit the way roles are being defined and
filled.

Setting up HR Systems
Similarly, founders agree that they could do with support to
put in place adequate and appropriate HR systems. These
need not be excessively elaborate or complex, say sector
enablers, but they do need to be able to meet the needs
of a growing team. Primarily, HR systems are needed to
ensure that the organization moves from recruitment-focused
HR management to seeing people development as a core
activity for achieving scale. Sector enablers have a number
of suggestions to keep it simple, yet comprehensive. These
include the basic systems for leave policy, common benefits
policy, performance management and appraisal systems.
They also urge socents to find ways to ensure these appraisals
encourage behavior that aids the social impact mission. Above
all, these systems have to be transparent – while cash rewards
and training would motivate employees, transparency is what
makes them stay.

It would be a good move for socents to set up some systems
that enhance their existing non-monetary retention strategies
such as opportunities to take leadership positions and ensuring
a positive work environment. Flexible work environments and
the opportunity for employees to design and evolve their own
roles are big retention factions. Sector enablers also encourage
founders to work on building detailed organograms, as this
helps plan for the future.

Making the HR Hat Fit

Entrepreneurs would find an HR
toolkit with basic templates and
processes for HR management beneficial when they are starting out.
Given that there will be a period of time during which the
founder will wear the HR hat, early stage investors and
enablers should consider providing HR inputs and coaching
for the founder. More than one founder suggested that an
HR toolkit would really help them. They seek the basics such
as do’s and don’ts and templates for appointment letters,
rejection letters, leave policy, salary break-up, HR manual etc
in this HR toolkit.
A few early stage investors and sector enablers have started
weaving in an HR component into their workshops and
sessions with investees. This comprises sessions by HR
experts typically with mainstream and consulting experience.
They report that investees responded favorably but also felt
that speakers and trainers need to understand the ethos of the
sector, a mere talk is not productive and the cost is too high.
Sector enablers indicate HR is a burning issue in their investee
meetings, and there is a need for a CEO coaching program
that helps entrepreneurs develop an HR perspective that is
more than numbers and is on the ground. The founder needs
to understand why investment in HR management is important
and that it is not only to please investors. While these early
workshops are a great start, they can be enhanced with other
elements that can help founders gain skills in building the
basic HR management framework within their organizations.
These could be in the areas that founders face every day –
ranging from regular recruitment, designing assessments,
conflict management between teams, setting of key result
areas (KRAs), building organograms etc.

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / Addressing HR Challenges / 34

Creating External HR Support

Socents should seek external
professional help in setting up HR
systems and processes when they
have small teams.
It may not always make sense to hire an HR manager very
early on. But it certainly does to bring in an expert to set
in the systems and processes. Besides ensuring that the
organization gets it right the first time, it also saves additional
time and effort spent in reinventing the wheel. Sector enablers
recommend socents to outsource HR management even if
they cannot hire, and to budget for professional help. They add
that organizations often start late with building HR systems,
usually superimposing them on a team that has not had to deal
with systems until then. In such cases, an external consultant
would not be highly effective. The founder needs to share the
draft HR policy, gather feedback from key existing employees,
and then finalize it with their buy in.
Finally, experts do caution that external consultants are better
at helping to set up processes and systems; they may not
be as effective in the day-to-day running of these systems.
Consultants can help socents set it up, but figuring out the
pulse of the organization, feeling and bringing in that sense of
belonging are tough asks from a part time expert.

Conclusion
Initial conversations on HR challenges with sector stakeholders
pointed to a cycle of low salaries, lack of talent pool and high
attrition – problems that all start-ups face. Delving deeper,
the study found several complex and layered challenges that
are unique to socents. Further, they are so intertwined that
they are unlikely to be resolved if addressed in a piecemeal
manner. This effort puts them all together in perspective and
highlights these inter-linkages. It is hoped that this is a start
in setting a basic framework for further research into crafting
clear solutions to help socents deal with their HR challenges.
This study also aims to encourage all those within and at the
periphery of this unique social enterprise space to support
advocacy and championship to attract the best talent towards
fulfilling a collective dream of inclusive growth – profitably and
sustainably.

List of Study
Participants

Here is a complete list of enterprises
that have participated in this study.

A
Agsri
Akshayakalpa Farms And Foods Pvt.
Limited
Ambicales Clean Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
Anjali
Aquagri Processing Private Ltd.
Arohana Dairy Private Limited
Ayurvaid Hospitals
Ayzh Health And Livelihood Pvt Ltd

B
B2R Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
Babajob.Com
Bamboo House India
Basic Water Needs India Pvt Ltd
Bhartiya Samruddhi Finance Limited
Bhushan Agro
Biosense Technologies
Boond Engineering & Development
Pvt. Ltd

Embrace
Emfin Microfinance
Envirofit India Pvt Ltd

Kanak Resources Management Limited
Kautilya Phytoextracts Pvt Ltd

F

L

Frontier Markets

Leanway Energy Pvt Ltd
Lifespring Hospitals Pvt. Ltd
Lotus Hospital & Research Centre

G
Glo Tech Organics Pvt Ltd
Global Easywater Products Pvt. Ltd.
(Gewp)
Glocal Healthcare Systems Pvt Ltd
Gram Power Inc.
Gram Tarang Employability Training
Services Pvt. Ltd.
Gram Vaani Community Media
Grameen Finserve
Green And Good Store
Green Basics
Greenlight Planet
Greenway Grameen Infra

C
H
Cleanstar Energy Pvt Ltd
Cogknit Semantics Pvt Ltd
Coir Atlas
Culture Aangan

K

M
Masuta Producers Company Limited
Mera Gao Micro Grid Power Pvt Ltd
Meradoctor
Milk Mantra Dairy Pvt Ltd
Moral Gramin Micro Credit
Mpower Microfinance Pvt.Ltd

N
Newdigm Healthcare Technologies Pvt
Ltd
No Nasties
Noble Energy Solar Technologies Ltd.

E
Earthen Glow
Ecofarms (India) Limited
Ecoloove
eFarm
Ek Titli Solutions
Ekgaon Technologies
Ekutir Rural Management

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / List of Study Participants / 36

T

W

Safal Solutions
Sahaj Agrofarms
Sakhi Retail Pvt Ltd
Samagra Off-Grid Utilities
Samridhi Agri Products Private Limited
Seed
Selco
Shramik Sanitation Systems
Shree Kamdhenu Electronics Pvt. Ltd.
Simpa Networks
Sp Renewable Energy Sources Pvt Ltd
Star Agriwarehousing & Collateral
Management Limited
Suminter India Organics Pvt Ltd
Super30
Suryoday
Sustaintech India Pvt Ltd
Swadhaar
Swasth India Services Pvt Ltd

Tanclean Pvt Ltd
The Village Store
Thrive Energy Technologies Pvt Ltd
Together As One
Travel Another India

Waste Ventures
Waterhealth India
Waterlife India Pvt. Ltd.
Wello

List of Sector
Enablers
Aavishkaar Venture Management
Services

Hammer & Mop
HarVa
Healthpoint Services India Pvt Ltd
Helioz Research & Development

O

Dasra - India

Onergy
Ossian Agro Automation Private Limited

Edelgive Foundation

I

P

iDiscoveri
I-Initiate & Impact Carbocuts Pvt Ltd
(Cycle Chalaao)
Il&Fs Education
Inclusive Planet
Intellecash
Intuit Labs Fasal

Pahal
Pharmasecure Pas India Pvt. Ltd.
Piramal Eswasthya
Piramal Water
Pro Nature Organic Foods Private
Limited

D
Dah Jaipur Limited
Decentralised Energy Systems India Pvt
Ltd. (Desi Power)
Driptech

S

Ennovent
Innovation Social Consultants
Seedfund
Start Up!
People Builders

R
J
Janani Agriserve

Rain Water Concepts (I) Pvt Ltd
Rangsutra
Rope
Rose Computer Academy

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / List of Study Participants / 37

X
U
X-Runner
Under The Mango Tree
Urja Bio Systems
Utkarsh Micro FinancePvt.Ltd

Z
Ziqitza Health Care

V
Vaatsalya Healthcare Solutions Pvt.Ltd
Vivam Agrotech

The Intellecap Research Team
APARAJITA AGRAWAL
Aparajita leads the Knowledge & Insights Group that builds
new avenues for knowledge creation and exchange in the
development sector. She has played a pivotal role in designing
initiatives that position Intellecap as a thought leader in the
microfinance and social enterprise space.
USHA GANESH
Usha is a Manager on the Knowledge & Insights Group. She
leads research and content projects and is also on the editorial
team for Searchlight South Asia, a monthly newsletter that
Intellecap creates for the Rockefeller Foundation tracking
urban poverty in Bangladesh, India and Pakistan.
NISHA KUMAR KULKARNI
Nisha is a Senior Associate on the Knowledge & Insights Group
at Intellecap and leads research and content projects. She is
on the editorial team for Searchlight South Asia, a monthly
newsletter Intellecap creates for the Rockefeller Foundation
tracking urban poverty trends in Bangladesh, India, Nepal and
Pakistan.
SARAH ALLEN
Sarah is a Senior Associate on the Knowledge and Insights
Group at Intellecap. She leads research projects and content
development on timely and important issues about India’s
social enterprises.
ANAR BHATT
Anar is the Content Management Associate on the Knowledge
& Insights Group. She assists research efforts and is also
part of the team that manages content for the Microfinance
Gateway (MFG) portal.

UHCISES APRIL 2012 / 38

