Human Resources Policies and Procedures
Introduction
These Human Resources Policies and Procedures outline employee benefits, employee
responsibilities, and employment procedures for the work place. The information contained in
this manual is subject to change as situations warrant and those changes may supersede, modify,
or eliminate the policies summarized in this manual. This manual does not create a contract. We
recommend that you refer to Courtnet on the Judiciary’s Intranet to find up-to-date policies and
procedures, which are posted as the policies are updated.
The Judiciary is committed to assuring that its employees and applicants for employment have
equal employment opportunity, with regard to race, color, ethnic background, national origin,
religious or political affiliation, marital status, gender, sexual orientation, physical or mental
disability or age, and will afford each employee a workplace free from discrimination or
harassment based on those factors. Based on the principle that the Judiciary’s workforce must be
of the highest quality, employment decisions will be based on an employee’s ability to
competently perform the duties of his or her position. It also is expected that each employee
devote himself or herself to the job with diligence, loyalty, and effort so as to be a credit to the
Judiciary.
Nothing contained in this manual or any other document provided to the employee is intended to
be a guarantee that employment or any other benefit will continue for any period of time.
Furthermore, no representative of the Judiciary has the authority to provide such assurances, oral
or written. The Judiciary has the right to determine the mission, budget, organization, numbers,
types, grade of employees assigned, the work projects, tours of duty, methods, means, and
personnel by which its operations are to be conducted, technology needed, security practices, and
locations of it operations. It retains its legal rights, under the common law, statutory law, and by
Court rule and administrative order, to conduct its operations as an employer. The Judiciary
retains the right to terminate an employee’s employment at any time. For those employees
identified in this manual as terminable for cause, management needs some cause to terminate the
employee, which must bear some relationship to the employee’s employment. For those
employees who serve at the will of management, no cause is necessary to terminate the
employee. An employee may choose to voluntarily separate from service in the Judiciary at any
time by providing at least two weeks notice. Shorter periods may be accepted in management’s
sole discretion.
In accordance with the constitution and the rules adopted by the Court of Appeals, the state
Court Administrator is charged with the developing and administering of the Judiciary Human
Resources System. The Administrative Office of the Courts is responsible for managing the
system to ensure policy compliance with implementation. Each manager of the Judiciary is
responsible for ensuring conformance with these policies and procedures. Each employee is
expected to abide by all rules, policies, orders, and directives of the Judiciary.

