Recommendation of the Investor Advisory Committee
Decimalization and Tick Sizes
Background
There is an ongoing policy discussion on ways to enhance access to capital for smaller and
emerging companies. Various proposals have been suggested to achieve this goal, including
proposals to increase the tick size for small company stocks (from the current $.01 to $.05 or
even $.10) or to allow the issuer to set a tick size. Increasing the tick size generally has the effect
of increasing the minimum spread between the bid and ask price.
Proponents of increasing tick sizes believe that wider spreads, by increasing profit for market
making firms and underwriters, albeit while increasing transaction costs for investors, will help
foster a financial “ecosystem” for smaller companies. Their view is that, by funding the market
makers, the market makers will support these stocks, provide research, and encourage other
investors to trade them more often so that the market makers can make more liquid markets. This
greater support in turn is anticipated to attract more investors, particularly institutional investors,
to small cap stocks. Greater institutional investor participation may make it easier and cheaper
for these small companies to raise additional capital from the public markets, and for their large
incumbent shareholders to be able to obtain greater liquidity when they wish to sell.
The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the JOBS Act) of 2012 and subsequent Commission
action 1 have begun to address the larger issue of access to capital for smaller companies with a
variety of methods, including changes to private placement processes, reducing the burdens of
traditional public issuances, and providing new crowd funding platforms, which may enable even
the smallest companies to participate in capital fundraising activities. Various groups have
weighed in with other proposals, including the Commission’s Advisory Committee on Small and
Emerging Companies, 2 groups associated with private equity and venture capital industry, and
various financial market participants. 3
1

See e.g., JOBS Act, Pub. L. 112-106, 126 Stat. 306 (2012); SEC “Eliminating the Prohibition Against General
Solicitation and General Advertising in Rule 506 and Rule 144A offering” Release No.33-9415 17 CFR Parts 230,
239 and 242 (2013), SEC “Crowdfunding” No. 2013-227, 17 CFR Parts 200, 227, 232, 239, 240 and 249 (2013);
See JOBS Act Frequently Asked Questions About Research Analysts and Underwriters (August 22, 2012); JOBS
Act Frequently Asked Questions About Crowdfunding Intermediaries (May 7, 2012); JOBS Act, Frequently Asked
Questions Confidential Submission Process for Emerging Growth Companies (April 10, 212).
2
SEC Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies (March 21, 2013), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/acsec/acsec-recommendation-032113-spread-tick-size.pdf;
3
See, e.g., Grant Thorton, The JOBS ACT: next steps for success (May 2012), available at:
http://www.grantthornton.com/staticfiles/GTCom/Public%20companies%20and%20capital%20markets/JOBS%20A
ct-next%20steps%20Perspective-May%202012%20FINAL.pdf; Equity Capital Formation Task Force, From the
On-Ramp to the Freeway (November 11, 2013) available at:
http://www.equitycapitalformationtaskforce.com/files/ECF%20From%20the%20OnRamp%20to%20the%20Freeway%20vF.pdf.
comment letter by TD Ameritrade (February 4, 2013), available at: http://www.sec.gov/comments/4-657/465712.pdf; comment letter by KOR Trading (February 4, 2013), available at: http://www.sec.gov/comments/4657/4657-16.pdf; comment letter by Managed Funds Association (May 1, 2013), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/comments/4-657/4657-20.pdf ; comment letter by Citi (October 22, 2013), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/comments/4-657/4657-24.pdf; Two Sigma (November 18, 2013), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/comments/4-657/4657-28.pdf and http://www.sec.gov/comments/4-657/4657-19.pdf

The Securities and Exchange Commission recognized in its 2010 Concept Release on Equity
Market Structure, that spreads has been an important metric in measuring the performance of
current market structure, particularly for all types of long-term investors. 4 As the Subcommittee
on Market Structure of the Investor advisory Committee, we met with proponents of increasing
the spreads, we reviewed the reports and proposals of many varied advocacy groups, 5 and we
reviewed some of the Commission’s own studies and findings on this issue when it decided to
institute lower minimum tick sizes and require stocks to be traded in decimals instead of
fractions. 6 We met over the course of more than half a year in numerous meetings and
teleconferences. Throughout it all, we maintained our focus on the impact on investors.

Background and Findings:

4

•

Prior to 2000, securities in the U.S. equity markets were generally quoted in fractional
ticks, ranging from $1/32 or $1/64 for low-priced securities to $1/8 or $1/4 for higherpriced securities on the primary exchanges. Although retail order flow was typically
executed at the national best bid or ask and at the relevant tick, institutional investors had
access to market centers where they were able to trade not only between the best bid and
ask but also “in between the tick” in fine increments, such as $1/128.

•

Since 2000, securities have been priced in penny increments (also known as
“decimalization”), or “penny ticks,” in U.S. equity markets.

•

And, the “spread” – the difference between the published bid and ask -- has been set by
competitive market forces, not by regulation or influenced by regulation. Decimalization
has led to a decline in both quoted and effective spreads for most stocks. 7 In particular,
the move to decimal pricing decreased spreads on the most popular, liquid stocks to the
penny minimum. In fact, bid-ask spreads for S&P 500 stocks, representing the largest
companies, average less than 3 bps. 8 These spreads are at their lowest historical levels.
Decimalization has led to real and very significant savings for investors.

See SEC Concept Release on Equity Market Structure, available at: http://www.sec.gov/rules/concept/2010/3461358.pdf
5
See supra, footnote 4.
6
See e.g., SEC, Market 2000: An Examination Of Current Equity Market Developments (1994); SEC’s
Implementation of Decimalization, available at: http://www.sec.gov/hot/decimal.htm; U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, Report to Congress on Decimalization (July 2012), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/news/studies/2012/decimalization-072012.pdf; SEC Decimalization Roundtable (February 5,
2013).
7
See U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Report to Congress on Decimalization (July 2012), quoting, e.g.,
Chakravarty, Harris, and Wood (2001); Bacidore, Battalio, and Jennings (2003); Bessembinder (2003).
8
See Credit Suisse, Inside the NBBO: Pushing for Wider – and Narrower! – Spreads (May 15, 2013) at 1.

•

Penny tick pricing does not, of course, mandate that stocks have a spread at that
minimum. 9 Many stocks -- including illiquid stocks, most small cap stocks, and very
high-priced stocks -- can, and do, trade at spreads greater than the minimum tick. Small
cap stocks already naturally trade with wider spreads, averaging spreads eight times
wider than large cap stocks. 10 Furthermore, numerous academic studies have found that
any decrease in spreads on the smallest cap stocks before and after decimalization was
not statistically significant. 11

•

Spreads are closely related to volatility. Market events, such as an increase in volatility,
can also lead to an increase in spreads.

•

There is some evidence that lower stock prices widen their spreads on a percentage basis
of the stock price and that companies can widen their effective spreads themselves by
lowering their stock prices through stock splits. 12

•

Because of its impact on the spread, tick size directly impacts both the prices paid by
investors and the revenue received by trade execution centers, including market makers
executing trades on and off the exchanges. In general, decreasing tick size creates more
competitive pricing for the buying and selling of securities, particularly for retail
investors. Because it facilitates competitive pricing, it has lowered the revenues earned
by market makers and exchanges or trade execution centers.
That lower revenue potential may be a factor in market-maker firms’ decision about how
much capital to allocate to trade small cap and/or less liquid stocks. It is difficult to
assess this impact however as discussions of relative liquidity become a kind of “chicken
and egg” problem. Does less investor knowledge of and interest in small cap companies
reduce their investment activity so market makers focus on other sectors? Or, does less
market maker support reduce activity and liquidity making it difficult for investors to get
research and to buy and sell these stocks with ease? More to the point, does the fact that
these are small capitalization companies mean, simply, that there are fewer investors
interested in investing in them. Additionally, and interestingly, the data shows that the
valuation premium of small company stocks has increased in the last decade. Thus, there
is no reason to believe that increasing bid-ask spreads will raise the valuations on small
companies, since there is no evidence that a decline in the spreads has lowered their
valuations. 13

9

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Report to Congress on Decimalization (July 2012); (“Though
regulatory decimalization in the market lowered the minimum allowable tick size to $0.01, it did not mandate that
market participants quote narrower spreads. Rather, the quoting of narrower spreads appears to have been a result of
continued market forces.”)
10
See Credit Suisse, Inside the NBBO: Pushing for Wider – and Narrower! – Spreads (May 15, 2013) at 3.
11
See U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Report to Congress on Decimalization (July 2012) (“These results
are contrary to the argument…that the spreads of small stocks declined significantly.”).
12
See Credit Suisse, Inside the NBBO: Pushing for Wider – and Narrower! – Spreads (May 15, 2013) at 4; U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, Report to Congress on Decimalization (July 2012), quoting Angel, James J.,
1997, Tick size, share prices, and stock splits, Journal of Finance 52(2), 655681.
13
For 1980-2012, in almost all years the price-earnings ratio for small company stocks with positive earnings has
been higher than that for big company stocks with positive earnings, and that there is no change in the pattern as bid-

•

The SEC’s Report to Congress on Decimalization studied the empirical academic
research and found that market making increased after decimalization across all market
capitalization categories, and decimalization does not appear to have reduced profitability
as market makers moved to other profit producing activities. 14

•

In addition, there is no evidence that, if a larger minimum tick size were adopted, any
resulting increase in revenues for market makers would be used to support research or
provide enhanced liquidity which would benefit capital formation. Most of the largest
market makers do not provide market research, and the continued presence of “payment
for retail order flow” suggests that these market makers have a different business model
than existed in decades past.

•

Indeed, under current SEC rules, which the Subcommittee strongly agrees with, brokers
are required to seek best execution when executing trades for their clients. Consequently,
brokers would, and should, seek to find execution venues that provide the best overall
prices. Because the business models of the largest, most automated, efficient market
makers make trades with no relation to ancillary activities such as research reports or
touting particular securities all that would occur would be for retail investors to end up
paying these market makers more for their executions with no benefit for capital
formation or more general investor interest. Put differently, there is no reason to expect
that order flow will be directed to more expensive market makers offering inferior pricing
with ancillary businesses to subsidize as opposed to the order flow being directed to the
most efficient and best priced market makers – however, in this instance, regulation
would have made that price more expensive for all retail investors.

•

The number of IPOs and companies listed on national exchanges in the U.S. actually
started dropping in 1996, approximately five years prior to the adoption of decimalization
(but note that tick sizes went from eighths to sixteenths in 1997 so that could have played
a role). 15 There is a debate as to the cause of the decline in small company IPOs, but
there is strong reason to believe that macro market-related events over the last 20-plus
years led to decline in small company IPOs, not the move to decimalization:

•

In the period spanning 1996 to the present, a variety of political and market-related
events – the dot-com bubble of the late 1990s, the analyst and accounting scandals in
2002, the cost of resulting compliance under Sarbanes-Oxley, the September 11th terrorist
attacks and the subsequent recession, the recent financial crisis, and the general increase

ask spreads declined over time. Indeed, if anything, the valuation premium of small company stocks has increased in
the last decade. There is no evidence that the decline in bid-ask spreads that has occurred has resulted in a decline in
the valuations of small companies relative to large companies with positive earnings. Thus, there is no reason to
believe that increasing bid-ask spreads will raise the valuations on small companies, since there is no evidence that a
decline in the spreads has lowered their valuations. Liquidity in itself should be desired mainly because it should
cause a higher valuation. This is the implicit assumption behind the desire for more analyst coverage and market
making activity, and the evidence shows that it is not there. Data cited from “Reenergizing the IPO Market,” Figure
5-3, Jay R. Ritter, to be published in RESTRUCTURING TO SPEED ECONOMIC RECOVERY, edited by Martin
Bailey and Richard Herring, forthcoming Brookings Press, 2013
14
See U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Report to Congress on Decimalization (July 2012).
15
See Equity Capital Formation Task Force at page 8.

in the cost of regulatory compliance – have resulted in a period of extreme market stress
and markets that are inhospitable to IPOs.
•

In perhaps the most recent review of the dearth of smaller IPOs, researchers noted that
the growth of the private markets is a more likely explanation:
o “During 1980-2000, an average of 310 companies per year went public in the U.S.
Since 2000, the average has been only 99 initial public offerings (IPOs) per year,
with the drop especially precipitous among small firms. Many have blamed the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the 2003 Global Settlement’s effects on analyst
coverage for the decline in IPO activity. We find very little support for the
conventional wisdom, and offer an alternative explanation…. the advantages of
selling out to a larger organization, which can speed a product to market and
realize economies of scope, have increased relative to the benefits of operating as
an independent firm.” 16

16

•

The SEC’s Report to Congress on Decimalization likewise found that it is a mistake to
blame decimalization on a decrease in small cap IPOs, since these various economic and
political events “make it difficult to distinguish the specific impact decimalization may have
had on the number of companies going public.” 17

•

The Subcommittee’s review of the various reports and proposals has not presented any
evidence that this proposal would benefit investors, especially since alternative methods
for facilitating IPOs and improving capital markets exist. Indeed the lack of focus on the
impact on investors from the proponents of higher spreads is noticeable and gravely
concerning. Compounding these concerns are the incentives faced by various market
participants who stand to profit from larger tick sizes; the harm of moving away from
decimalization is borne primarily by retail investors diffusely, while the benefits to
market makers are very highly concentrated, making their voices more dominant in this
debate.

•

Studies of markets with wider spreads, such as Asian markets, show that wider spreads
can lead to undesirable consequences, such as increasing the time to execute trades and
exposing market participants to increased market and signaling risks. These risks lead to
an increase in trading on dark pools, which, in turn, decreases intraday liquidity overall. 18
Furthermore, the SEC’s Report to Congress on Decimalization found that market
decimalization actually decreased intra-day volatility in the long run across all market
capitalizations, which benefits market participants. 19

•

Finally, and perhaps most importantly, there is ample evidence that increasing tick size
would harm retail investors. Institutional investors are likely to be minimally affected by

“Where Have All the IPOs Gone?”; Xiaohui Gaoa, Jay R. Ritterb, Zhongyan Zhuc; October 9, 2013, forthcoming,
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis
17
See U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Report to Congress on Decimalization (July 2012).
18
Credit Suisse, Inside the NBBO: Pushing for Wider – and Narrower! – Spreads (May 15, 2013) at 5.
19
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Report to Congress on Decimalization (July 2012).

an increase in tick size, because they are able to trade between the stated spread and tick
size or at negotiated prices. In contrast, retail investors would end up paying the full
retail price. Thus, any increased profits generated by increasing tick size would be
expected to come primarily from retail order flow. In essence, a government-mandated
increase in tick size would subsidize profits for the most sophisticated financial
participants at the expense of retail investors. The Committee believes that alternative
means should be found to promote capital formation and small stock liquidity that do not
come at the expense of retail investors. Indeed, engaging in pilot programs, when we
know what occurs from prior experience (and it is not good for investors) seems
unjustifiable.
Recommendations
As a general matter, the Committee strongly believes that other exogenous factors, rather
than decimalization, are the primary causes of the decline in small company IPOs over the past
couple of decades. Moreover, we are concerned that any increase in minimum tick size would
disproportionately harm retail investors, who would see their trading costs artificially inflated
above the rate set in competitive markets. Finally, we believe there is no persuasive evidence
that an increase in tick size would result in beneficial activities to support capital formation – and
current market structure would suggest compellingly to the contrary. We therefore believe the
Commission should move cautiously before adopting a policy change in this area that could
significantly increase costs for retail investors without offering concomitant benefits in the form
of increased capital formation. Instead, we encourage the Commission to focus on more
effective measures to promote capital formation and liquidity without increasing tick size 20.
Recommendation 1
The Committee recommends that the Commission not reverse its decimal pricing policy.
That includes not engaging in “tests” or “pilot” programs. This recommendation is based on
reviews of proposals previously presented or discussed by various parties 21 that relate primarily
to increasing the tick size of a security as quoted on an exchange. If a sufficiently detailed
proposal for a pilot that responds adequately to and addresses the concerns stated in these
recommendations is subsequently presented, then the Committee would, of course, review any
such proposal at such time and be in a position to reconsider its recommendation against such a
pilot. However, we currently know of no such proposal.
Supporting Rationale:
Decimal pricing promotes a market-based approach to determining tick sizes for trading
equities, with spread sizes varying due to competitive forces. In general, where there is a higher
cost or risk to trading particular stocks, market forces will set the spreads at levels that
compensate market making for those increased costs or risks. Spreads are typically higher than a
20

See e.g., listed items under “Supporting Rationale” for Recommendation 2 below.
See e.g., H.R. 3448: Small Cap Liquidity Reform Act of 2013 (A bill: “To amend the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 to provide for an optional pilot program allowing certain emerging growth companies to increase the tick sizes
of their stocks.”)
21

penny for small cap stocks, for example. Very high-priced securities also tend to trade at higher
spreads than very low-priced securities, while the most liquid, frequently-traded stocks tend to
have lower spreads, at or near a penny. In addition, spreads vary over time depending on market
volatility, current interest in a security or sector, and other factors. The Committee believes that
allowing the spread to reach a varying but natural equilibrium in response to market forces is
inherently more efficient and better for investors than forcing the spread to conform to artificial
increments.
Current proposals to increase the minimum tick size are premised primarily on capital
formation grounds and secondarily on enhancing trading liquidity for smaller cap stocks. The
Committee remains unpersuaded that decimalization was a material factor in the decline of
smaller cap IPOs (as opposed to the revenues of some market makers) or, conversely, that
increasing tick size would meaningfully reverse that decline (although it would increase the
revenue of some market centers). As noted above, the Committee believes that historical realworld and market factors that began well before decimal pricing was adopted are primarily
responsible for a decrease in small company IPOs. With the stock market rebounding in 2013,
IPOs started to recover and are currently on target for new records. 22
The Committee sees little evidence that an increase in tick size would necessarily result
in increased research and market making activities to support capital formation. Most retail
order flow today is forwarded to the market center with the best overall execution in that stock or
class of securities. These trading centers do not currently have research or investment banking
operations. If tick sizes increase, it seems highly likely that any additional profits will simply be
retained by these trading centers or shared with firms that send them order flow, rather than
being directed into increased research or other activities to benefit capital formation.
Similarly, while “displayed” liquidity in smaller cap stocks would be expected to increase
if tick size is increased, it does not follow that real liquidity would increase. To the extent that
increased profits for market makers could contribute to increased liquidity, increased costs to
investors would be expected to detract from real liquidity. Thus, the justification for increasing
tick size based on the hope that it will lead to increased liquidity seems tenuous at best.
As noted above, the ample evidence that increasing tick size would harm retail investors
in particular argues against the pilot

22

See Financial Times, US companies on target to raise record IPO sums (November 10, 2013) available at:
http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/e74c91a0-48d5-11e3-a3ef-00144feabdc0.html#axzz2mdLAJG00 (“Resurgent interest in
US stocks has paved the way for 192 companies to raise $51.8bn from new stock offerings, putting the market on
track to rival sums raised by US companies at the height of the dotcom bubble in 2000.); Wilmer Hale, The Road to
IPO: Legal and Regulatory Insights into Going Public (December 2013), available at:
http://www.wilmerhale.com/pages/publicationsandnewsdetail.aspx?NewsPubId=10737419336 (“The first eleven
months of 2013 have produced 167 IPOs, 64% more than the 102 IPOs in full-year 2012… The IPO market remains
dominated by emerging growth companies (EGCs), which produced 83% of all IPOs in the first eleven months of
2013—slightly higher than the 76% market share for EGC IPOs in 2012 following the enactment of the JOBS Act in
April 2012.”); other data suggests that the IPO market has rebounded very significantly, but that it is still materially
below the high points in the late ‘90s (see, Initial Public Offerings: Updated Statistics, Jay R. Ritter,
bear.warrington.ufl.edu/ritter , December 20, 2013).

Finally, spreads due to penny ticks are one area that is currently set well by competition.
There were times in the past, including in the mid-1990’s, where collusion among market
participants to price fix the tick to increase the spread occurred 23, and that led to the initial
rationale for moving to decimalization. To have the government now step in and mandate price
fixing among private sector competitors seems like a very strange place for the SEC to tread.
Recommendation 2
To the extent that the Commission believes additional steps are needed to promote
capital formation and/or enhanced liquidity for smaller capitalization company securities, the
Commission should consider alternative approaches (as discussed below). In evaluating its
various options, the Commission should consider which approach would best ensure that retail
investor protections are not sacrificed while also considering which approach would best
enhance capital formation and small cap stock liquidity.
Supporting Rationale:
The Committee recognizes that capital formation and improving liquidity for securities
are important functions of the Commission. A range of options exists to achieve these goals by
promoting quality small cap IPOs and liquidity for small cap companies, while minimizing the
negative impact on retail investors. Among the possible alternatives are:
•

Broad display of the depth of standing orders or of trailing order types off a BBO to show
true liquidity;

•

Rules to preclude certain jumping ahead strategies that take, as opposed to provide,
liquidity; and

•

Requirements for displayed bids and asks to be real, as opposed to ephemeral, with strict
enforcement of penalties for posting fake bids and asks, e.g. spoofing.

Furthermore, the JOBS Act which was signed into law in April 2012 incorporated a number of
innovative measures aimed at reducing the costs and burdens that startups face when trying to
access the public markets. Early indicators suggest that the JOBS Act has already been effective
at making it easier for emerging growth companies to access public markets. Since the law’s
enactment, more than 200 companies have registered with the SEC as emerging growth
companies, which represents 79% of all companies who have filed to go public at this time. 24
23

See In re Nasdaq Market-Makers Antitrust Litigation, 894 F. Supp. 703 (S.D.N.Y. 1995); 164 F.R.D. 346
(S.D.N.Y. 1995); No. 94 Civ. 3996, 1996 WL 187409 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 1996); 929 F. Supp-723 (S.D.N.Y. 1996);
929 F. Supp. 174 (S.D.N.Y. 1996) ; 938 F. Supp. 232 (S.D.N.Y. 1996).); see also, Deal Reached in Civil Suit over
Collusion on NASDAQ, New York Times (July 18, 1996), available at
http://www.nytimes.com/1996/07/18/business/deal-reached-in-civil-suit-over-collusion-onnasdaq.html?pagewanted=2; A Crackdown on NASDAQ, New York Times (August 10, 1996) available at
http://www.nytimes.com/1996/08/10/opinion/a-crackdown-on-nasdaq.html.
24

See Equity Capital Formation Task Force at page 9-10 (As of October 25, 2013, there were 63 companies in
registration for an IPO –including 48 registered as EGCs. As of the same date, 154 companies had gone public,

Other, non-market structure alternatives are also available. These include: further reducing
regulatory burdens for extremely small companies; recent regulatory proposals to facilitate
crowd funding as a source of capital; changes to the diversification requirements of mutual funds
to enable holdings of micro- and even nano-cap companies by these key institutional investors;
development of a seal of approval for consortiums of micro-cap companies that meet certain
standards; or even issuer-commissioned research reports and analysis. None of these alternatives
would require retail investors to overpay for equity trading, as increasing tick size would.
Recommendation 3
Should the Commission nevertheless choose to pursue a pilot program of increasing tick
sizes, it should be designed to limit the potential harm to investors and maximize any benefits.
Toward that end, any such pilot:
•

Should be designed with a tight timeframe and a guaranteed sunset unless benefits are
proven to outweigh the costs;

•

Should be designed to measure the costs and benefits to investors, with a particular focus
on retail investors; and

•

Should not focus exclusively on increasing tick size, but should include piloting other
changes to encourage appropriate trading, enhance liquidity, or facilitate capital
formation, including in particular competition-based responses.
Supporting Rationale:

The Commission studied the minimum tick size extensively prior to making changes in
2000. The Committee believes there are considerable risks associated with pursuing a pilot
program to test a policy that has, in the past, been shown to result in practices that are harmful to
retail investors. Should the Commission decide to pursue such a pilot, we therefore believe it is
essential to design any such pilot program to minimize the potential harm to investors.
The pilot should not allow issuers to opt into or out of the pilot as that would add inherent
bias. A small, controlled experiment with appropriately selected groups of securities tested at
different minimum tick sizes and with the determination of measures to be judged at the outset is
the only responsible way to test the impact of higher minimum tick sizes, if a pilot is pursued at
all. If the sample sets are biased and the measures of success selected after the fact, there will be
little or no validity to the results of any pilot.
In assessing the pilot, it will be particularly important to weigh the costs and benefits to
investors, so it will be important to define clear and quantifiable metrics from the outset.
Benefits to investors should be the first consideration, both because this is the central mission of
the Commission and because the most direct way to further the goal of capital formation is by
attracting investors to buy more small and micro-cap stocks. Possible measures could include
versus 121 in all of 2012. As of October 25, 2013, there have been 53 micro-cap IPOs comprising 34% of all IPOs
versus 32 for all of 2012, representing just 26% of all IPOs for that entire year.)

changes in trading volume, impact on depth of book, and the impact on spreads and trading costs
overall. The percent ownership by institutional investors might also be of interest, since
professional investors may be better judges of whether these stocks are more attractive to trade
and own.
The Committee recognizes that it won’t be easy to measure the direct impact on capital
formation from a temporary pilot, since there will be many other economic factors at work. At
the same time, the Commission should be on the lookout for any increase in harmful practices of
the type that helped inflate the tech stock bubble of the late 1990s in ways that were not
beneficial for the long-term health of the economy (e.g., issuance of biased research reports to
boost trading in companies being underwritten by the market making firm). Finally, given the
clear potential disadvantages to retail investors of increasing tick size, the pilot program should
be designed to enable analysis of a broader set of possible solutions, with an eye toward
identifying policy solutions that provide real benefits to capital formation and enhanced liquidity
without artificially inflating costs to investors.
Finally, we believe that it is essential that any pilot program to increase tick sizes include a
guaranteed sunset. Experience shows that pilots tend to take on a life of their own once
established. This experiment in setting non-market-based spreads should not be allowed to
continue beyond a tight timeframe unless it is shown that the benefits to investors outweigh their
higher costs.

