ISE MERCURY, LLC
60 Broad Street 

New York, NY 10004 


January 7, 2016

ViaFedEX
Mr. John Roeser
Associate Director
Securities and Exchange Commission
Division of Trading and Markets
100 F Street N.E.
Washington, DC 20549

Re:

ISE Mercury, LLC Form 1

Dear Mr. Roeser,
Enclosed please find an original and two copies ofthe amended Form 1
application seeking national securities exchange registration for ISE Mercury,
LLC.
Please call me with any questions or comments at (212) 897-0230.

lffi

General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Regulatory Officer

Enclosures

ISE Mercury, LLC

Form 1 Application and Exhibits


Exhibit A
Exhibit Request:
A copy of the constitution, articles of incorporation or association with all
subsequent amendments, and of existing by-laws or corresponding rules
or instruments, whatever the name, of the applicant.
Response:
ISE Mercury, LLC (“ISE Mercury” or the “Exchange”) is applying to register as a
national securities exchange pursuant to Section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. The following materials are submitted in response to this Exhibit A:
1. Certificate of Formation of ISE Mercury, LLC
2. Constitution of ISE Mercury, LLC
3. LLC Agreement of ISE Mercury, LLC

4


Exhibit B
Exhibit Request:
A copy of all written rulings, settled practices having the effect of rules,
and interpretations of the Governing Board or other committee of the
applicant in respect of any provisions of the constitution, by-laws, rules, or
trading practices of the applicant which are not included in Exhibit A.
Response:
1. Rules of ISE Mercury, LLC
2. Pilot Programs Proposed by ISE Mercury, LLC
PIM Pilot:
Proposed Supplementary Material .03 to Rule 723 states that the
Exchange will operate a pilot program whereby there will be no minimum
size requirements for orders to be eligible for the Price Improvement
Mechanism (“PIM”) (this program, the “Pilot Program”). This Pilot
Program will expire on July 18, 2016 (“Pilot Period”). During the Pilot
Period, the Exchange will submit certain data, periodically as required by
the Commission, to provide supporting evidence that, among other things,
there is meaningful competition for all size orders within the PIM, that
there is significant price improvement for all orders executed through the
PIM, and that there is an active and liquid market functioning on the
Exchange outside of the PIM. Any raw data which is submitted to the
Commission will be provided on a confidential basis. Capitalized terms
used herein, but not defined shall have the meanings set forth in ISE
Mercury Rules.
The Exchange will provide the following monthly data related to the
PIM Pilot Period: (1) The number of orders of fewer than 50 contracts
entered into the PIM; (2) The percentage of all orders of fewer than 50
contracts sent to the Exchange that are entered into the Exchange’s PIM;
(3) The percentage of all the Exchange trades represented by orders of
fewer than 50 contracts; (4) The percentage of all the Exchange trades
effected through the PIM represented by orders of fewer than 50
contracts; (5) The percentage of all contracts traded on the Exchange
represented by orders of fewer than 50 contracts; (6) The percentage of
all contracts effected through the PIM represented by orders of fewer than
50 contracts; (7) The spread in the option, at the time an order of fewer
than 50 contracts is submitted to the PIM; (8) Of PIM trades, the
percentage done at the NBBO plus $.01, plus $.02, plus $.03, etc.; (9) The
5


number of orders submitted by EAMs when the spread was $.05, $.10,
$.15, etc. For each spread, specify the percentage of contracts in orders
of fewer than 50 contracts submitted to the Exchange’s PIM that were
traded by: (a) The EAM that submitted the order to the PIM; (b) The
Exchange Market Makers assigned to the class; (c) other Exchange
members; (d) Public Customer Orders; and (e) unrelated orders (orders in
standard increments entered during PIM); (10) The number of times that a
market or marketable limit order in the same series on the same side of
the market as the Agency Order prematurely ended the PIM auction, and
the number of times such orders were entered by the same (or affiliated)
firm that initiated the PIM that was terminated; (11) The percentage of PIM
early terminations due to the receipt of a market or marketable limit order
in the same series on the same side of the market that occurred within a
1⁄2 second of the start of the PIM auction; the percentage that occurred
within one second of the start of the PIM auction; the percentage that
occurred within one and 1⁄2 second of the start of the PIM auction; the
percentage that occurred within 2 seconds of the start of the PIM auction;
the percentage that occurred within 2 and 1⁄2 seconds of the PIM auction;
and the average amount of price improvement provided to the Agency
Order where the PIM is terminated early at each of these time periods;
(12) The number of times that a market or marketable limit order in the
same series on the opposite side of the market as the Agency Order
prematurely ended the PIM auction and at what time the unrelated order
ended the PIM auction, and the number of times such orders were entered
by the same (or affiliated) firm that initiated the PIM that was terminated;
(13) The percentage of PIM early terminations due to the receipt of a
market or marketable limit order in the same series on the opposite side of
the market that occurred within a 1⁄2 second of the start of the PIM
auction; the percentage that occurred within one second of the start of the
PIM auction; the percentage that occurred within one and 1⁄2 second of
the start of the PIM auction; the percentage that occurred within 2 seconds
of the start of the PIM auction; the percentage that occurred within 2 and
1⁄2 seconds of the PIM auction; and the average amount of price
improvement provided to the Agency Order where the PIM is terminated
early at each of these time periods; (14) The number of times that a
nonmarketable limit order in the same series on the same side of the
market as the Agency Order that would cause the price of the Crossing
Transaction to be outside of the best bid or offer on the Exchange
prematurely ended the PIM auction and at what time the unrelated order
ended the PIM auction, and the number of times such orders were entered
by the same (or affiliated) firm that initiated the PIM that was terminated;
(15) The percentage of PIM early terminations due to the receipt of a
market or marketable limit order in the same series on the same side of
the market as the Agency Order that would cause the price of the
Crossing Transaction to be outside of the best bid or offer on the
Exchange that occurred within a 1⁄2 second of the start of the PIM auction;
6


the percentage that occurred within one second of the start of the PIM
auction; the percentage that occurred within one and 1⁄2 second of the
start of the PIM auction; the percentage that occurred within 2 seconds of
the start of the PIM auction; the percentage that occurred within 2 and 1⁄2
seconds of the PIM auction; and the average amount of price
improvement provided to the Agency Order where the PIM is terminated
early at each of these time periods; (16) The average amount of price
improvement provided to the Agency Order when the PIM auction is not
terminated early (i.e., runs the full three seconds); (17)The percentage of
trades in which the entering member submitted a step-up instruction with a
limit price and the percentage submitted without a limit price; (18) the
average amount of price improvement provided to orders when the
entering member designated a step-up limit and the average amount of
price improvement provided to orders when the entering member
submitted a step-up instruction without a limit versus the average versus
the average amount of price improvement provided to orders when the
entering member did not choose to use the step-up feature; (19) The
number of orders of 50 contracts or greater entered into the PIM auction;
(20) The percentage of all orders of 50 contracts or greater sent to the
Exchange that are entered into the Exchange’s PIM auction; (21) The
spread in the option, at the time an order of 50 contracts or greater is
submitted to the PIM auction; (22) Of PIM trades for orders of fewer than
50 contracts, the percentage done at the NBBO, NBBO plus $.01, plus
$.02, plus $.03, etc.; (23) Of PIM trades for orders of 50 contracts or
greater, the percentage done at the NBBO, NBBO plus $.01, plus $.02,
plus $.03, etc.; (24) The number of orders submitted by EAMs when the
spread was $.05, $.10, $.15, etc. For each spread, specify the percentage
of contracts in orders of 50 contracts or greater submitted to the
Exchange's PIM that were traded by: (a) the EAM that submitted the
order to the PIM; (b) the Exchange Market Makers assigned to the class;
(c) other Exchange members; (d) Public Customer Orders; and (e)
unrelated orders (orders in standard increments entered during PIM);
(25) For the first Wednesday of each month: (a) the total number of PIM
auctions on that date; (b) the number of PIM auctions where the order
submitted to the PIM was fewer than 50 contracts; (c) the number of PIM
auctions where the order submitted to the PIM was 50 contracts or
greater; (d) the number of PIM auctions (for orders of fewer than 50
contracts) with 0 participants (excluding the Initiating Member), 1
participant (excluding the Initiating Member), 2 participants (excluding the
Initiating Member), 3 participants (excluding the Initiating Member), 4
participants (excluding the Initiating Member), etc., and (e) the number of
PIM auctions (for orders of 50 contracts or greater) with 0 participants
(excluding the Initiating Member), 1 participant (excluding the Initiating
Member), 2 participants (excluding the Initiating Member), 3 participants
(excluding the Initiating Member), 4 participants (excluding the Initiating
Member), etc.; (26) For the third Wednesday of each month: (a) the total
7


number of PIM auctions on that date; (b) the number of PIM auctions
where the order submitted to the PIM was fewer than 50 contracts; (c) the
number of PIM auctions where the order submitted to the PIM was 50
contracts or greater; (d) the number of PIM auctions (for orders of fewer
than 50 contracts) with 0 participants (excluding the Initiating Member), 1
participant (excluding the Initiating Member), 2 participants (excluding the
Initiating Member), 3 participants (excluding the Initiating Member), 4
participants (excluding the Initiating Member), etc., and (e) the number of
PIM auctions (for orders of 50 contracts or greater) with 0 participants
(excluding the Initiating Member), 1 participant (excluding the Initiating
Member), 2 participants (excluding the Initiating Member), 3 participants
(excluding the Initiating Member), 4 participants (excluding the Initiating
Member), etc.
Penny Pilot:
Proposed Supplementary Material .01 to Rule 710 sets out that the
Exchange will operate a pilot program to permit certain options classes to
be quoted and traded in increments as low as $.01 through June 30, 2016
(the “Penny Pilot Program”). The Exchange may replace, on a semiannual basis, any Penny Pilot Program classes that have been delisted.
The replacement classes will be selected based on prior trading activity
over a six month period. The Exchange will distribute an Information
Circular notifying Members of replacement classes to be included in the
Penny Pilot Program.
LULD Obvious Error Pilot:
Proposed Rule 703A(d) establishes a pilot program to exclude
transactions executed during a Limit State or Straddle State from the
obvious error provisions of Rule 720 during a period set to coincide with
the pilot period for the Plan to Address Extraordinary Market Volatility
Pursuant to Rule 608 of Regulation NMS under the Act (the “Plan”),
including any extensions to the pilot period for the Plan. The Exchange
agrees to submit monthly data regarding the program. In addition, the
Exchange agrees to submit an overall analysis of the pilot in conjunction
with the data submitted under the Plan and any other data as requested
by the Commission. Capitalized terms used herein, but not defined shall
have the meanings set forth in ISE Mercury Rules.
In particular, each month, the Exchange shall provide to the Commission,
and the public, a dataset containing the data for each Straddle and Limit
State in optionable stocks that had at least one trade on the Exchange.
For each trade on the Exchange, the Exchange will provide (a) the stock
symbol, option symbol, time at the start of the Straddle or Limit State, an
indicator for whether it is a Straddle or Limit State, and (b) for the trades
8


on the Exchange, the executed volume, time-weighted quoted bid-ask
spread, time-weighted average quoted depth at the bid, time-weighted
average quoted depth at the offer, high execution price, low execution
price, number of trades for which a request for review for error was
received during Straddle and Limit States, an indicator variable for
whether those options outlined above have a price change exceeding 30%
during the underlying stock’s Limit or Straddle State compared to the last
available option price as reported by OPRA before the start of the Limit or
Straddle State (1 if observe 30% and 0 otherwise), and another indicator
variable for whether the option price within five minutes of the underlying
stock leaving the Limit or Straddle State (or halt if applicable) is 30% away
from the price before the start of the Limit or Straddle State.
In addition, the Exchange will provide to the Commission, and the public,
no later than five months prior to the pilot expiration, including any
extension, assessments relating to the impact of the operation of the
obvious error rules during Limit and Straddle States including: (1) an
evaluation of the statistical and economic impact of Limit and Straddle
States on liquidity and market quality in the options markets, and (2) an
assessment of whether the lack of obvious error rules in effect during the
Straddle and Limit States are problematic.
Pilot Programs Incorporated by Reference:
ISE Mercury further represents that it will provide the Commission with the
same data that the ISE has agreed to provide with respect to any pilot
program conducted on the Exchange that is based on ISE Mercury rules
that are incorporated by reference to the rules of the ISE. For example,
Proposed Supplementary Material .01 to Rule 412 and Proposed
Supplementary Material .01 to Rule 414 establish a pilot program that
eliminates position and exercise limits for physically-settled options on the
SPDR S&P ETF Trust through July 12, 2016 (“SPY Pilot Program”). As
this pilot program will be conducted on ISE Mercury pursuant to rules
incorporated by reference to ISE rules, the Exchange will provide the
same data to the Commission with respect to trading on ISE Mercury as is
currently provided by ISE with respect to trading on that exchange.
In particular, the Exchange represents that it will submit a Pilot Report at
least thirty (30) days before the end of the pilot period ending July 12,
2016. The Pilot Report will detail the size and different types of strategies
employed with respect to positions established as a result of the
elimination of position limits in SPY. In addition, the Pilot Report will note
whether any problems resulted due to the no limit approach and any other
information that may be useful in evaluating the effectiveness of the SPY
Pilot Program. The Pilot Report will compare the impact of the SPY Pilot
Program, if any, on the volumes of SPY options and the volatility in the
9


price of the underlying SPY shares, particularly at expiration. In preparing
the report the Exchange will utilize various data elements such as volume
and open interest. In addition the Exchange will make available to
Commission staff data elements relating to the effectiveness of the SPY
Pilot Program.
3.	 Form of German Parent Corporate Resolutions
o	 Eurex Frankfurt AG Executive Board (adopted on February 13,
2015)
o	 Eurex Frankfurt AG Supervisory Board (adopted on January 19,
2015)
o	 Deutsche Börse AG Executive Board (adopted on February 17,
2015)
o	 Deutsche Börse AG Supervisory Board (adopted on February 13,
2015)
o	 Form of Agreement and Consent (German Entities: Eurex Frankfurt
AG and Deutsche Börse AG) (to be executed prior to the grant of
registration by the Commission of the ISE Mercury Form 1
application)
4.	 Third Amended and Restated Trust Agreement for ISEH and USEH dated
December 22, 2014

10


Exhibit C
Exhibit Request:
For each subsidiary or affiliate of the applicant, and for any entity with
whom the applicant has a contractual or other agreement relating to the
operation of an electronic trading system to be used to effect transactions
on the exchange ("System"), provide the following information:
1.	 Name and address of organization.
2.	 Form of organization (e.g., association, corporation, partnership,
etc.).
3.	 Name of state and statute citation under which organized. Date of
incorporation in present form.
4.	 Brief description of nature and extent of affiliation.
5.	 Brief description of business or functions. Description should
include responsibilities with respect to operation of the System
and/or execution, reporting, clearance, or settlement of transactions
in connection with operation of the System.
6.	 A copy of the constitution.
7.	 A copy of the articles of incorporation or association including all
amendments.
8.	 A copy of existing by-laws or corresponding rules or instruments.
9.	 The name and title of the present officers, governors, members of all
standing committees or persons performing similar functions.
10. An indication of whether such business or organization ceased to be
associated with the applicant during the previous year, and a brief
statement of the reasons for termination of the association.
Response: Please see below responses for the following entities:
A. D
	 eutsche Börse AG
1.	 Name: Deutsche Börse AG

Address: Neue Börsenstr. Mergenthalerallee 61, 65760 Eschborn,

Germany

11


2.	 Form of organization: German Stock Corporation
3.	 Name of state, statute under which organized and date of incorporation:
Deutsche Börse AG is a German Stock Corporation duly incorporated and
organized under the German Stock Corporation Act on July 6, 1990.
4.	 Brief description of nature and extent of affiliation: Deutsche Börse AG
owns 100% of Eurex Frankfurt AG. Deutsche Börse AG and Eurex
Frankfurt AG own respectively 85%/15% of U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc.
U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc. owns 100% of International Securities
Exchange Holdings, Inc. International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc.
owns 100% of ISE Mercury, LLC.
5.	 Brief description of business or functions: Deutsche Börse AG is the
parent company of Deutsche Börse Group (DBG), which covers the entire
securities process chain from trading over clearing all the way to
settlement and custody. DBG is also a provider of IT solutions and an
insourcing partner for the global securities industry as well as a leading
provider of market data and analytics.
6.	 Copy of constitution: See attached Deutsche Börse AG Articles of
Incorporation
7.	 Copy of articles of incorporation or association and amendments: See
attached Deutsche Börse AG Articles of Incorporation
8.	 Copy of existing by-laws: See attached Deutsche Börse AG Articles of
Incorporation
9.	 Name and title of present officers, governors, members of standing
committees and persons performing similar functions:
Executive Committee
Carsten Kengeter (CEO)

Andreas Preuß (Deputy CEO)

Hauke Stars

Gregor Pottmeyer

Jeffrey Tessler 

Supervisory Board
Dr. Joachim Faber (Chairman)

Gerhard Roggemann (Deputy Chairman)

Richard Berliand

Karl-Heinz Floether

Marion Fornhoff

12


Hans-Peter Gabe

Craig Heimark 

Dr. Monica Mächler

Dr. Erhard Schipporeit 

Jutta Stuhlfauth

Johannes Witt

Amy Yip

Officers
Carsten Kengeter (CEO) 

Andreas Preuß (Deputy CEO)

Gregor Pottmeyer

Hauke Stars

Jeffrey Tessler 

10. Indication of whether such business or organization ceased to be

associated with the applicant during previous year: Not applicable.

B. 	Eurex Frankfurt AG
1.	 Name: Eurex Frankfurt AG

Address: Mergenthalerallee 61, 65760 Eschborn Germany

2.	 Form of organization: German Stock Corporation.
3.	 Name of state, statute under which organized and date of incorporation:
Eurex Frankfurt AG is a German Stock Corporation duly incorporated and
organized under the German Stock Corporation Act on September 24,
1998.
4.	 Brief description of nature and extent of affiliation: Deutsche Börse AG
and Eurex Frankfurt AG own respectively 85%/15% of U.S. Exchange
Holdings, Inc. U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc. owns 100% of International
Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. International Securities Exchange
Holdings, Inc. owns 100% of ISE Mercury, LLC.
5.	 Brief description of business or functions: Eurex Frankfurt AG is the
operational body of the derivatives exchange (Eurex Deutschland), a
marketplace for the trading and clearing of options and futures. Eurex
Frankfurt AG operates Eurex Deutschland by providing financial and
personnel resources and facilities.
6.	 Copy of constitution: See attached Eurex Frankfurt AG Articles of

Association.


13


7.	 Copy of articles of incorporation or association and amendments: See
attached Eurex Frankfurt AG Commercial Register Extract.
8.	 Copy of existing by-laws: See attached Eurex Frankfurt AG Articles of
Association.
9.	 Name and title of present officers, governors, members of standing
committees and persons performing similar functions:
Executive Board
Andreas Preuß (CEO) 

Brendan Bradley

Mehtap Dinc

Gary Katz

Michael Peters 

Peter Reitz

Supervisory Board
Dr. Hugo Bänziger (Chairman)

Richard Berliand

Serge Demoliére

Martin Klaus

Susanne Klöß

Dr. h.c. Petra Roth

Jürg Spillmann

Hauke Stars

Officers
Andreas Preuß (CEO) 

Gary Katz

Michael Peters 

Peter Reitz

Brendan Bradley

Mehtap Dinc

10. Indication of whether such business or organization ceased to be
associated with the applicant during previous year: Not applicable.
C. 	U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc.
1.	 Name: U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc.
Address: 233 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2450 Chicago, IL 60606
2.	 Form of organization: Corporation.
14


3.	 Name of state, statute under which organized and date of incorporation:
Formed in Delaware under the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware on April 24, 2003.
4.	 Brief description of nature and extent of affiliation: U.S. Exchange
Holdings, Inc. owns 100% of International Securities Exchange Holdings,
Inc. International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. owns 100% of ISE
Mercury, LLC.
5.	 Brief description of business or functions: U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc.
provides marketing and sales services for Eurex Frankfurt AG.
6.	 Copy of constitution: Not applicable
7.	 Copy of articles of incorporation or association and amendments: See
attached U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc. Second A & R Certificate of
Incorporation.
8.	 Copy of existing by-laws: See attached U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc.
Second A & R Bylaws.
9.	 Name and title of present officers, governors, members of standing
committees and persons performing similar functions:
Directors
Heike Eckert 

Michael Peters 

Officers
Michael Peters (President)

Vassilis Vergotis (Executive Vice President)

Mathias Michel (Treasurer)

Vassilis Vergotis (Secretary)

David Offutt (Asst. Secretary)

10. Indication of whether such business or organization ceased to be
associated with the applicant during previous year: Not applicable.
D. 	U.S. Exchange LLC
1. 	Name: U.S. Exchange LLC
Address: 233 South Wacker Drive Ste 2450 Chicago Il 60606
2. 	 Form of Organization: Limited Liability Company, 100% subsidiary of
U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc.

15


3. Name of state and statute citation under which organized: Formed in
Delaware under Section 201 of the Limited Liability Company Act of the
State of Delaware on April 24, 2003
4. Brief description of nature and extent of affiliation: U.S. Exchange LLC
is owned 100% by U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc. U.S. Exchange
Holdings, Inc. owns 100% of International Securities Exchange Holdings,
Inc. International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. owns 100% of ISE
Mercury, LLC.
5. 	 Brief description of business or functions: Holding company
6. 	 Copy of the constitution: None available – this entity is dormant
7. Copy of the articles of incorporation or association and amendments:
See attached U.S. Exchange LLC Certificate of Formation.
8. 	 Copy of existing by-laws: None available.
9. Name and title of the present officers, governors, members of all
standing committees or persons performing similar functions: None
available – this entity is dormant
10. Indication of whether such business or organization ceased to be
associated with the applicant during previous year: Not applicable.
E.	 International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. (“ISE Holdings”)
1.	 Name: International Securities Holdings, Inc.

Address: 60 Broad Street, New York, NY 10004

2.	 Form of organization: Corporation.
3.	 Name of state, statute under which organized and date of incorporation:
Formed in Delaware under the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware on November 16, 2004.
4.	 Brief description of nature and extent of affiliation: International Securities
Exchange Holdings, Inc. owns 100% of International Securities Exchange,
LLC, ISE Gemini, LLC and ISE Mercury, LLC.
5.	 Brief description of business or functions: The ISE Holdings is the holding
company for International Securities Exchange, LLC, ISE Gemini, LLC
and the Exchange. It does not operate a business.
6.	 Copy of constitution: Not applicable

16


7.	 Copy of articles of incorporation or association and amendments: See
attached International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. Second A & R
Certificate of Incorporation.
8.	 Copy of existing by-laws: See attached International Securities Exchange
Holdings, Inc. Second A & R Bylaws.
9.	 Name and title of present officers, governors, members of standing

committees and persons performing similar functions:

Directors
Gary Katz

Andreas Preuß

Jeffrey Tessler

Officers
Gary Katz (President and Chief Executive Officer)

Tom A. Ascher (Chief Strategy Officer)

Lance Emmons (Finance and Administration Officer, Controller)

Michael Simon (Secretary)

10. Indication of whether such business or organization ceased to be

associated with the applicant during previous year: Not applicable. 

F. 	International Securities Exchange, LLC (“ISE LLC”)
1.	 Name: International Securities Exchange, LLC

Address: 60 Broad Street, New York, NY 10004

2.	 Form of organization: Limited Liability Company.
3.	 Name of state, statute under which organized and date of incorporation:
Formed in Delaware under Section 201 of the Limited Liability Company
Act of the State of Delaware on November 16, 2004.
4.	 Brief description of nature and extent of affiliation: International Securities
Exchange, LLC is 100% owned by International Securities Exchange
Holdings, Inc. International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. also owns
100% of ISE Gemini, LLC and ISE Mercury, LLC.
5.	 Brief description of business or functions: ISE LLC operates a registered
national securities exchange. It currently offers options trading on
underlying equity, ETF, index, and foreign currency options products.
6.	 Copy of constitution: See attached International Securities Exchange, LLC
Second A & R Constitution.

17


7.	 Copy of articles of incorporation or association and amendments: See
attached International Securities Exchange, LLC Certificate of Formation.
8.	 Copy of existing by-laws: See attached International Securities Exchange,
LLC Third A & R LLC Agreement.
9.	 Name and title of present officers, governors, members of standing
committees and persons performing similar functions:
Directors
The ISE, LLC Board of Directors currently has 15 members, eight of whom
are non-industry public directors. The Chief Executive Officer of the ISE, LLC
exchange is also on the board.
David Krell
Andreas Preuß
Gary Katz
Michael P. Monaco
Joseph B. Stefanelli
Jeffrey Tessler
Marcus Thompson
Kenneth A. Vecchione
Christianna Wood
Patrick Hickey
Eric Levine
Elizabeth R. Martin
Jonathan Rosen
Joseph Sellitto
Tyler Sorba
Officers
Gary Katz (President and Chief Executive Officer)

Thomas Ascher (Chief Strategy Officer)

Daniel Friel (Chief Information Officer)

Michael Simon (Chief Regulatory Officer, Secretary and General Counsel)

Boris Ilyevsky (Managing Director, ISE Options)

Robert Cornish (Chief Technology Officer)

Lance Emmons (Finance and Administration Officer, Controller)

Joseph W. Ferraro III (Deputy General Counsel, Legal Officer, and Assistant 

Secretary)

Jacqueline Gaillard (Human Resources Officer)

Jeanine Hightower (Business Development Officer)

Molly McGregor (Communications and Marketing Officer)

Thomas Reina (Technology Development Officer)

Russ Davidson (Surveillance Officer)

Claire McGrath (Compliance Officer)

18


Standing Committees
Compensation Committee

Mike Monaco

Joseph Stefanelli

Kenneth Vecchione

Corporate Governance Committee

Christianna Wood

David Krell

Andreas Preuß

Joseph Stefanelli

Kenneth Vecchione

Michael Monaco

Jeffrey Tessler

Marcus Thompson

Finance and Audit Committee

Christianna Wood

Jeffrey Tessler

Kenneth Vecchione

Michael Monaco

Marcus Thompson

10. Indication of whether such business or organization ceased to be

associated with the applicant during previous year: Not applicable. 

G. 	ISE Gemini, LLC (formerly known as Topaz Exchange, LLC, “ISE Gemini”)
1.	 Name: ISE Gemini, LLC

Address: 60 Broad Street, New York, NY 10004

2.	 Form of organization: Limited Liability Company.
3.	 Name of state, statute under which organized and date of incorporation:
Formed in Delaware under Section 201 of the Limited Liability Company
Act of the State of Delaware on May 30, 2012.
4.	 Brief description of nature and extent of affiliation: ISE Gemini is 100%
owned by International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. International
Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. also owns 100% of International
Securities Exchange, LLC and ISE Mercury, LLC.
5.	 Brief description of business or functions: ISE Gemini operates a
registered national securities exchange. It currently offers options trading
on underlying equity, ETF, index, and foreign currency options products.
19


6.	 Copy of constitution: See attached ISE Gemini, LLC Constitution.
7.	 Copy of articles of incorporation or association and amendments: See
attached ISE Gemini, LLC Amended Certificate of Formation.
8.	 Copy of existing by-laws: See attached ISE Gemini, LLC Second A & R
LLC Agreement.
9.	 Name and title of present officers, governors, members of standing
committees and persons performing similar functions:
Directors
The ISE Gemini Board of Directors currently has 15 members, eight of whom
are non-industry public directors. The Chief Executive Officer of the ISE
Gemini exchange is also on the board.
David Krell
Andreas Preuß
Gary Katz
Michael P. Monaco
Joseph B. Stefanelli
Jeffrey Tessler
Marcus Thompson
Kenneth A. Vecchione
Christianna Wood
Patrick Hickey
Eric Levine
Elizabeth R. Martin
Jonathan Rosen
Joseph Sellitto
Tyler Sorba
Officers
Gary Katz (President and Chief Executive Officer)

Thomas Ascher (Chief Strategy Officer)

Daniel Friel (Chief Information Officer)

Michael Simon (Chief Regulatory Officer, Secretary and General Counsel)

Boris Ilyevsky (Managing Director, ISE Options)

Robert Cornish (Chief Technology Officer)

Lance Emmons (Finance and Administration Officer, Controller)

Joseph W. Ferraro III (Deputy General Counsel, Legal Officer, and Assistant 

Secretary)

Jacqueline Gaillard (Human Resources Officer)

Jeanine Hightower (Business Development Officer)

Molly McGregor (Communications and Marketing Officer)

Thomas Reina (Technology Development Officer)

20


Russ Davidson (Surveillance Officer)
Claire McGrath (Compliance Officer)
Standing Committees
Compensation Committee
Mike Monaco
Joseph Stefanelli
Kenneth Vecchione
Corporate Governance Committee
Christianna Wood
David Krell
Andreas Preuß
Joseph Stefanelli
Kenneth Vecchione
Michael Monaco
Jeffrey Tessler
Marcus Thompson
Finance and Audit Committee
Christianna Wood
Jeffrey Tessler
Kenneth Vecchione
Michael Monaco
Marcus Thompson
10. Indication of whether such business or organization ceased to be
associated with the applicant during previous year: Not applicable.
H. Longitude LLC
1. Name: Longitude LLC
Address: 60 Broad Street, New York, NY 10004
2. Form of Organization: Limited Liability Company
3. Name of state and statute citation under which organized: Longitude LLC is
a Delaware limited liability company duly organized on January 24, 2006.
4. Brief description of nature and extent of affiliation: Longitude LLC is 100%
owned by International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. International
Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. also owns 100% of International
Securities Exchange, LLC, ISE Gemini, LLC and ISE Mercury, LLC.

21


5. Brief description of business or functions: Longitude LLC intends to license
software and other intellectual property rights for pari-mutuel-based trading.
6. Copy of the constitution: Not applicable
7. Copy of the articles of incorporation or association and amendments: See
attached Longitude LLC Certificate of Formation.
8. Copy of existing by-laws: See attached Longitude LLC A & R LLC 

Agreement.

9. Name and title of the present officers, governors, members of all standing
committees or persons performing similar functions:
Board of Managers
Thomas A. Ascher

Joseph W. Ferraro III

Scott Shechtman

Officers
Thomas A. Ascher (President and Chief Executive Officer)

Joseph W. Ferraro III. (General Counsel and Secretary)

10. Indication of whether such business or organization ceased to be

associated with the applicant during previous year: Not applicable. 


I. ETC Acquisition Corp.
1. 	Name: ETC Acquisition Corp.

Address: 60 Broad Street, New York, NY 10004

2. Form of Organization: Corporation
3. Name of state and statute citation under which organized: ETC Acquisition
Corp. is a Delaware corporation duly organized on April 3, 2002.
4. Brief description of nature and extent of affiliation: ETC Acquisition Corp. is
100% owned by International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc.
International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. also owns 100% of
International Securities Exchange, LLC, ISE Gemini, LLC and ISE Mercury,
LLC.
5. Brief description of business or functions: ETC Acquisition Corp. facilitates
the leasing of Competitive Market Maker (CMM) memberships on
International Securities Exchange, LLC’s options exchange.
22


6. Copy of the constitution: Not applicable
7. Copy of the articles of incorporation or association and amendments: See
attached ETC Acquisition Corp. Certificate of Incorporation.
8. Copy of existing by-laws: See attached ETC Acquisition Corp. Bylaws.
9. Name and title of the present officers, governors, members of all standing
committees or persons performing similar functions:
Directors
 Gary Katz

 Michael J. Simon

Officers
 Gary Katz (President)

 Michael J. Simon (Secretary)

10. Indication of whether such business or organization ceased to be

associated with the applicant during previous year: Not applicable. 

J. 	Longitude S.A.
1.	 Name: Longitude S.A.

Address: 42 Avenue J.F. Kennedy, L-1855 Luxembourg, R.C.S. 

Luxembourg B 170031

2.	 Form of Organization: Société Anonyme
3.	 Name of state and statute citation under which organized: Longitude S.A.
is a société anonyme duly organized on June 28, 2012 under the Law of
Commercial Companies of 10 August 1915, as amended.
4.	 Brief description of nature and extent of affiliation: Longitude S.A. is 100%
owned by International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. International
Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. also owns 100% of International
Securities Exchange, LLC, ISE Gemini, LLC and ISE Mercury, LLC.
5.	 Brief description of business or functions: Longitude S.A. intends to
license software and other intellectual property rights for pari-mutuelbased trading.
6.	 Copy of the constitution: Not applicable
7.	 Copy of the articles of incorporation or association and amendments: See
attached Longitude S.A. Articles of Incorporation.
8.	 Copy of existing by-laws: Not applicable
23


9.	 Name and title of the present officers, governors, members of all standing
committees or persons performing similar functions:
Board of Directors
Thomas A. Ascher

Scott Shechtman

Marco Steeg

Gabriele Fabry

Officers
Thomas A. Ascher (President and Chief Executive Officer)

Scott Shechtman (Vice-Chairman)

Michele Bierset (Daily Manager)

10. Indication of whether such business or organization ceased to be

associated with the applicant during previous year: Not applicable.

K. 	Finnovation S.A.
1.	 Name: Finnovation S.A.

Address: 42 Avenue J.F. Kennedy, L-1855 Luxembourg, R.C.S. 

Luxembourg B 170031

2.	 Form of Organization: Société Anonyme
3.	 Name of state and statute citation under which organized: Finnovation
S.A. is a société anonyme duly organized on 26 March 2008 under the
Law of Commercial Companies of 10 August 1915, as amended.
4.	 Brief description of nature and extent of affiliation: Finnovation S.A. is
100% owned by Deutsche Börse AG. Deutsche Börse AG also indirectly
(through various intermediary entities) owns 100% of ISE Mercury, LLC.
5.	 Brief description of business or functions: Finnovation S.A. owns the T7
software and related intellectual property rights, which it licenses to
International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. by way of a written
license agreement and maintenance agreement. International Securities
Exchange Holdings, Inc. provides such software to its exchange
subsidiaries, including International Securities Exchange, LLC, ISE
Gemini, LLC and ISE Mercury, LLC. In exchange for the license,
International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. pays a license fee and
maintenance fee to Finnovation S.A.
6.	 Copy of the constitution: Not applicable
7.	 Copy of the articles of incorporation or association and amendments: See
attached Finnovation S.A. Articles of Incorporation.
24


8.	 Copy of existing by-laws: Not applicable
9.	 Name and title of the present officers, governors, members of all standing
committees or persons performing similar functions:
Board of Directors
Gabriele Fabry

Richard Green

Rene Keller 

Uwe Schweickert 

Marco Steeg

Officers
Michèle Bierset (Vice President)
10. Indication of whether such business or organization ceased to be

associated with the applicant during previous year: Not applicable.

L. 	Other Indirect Foreign Affiliates
An organizational chart of Affiliates owned by Deutsche Borse AG is
attached, which includes an asterisk indicating which entities are Foreign
Indirect Affiliates.

25


Exhibit D
Exhibit Request:
For each subsidiary or affiliate of the exchange, provide unconsolidated
financial statements for the latest fiscal year. Such financial statements
shall consist, at a minimum, of a balance sheet and an income statement
with such footnotes and other disclosures as are necessary to avoid
rendering the financial statements misleading. If any affiliate or subsidiary
is required by another Commission rule to submit annual financial
statements, a statement to that effect with a citation to the other
Commission rule, may be provided in lieu of the financial statements
required here.
Response:
1.	 The financials and Annual Report of Deutsche Borse AG are
submitted in response to this Exhibit D.
2.	 The financials of Eurex Frankfurt, AG are submitted in response to
Exhibit D.
3.	 The financials of U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc. are submitted in
response to Exhibit D.
4.	 The financials for U.S. Exchange LLC are not available as the U.S.
Exchange LLC is inactive and the capital has not been paid into that
affiliate.
5.	 The financials of International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. are
submitted in response to Exhibit D.
6.	 The financials of International Securities Exchange, LLC are
submitted in response to Exhibit D.
7.	 The financials of ISE Gemini, LLC are submitted in response to
Exhibit D.
8.	 The financials of Longitude LLC are submitted in response to Exhibit
D.
9.	 The financials of ETC Acquisition Corp. are submitted in response to
Exhibit D.
10. The financials of Longitude S.A. are submitted in response to Exhibit
D.

26


Exhibit E: Proposed Operation of ISE Mercury Exchange
Exhibit Request:
Describe the manner of operation of the System. This description should
include the following:
1.	 The means of access to the System.
2.	 Procedures governing entry and display of quotations and orders in
the System.
3.	 Procedures governing the execution, reporting, clearance and
settlement of transactions in connection with the System.
4.	 Proposed fees.
5.	 Procedures for ensuring compliance with System usage guidelines.
6.	 The hours of operation of the System, and the date on which 

applicant intends to commence operation of the System.

7.	 Attach a copy of the users’ manual.
8.	 If applicant proposes to hold funds or securities on a regular basis,
describe the controls that will be implemented to ensure safety of
those funds or securities.
Response:
1.	 Introduction
ISE Mercury, LLC (“ISE Mercury” or “Exchange”) proposes to register as a
national securities exchange under Section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”). The Exchange will be wholly-owned by its
parent company, International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. (“ISE
Holdings”), which will elect all directors of the Board of Directors of the
Exchange, except for those directors elected by a plurality of the holders of
Exchange Rights (as that term is defined in Article VI of the LLC Agreement)
pursuant to Article III, Section 3.2 of the Constitution of the Exchange. The
holders of Exchange Rights of the Exchange will consist of those broker-dealers
admitted to transact on the Exchange. Holders of Exchange Rights will be
subject to the rules of the Exchange, and will have representation on the
Exchange’s Board of Directors and committees, but will not have any ownership
interest in the Exchange.
27


Once registered, the Exchange will operate a fully automated electronic options
trading platform to buy or sell securities with a continuous, automated matching
function. Liquidity will be derived from quotes as well as orders to buy and orders
to sell submitted to the Exchange electronically by holders of Exchange Rights
from remote locations. There will be no Exchange trading floor. There will be
three types of participants on the Exchange: Primary Market Makers (“PMMs”)
with certain affirmative and negative market making obligations, Competitive
Market Makers (“CMMs”) with different affirmative and negative market making
obligations, and Electronic Access Members (“EAMs”) which send orders to the
Exchange (PMMs, CMMs, and EAMs are collectively, “Members”).
PMMs and CMMs have certain rights and bear certain responsibilities beyond
those of EAMs. PMMs and CMMs may seek to become registered, or appointed,
to quote in any options class listed and traded on the Exchange, and such
registration / appointment shall be approved by the Exchange according to
Chapter 8 of the Exchange’s rules. All PMMs are designated as specialists for all
purposes under the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder. The Exchange
Rules place no limit on the number of qualifying entities that may become PMMs
or CMMs. A PMM or CMM that engages in specified Other Business Activities,
as defined in Exchange Rule 810, or that is affiliated with a broker-dealer that
engages in Other Business Activities, including functioning as an EAM, must
have an Information Barrier between the market making activities and the Other
Business Activities, pursuant to Exchange Rule 810.
As described above, the Board or a committee designated by the Board shall
appoint classes of options contracts traded on the Exchange to market makers
taking into consideration: (i) the financial resources available to the market
maker, (ii) the market maker’s experience and expertise in market making or
options trading, and (iii) the maintenance and enhancement of competition
among market makers in each class of options contracts to which they are
appointed. The Board or designated committee shall make appointments in the
best interest of the Exchange to provide competitive markets. No appointment of
a market maker shall be without the market maker’s consent to such
appointment, provided that refusal to accept an appointment may be deemed
sufficient cause for termination or suspension of a market maker’s registration. A
PMM shall be appointed to each options class traded on the Exchange. This
allocation process shall be identical to the allocation process that is presently in
place on the International Securities Exchange, LLC (“ISE”) and ISE Gemini, LLC
(“ISE Gemini”). As well, in accordance with Exchange Rule 302, the Exchange
shall provide non-ISE or ISE Gemini Members with at least sixty (60) days
advance written notice of the date upon which the Exchange shall allocate
options classes and appoint market makers pursuant to Exchange Rule 802 in
order to ensure that these Members have a reasonable opportunity to participate
in those processes. A market participant must have completed a membership
application to be eligible to participate in the processes set forth in Rule 802.

28


Access to the Exchange will be open to broker-dealers registered under Section
15(b) of the Exchange Act that meet the standards for membership set forth in
proposed Exchange Chapter 3. Further, all ISE and ISE Gemini members in
good standing will be eligible for an Exchange Right in the same membership
category to trade on ISE Mercury. For example, a CMM in good standing on ISE
will be eligible to become a CMM on the Exchange, through the submission and
approval of an Exchange Waive-In Membership Application. Members will be
subject to fees for executions on the Exchange as set forth in the Rules of the
Exchange or as may otherwise be determined by the Exchange from time-to-time
pursuant to a fee schedule. Exchange Rights will not be transferable except in
the event of a change in control of a Member subject to meeting certain criteria.
A more detailed description of the Member criteria is set forth in Chapter 3 of the
Exchange’s proposed rules. See Exhibit B, supra.
Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity (“Regulation SCI”) requires selfregulatory organizations (defined as SCI entities) to have, among other things,
robust and resilient technological systems that ensure the SRO’s own operational
capability, including the ability to maintain effective operations, minimize or
eliminate the effect of performance degradations, and have sufficient backup and
recovery capabilities. Specifically, Regulation SCI Rule 1001(a) requires each
SCI entity to establish, maintain and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems have levels of capacity,
integrity, resiliency, availability, and security, adequate to maintain the SCI
entity’s operational capability and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly
markets.
Regulation SCI Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) further requires business continuity and
disaster recovery plans that include maintaining backup and recovery capabilities
that are both sufficiently resilient and geographically diverse. To be deemed
sufficiently resilient, Regulation SCI has established a goal for SCI entities of
next business day resumption of trading and two-hour resumption of critical SCI
systems following a wide-scale disruption. To be considered geographically
diverse, Regulation SCI provides a reasonable degree of flexibility to an SCI
entity to determine the precise nature and location of its backup site. Regulation
SCI does not specify a minimum distance for an SCI entity’s backup and
recovery facilities. However, the backup site should not rely upon the same
infrastructure components nor be subject to the same vulnerabilities or risks as
its primary site.
ISE Mercury will be compliant with all aspects of Regulation SCI including the
requirements for its backup and recovery capabilities by the Regulation’s

29


compliance date1. ISE Mercury’s disaster recovery plans in general and its
backup data center in particular will be robust and resilient. It should be noted
that ISE Mercury does not plan to operate any critical SCI systems and therefore
will not be required to meet the two-hour resumption of service goal set forth in
the Regulation. ISE Mercury’s disaster recovery data center will meet the goal of
next business day resumption of trading following a wide-scale disruption by
leveraging existing hosted datacenter space leased by our parent company,
Deutsche Börse, as well as cloud service provider data center and infrastructure
services. Use of the existing Deutsche Börse datacenter provides the required
network connectivity and market data feeds for the cloud implementation and
allows ISE Mercury to quickly provide physical connectivity to potential members.
The Deutsche Börse datacenter also provides ISE Mercury with direct physical
connectivity to the Secure Financial Transaction Infrastructure (“SFTI”) and
Nasdaq market data since those vendors use the same backup datacenter
facility. The Deutsche Börse datacenter also provides physical connectivity to
cloud service providers where possible. Finally, leverage of the Deutsche Börse
datacenter and Amazon cloud services limits the need for management of
physical infrastructure in a remote datacenter.
In connection with its operating Exchanges, ISE and ISE Gemini, internal
processes and automation have already been built to support cloud
implementation, including using external cloud services for proof of concepts and
the testing of new technology. Use of cloud services will provide ISE Mercury
with the ability to meet the disaster recovery requirements of Regulation SCI and
will allow mobility of virtual cloud infrastructure to other regions and other cloud
providers. The infrastructure requirements include multiple Cloud-based Virtual
Servers and Terabytes of Cloud-based Storage at Amazon along with the Base
Ethernet Network and Market Data Feed Handling Appliance at the Deutsche
Börse Datacenter. The disaster recovery data centers will be considered
geographically diverse since they are located in Equinix’s CH1 (Chicago)
datacenter and at Amazon’s U.S. West (Oregon) Region datacenters; over 700
miles from our primary data center in Secaucus, New Jersey and will not rely
upon the same infrastructure components nor be subject to the same
vulnerabilities or risks as its primary site. The ISE Mercury disaster recovery
datacenters are expected to be ready ahead of time; providing a 30 day
contingency buffer between completion of the facilities and the Regulation SCI
compliance date.
In addition, with respect to personnel necessary to operate ISE Mercury’s market
in the event of a wide-scale disruption that forces ISE Mercury to activate its
1

The Compliance Date for most components of Regulation SCI is November 3, 2015.

30


back-up recovery sites, ISE Mercury’s staff will work remotely using facilities setup in their homes throughout the tri-state region. Currently, all ISE and ISE
Gemini market and technology operations staff have the full set of tools
necessary to operate the market from their at home facilities. ISE and ISE
Gemini regularly test the use of the at-home facilities on an individual basis. On
Thursday, July 2, 2015, testing of the at-home facilities will be done as a group,
when all market operations and technology personnel will work remotely from
their home facilities.
It should also be noted that ISE Mercury will also have access to Deutsche Börse
personnel located in Chicago and Frankfurt should this additional level of staff
support be required. Such relationship will be memorialized prior to the
Regulation SCI compliance date in a written contract containing procedures
related to the nature of the services to be provided.
In accordance with Rule 1001(a) of Regulation SCI, ISE Mercury will have written
policies and procedures in place that reflect its operational capabilities, including
the ability to maintain effective operations, minimize or eliminate the effect of
performance degradations, and have sufficient backup and recovery capabilities.
This exhibit describes, in summary form, the proposed operation of the
Exchange. A more detailed description of the proposed Exchange is set forth in
the proposed Constitution, LLC Agreement and Rules of the Exchange. See
Exhibits A and B to this Application.
B. Access to the Exchange (#1)
Access. Members will access the Exchange electronically through the use of a
variety of systems. The Exchange will not accept telephone orders.
The Exchange has designed its systems to allow Members to individually
determine the best method for accessing the Exchange. Thus, Members may
develop their own customized front-end software using protocols determined by
the Exchange, or may use third-party vendors to route orders to the Exchange
via a front end configuration. Members will be able to access the Exchange
remotely through a variety of methods and connections that support a minimum
data exchange rate, as may be determined by the Exchange from time-to-time.
Direct access to the Exchange is available to Members at an Internet Protocol
(“IP”) address by one or more of the following methods: (i) electronic access at
the Exchange’s IP network address by the Member’s own software, via
communications that are compliant with the Financial Information Exchange
(“FIX”) protocol application programmer interface (“API”) provided by the
Exchange; (ii) electronic access at the IP network address maintained by the
Exchange by the Member’s own software that is compliant with the API provided
31


by the Exchange; or (iii) other means of access provided from time to time by the
Exchange.
Members provide a unique IP address to the Exchange for each requested
connection, and the Exchange then configures its routers to only allow access
from the Member’s IP address to a dedicated IP address on the Exchange’s
order handling network. In this way, only authorized Members can gain access to
the Exchange via registered physical IP addresses.
Members will be responsible for having procedures reasonably designed for
safeguarding access to the Exchange and for notifying the Exchange upon
learning that such safeguards have been compromised. Connectivity to the
Exchange will occur through secure telecommunications “ports” or points of
entry. Specifically, each Member will be assigned a specific port, or multiple
ports, each of which has a unique session identification code provided only to
such Member.
Non-Member Access. The Exchange plans to become a participant in the
Decentralized Linkage Plan or any successor plan (“Linkage Plan”). If admitted
as a participant to the Linkage Plan, other plan participants would be able to
send orders to the Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Linkage Plan.
Non-Members also may access the Exchange pursuant to Exchange rules
governing “sponsored access” to the Exchange. The Exchange plans to permit
access to the Exchange to entities (“Sponsored Customers”) whose access is
authorized in advance by one or more Members (“Sponsoring Members”) in
accordance with Exchange Rules. The Sponsoring Member must agree to be
responsible for all orders entered into on the Exchange by the Sponsored
Customer. In addition, Sponsored Customers must agree to comply with all
applicable Rules of the Exchange governing the entry, execution, reporting,
clearing and settling of orders in securities eligible for trading on the Exchange.
C. Entry and Display of Quotations and Orders in the System (#2)
Entry of Orders/Quotes on the Exchange. Orders entered into the Exchange
must be priced and must have a designated size (limit orders) or must be orders
to buy or sell a stated amount of a security at the national best bid or offer when
the order reaches the Exchange (market orders). Some orders, both limit and
market, can include an instruction to ignore prices on other markets. Like limit
orders, quotes entered by PMMs and CMMs must be priced and must have a
designated size. Orders will be accepted for any security traded on the
Exchange, whether submitted by a Member on a proprietary or agency basis, in
any size. Quotes for any security traded on the Exchange may only be submitted
by Exchange PMMs and CMMs.

32


Members may submit the following orders to the Exchange: Market and
Contingency (including All-Or-None, Immediate Or Cancel, Fill Or Kill, Stop, and
Reserve). Each of these types of orders is described in detail in proposed
Exchange Rules 715 and 722. The Exchange will maintain a full audit trail of
every incoming and outgoing message (including all quotes and orders)
submitted to the Exchange. Members may receive status reports regarding
orders submitted to the Exchange or change or cancel an order at any time
before that order is executed on the Exchange, except as otherwise specified in
Exchange Rule 723 (Price Improvement Mechanisms for Crossing Transactions).
All options will be traded in decimals on the Exchange and consistent with the
Penny Pilot.
Display of Orders/Quotes. All orders/quotes submitted to the Exchange will be
displayed unless designated otherwise by the Member submitting the order (e.g.
the non-displayed portion of a Reserve Order). Orders/Quotes submitted to the
Exchange shall be displayed on an anonymous basis (except for attributable
orders which allow voluntary disclosure of ID information) at the price specified
by the submitting Member. Non-displayed orders will not be displayed to any
Members and will not have time priority over displayed orders. In addition, the
Exchange intends to become a participant in the Options Price Reporting
Authority Plan (“OPRA Plan”) and will collect and submit to OPRA the best buy
and sell interest displayed on the Exchange in accordance with the terms of the
OPRA Plan.
D. Execution, Reporting, Clearance and Settlement Procedures (#3)
The Exchange will employ an opening process structured to match the greatest
number of pending buy and sell orders. Pre-opening orders will be accepted.
Prior to opening a series, the expected opening price and size is provided to
Members so that imbalances may be offset. After the start of trading in the
underlying security, the Exchange will open each series at a price that executes
the greatest amount of pre-opening interest within applicable boundary prices.
Non-opening trades on the Exchange will occur when a buy order/quote and a
sell order/quote match on the Exchange’s order book. Pursuant to proposed Rule
713, all orders are matched according to a pro rata allocation method after any
and all orders for Priority Customers (as defined in Exchange Rule 100(a)(37A))
at that price level are executed. In the event that less than the full size of a
resting order is executed, whether displayed or non-displayed, the unexecuted
size of the order will continue to reside on the Exchange’s order book, and if
displayed, will be redisplayed at such price, except if the relevant order specifies
otherwise.
When the displayed portion of a Reserve Order (as defined in Exchange Rule
715(g)) is decremented, either in full or in part, it shall be refreshed from the non33


displayed portion of the resting Reserve Order. If the displayed portion is
refreshed in part, the new displayed portion shall include the previously displayed
portion. Upon any refresh, the entire displayed portion shall be ranked at the
specified limit price and obtain a new time stamp, i.e., the time that the new
displayed portion of the order was refreshed. The initial non-displayed portion of
a Reserve Order rests on the order book and is ranked based on the specified
limit price and time of order entry. Thereafter, non-displayed portions, if any,
always obtain the same time stamp as that of the new displayed portion as
described above. The non-displayed portion of any Reserve Order is available
for execution only after all displayed interest has been executed.
As previously discussed, orders for Priority Customers have priority on the
Exchange. When all orders for Priority Customers have been executed and
there are two or more Professional Orders (as defined in Rule 100(a)(37C)) or
market maker quotes at the best price, the general allocation procedure is as
follows:
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in Exchange Rules, Professional
Orders and market maker quotes at the best price receive allocations
based upon the percentage of the total number of contracts available at
the best price that is represented by the size of the Professional Order or
quote;
If the PMM is quoting at the best price, it has participation rights equal to
the greater of (i) the proportion of the total size at the best price
represented by the size of its quote, or (ii) sixty percent (60%) of the
contracts to be allocated if there is only one (1) other Professional Order
or market maker quotation at the best price, forty percent (40%) if there
are two (2) other Professional Orders and/or market maker quotes at the
best price, and thirty percent (30%) if there are more than two (2) other
Professional Orders and/or market maker quotes at the best price. (Note
that there is no circumstance in which a Member shall be entitled to
receive a greater percentage participation right than that which is set forth
above, as such percentages are the maximum guarantee amounts under
all circumstances.)
Orders for five (5) contracts or fewer will be executed first by the PMM;
This procedure only applies to the allocation of executions among
Professional Orders and market maker quotes existing in the Exchange’s
central order book at the time the order is received by the Exchange. No
market participant is allocated any portion of an execution unless it has an
existing interest at the execution price. Moreover, no market participant
can execute a greater number of contracts than is associated with the
price of its existing interest. Accordingly, the PMM participation rights and
the small order preference contained in this allocation procedure are not
guarantees; the PMM (i) must be quoting at the execution price to receive
34


an allocation of any size, and (ii) cannot execute a greater number of
contracts than the size that is associated with its quote.
All Exchange Members will submit orders to the Exchange from remote locations
and have equal access to orders residing on the Exchange. Similarly, because
orders on the Exchange will be executed automatically, no Member of the
Exchange will have the ability to control the execution (other than to change or
cancel an order/quote prior to execution).
The Exchange may also make available certain additional order processing and
matching features. Other mechanisms that may be utilized by the Exchange
include: the Price Improvement Mechanism (which auctions orders for price
improvement above the NBBO), the Facilitation Mechanism (which affords
Members an opportunity to cross orders after an auction), the Solicited Order
Mechanism (which allows Members representing agency orders the opportunity
to cross large size solicited orders after an auction), and Block Order Mechanism
(which allows Members to execute block-sized orders). Some of these
mechanisms (such as, for example, the Facilitation Mechanism and the Price
Improvement Mechanism) contain maximum percentage participation rights of
40% for Members. There is no circumstance in which a Member shall be entitled
to receive a greater percentage participation right than that which is set forth
above, as such percentage is the maximum guarantee amount under all
circumstances.
The Price Improvement Mechanism, or PIM, is a process set forth in Rule 723
whereby an EAM can provide price improvement opportunities for a transaction
wherein the EAM seeks to facilitate an order it represents as agent, and/or a
transaction wherein the EAM solicited interest to execute against an order it
represents as agent (a “Crossing Transaction”). A Crossing Transaction is
comprised of the order the EAM represents as agent (the “Agency Order”) and a
counter-side order for the full size of the Agency Order (the “Counter-Side
Order”). The Counter-Side Order may represent interest for the Member’s own
account, or interest the Member has solicited from one or more other parties, or a
combination of both.
With certain exceptions, an EAM is not otherwise permitted to trade with its
agency orders. In addition, prior to submitting an order to the PIM, an EAM
cannot inform another Member or any other third party of any of the terms of the
order, except as provided for in the Rules regarding directed orders. During a
pilot period to be established, there will be no minimum size requirement for
orders to be eligible for the PIM.
Upon entry of a Crossing Transaction into the PIM, a broadcast message that
includes the series, price and size of the Agency Order, and whether it is to buy
or sell, will be sent to all Members. This broadcast message will not be included
in the Exchange’s disseminated best bid or offer and will not be disseminated
35


through OPRA. At the end of the exposure period the Agency Order will be
executed in full at the best prices available, taking into consideration orders and
quotes in the Exchange market, improvement orders, and the Counter-Side
Order, all as set forth in Rule 723. The Agency Order will receive executions at
multiple price levels if there is insufficient size to execute the entire order at the
best price.
The Exchange Rules also provide for a Facilitation Mechanism, Solicited Order
Mechanism, and Block Order Mechanism that allows EAMs to execute certain
orders. The Block Mechanism allows members to obtain liquidity for the
execution of an order of 50 contracts or more. The Facilitation and Solicited
Order Mechanisms allow for Members to designate certain customer orders for
price improvement and submit such orders into one of the mechanisms with a
matching contra order. It will be a violation of an EAM’s duty of best execution
to its customer if it were to cancel a facilitation order to avoid execution of the
customer order at a better price that may be available on ISE. Additionally,
EAMs may not use the Solicited Order Mechanism to circumvent the limitations
in Exchange Rules regarding EAMs trading as principal with their customer
orders.
The Facilitation Mechanism requires a minimum size of 50 contracts. Upon the
entry of an order into the Facilitation Mechanism, a broadcast message that
includes the series, price and size of the Agency Order, and whether it is to buy
or sell, will be sent and Members will be given an opportunity to enter responses
with the prices and sizes at which they want to participate in the facilitation of the
order. Responses may be priced at the price of the order to be facilitated or at a
better price and must not exceed the size of the order to be facilitated. At the
end of the period given for the entry of responses, the facilitation order will be
automatically executed.
The receipt of an unrelated, incoming order, on either side of the market, prior to
the end of the period given for the entry of responses does not cause the early
termination of such period. Unrelated orders continue to be executable during
the exposure period, and orders on the limit order book that are on the opposite
side of the order being exposed are eligible to participate in the execution of the
order at the end of the exposure period. An order being exposed through the
Facilitation Mechanism will be cancelled at the end of the exposure period if
execution of the order would be inferior to the best price on the Exchange’s limit
order book on the same side of the market.
The Solicited Order Mechanism is a process by which an EAM can attempt to
execute orders of 500 or more contracts it represents as agent (the “Agency
Order”) against contra orders that it solicited. Each order entered into the
Solicited Order Mechanism shall be designated as all-or-none. Upon entry of
both orders into the Solicited Order Mechanism at a proposed execution price, a
broadcast message that includes the series, price and size of the Agency Order,
36


and whether it is to buy or sell, will be sent and Members will be given an
opportunity to enter responses with the prices and sizes at which they would be
willing to participate in the execution of the Agency Order. At the end of the
period given Members to enter responses, the Agency Order will be
automatically executed in full or cancelled. The receipt of an unrelated, incoming
order, on either side of the market, prior to the end of the period given for the
entry of responses does not cause the early termination of such period, however
such unrelated, incoming order may participate in or cause the cancellation of the
execution, depending on the attributes of such unrelated, incoming order, all as
set forth in Exchange Rule 716.
The Block Order Mechanism is a process by which a Member can obtain liquidity
for the execution of block-size orders. Upon the entry of an order into the Block
Order Mechanism, a broadcast message that includes the series, and may
include price, size and/or side, as specified by the Member entering the order,1
will be sent and Members will be given an opportunity to enter responses with the
prices and sizes at which they would be willing to trade with a block-size order.
At the conclusion of the time given Members to enter responses, either an
execution will occur automatically, or the order will be cancelled. See Exchange
Rule 716 for more detailed information.
1.	 The block order mechanism and its functionality was originally
approved in the grant of registration for the International Securities
Exchange, LLC. As discussed therein, the Block Order Mechanism
will enable an EAM to enter a block order along with a limit price. The
functionality of the System allows the EAM to specify exactly what
information will be disseminated to the market. The EAM using the
Block Order Mechanism may determine the amount of information that
will be disclosed in the broadcast to crowd participants. For example,
the broadcast can disclose that there is a sell or a buy order, or it
could ask for size on either side. The broadcast also may or may not
display size or price or any conditions on the block-size order. The
system will then broadcast an anonymous message to the crowd
participants. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 42455
(February 24, 2000), 65 FR 11388 (March 2, 2000) at page 11396.
The Exchange is not proposing to adopt rules to allow for the trading of complex
or multi-legged orders at this time. Accordingly, the Exchange will not accept any
complex or multi-legged orders until such time as it has received Commission
approval pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act and Rule 19b-4 thereunder for the
trading of complex and multi-legged orders following the grant of registration by
the Commission of the ISE Mercury Form 1 Application.
A Qualified Contingent Cross Order (“QCC Order”) is comprised of an order to
buy or sell at least 1000 contracts that is identified as being part of a “qualified
contingent trade” coupled with a contra-side order or orders totaling an equal
37


number of contracts. A “qualified contingent trade” is a transaction consisting of
two or more component orders, executed as agent or principal, where at least
one component is an NMS Stock, as defined in Rule 600 of Regulation NMS
under the Exchange Act; all components are effected with a product or price
contingency that either has been agreed to by all the respective counterparties or
arranged for by a broker-dealer as principal or agent; the execution of one
component is contingent upon the execution of all other components at or near
the same time; the specific relationship between the component orders (e.g., the
spread between the prices of the component orders) is determined by the time
the contingent order is placed; the component orders bear a derivative
relationship to one another, represent different classes of shares of the same
issuer, or involve the securities of participants in mergers or with intentions to
merge that have been announced or cancelled; and the transaction is fully
hedged (without regard to any prior existing position) as a result of other
components of the contingent trade.
QCC Orders are automatically executed upon entry provided that the execution
is not at the same price as a Priority Customer Order on the Exchange’s limit
order book and is at or between the NBBO. QCC Orders will be automatically
canceled if they cannot be executed and may only be entered in the regular
trading increments applicable to the options class as provided in Rule 710.
The Exchange will have a policy that will permit it to address those instances in
which transactions occurring on the Exchange involve obvious or catastrophic
errors. Proposed Exchange Rule 720 describes this error policy. The Exchange
proposes to permit the Exchange to either bust a transaction or adjust the
execution price of a transaction that results from an obvious error. Under the
Obvious Error Procedure in proposed Rule 720(c), if a Member believes an
executed order was the result of an Obvious Error it must notify the Exchange’s
Market Control. The Exchange will review the transaction to determine whether,
in fact, the transaction was the result of an Obvious Error, and either bust or
adjust the trade based on the objective criteria set forth in the rule..
Similarly, under the Catastrophic Error Procedure in proposed Rule 720(d), if a
Member believes it has participated in a transaction that qualifies as a
Catastrophic Error as defined in proposed Rule 720(d)(1), the Member must
notify Market Control. The Exchange will review the transaction to determine
whether, in fact, the transaction qualifies as a Catastrophic Error, and either bust
or adjust the trade based on the objective criteria set forth in the rule.
The Exchange will also coordinate with other options exchanges in cases
involving Significant Market Events across multiple exchanges under proposed
Rule 720(e). If it is determined that a Significant Market Event has occurred then
the Exchange will determine whether any or all transactions under review qualify
as Obvious Errors, and either bust or adjust the trades based on the objective
38


criteria set forth in the rule. If adjustment is not feasible due to the extraordinary
nature of the situation, the Exchange will bust some or all transactions arising out
of the Significant Market Event during the review period. All determinations made
pursuant to this provision will be final.
The Exchange will also have procedures to address erroneous trades due to
disruptions and/or malfunctions of Exchange systems as described in Proposed
Exchange Rule 720A. In particular, the Exchange proposes to permit Market
Control to either nullify or adjust on its own motion any transaction that arises out
of a verifiable systems disruption or malfunction in the use or operation of an
Exchange automated quotation, dissemination, execution, or communication
system.
Trade Reporting. The Exchange intends to become an OPRA participant and will
report trades pursuant to the terms of the OPRA Plan.
Clearance and Settlement of Exchange Trades. The Exchange will report
matched trades to the Options Clearing Corporation and will require Members to
give up the name of a Clearing Participant through whom the transaction will be
cleared.
E. Exchange Fees (#4)
Fees Generally. In accordance with proposed Rule 205, the Exchange may
prescribe such reasonable fees, and assessments or other charges as it may
deem appropriate and as consistent with the Exchange Act. The Exchange
intends to establish a Fee Schedule setting forth all applicable transaction and
other fees. Actual fee amounts will not be determined until close to launch
because they will need to reflect the competitive landscape at that time. The
Exchange will file with the Commission any proposed fees as well as any
changes thereto in accordance with the process set forth in Section 19(b) of the
Exchange Act, as amended.
Exchange Members will be subject to fees for orders executed on the Exchange
as set forth in the Exchange Rules or as may otherwise be determined by the
Exchange Board from time to time. The Exchange may charge permit application
fees, connectivity fees, and bandwidth fees. Exchange Members will be solely
responsible for all telecommunications costs and all other expenses incurred in
linking to, and maintaining links to, the Exchange. The Exchange may determine
to revise or impose different fees upon its Members and Sponsoring Participants
from time-to-time.
F. Procedures for Ensuring Compliance with Exchange Usage Guidelines
(#5)

39


The Exchange System contains embedded order/quote entry and trade
guidelines. All data representing an order/quote must comply with these
guidelines. Members cannot override these embedded guidelines. With respect
to technical standards, prior to allowing a new Member to begin trading, the
Exchange and the Member will thoroughly test the Member’s connectivity. In
addition, the Member may enter orders/quotes in test securities to ensure
compatibility with the Exchange’s system protocol. A Member may begin trading
only after the Member and the Exchange are satisfied that both the Member’s
hardware and software meet the Exchange’s standards.
Members also must agree to maintain an adequate connection to the Exchange
as defined from time-to-time by the Exchange that includes a connection of
sufficient speed and equipment of minimum quality.
G. Hours of Operation and Proposed Commencement of the Exchange (#6)
The Exchange proposes to operate Monday to Friday from 9:30 a.m. Eastern
Time to 4:15 p.m. Eastern Time, or during any other day or time approved by the
Board of Directors of the Exchange.
The Exchange proposes to commence operations during the fourth quarter of
2015 subject to the Commission’s grant of registration of the Exchange’s Form 1
Application for Registration as a National Securities Exchange and subject to
approval of all necessary regulatory and National Market System plans, including
the Plan for Reporting of Consolidated Options Last Sale Reports and Quotation
Information (i.e., the Options Price Reporting Authority (OPRA)), and subject to
the Exchange joining The Options Clearing Corporation, or OCC.
H. Exchange Users Manual (#7)
As discussed above, Members will be provided with the Exchange’s technical
specifications, which will enable them to develop or purchase their own,
customized front-end software for interfacing with the Exchange. Members also
may use third-party vendors to route orders to the Exchange via a front end
configuration. The Exchange makes available to prospective Members all
necessary API connectivity documentation and technical specifications on the
Exchange’s internal, intranet website. The Exchange considers the technical
user manual to be confidential information, and thus has provided a copy of such
user manual to the Commission under separate cover that seeks confidential
treatment under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).
2. Possession of Funds or Securities (#8)
The Exchange will not hold funds or securities of its Members.

40


41


Exhibit F

Exhibit Request:

A complete set of all forms pertaining to:

1.	 Application for membership, participation or subscription to the
entity.
2.	 Application for approval as a person associated with a member,
participant or subscriber of the entity.
3. Any other similar materials.
Response:
Attached please find the following documents:
1.	 ISE Mercury Membership Application Form
2.	 ISE Mercury Waive-In Membership Application
3.	 ISE Mercury Letter of Clearing Authorization
4.	 Member Access Agreement
5.	 Software License Agreement
6.	 Sponsored Customer Agreement
7.	 Sponsored Customer Addendum to Member Access Agreement
The Exchange intends to use Form U-4, the Uniform Application for Securities
Industry Registration or Transfer, for persons applying to be associated persons
of a Member.

42


Exhibit G
Exhibit Request:
A complete set of all forms of financial statements, reports or
questionnaires required of members, participants, subscribers, or any
other users relating to financial responsibility or minimum capital
requirements for such members, participants, or any other users. Provide a
table of contents listing the forms included in this Exhibit G.
Response:
As broker-dealers, Members of the Exchange will be required to comply with the
Commission’s net capital and customer protection rules set forth in Rules 15c3-1
and 15c3-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In addition,
pursuant to Commission Rule 17a-5, ISE Mercury Members will file Commission
Form X-17A-5. See also, proposed Chapter 13 of ISE Mercury Rules, which
such Rules are Chapter 13 of ISE Rules incorporated by reference. Under such
Exchange Rule 1301, every Member subject to the reporting or notification
requirements of Rule 17a-11 under the Exchange Act or the “early warning”
reporting, business restriction or business reduction requirements of another
national securities exchange, registered securities association or registered
securities clearing organization shall promptly notify the Exchange in writing and
shall thereafter file with the Exchange such reports and financial statements as
may be required by the Exchange. Under Exchange Rule 1302, whenever it shall
appear to the President of the Exchange that a Member obligated to give notice
to the Exchange under Exchange Rule 1301 is unable within a reasonable period
to reduce the ratio of its aggregate indebtedness to net capital, or to increase its
net capital, to a point where it is no longer subject to such notification obligations,
or that such Member is engaging in any activity which casts doubt upon its
continued compliance with the net capital requirements, the President may
impose such conditions and restrictions upon the operations, business and
expansion of such Member and may require the submission of, and adherence
to, such plan or program for the correction of such situation as he determines to
be necessary or appropriate for the protection of investors, other Members and
the Exchange.
Other than those forms and financial statements required to be submitted with an
application for Exchange membership (see Exhibit F), the Exchange will not have
specific forms of financial statements, reports or questionnaires required of its
Members with respect to financial responsibility or minimum capital requirements.
The Exchange will, however, be able to obtain such financial information from a
Member’s Designated Examining Authority, if necessary.

43


Exhibit H
Exhibit Request:
A complete set of documents comprising the applicant’s listing
applications, including any agreements required to be executed in
connection with listing and a schedule of listing fees. If the applicant does
not list securities, provide a brief description of the criteria used to
determine what securities may be traded on the exchange. Provide a table
of contents listing the forms included in this Exhibit H.
Response:
ISE Mercury does not intend to offer original listings on the Exchange, but rather,
intends to trade only equity and index options which are listed on other
exchanges and cleared by The Options Clearing Corporation (“OCC”). For a
description of the criteria used to determine what securities may be traded on the
Exchange, please refer to Chapter 5 of the ISE Mercury Rules, which such Rules
are Chapter 5 of ISE Rules incorporated by reference.

44


Exhibit I
Exhibit Request:
For the latest fiscal year of the applicant, audited financial statements
which are prepared in accordance with, or in the case of a foreign
applicant, reconciled with, United States generally accepted accounting
principles, and are covered by a report prepared by an independent public
accountant. If an applicant has no consolidated subsidiaries, it shall file
audited financial statements under Exhibit I alone and need not file a
separate unaudited financial statement for the applicant under Exhibit D.
Response:
ISE Mercury, LLC (the “Exchange”) has been formed but has not commenced
operations and does not yet have audited financial statements for any fiscal
year. International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc., as the sole owner of the
membership interests in the Exchange, has allocated sufficient assets to the
Exchange to enable its operation. In particular, International Securities
Exchange Holdings, Inc. has made a cash contribution to the Exchange of $5
million, in addition to any previously-provided in-kind contributions, such as legal,
regulatory, and infrastructure-related services. The Exchange represents that
such cash and in-kind contributions will be adequate to operate the Exchange,
including the regulation of the Exchange.
In addition, the Exchange represents that there is a written agreement between
the Exchange and International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. that requires
International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. to provide adequate funding for
the Exchange’s operations, including the regulation of the Exchange. This
agreement provides that the Exchange receive all fees, including regulatory fees
and trading fees, payable by the Exchange’s members, as well as any funds
received from any applicable market data fees and OPRA tape revenue. The
agreement further provides that International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc.
will reimburse the Exchange for its costs and expenses to the extent the
Exchange’s assets are insufficient to meet its costs and expenses. Excess
funds, as solely determined by the Exchange, will be remitted to International
Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. Furthermore, there is a written agreement
between the non-U.S. Upstream Owners (i.e. Deutsche Börse and Eurex
Frankfurt), U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc., International Securities Exchange
Holdings, Inc., and the Exchange to provide adequate funding for the Exchange’s
regulatory responsibilities.
The Exchange has provided pro forma financial statements with the Commission.
The Financial Statements of International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc.
include the funds that will be used to provide the cash contribution to the
45


Exchange.

46

Exhibit J
Exhibit Request:
A list of the officers, governors, members of all standing committees, or
persons performing similar functions, who presently hold or have held
their offices or positions during the previous year, indicating the following
for each:
1.	 Name.
2.	 Title.
3.	 Dates of commencement and termination of term of office or 

position.

4.	 Type of business in which each is primarily engaged (e.g., floor
broker, specialist, odd lot dealer, etc.)
Response:
3.	 Officers
The Exchange anticipates that its management will initially be the same as that of
the International Securities Exchange, LLC (“ISE”) and ISE Gemini, LLC (“ISE
Gemini”), as shown below. Officers shall serve until their successors are
appointed by the Board in accordance with the Constitution and LLC Agreement.
Officers of the Exchange will serve at the direction of the Board of Directors.
Initial Officers
Date of
Commencement:

Date of
Termination of
Term of Office:

Name:

Title:

Gary Katz	

Chief Executive
Officer and
President

Upon grant of
registration

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following
grant of
registration

Thomas
Ascher

Chief Strategy
Officer

Upon grant of
registration

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following
grant of
registration

47


Daniel Friel	

Chief Information Upon grant of
Officer
registration

Boris Ilyevsky	 Managing
Director, ISE
Options

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following
grant of
registration

Upon grant of
registration

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following
grant of
registration

Michael Simon	 General Counsel, Upon grant of
Chief Regulatory registration
Officer and
Secretary

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following
grant of
registration

Robert Cornish	 Chief Technology Upon grant of
Officer
registration

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following
grant of
registration

Russ Davidson	 Surveillance
Officer

Upon grant of
registration

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following
grant of
registration

Lance	
Emmons	

Finance and
Administration
Officer,
Controller

Upon grant of
registration

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following
grant of
registration

Joseph W.	
Ferraro III	

Deputy General
Counsel, Legal
Officer, and
Assistant
Secretary

Upon grant of
registration

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following
grant of
registration

Jacqueline	
Gaillard	

Human
Resources
Officer

Upon grant of
registration

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following
grant of
registration

Jeanine
Hightower

Business
Development
Officer

Upon grant of
registration

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following

48


grant of
registration
Claire
McGrath

Compliance
Officer

Upon grant of	
registration	

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following
grant of
registration

Molly
McGregor

Communications Upon grant of
and Marketing
registration
Officer

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following
grant of
registration

Thomas Reina Technology
Development
Officer

Upon grant of
registration

Upon date of the
first annual
meeting following
grant of
registration

2. Directors
Pursuant to Article III, Section 3.2 of the Exchange’s Constitution, the number of
directors of the Exchange shall be no less than eight (8) and no more than
sixteen (16) and in no event shall the number of Industry Directors constitute less
than 30% of the members of the Board and in no event shall the number of NonIndustry Directors constitute less than the number of Industry Directors. A
director may not be subject to a statutory disqualification (as defined in Section
3(a)(39) of the Exchange Act).
The Board shall be composed as follows:
(i)
At least 30% of the members of the Board shall be officers,
directors or partners of Exchange Members and shall be elected by a
plurality of the holders of the Exchange Rights (the “Industry Directors”),
wherein such Industry Directors shall consist of at least one (1) PMM
Director (an officer, director or partner of a Primary Market Maker that is
elected by a plurality of holders of the PMM Rights); at least one (1) CMM
Director (an officer, director or partner of a Competitive Market Maker that
is elected by a plurality of holders of the CMM Rights); and at least one (1)
EAM Director (an officer, director or partner of a Electronic Access
Member that is elected by a plurality of holders of the EAM Rights);
provided, however, that the number of PMM Director(s), CMM Director(s),
and EAM Director(s) shall always be equal to one another (i.e. either one
(1) PMM Director, one (1) CMM Director and one (1) EAM Director, or two
(2) PMM Directors, two (2) CMM Directors and two (2) EAM Directors);
49


(ii)
At least 50% of the members of the Board shall meet the
requirements of non- industry representatives and shall be elected by the
Sole LLC Member, which is ISE Holdings, (the “Non-Industry Directors”),
at least one (1) of whom shall be a public representative (the “Public
Director”); and
(iii)
One (1) director shall be the person then holding the office of
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Exchange and shall be
elected by the Sole LLC Member.
Upon the grant of registration of the Exchange’s Form 1 Application by the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Approval Date”), the Sole LLC
Member will appoint the interim Directors (“Interim Directors”) of the Board (the
“Interim Board”), which will include interim Industry Directors. The Sole LLC
Member will appoint the then-current directors serving on the ISE and ISE
Gemini Boards to the Interim Board. Currently, the same directors serve on both
the ISE and ISE Gemini Boards. As it relates to the interim Industry Directors,
the Exchange represents that all ISE and ISE Gemini members in good standing
will be eligible for an Exchange Right in the same membership category to trade
on the Exchange through the submission and approval of an Exchange Waive-In
Membership Application. Based on discussions with ISE and ISE Gemini
members, the Exchange represents that it currently expects that the Exchange’s
membership will consist substantially of the current group of ISE and ISE Gemini
members, including, but not limited to, those ISE and ISE Gemini members that
have representatives serving as industry directors on the respective Boards. The
Exchange further represents that the ISE Mercury trading system is substantially
similar to the ISE and ISE Gemini trading systems and as a result of the
similarities of the trading systems, as well as the familiarity of the Exchange’s
membership with these trading systems, the Exchange expects that the process
of joining ISE Mercury and participating in its market will be a relatively simple
and accelerated process for ISE and ISE Gemini members. Moreover, the
Exchange does not expect to receive a meaningful number of applications for
Exchange membership from non-ISE and ISE Gemini members during the tenure
of the Interim Board. As such, the Exchange believes that the Interim Board will
be a fair representation of the Exchange’s membership. Upon the appointment
of the Interim Directors by the Sole LLC Member, the Interim Board will meet the
board composition requirements set forth in the Exchange’s Constitution.
The Interim Directors shall serve only until the first annual meeting of the holders
of Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC Member following such appointment
pursuant to the full nomination, petition, and voting process set forth in the
Exchange’s Constitution. The Exchange represents that it will complete the full
nomination, petition, and voting process set forth in the Exchange’s Constitution,
which will provide persons that are approved as members of the Exchange after
the Approval Date with the opportunity to participate in the selection of the
Industry Directors as promptly as possible after the effective date of the LLC
50


Agreement and within ninety (90) days after the Approval Date. It is the intention
of the Exchange that its future annual meetings of the holders of Exchange
Rights and the Sole LLC Member shall occur on the same dates as the future
combined annual meetings of ISE and ISE Gemini. As a result, depending on
the timing of the Approval Date, Directors elected at the Exchange’s first annual
meeting of the holders of Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC Member may serve
for a period that is slightly longer or shorter than one year, in order to align the
next annual meeting dates of the Exchange, ISE and ISE Gemini.
Nominees for election of the Non-Industry Directors shall be selected by the
Corporate Governance Committee. In addition, persons may be nominated by
for election to the Board as Non-Industry Directors by a petition, signed by the
Sole LLC Member. At each annual meeting of the holders of Exchange Rights
and the Sole LLC Member, the Sole LLC Member shall elect the successors to
such Non-Industry Directors whose terms are expiring. The Non-Industry
Directors shall hold office for a term expiring at each succeeding annual meeting
of the holders of Exchange Rights and Sole LLC Member held in the first year
following the year of their election, and until their successors are elected and
qualified.
Nominees for election of the Industry Directors shall be selected by the
Nominating Committee, which does not act as a committee of the Board, but
rather, a committee of the Exchange and is composed of three (3) Exchange
Member representatives appointed by the Board. The holders of Exchange
Rights have the opportunity to nominate Industry Director candidates for election
to the Exchange Board of Directors pursuant to two separate and distinct
processes – (i) the formal Nominating Committee process; or (ii) the petition
process.
With respect to the formal Nominating Committee process, the Secretary of the
Exchange, on behalf of the Nominating Committee, will circulate a memorandum
to all holders of Exchange Rights soliciting interest in presenting Industry Director
candidates to the Nominating Committee. Shortly after the receipt of candidate
submissions, the Nominating Committee will conduct a short interview with each
candidate. Following all interviews, the Nominating Committee, by majority vote,
will select its Industry Director candidates and the Secretary of the Exchange will
inform the holders of Exchange Rights of the Nominating Committee's selections.
In addition to the nominees for Industry Directors selected by the Nominating
Committee, holders of Exchange Rights may nominate persons eligible to serve
as an Industry Director for election to the Board of Directors pursuant to the
petition process set forth in Section 3.10(a)(ii) of the Constitution. If no Industry
Director candidates are nominated pursuant to a petition process, then the initial
candidates submitted by the Nominating Committee will be nominated for
election. If a petition process produces additional Industry Director candidates,
then the candidates nominated pursuant to the petition process, together with
51


those nominated by the Nominating Committee, will be presented to the
Exchange membership for election in accordance with the Exchange’s
Constitution. Pursuant to Section 6.3(b) of the LLC Agreement, a holder of
Exchange Rights, together with any affiliate, as such term is defined in the
Constitution, may not exercise the voting rights associated with more than twenty
percent (20%) of the outstanding Exchange Rights. Any exercise of voting rights
in excess of twenty percent (20%) of the outstanding Exchange Rights by a
holder of Exchange Rights, together with any affiliate, shall be deemed null and
void.
At each annual meeting of the holders of Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC
Member, the holders of Exchange Rights shall elect the successors to such
Industry Directors whose terms are expiring. In the event there is more than one
(1) PMM Director, one (1) CMM Director, and one (1) EAM Director elected at
any annual meeting, the Industry Directors shall be divided into two classes, and
designated as Class I or Class II directors. Each of Class I and Class II shall be
comprised of half of the Industry Directors. At the first annual meeting of the
holders of Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC Member, the Class I directors shall
be elected for a term expiring at the 2016 annual meeting of the holders of
Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC Member and the Class II directors shall be
elected for a term expiring at the 2017 annual meeting of the holders of
Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC Member. Thereafter, the Industry Directors
shall hold office for a term expiring at each succeeding annual meeting of holders
of Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC Member held in the second year following
the year of their election, and until their successors are elected and qualified.
In addition, the President and Chief Executive Officer shall hold office for a term
of one (1) year, or until such earlier time as such person no longer serves as
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Exchange.
The Interim Directors of the Exchange will likely be the persons listed below:
Interim Directors
Chief Executive Officer Director: Gary Katz
Non-Industry Director:

David Krell

Non-Industry Director:

Andreus Preuß

Non-Industry Director:

Jeffrey Tessler

Non-Industry Director:

Michael P. Monaco

Non-Industry Director:

Joseph B. Stefanelli

Non-Industry Director:

Marcus Thompson

Non-Industry Director:

Kenneth A. Vecchione
52


Non-Industry Director:

Christianna Wood

Industry Director (PMM Director): Tyler Sorba
Industry Director (CMM Director): Patrick Hickey
Industry Director (EAM Director): Elizabeth R. Martin
Industry Director (PMM Director): Jonathan Rosen
Industry Director (CMM Director): Eric Levine
Industry Director (EAM Director): Joseph Sellitto
3. Committees
The committees of the Board shall consist of an Executive Committee, a Finance
& Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Corporate Governance
Committee and such other standing and special committees as may be approved
by the Board. Upon the granting of ISE Mercury’s Form 1 Application for
Registration as a National Securities Exchange by the Commission, and after the
appointment of the Interim Board, the Interim Board shall appoint, persons to sit
on the standing committees of the Interim Board, consistent with Article V of the
Exchange’s Constitution.

53


Exhibit K
Exhibit Request:
This Exhibit is applicable only to exchanges that have one or more owners,
shareholders, or partners that are not also members of the exchange. If the
exchange is a corporation, please provide a list of each shareholder that
directly owns 5% or more of a class of a voting security of the applicant. If
the exchange is a partnership, please provide a list of all general partners
and those limited and special partners that have the right to receive upon
dissolution, or have contributed, 5% or more of the partnership’s capital.
For each of the persons listed in the Exhibit K, please provide the
following:
1.	 Full legal name;
2.	 Title or Status;
3.	 Date title or status was acquired;
4.	 Approximate ownership interest; and
5.	 Whether the person has control, a term that is defined in the

instructions to this Form.

Response:
ISE Mercury will be wholly-owned by International Securities Exchange Holdings,
Inc. International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. will exercise “control” over
the Exchange, as that term is defined in the Form 1 instructions.

54


Exhibit L
Exhibit Request:
Describe the exchange’s criteria for membership in the exchange. Describe
conditions under which members may be subject to suspension or
termination with regard to access to the exchange. Describe any
procedures that will be involved in the suspension or termination of a
member.
Response:
Applicants for membership on the Exchange will be required to complete a
membership application agreeing, among other things, to comply with the
Constitution (also known as the By-laws), Rules and interpretations of the
Exchange. An ISE or ISE Gemini member in good standing is eligible to be
approved as an ISE Mercury Member of the same category, as set forth in Rule
302, by submitting a short-form waive-in membership application form. For
example, an ISE or ISE Gemini PMM in good standing is eligible to be approved
as an ISE Mercury PMM by submitting a short form waive-in membership
application form. The Exchange anticipates that there will be a significant
overlap between its Members and the members of the International Securities
Exchange, LLC and ISE Gemini, LLC. Membership applications will be reviewed
by the Exchange staff, which may include FINRA staff pursuant to a Regulatory
Services Agreement. The Exchange’s denials from, and imposition of conditions
upon, becoming or continuing to be a Member may be appealed under Chapter
17 of the Exchange’s Rules, which such Rules are Chapter 17 of ISE Rules
incorporated by reference.
In accordance with Exchange Rule 301, a Member must be registered as a
broker-dealer pursuant to Section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
must meet the qualifications for a Member in accordance with Exchange Rules
applicable thereto. Pursuant to Exchange Rule 600, which such Rule is ISE Rule
600 incorporated by reference, an EAM may be approved by the Exchange to
transact business with the public only if such Member is also a member of
another registered national securities exchange or association with which the
Exchange has entered into an agreement under Rule 17d-2 under the Exchange
Act pursuant to which such other exchange or association shall be the
designated examining authority for the Member.
As provided in Exchange Rule 303, the Exchange may deny (or condition)
approval of a Member, or may prevent a person from becoming associated (or
condition an association) with a Member, for the same reasons that the
Commission may deny or revoke a broker-dealer registration and for those
reasons required or allowed under the Exchange Act. The Exchange also may
55


deny (or condition) approval of a Member, or may prevent a person from
becoming associated with (or condition an association) with a Member, when the
applicant, directly or indirectly:
(i) has a negative net worth, has financial difficulties involving an amount that
is more than 5% of the applicant's net worth, or has a pattern of failure to
pay just debts (whether or not such debts have been the subject of a
bankruptcy action);
(ii) is unable satisfactorily to demonstrate a capacity to adhere to all
applicable Exchange, Commission, Clearing Corporation, and Federal
Reserve Board policies, rules, and regulations, including those concerning
record-keeping, reporting, finance, and trading procedures; or
(iii) is unable satisfactorily to demonstrate reasonably adequate systems
capability and capacity.
The Exchange may determine not to permit a Member or person associated with
a Member to continue as a Member or associated therewith, if the member or
associated person:
(i) fails to meet any of the qualification requirements for becoming a Member
or associated with a Member after approval thereof;
(ii) fails to meet any condition placed by the Exchange on such Member or
association with a Member;
(iii) violates any agreement with the Exchange; or
(iv) becomes subject to a statutory disqualification under the Exchange Act.
If a Member or person associated with a Member that becomes subject to a
statutory disqualification under the Exchange Act wants to continue as a Member
of the Exchange or in association with a Member, the Member or associated
person must, within thirty (30) days of becoming subject to a statutory
disqualification, submit an application to the Exchange seeking to continue as a
Member or in association with a Member notwithstanding the statutory
disqualification. Failure to timely file such an application is a factor that may be
taken into consideration by the Exchange in making determinations pursuant to
Rule 303.
Subject to Chapter 15 (Summary Suspension) of the ISE Mercury Rules, which
such Rules are Chapter 15 of ISE Rules incorporated by reference, any applicant
whose application to become a Member is denied Membership or conditioned, or
any person whose association with a Member is denied or conditioned pursuant
to Exchange Rule 302, and any Member or person associated with a Member
56


who is not permitted pursuant to Exchange Rule 302 to continue as a Member or
to be associated with a Member or which continuance as a Member or
association is conditioned, may appeal the Exchange’s decision under Chapter
17 (Hearings and Review) of the ISE Mercury Rules, which such Rules are
Chapter 17 of ISE Rules incorporated by reference.
In general, the Exchange may discipline Members by expulsion, suspension,
limitation of activities, functions, and operations, fine, censure, or any other fitting
sanction if a Member fails to: (1) satisfy on a continuing basis the qualification
requirements specified by the proposed Exchange Rule 303 as described above;
(2) comply with any of the Rules of the Exchange; (3) pay on a timely basis such
participation, transaction and other fees as the Exchange shall prescribe; (4)
comply with all its agreements with the Exchange; (5) correct a financial or
operating difficulty that the Exchange determines should otherwise prevent the
Member from continuing to do business with investors, creditors, other Exchange
Members, or the Exchange.
As well, any Member that is subject to suspension or termination with regard to
access to the Exchange will be afforded an opportunity to be heard under
Chapters 16 (Discipline) and 17 (Hearings and Review) of the ISE Mercury
Rules, which such Rules are Chapters 16 and 17 of ISE Rules incorporated by
reference. The Exchange’s regulatory staff (which may include the regulatory
staff of FINRA pursuant to a Regulatory Services Agreement) will investigate
possible violations for potential disciplinary action. The Exchange will have a
Business Conduct Committee that will be charged with the following duties and
responsibilities: (a) to order investigations of possible violation of Exchange rules
pursuant to Rule 1602; (b) to consider letters of consent in expedited disciplinary
actions pursuant to Rule 1603; (c) to provide members for Exchange hearing
panel pursuant to Rule 1606; (d) to impose interim sanctions on a respondent in
a disciplinary hearing pursuant to Rule 1611; (e) to conduct reviews of Exchange
actions regarding minor rule violations pursuant to Rule 1614; (f) to appoint
panels to conduct hearings and reviews of Exchange actions pursuant to Rule
1702; and (g) generally to oversee all matters relating to the conduct of
disciplinary hearings and hearings for review of Exchange decisions, and to
provide the Exchange with advice on ways to improve these procedures. The
Committee shall consist of no more than 21 persons, all of whom are employees
of Members of ISE Mercury, representing Members as follows: at least three
persons shall represent Primary Market Makers ("PMMs"); at least three persons
shall represent Competitive Market Makers ("CMMs") that are not also PMMs;
and at least four persons shall represent Electronic Access Members ("EAMs")
that neither are, nor are affiliated with, a PMM or CMM. A hearing panel will be
appointed from among three members of the Exchange’s Business Conduct
Committee. The hearing panel will conduct a hearing, and will issue a written
decision of its findings in accordance with Rule 1607. The respondent or
regulatory staff may petition may petition the Board for a review of the hearing
panel's decision. The Board may affirm, reverse or modify, in whole or in part, the
57


decision of the hearing panel in accordance with Exchange Rule 1704. The
Exchange represents that: (i) the review of a decision of the hearing panel shall
be conducted by the Board or a Committee of the Board composed of at least
three (3) Directors; and (ii) that any Director who participated in a matter before it
was appealed to the Board shall not participate in any review action by the Board
concerning that matter. A more detailed description of the Exchange's Discipline
process is set forth in the proposed Exchange Rule Chapters 16 (Discipline) and
17 (Hearings and Review) of the ISE Mercury Rules, which such Rules are
Chapters 16 and 17 of ISE Rules incorporated by reference.
Description of the Exchange’s Regulatory Program
The Exchange will employ a regulatory model that includes services agreements
with the International Securities Exchange, LLC (“ISE”) and the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") to conduct various regulatory services on behalf
of the Exchange. The services provided under the regulatory program with
respect to the Exchange shall be substantially similar to the services provided
under the regulatory program of ISE.
The service agreement that the Exchange will enter into with FINRA is referred to
as the Regulatory Services Agreement (“RSA”). Pursuant to the RSA, FINRA
shall provide to the Exchange services in the following areas:
Member Operation Services – Member Application Review: FINRA will
review and assess, on behalf of the Exchange, complete membership
applications of broker-dealers seeking membership in the Exchange.
Cross-Market Surveillance Services: FINRA will perform certain cross
market surveillance on behalf of the Exchange.
Market Surveillance Investigation Services (Options): At the Exchange’s
request, FINRA will investigate potential violations of enumerated
Exchange market rules, as well as federal securities laws, and rules and
regulations thereunder, related to Exchange market activity.
Routine and Cause Examination Services: FINRA will perform
examinations related to options, to include the performance of routine and
cause examinations for Exchange members to cover enumerated
Exchange trading and market and SEC rules.
Disciplinary Processes – Formal Disciplinary Actions: Bringing formal
disciplinary actions, including hearing officer services.
Dispute Resolution Services: FINRA will provide arbitration, mediation,
and other dispute resolution Services to Exchange Member firms.

58


As the Exchange will not be a Designated Examining Authority under Section
17d-1 of the Exchange Act, financial responsibility examinations will not be
performed by the Exchange. The Exchange will be a participant in the Options
Sales Practices Agreement and the Options Surveillance
Group both under separate 17d-2 agreements; the former coordinates and
allocates options sales practice examinations among the various U.S. options
exchanges and the latter designates the options surveillance regulator for
common surveillance reviews. The Exchange will also enter into a bi-lateral
17d-2 agreement to allocate regulatory responsibility to the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority for common rules of dual members between ISE Mercury
and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The Exchange proposes to enter into a Facilities Management Agreement
(“FMA”) with ISE pursuant to which, among other things, ISE shall provide certain
services, including legal and regulatory services, to the Exchange. The legal and
regulatory services generally include the provision of ISE’s regulatory
infrastructure, including surveillance programs, legal programs, systems and
other operational services required to execute the regulatory program of the
Exchange. The Exchange represents that the FMA will contain an obligation on
the part of ISE and the Exchange to preserve the other party’s information and
materials which are confidential, proprietary and/or trade secrets and prevent
unauthorized use or disclosure thereof to third parties. The non-legal and
regulatory services provided under the FMA shall generally include the following:
business management services; facilities management services; IT services,
including the provision of all equipment, hardware, and software reasonably
necessary for the operation of the business; corporate office services; fiscal
services, including maintenance of all financial-related records; audit, accounting
and tax services; personnel and customer training services; market data
distribution services; marketing services; insurance administration and risk
management services; third party contract administration services; and such
other general administrative and technical services as may from time to time
reasonably be requested by the Exchange.
The Exchange intends to also join the Options Clearing Corporation, the Plan for
the Purpose of Developing and Implementing Procedures Designed to Facilitate
the Listing and Trading of Standardized Options (i.e., Options Listing Procedures
Plan), the Intermarket Symbols Reservation Authority, the Plan for Reporting of
Consolidated Options Last Sale Reports and Quotation Information, the National
Market System of the Options Regulatory Surveillance Authority, the Options
Order Protection and Locked/Crossed Market Plan and the Intermarket
Surveillance Group.
The Exchange will have a Chief Regulatory Officer (“CRO”) with general day-today supervision over the Exchange’s regulatory operations, including
responsibility for overseeing the Exchange’s surveillance, examination, and

59


enforcement functions and for administering any regulatory services agreements
with another self-regulatory organization to which the Exchange is a party.
The CRO will report to the Exchange’s Corporate Governance Committee (the
“CGC”) and to the President. The CGC will meet regularly with the CRO to
review regulatory matters, and the CRO shall meet with the CGC of the
Exchange in executive session at regularly scheduled meetings of such
committee, and at any time upon request of the CRO or any member of the CGC.
In addition to these direct reporting lines, the Exchange Board will retain full
power to call the CRO to report directly to the Board as needed and the CRO
may call special meetings of the Exchange Board, as necessary. The CGC will
monitor the Exchange's regulatory program for sufficiency, effectiveness, and
independence; monitor the Exchange to ensure it operates in accordance with
Exchange and SEC rules; oversee all facets of the regulatory program, including
trade practice and market surveillance; audits, examinations, and other
regulatory responsibilities with respect to Members (insuring compliance with
Exchange rules) and the conduct of investigations; supervise the CRO; receive
an annual report from the CRO assessing the Exchange's self-regulatory
program for the Board; recommend changes that would ensure fair and effective
regulation; and review regulatory proposals and advise the Board as to whether
and how such changes may impact regulation. The Compensation Committee
will set compensation for the CRO and the CGC, in its sole discretion, will make
hiring and termination decisions with respect to the CRO, in each case taking into
consideration any recommendations made by the President. The CGC will be
informed about the compensation of the CRO, including factors affecting
changes thereto. The CGC will annually review the regulatory budget and
specifically inquire into the adequacy of the resources available in the budget for
regulatory activities. The CGC will authorize unbudgeted expenditures for
necessary regulatory expenses. In addition, the Finance and Audit Committee
will provide oversight over the systems of internal controls established by
management and the Board and the Exchange's regulatory and compliance
process.

60


Exhibit M
Exhibit Request:
Provide an alphabetical list of all members, participants, subscribers or
other users, including the following information:
1.	 Name,
2.	 Date of election to membership or acceptance as a participant,
subscriber or other user,
3.	 Principal business address and telephone number,
4.	 If member, participant, subscriber or other user is an individual, the
name of the entity with which such individual is associated and the
relationship of such individual to the entity (e.g., partner, officer,
director, employee, etc.),
5.	 Describe the type of activities primarily engaged in by the member,
participant, subscriber, or other user (e.g., floor broker, specialist,
odd lot dealer, other market maker, proprietary trader, non-broker
dealer, inactive or other functions). A person shall be “primarily
engaged” in an activity or function for purposes of this item when
that activity or function is the one in which that person is engaged
for the majority of their time. When more than one type of person at
an entity engages in any of the six types of activities or functions
enumerated in this item, identify each type (e.g., proprietary trader,
Registered Competitive Trader and Registered Competitive Market
Maker) and state the number of members, participants, subscribers,
or other users in each, and
6.	 The class of membership, participation or subscription or other
access.
Response:
ISE Mercury has not commenced operations and currently has no Members.

61


Exhibit N
Exhibit Request: Provide a schedule for each of the following:
1.	 The securities listed in the exchange, indicating for each the name of
the issuer and a description of the security;
2.	 The securities admitted to unlisted trading privileges, indicating for
each the name of the issuer and a description of the security;
3.	 The unregistered securities admitted to trading on the exchange
which are exempt from registration under Section 12(a) of the Act.
For each security listed, provide the name of the issuer and a
description of the security, and the statutory exemption claimed
(e.g., Rule 12a-6); and
4.	 Other securities traded on the exchange, including for each the name
of the issuer and a description of the security.
Response:
ISE Mercury has not commenced operations and, therefore, it has no securities
that are listed or traded on the Exchange. The Exchange will not list or trade nonoption securities. Upon the effectiveness of its Form 1 Application for
Registration as a National Securities Exchange, the Exchange intends to trade
listed option contracts.

62


ISE MERCURY, LLC
60 Broad Street 

New York, NY 10004 


January 7, 2016
Brent J. Fields
Secretary
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Washington, D.C. 20549
Re: 	

Request for Interpretive Guidance Regarding Rule 11a2-2(T) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Dear Mr. Fields:
On January 7, 2016, ISE Mercury, LLC ("ISE Mercury" or the "Exchange") filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") an amended application
for registration as a national securities exchange ("Form 1") under Section 6 ofthe
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Act"). As described in more detail in Exhibit E of
the Form 1, ISE Mercury will provide a fully automated electronic options trading
platform to buy or sell securities with a continuous, automated matching function and no
trading floor. Liquidity on ISE Mercury will be derived from quotes as well as orders to
buy and orders to sell submitted to the Exchange electronically by members from remote
locations.
ISE Mercury requests that the Staff of the Commission provide interpretive
guidance with respect to the application of Rule 11a2-2(T) under the Act to certain
transactions effected by ISE Mercury members through the Exchange. Specifically, ISE
Mercury requests that the Staff concur in ISE Mercury's conclusion that orders entered
through the Exchange will be consistent with Section 11(a) 1 ofthe Act, and will meet the
conditions in paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), and (a)(2)(iii) of Rule 11a2-2(T),2 for ISE
Mercury, including the Facilitation Mechanism ("Facilitation"), Solicited Order
Mechanism ("Solicitation"), Price Improvement Mechanism ("PIM"), and Customer
Cross Order ("Customer Cross").
ISE Mercury believes that the ISE Mercury order execution algorithms allow ISE
Mercury members to meet the requirements of Rule 11a2-2(T) for executions on ISE
Mercury, and executions that occur through the Facilitation, Solicitation, PIM, and

2

15 U.S.C. 78k(a). ("Section 11(a)")
ISE Mercury members relying upon Rule 11a2-2(T) would be responsible for their
own compliance with (a)(2)(iv) ofthe Rule.
1


Customer Cross. Further, ISE Mercury believes the policy concerns Congress sought to
address in Section 11(a) of the Act, the time and place advantage members on exchange
floors have over non-members off the floor and the general public, are not present for
these various transactions entered into ISE Mercury where it is executed on the ISE
Mercury book or through any of its auction mechanisms.

L Discussion
Rule lla2-2(T) Interpretive Request
Section 11(a) of the Act3 prohibits a member of a national securities exchange
from effecting transactions on the exchange for its own account, the account of an
associated person, or an account in which it or an associated person exercises investment
discretion (collectively, "covered accounts"), unless an exception applies. The purpose
of Section 11 (a) is to address trading advantages enjoyed by exchange members and
conflicts of interest in money management. 4 In particular, as the Commission has stated,
Congress enacted Section 11(a) out of concern about members benefiting in their
principal transactions from special "time and place" advantages associated with floor
trading- such as the ability to "execute decisions faster than public investors." 5
Section 11(a) includes several exceptions from the general prohibition for
principal transactions that contribute to the fairness and orderliness of exchange
transactions or do not reflect any time and place advantages. For example, Section
11(a)(1) provides that the prohibition on principal transactions does not apply to
transactions by a dealer acting in the capacity of a market maker, 6 bona fide arbitrage,
risk arbitrage or hedge transactions, 7 transactions by an odd lot dealer, 8 and transactions
made to offset errors. 9

3
4

5

6
7
8
9

15 U.S.C. 78k(a)(1).
See Securities Reform Act of 1975, Report of the House Comm. On Interstate and
Foreign Commerce, H.R. Rep. No. 94-123, 94th Cong., pt Sess. (1975) ("House
Report"); Securities Acts Amendments of 1975, Report ofthe Senate Comm. On
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, S. Rep. No. 94-75, 94th Cong., 1st Sess. (1975).
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 14563 (March 14, 1978), 43 FR 11542,
11543 (March 17, 1978) ("March 1978 Release"); Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 14713 (April27, 1978), 43 FR 18557, 18558 ("April1978 Release"); Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 15533 (January 29, 1979), 44 FR 6084, 6092 ("1979
Release"); House Report, supra n. 4, at 54-57.
Section 11(a)(1)(A) of the Act.
Section 11(a)(l)(D) of the Act.
Section 11(a)(l)(B) of the Act.
Section 11(a)(l)(F) ofthe Act.

2


ISE Mercury has analyzed the application of Section 11 (a) of the Act and the
rules thereunder relative to orders executed on ISE Mercury, including the Facilitation,
Solicitation, Customer Cross and PIM. For the reasons discussed below, ISE Mercury
believes that it is consistent with the stated objectives of Section 11(a) of the Act, and
that members entering orders into ISE Mercury would satisfy the conditions of Rule
11a2-2(T). ISE Mercury believes that its order execution algorithm allows members to
meet the requirements of Rule 11a2-2(T) for executions on ISE Mercury, including the
Facilitation, Solicitation, PIM, and Customer Cross. As such, ISE Mercury respectfully
requests that the Staff concur in these conclusions.
Facilitation Mechanism
The Facilitation Mechanism is a process set forth in Rule 716(d) by which an
Electronic Access Member ("EAM") can execute a transaction of a block-size order it
represents as agent, and/or a transaction wherein the EAM solicited interest to execute
against a block-size order it represents as agent. EAMs must be willing to execute the
entire size of orders entered into the Facilitation Mechanism. Upon the entry of an order
into the Facilitation Mechanism, a broadcast message will be sent and members will be
given an opportunity to enter Responses with the prices and sizes at which they want to
participate in the facilitation of the order. 10 Responses may be priced at the price ofthe
order to be facilitated or at a better price and must not exceed the size of the order to be
facilitated. At the end of the period given for the entry of Responses, the facilitation
order will be automatically executed.
Unless there is sufficient size to execute the entire facilitation order at a better
price, Priority Customer bids (offers) at the time the facilitation order is executed that are
priced higher (lower) than the facilitation price will be executed at the facilitation price.
Professional Orders and market maker quotes at the time the facilitation order is executed
that are priced higher (lower) than the facilitation price will be executed at their stated
price, thereby providing the order being facilitated a better price for the number of
contracts associated with such higher bids (lower offers). The facilitating EAM will
execute at least forty percent (40%) of the original size of the facilitation order, but only
after better-priced Responses, orders and quotes, as well as Priority Customer Orders at
the facilitation price, are executed in full. Thereafter, Responses, quotes and Professional
Orders at the facilitation price will participate in the execution of the facilitation order
based upon the percentage of the total number of contracts available at the facilitation
price that is represented by the size of the Response, Professional Order or quote.

Upon entry of an order into the Facilitation Mechanism, the facilitating EAM can
elect to automatically match the price and size of orders, quotes and Responses received

10 	

A "broadcast message" means an electronic message that is sent by the Exchange to
all members, and a "Response" means an electronic message that is sent by members
in response to a broadcast message. Rule 716(b).

3


during the exposure period up to a specified limit price or without specifying a limit
price. In this case, the facilitating EAM will be allocated its full size at each price point,
or at each price point within its limit price if a limit is specified, until a price point is
reached where the balance of the order can be fully executed. At such price point, the
facilitating member shall be allocated at least forty percent (40%) of the original size of
the facilitation order, but only after Priority Customer interest at such price point.
Thereafter, all other orders, Responses, and quotes at the price point will participate in
the execution of the facilitation order based upon the percentage of the total number of
contracts available at the facilitation price that is represented by the size of the order,
Response or quote. An election to automatically match better prices cannot be cancelled
or altered during the exposure period.

Solicited Order Mechanism
The Solicited Order Mechanism is a process set forth in Rule 716(e) by which an
EAM can attempt to execute all-or-none orders of 500 or more contracts it represents as
agent (the "Agency Order") against contra orders that it solicited. Upon entry ofboth
orders into the Solicited Order Mechanism at a proposed execution price, a broadcast
message will be sent and members will be given an opportunity to enter Responses with
the prices and sizes at which they would be willing to participate in the execution of the
Agency Order. At the end of the period given to members to enter Responses, the
Agency Order will be automatically executed in full or cancelled.
If at the time of execution there is insufficient size to execute the entire Agency
Order at an improved price (or prices), the Agency Order will be executed against the
solicited order at the proposed execution price so long as, at the time of execution: (1)
the execution price is equal to or better than the best bid or offer on ISE Mercury and (2)
there are no Priority Customer Orders on ISE Mercury that are priced equal to the
proposed execution price. If there are Priority Customer Orders on ISE Mercury on the
opposite side of the Agency Order at the proposed execution price and there is sufficient
size to execute the entire size ofthe Agency Order, the Agency Order will be executed
against the bid or offer, and the solicited order will be cancelled. The aggregate size of
all orders, quotes and Responses at the bid or offer will be used to determine whether the
entire Agency Order can be executed. Both the solicited order and Agency Order will be
cancelled if an execution would take place at a price that is inferior to the best bid or offer
on ISE Mercury, or if there is a Priority Customer on the book at the proposed execution
price but there is insufficient size on ISE Mercury to execute the entire Agency Order. If
at the time of execution there is sufficient size to execute the entire Agency Order at an
improved price (or prices), the Agency Order will be executed at the improved price(s)
and the solicited order will be cancelled. The aggregate size of all orders, quotes and
Responses at each price will be used to determine whether the entire agency order can be
executed at an improved price (or prices). When executing the Agency Order, Priority
Customer Orders will be executed first. Professional Orders and market maker quotes
participate in the execution of the Agency Order based upon the percentage of the total
number of contracts available at the best price that is represented by the size of the
Professional Order or market maker quote.
4


Price Improvement Mechanism
The Price Improvement Mechanism, or PIM, is a process set forth in Rule 723
whereby an EAM can provide price improvement opportunities for a transaction wherein
the EAM seeks to facilitate an order it represents as agent, and/or a transaction wherein
the EAM solicited interest to execute against an order it represents as agent (a "Crossing
Transaction"). A Crossing Transaction is comprised of the order the EAM represents as
agent (the "Agency Order") and a counter-side order for the full size of the Agency Order
(the "Counter-Side Order"). The Counter-Side Order may represent interest for the
member's own account, or interest the member has solicited from one or more other
parties, or a combination ofboth.
Upon entry of a Crossing Transaction into the PIM, a broadcast message will be
sent and members will be given an opportunity to enter Responses with the prices and
sizes at which they would be willing to participate in the execution of the Agency Order.
At the end of the period given for the entry of Responses the Agency Order will be
automatically executed. The Agency Order will receive executions at multiple price
levels if there is insufficient size to execute the entire order at the best price.
At a given price, the Exchange will execute Priority Customer interest such that
all Priority Customer interest resting on the order book is satisfied before any other
interest. After Priority Customer interest at a given price point has been satisfied,
remaining contracts will be allocated among other quotes and orders based upon the
percentage of the total number of contracts available at the price that is represented by the
size of the members' interest. In the case where the Counter-Side Order is at the same
price as other member interest, the Counter-Side order will be allocated the greater of one
contract or forty percent (40%) of the initial size of the Agency Order before the other
member interest is executed.
Upon entry of Counter-Side orders, members can elect to automatically match the
price and size of orders, quotes and Responses received during the exposure period up to
a specified limit price or without specifying a limit price. In this case, the Counter-Side
order will be allocated its full size at each price point, or at each price point within its
limit price if a limit is specified, until a price point is reached where the balance of the
order can be fully executed. At such price point, the Counter-Side order shall be allocated
the greater of one contract or forty percent (40%) of the original size of the Agency
Order, but only after Priority Customer Orders at such price point are executed in full.
Thereafter, all other orders, Responses, and quotes at the price point will participate in
the execution of the Agency Order based upon the percentage of the total number of
contracts available at the price that is represented by the size of the order, Response or
quote. An election to automatically match better prices cannot be cancelled or altered
during the exposure period.
When a market order or marketable limit order on the opposite side of the market
from the Agency Order ends the exposure period, it will participate in the execution of

5


the Agency Order at the price that is mid-way between the best counter-side interest and
the NBBO, so that both the market or marketable limit order and the Agency Order
receive price improvement. Transactions will be rounded, when necessary, to the one
cent increment that favors the Agency Order.
Customer Cross Orders
Customer Cross Orders under Rule 721(a) are automatically executed upon entry
provided that the execution is at or between the best bid and offer on ISE Mercury and is
not at the same price as a Priority Customer Order on ISE Mercury's limit order book and
will not trade through the NBBO. Customer Cross Orders will be automatically canceled
if they cannot be executed and may only be entered in the regular trading increments
applicable to the options class. 11
A. Effect-versus-Execute Rule
In addition to the statutory exceptions to Section 11(a), the Commission has
adopted Rule 11a2-2(T) 12 under the Act, which is known as the "effect-versus-execute"
rule. Rule 11a2-2(T) permits an exchange member, subject to certain conditions, to
effect transactions for covered accounts by arranging for an unaffiliated exchange
member to execute the transactions directly on the exchange floor. Specifically, the
conditions of the "effect-versus-execute" rule's conditions are that the member:
(1) must transmit the order from off the exchange floor;
(2) may not participate in the execution of the transaction once it has been
transmitted to the member performing the execution; 13
(3) may not be affiliated with the executing member, and
(4) with respect to an account over which the member has investment discretion,
neither the member nor any of its associated persons may retain any
compensation in connection with effecting the transaction without express
written consent from the person authorized to transact business for the account
in accordance with the rule.
The Commission has stated that these four requirements were "designed to put
members and non-members on the same footing, to the extent practicable, in light of the
purposes of Section 11(a)." 14 If a transaction meets the four conditions of the effect­
versus-execute rule, it will be deemed to be in compliance with Section 11(a)(1), the
protection of investors and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets _IS For the reasons
set forth below, ISE Mercury believes the structural and operational characteristics ofiSE

11
12
13
14
15

Rule 710.
17 CFR 240.1la2-2(T).
The member may, however, participate in clearing and settling the transaction.
April 1978 Release, supra n. 5, at 18560.
Rule lla2-2(T)(e).

6


Mercury, including the Facilitation, Solicitation, PIM, and Customer Cross, are consistent
with the stated objectives of Section 11(a) of the Act, and that all users would be placed
on the "same footing," as intended by Rule 1la2-2(T).
The Commission has recognized and accommodated the functioning of facilities
of electronic exchanges under Rule 11 a2-2{T). 16 In addition, the Commission and its
staff have permitted exchanges to sponsor innovative trading systems in reliance on Rule
11a2-2(t), based on the exchanges' representations that such facilities, by design, do not
provide any special time and place advantage to members. 17 In particular, the
Commission has stated, in the context of certain automated execution systems, that where
the execution is performed on an automated basis by the facility itself, "the member
would not retain any ability to control the timing of the execution or otherwise enjoy the
kind of special order-handling advantages inherent in being on an exchange floor." 18
Rule 11 a2-2{T) thus has been applied by the Commission in a functional manner, taking
into account the structural characteristics that distinguish the operation of an automated
execution system from traditional exchange floor activities. This approach represents the
sensible conclusion by the Commission and its staff that implementation of Section 11(a)
should reflect the "continuing rapid pace of economic, technological and regulatory
changes in the market." 19
B. Application to ISE Mercury
As noted above, ISE Mercury, including the Facilitation, Solicitation, PIM, and
Customer Cross, will provide an electronic trading system that may be utilized by
members to effect the purchase and sale of securities. This system provides for, or results
in, automated execution of orders. In light of the automated execution services provided
by ISE Mercury, no member will enjoy any special control over the timing and execution
or special order handling advantages in effecting transactions through the ISE Mercury
system, including the Facilitation, Solicitation, PIM, and Customer Cross, as all orders
16 	

17 	

18

19

See Area Order, infra n. 17; 1979 Release, supra n. 5 (consideration of the Multiple
Dealer Trading Facility of the CSE).
See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No.44983 (October 25, 2001), 66 FR
55225 (November 1, 2001) (approving Archipelago Exchange) ("Area Order");
Letter from Larry E. Bergmann, Senior Associate Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Edith Hallahan, Associate General Counsel, Philadelphia Stock
Exchange, Inc. ("Phlx") (March 24, 1999) ("VWAP Letter"); Letter from Catherine
McGuire, Chief Counsel, Division ofMarket Regulation, SEC, to David E. Rosedahl,
PCX (November 30, 1998) ("OptiMark Letter") (Regarding PCX Application to
OptiMark); Letter from Brandon Becker, Director, Division of Market Regulation,
SEC, to George T. Simon, Partner, Foley & Lardner (November 30, 1994) ("Chicago
Match Letter"); Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29237 (May 24, 1991), 56 FR
24853 (May 31, 1991) (approving the NYSE's Off-Hours Trading Facility).
1979 Release, supra n. 5, at 6087, n. 35.
1979 Release, supra n. 5, at 6087.

7


will be processed for execution by computer, rather than being handled manually by a
member. Because these processes prevent members from gaining any time and place
advantage once an order is transmitted through the systems, ISE Mercury believes that
the ISE Mercury system, including the Facilitation, Solicitation, PIM, and Customer
Cross, satisfies three of the four conditions of the "effect-versus-execute" rule, as well as
the general policy objectives of Section 11(a). Of course, ISE Mercury members relying
on Rule 11a2-2(T) also must comply with the fourth condition of the Rule with respect to
discretionary accounts, and ISE Mercury would enforce this requirement pursuant to its
obligation under Section 6(b)(1) of the Act to enforce compliance with the federal
securities laws.
1. Off-Floor Transmission

Rule 11 a2-2(T) requires the orders for a covered account transaction to be
transmitted from off the exchange floor. 20 In considering the application of this condition
to a number of automated trading and order-handling facilities operated by national
securities exchanges, the Commission has deemed the off-floor requirement to be met if
the order is transmitted from off the floor directly to the exchange floor by electronic
means. 21
ISE Mercury does not have a trading floor, and like other automated systems,
receives orders electronically through remote terminals or computer-to-computer
interfaces. Orders sent to ISE Mercury, regardless of where it executes within the ISE
Mercury system, including Facilitation, Solicitation, PIM, or as a Customer Cross, will be
transmitted from remote terminals directly to ISE Mercury by electronic means.
Therefore, orders electronically received through ISE Mercury satisfies the off-floor
transmission requirement for purposes ofthe "effect-versus-execute" rule. 22
20
21

22

Rule 11a2-2(T)(a)(ii).
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 58375 (August 18, 2008), 73 FR 49498
(August 21, 2008) (File No. 10-182) ("BATS Exchange"). See Securities Exchange
Act Release Nos. 53128 (January 13, 2006), 71 FR 3550 (January 23, 2006) (File No.
10-131) ("Nasdaq Exchange Registration Order") and Securities Exchange Act
Release Nos. 49068 (January 13, 2004), 69 FR 2775 (January 20, 2004) (order
approving the Boston Options Exchange as an options trading facility of the Boston
Stock Exchange); Area Order, supra n. 17; 29237 (May 24, 1991), 56 FR 24853 (May
31, 1991) (regarding NYSE's Off-Hours Trading Facility); 1979 Release, supra n. 5
(regarding the American Stock Exchange ("Amex") Post Execution Reporting
System, the Amex Switching System, the Intermarket Trading System, the Multiple
Dealer Trading Facility of the Cincinnati Stock Exchange, the PCX Communications
and Execution System, and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's ("Phlx") Automated
Communications and Execution System and March 1978 Release, supra n. 5
(regarding the NYSE's Designated Order Turnaround System).
The Commission has not considered the lack of a traditional physical trading floor to
be an impediment to the satisfaction of the off-floor requirement. See, e.g., Area

8


2. Non-Participation in Order Execution
The "effect-versus-execute" rule further provides that the exchange member and
its associated persons may not participate in the execution of the transaction once the
order has been transmitted. This requirement originally was intended to prevent
members with their own floor brokers from using those persons to influence or guide
their orders' executions. 23 It does not preclude members from canceling or modifying
orders, or from modifying instructions for executing orders, after they have been
transmitted as long as such cancellations or modifications are also transmitted from off
the exchange floor. 24
In analyzing the application of the non-participation requirement to automated
execution facilities, the Commission specifically noted in regards to Phlx's PACE and
PCX's COMEX systems that (1) "the initiating member relinquishes any ability to
influence or guide the execution of its order at the time that order is transmitted into the
system" and (2) "[w]hile the execution of the order is thereafter automatic and does not
involve any independent executing member, the design of those systems insures that
members do not possess any special or unique trading advantages in handling their orders
after transmitting them to the floors of the Phlx or the PSE."25 As a result, orders
transmitted to PACE and COMEX systems were deemed to comply with the non­
participation requirement. Additionally, the Commission's staff provided similar
interpretations concerning the Archipelago Exchange facility, the VWAP Trading
System, Optimark and the Chicago Match, stating that a member does not retain the
ability to influence or guide the execution of an order after the member submits the order
to these systems. 26
Based on these prior interpretations, orders submitted through ISE Mercury
systems including the Facilitation, Solicitation, PIM, and Customer Cross, also meet the
non-participation requirement. ISE Mercury represents that at no time following the
submission of an order is a member able to acquire control or influence over the result or
timing of an order's execution. All orders on ISE Mercury and through Facilitation,
Solicitation, PIM, and Customer Cross will be centrally processed and executed
automatically by ISE Mercury. Specifically, orders sent to ISE Mercury will be
transmitted from remote terminals directly to the system by electronic means. Once an
order is submitted to ISE Mercury, the order is executed against another based on the

23

24
25
26

Order, supra n. 17; 1979 Release, supra n. 5 (discussing the CSE's satisfaction of this
requirement with respect to its multiple dealer trading system).
See generally March 1978 Release, supra n. 5.
See id.
See 1979 Release, supra n. 5 at n. 25.
Area Order, supra n. 17; VWAP Letter, supra n. 17; OptiMark Letter, supra n. 17; and
Chicago Match Letter, supra n. 17.

9


established matching algorithms for ISE Mercury, Facilitation, Solicitation, PIM, and
Customer Cross. Trades will execute when orders or quotations on ISE Mercury match
one another based on their priority. The execution does not depend on the participant but
rather upon what other orders are entered into ISE Mercury, Facilitation, Solicitation,
PIM, and Customer Cross at or around the same time as the subject order, what orders are
on ISE Mercury, or submitted as Responses, and where the order is ranked based on
priority ranking algorithm. Therefore, at no time following the submission of an order is
a member able to acquire control or influence over the result or timing of orders
generated. 27 Accordingly, ISE Mercury believes that the non-participation requirement is
met when orders are executed automatically through use of the ISE Mercury system
including the Facilitation, Solicitation, PIM, and Customer Cross.
3. 	 Execution Through Unaffiliated Member
Although the third condition ofRule 11a2-2(T) is that the order must be executed
by an exchange member that is unaffiliated with the member initiating the order, the
Commission has recognized in the past that this requirement may be met where
automated exchange facilities are used. For example, in considering the operations of
BATS, Area, COMEX and PACE, among other systems, the Commission or its staff
noted that, while there is no independent executing exchange member, the execution of
an order is automatic once it has been transmitted into the systems. 28 Because the design
of this system ensures that members do not possess any special or unique trading
advantages in handling their orders after transmitting them to the exchange floors or the
exchange's electronic trading facility, the Commission or its staff have stated or not
objected to the exchanges' conclusion that executions obtained through these systems
satisfy the independent execution requirements of Rule 11a2-2(T).29 This principal is
directly applicable to the ISE Mercury system including the Facilitation, Solicitation,
PIM, and Customer Cross, in that the design of the system ensures that ISE Mercury
members do not have any special or unique trading advantages in handling of orders after
27 	

See, also, letter to David Shillman, Associate Director, Division of Trading and
Markets, Commission, from J. Craig Long, Foley & Lardner LLP, dated June 24,
2008 ("BATS Exchange 11(a) Letter"). The member may cancel or modify the order,
or modify the instructions for executing the order, but only from off the Exchange
floor. Id. The Commission has stated that the non-participation requirement is
satisfied under such circumstances so long as such modifications or cancellations are
also transmitted from off the floor. See March 1978 Release, supra. n. 5 (stating that
the "non-participation requirement does not prevent initiating members from
canceling or modifying orders (or the instructions pursuant to which the initiating
member wishes orders to be executed) after the orders have been transmitted to the
executing member, provided that any such instructions are also transmitted from off
the floor").

28

Id; 1979 Release, supra n. 5; Area Order, supra n. 17.
1979 Release, supra n. 5; Area Order, supra n. 17; VWAP Letter, supra n. 17;
OptiMark Letter, supra n. 17; Chicago Match Letter, supra n. 17.

29

10 


transmission. Accordingly, an ISE Mercury member effecting a transaction by utilizing
the ISE Mercury system including the Facilitation, Solicitation, PIM, and Customer
Cross, satisfies the requirement for execution through an unaffiliated member.
4. 	 Non-Retention of Compensation
Finally, Rule 11 a2-2(T) requires that, in the case of a transaction effected for an
account with respect to which an exchange member or an associated person therof
exercises investment discretion, neither the member nor its associated person may retain
any compensation in connection with effecting the transaction without the express written
consent of the person authorized to transact business for the account, given in accordance
with the rule. 30 ISE Mercury members relying on Rule 11a2-2(T) for transactions
effected through the system must comply on their own with this condition of the rule.
In sum, ISE Mercury emphasizes that its system does not provide members with a
time and place advantage because members do not possess (1) any special or unique
trading advantages in handling their orders, or (2) the ability to influence or guide an
order once that order enters the system.
Conclusion

ISE Mercury requests that the Commission adopt a flexible approach to the
application of Section 11 (a) to ISE Mercury in connection with its application for
registration as a national securities exchange, consistent with past precedent and the
policy underlying its current rules. If you have any questions, please contact me at
(212) 897-0230.

30 	

17 CFR 240.11a2-2(T)(a)(2)(iv.). In addition, Rule 11a2-2(T)(d) requires a member
or associated person authorized by written contract to retain compensation, in
connection with effecting transactions for covered accounts over which such member
or associated person thereof exercises investment discretion, to furnish at least
annually to the person authorized to transact business for the account a statement
setting forth the total amount of compensation retained by the member in connection
with effecting transactions for the account during the period covered by the statement.
See 17 CFR 240.11a2-2(t)(d). See also March 1978 Release, supra n. 5 (stating
"[t]he contractual and disclosure requirements are designed to assure that accounts
electing to permit transaction-related compensation do so only after deciding that
such arrangements are suitable to their interests").
11 


ISE MERCURY, LLC
RULES
Table of Contents
Chapter 1

Definitions

Chapter 2

Administration

200.
201.
202.
203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.

Establishment of Committees
Removal of Committees
Committee Procedures
General Duties and Powers of Committees
Divisions of the Exchange
Participant Fees
Liability for Payment of Fees
Exchange’s Costs of Defending Legal Proceedings
Sales Value Fee

Chapter 3
300.
301.
302.
303.
304.
305.
306.
307.
308.
309.

Membership

Membership
Qualification of Members
Member Application Procedures
Denial of and Conditions to Becoming a Member
Approval to Operate Multiple Memberships
Persons Associated with Members
Registration Requirements
Documents Required of Applicants and Members
Dissolution and Liquidation of Members
Limitation on Affiliation between the Exchange and Members

Chapter 4

Business Conduct

Chapter 5

Securities Traded on the Exchange

Chapter 6

Doing Business with the Public

Chapter 7

Doing Business on the Exchange

700.
701.
702.
703.

Days and Hours of Business
Trading Rotations
Trading Halts
Trading Halts Due to Extraordinary Market Volatility

1

703A. Trading During Limit Up-Limit Down States in Underlying Securities
704. Collection and Dissemination of Quotations
705. Limitation of Liability
706. Access to and Conduct on the Exchange
707. Clearing Member Give Up
708. Units of Trading
709. Meaning of Premium Quotes and Orders
710. Minimum Trading Increments
711. Acceptance of Quotes and Orders
712. Submission of Orders and Clearance of Transactions
713. Priority of Quotes and Orders
714. Automatic Execution of Orders
715. Types of Orders
716. Block Trades
717. Limitations on Orders
718. Reserved
719. Transaction Price Binding
720. Nullification and Adjustment of Options Transactions including Obvious
Errors
720A. Erroneous Trades due to System Disruptions and Malfunctions
721. Crossing Orders
722. Reserved
723. Price Improvement Mechanism for Crossing Transactions
Chapter 8
800.
801.
802.
803.
804.
805.
806.
807.
808.
809.
810.
811.

Market Makers

Registration of Market Makers
Designated Trading Representatives
Appointment of Market Makers
Obligations of Market Makers
Market Maker Quotations
Market Maker Orders
Trade Reporting and Comparison
Securities Accounts and Orders of Market Makers
Letters of Guarantee
Financial Requirements for Market Makers
Reserved
Directed Orders

Chapter 9

[Reserved]

Chapter 10 Closing Transactions
Chapter 11 Exercises and Deliveries
Chapter 12 Margins

2

Chapter 13 Net Capital Requirements
Chapter 14 Records, Reports and Audits
Chapter 15 Summary Suspension
Chapter 16 Discipline
Chapter 17 Hearings and Review
Chapter 18 Arbitration
Chapter 19 Intermarket Linkage
Chapter 20 Index Rules
Chapter 21 [Reserved]
Chapter 22 Rate-Modified Foreign Currency Options Rules

3

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 1
Definitions
Rule 100.

Definitions

(a) The following terms, when used in these Rules, shall have the
meanings specified in this Chapter 1, unless the context indicates otherwise. Any
term defined in Article XIII of the Constitution of ISE Mercury, LLC (the
“Constitution”) and not otherwise defined in this Chapter shall have the meaning
assigned in Article XIII of the Constitution.
(1) The term “aggregate exercise price” means the exercise
price of an options contract multiplied by the number of units of the underlying
security covered by the options contract.
(2) The term “American-style option” means an options contract
that, subject to the provisions of Rule 1100 (relating to the cutoff time for
exercise instructions) and to the Rules of the Clearing Corporation, can be
exercised on any business day prior to its expiration date and on its expiration
date.
(3) The term “associated person” or “person associated with a
Member” means any partner, officer, director, or branch manager of a Member
(or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions), any
person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control
with a Member or any employee of a Member.
(4) The term “bid” means a quote or limit order to buy one or
more options contracts.
(5) The term “board of directors” or “Board” has the meaning
set forth in Article I of the LLC Agreement.
(6) The term “call” means an options contract under which the
holder of the option has the right, in accordance with the terms of the option, to
purchase from the Clearing Corporation the number of shares of the underlying
security covered by the options contract.
(7) The term “class of options” means all options contracts
covering the same underlying security.
(8) The term “Clearing Corporation” means The Options
Clearing Corporation.
(9) The term “Clearing Member” means a Member that is selfclearing or an Electronic Access Member that clears Exchange transactions for
other Members of the Exchange.
-2-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(10) The term “closing purchase transaction” means an
Exchange transaction that will reduce or eliminate a short position in an options
contract.
(11) The term “closing writing transaction” means an
Exchange transaction that will reduce or eliminate a long position in an options
contract.
(12) The term “CMM Rights” has the meaning set forth in Article
VI of the LLC Agreement.
(13) The term “covered short position” means (i) the obligation
of a writer of a call option is secured by a “specific deposit” or an “escrow
deposit” meeting the conditions of Rule 710(f) or 710(h), respectively, of the
Rules of the Clearing Corporation, or the writer holds in the same account as
the short position, on a share-for-share basis, a long position either in the
underlying security or in an options contract of the same type and class of
options where the exercise price of the options contract in such long position is
equal to or less than the exercise price of the options contract in such short
position; and (ii) the writer of a put option holds in the same account as the
short position, on a share-for-share basis, a long position in an options contract
of the same type and class of options where the exercise price of the options
contract in such long position is equal to or greater than the exercise price of
the options contract in such short position.
(14) The term “discretion” means the authority of a broker or
dealer to determine for a customer the type of option, the class or series of
options, the number of contracts, or whether options are to be bought or sold.
(15) The term “EAM Rights” has the meaning set forth in Article
VI of the LLC Agreement.
(16) The term “European-style option” means an options
contract that, subject to the provisions of Rule 1100 (relating to the cutoff time
for exercise instructions) and to the Rules of the Clearing Corporation, can be
exercised only on its expiration date.
(16) The term “Exchange Act” means the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder, as amended from time to
time.
(17) The term “Exchange Rights” means the PMM Rights, CMM
Rights and EAM Rights collectively.
(18) The term “exercise price” means the specified price per unit
at which the underlying security may be purchased or sold upon the exercise of
an options contract.

-3-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(19) The term “Federal Reserve Board” means the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(20) The terms “he,” “him” or “his” shall be deemed to refer to
persons of female as well as male gender, and to include organizations, as well
as individuals, when the context so requires.
(21) The term “ISE” means the International Securities Exchange,
LLC, a national securities exchange.
(21A) The term “ISE Gemini” means ISE Gemini, LLC, a national
securities exchange.
(22) The term “long position” means a person’s interest as the
holder of one or more options contracts.
(22A) The term “LLC Agreement” means the Limited Liability
Company Agreement of the Exchange, dated as of [
], as amended from time
to time.
(23) The term “Member” means an organization that has been
approved to exercise trading rights associated with Exchange Rights.
(24) The term “Membership” refers to the trading privileges
associated with Exchange Rights.
(25) The term “market makers” refers to “Competitive Market
Makers” and “Primary Market Makers” collectively.
(26) The term “Market Maker Rights” refers to PMM Rights and
CMM Rights collectively.
(27) The term “Non-Customer” means a person or entity that is a
broker or dealer in securities.
(28) The term “Non-Customer Order” means an order for the
account of a Non-Customer.
(29) The term “offer” means a quote or limit order to sell one or
more options contracts.
(30) The term “opening purchase transaction” means an
Exchange transaction that will create or increase a long position in an options
contract.
(31) The term “opening writing transaction” means an
Exchange transaction that will create or increase a short position in an options
contract.
-4-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(31A) The term “Voluntary Professional” means any Public
Customer that elects, in writing, to be treated in the same manner as a broker or
dealer in securities for purposes of Rules 713, 716, and 723, as well as the
Exchange’s schedule of fees.
(32) The term “options contract” means a put or a call issued, or
subject to issuance by the Clearing Corporation pursuant to the Rules of the
Clearing Corporation.
Authority.

(33)

The term “OPRA” means the Options Price Reporting

(34) The term “order” means a commitment to buy or sell
securities, the permitted types of which are set forth in Rule 715.
(35) The term “outstanding” means an options contract which
has been issued by the Clearing Corporation and has neither been the subject of
a closing writing transaction nor has reached its expiration date.
(36) The term “PMM Rights” has the meaning set forth in Article
VI of the LLC Agreement.
(37) The term “primary market” means the principal market in
which an underlying security is traded.
(37A) The term “Priority Customer” means a person or entity that
(i) is not a broker or dealer in securities, and (ii) does not place more than 390
orders in listed options per day on average during a calendar month for its own
beneficial account(s).
(37B) The term “Priority Customer Order” means an order for
the account of a Priority Customer.
(37C) The term “Professional Order” means an order that is for
the account of a person or entity that is not a Priority Customer.
(38) The term “Public Customer” means a person or entity that
is not a broker or dealer in securities.
(39) The term “Public Customer Order” means an order for the
account of a Public Customer.
(40) The term “put” means an options contract under which the
holder of the option has the right, in accordance with the terms and provisions of
the option, to sell to the Clearing Corporation the number of shares of the
underlying security covered by the options contract.

-5-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(41) The term “Quarterly Options Series” means a series in an
options class that is approved for listing and trading on the Exchange in which
the series is opened for trading on any business day and that expires at the close
of business on the last business day of a calendar quarter.
(42) The term “quote” or “quotation” means a bid or offer
entered by a market maker that updates the market maker’s previous bid or offer,
if any.
(43) The term “Rules of the Clearing Corporation” means the
Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws and the Rules of the Clearing
Corporation, and all written interpretations thereof, as the same may be in effect
from time to time.
(44) The term “SEC” means the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission.
(45) The term “series of options” means all options contracts of
the same class having the same exercise price and expiration date.
(46) The term “short position” means a person’s interest as the
writer of one or more options contracts.
(47) The term “Short Term Option Series” means a series in an
option class that is approved for listing and trading on the Exchange in which the
series is opened for trading on any Thursday or Friday that is a business day and
that expires on the Friday of the following business week that is a business day.
If a Friday is not a business day, the series may be opened (or shall expire) on
the first business day immediately prior to that Friday.
(48) The term “SRO” means a self-regulatory organization as
defined in Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange Act.
(49) The term “type of option” means the classification of an
options contract as either a put or a call.
(50) The term “uncovered” means a short position in an options
contract that is not covered.
(51) The term “underlying security” means the security that the
Clearing Corporation shall be obligated to sell (in the case of a call option) or
purchase (in the case of a put option) upon the valid exercise of an options
contract.

-6-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 2
Administration
Rule 200.

Establishment of Committees

The Chief Executive Officer and President, with the approval of the
Board, shall appoint any committee members that are not Directors to
committees established upon delegated authority by the Board as set forth in the
Constitution, or established by the Chief Executive Officer and President
pursuant to authority delegated to him by the Board.
Rule 201.

Removal of Committee Members

The Chief Executive Officer and President may, with the approval
of the Board, remove any committee member for refusal, neglect, or inability to
discharge such committee member’s duties.
Rule 202.

Committee Procedures

Except as otherwise provided in the Constitution, the Rules or
resolution of the Board, each committee shall determine its own time and manner
of conducting its meetings, and the vote of a majority of the members of a
committee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of
the committee. Committees may act informally by written consent of all of the
members of the committee.
Rule 203.

General Duties and Powers of Committees

Each committee shall administer the provisions of the Constitution
and the Rules pertaining to matters within its jurisdiction. Each committee shall
have such other powers and duties as may be delegated to it by the Board.
Each committee is subject to the control and supervision of the Board.
Rule 204.

Divisions of the Exchange

The divisions of the Exchange shall include the Regulatory Division
and such other Divisions as the Chief Executive Officer and President, with the
approval of the Board, may establish. The Chief Executive Officer and President
shall appoint a head of every Division and may designate departments within
each Division.
Rule 205.

Participant Fees

The fees payable by Members shall be fixed from time to time by
the Exchange. Fees shall be payable in full on the first day of each month on a
nonrefundable basis and shall be applied to the month beginning on that day.

-7-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Rule 206.

Liability for Payment of Fees

(a) A Member that does not pay any dues, fees, assessments, charges,
fines or other amounts due to the Exchange within thirty (30) days after they have
become payable shall be reported to the Chief Executive Officer and President, who
may, after giving reasonable notice to the Member of such arrearages, suspend the
Member’s trading privileges until payment is made.
(b) A person associated with a Member who fails to pay any fine or other
amounts due to the Exchange within thirty (30) days after such amount has become
payable and after reasonable notice of such arrearages, may be suspended from
association with a Member until payment is made.
Rule 207.

Exchange’s Costs of Defending Legal Proceedings

(a) Any Member or person associated with a Member who fails to
prevail in a lawsuit or other legal proceeding instituted by such person against the
Exchange or any of its Directors, officers, committee members, employees or
agents, and related to the business of the Exchange, shall pay to the Exchange all
reasonable expenses, including attorneys’ fees, incurred by the Exchange in the
defense of such proceeding, but only in the event that such expenses exceed fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000).
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Rule shall not apply to disciplinary actions by
the Exchange, to administrative appeals of Exchange actions or in any specific
instance where the Board has granted a waiver of this provision.
Rule 208.

Sales Value Fee

The Sales Value Fee is assessed by the Exchange to each Member for
sales on the Exchange with respect to which the Exchange is obligated to pay a fee to
the Commission under Section 31 of the Exchange Act. To the extent that there may be
any excess monies collected under this rule, the Exchange may retain those monies to
help fund its general operating expenses. The sales transactions to which the fee
applies are sales of options (other than options on a security index) and the sales of
securities resulting from the exercise of physical-delivery options. The fee is collected
indirectly from Members through their clearing firms by the Clearing Corporation on
behalf of ISE Mercury with respect to options sales and options exercises. The Sales
Value Fee is equal to (a) the Section 31 fee rate multiplied by (b) the Member's
aggregate dollar amount of covered sales resulting from options transactions occurring
on the Exchange during any computational period.

-8-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 3
Membership
Rule 300.

Membership

The Exchange shall issue Memberships that confer the ability to
transact on the Exchange. There is no limit on the number of Memberships that
may be issued by the Exchange. In addition, in no event shall the Exchange act
in a manner under this paragraph that does not comply with the provisions of
Section 6(c)(4) of the Exchange Act.
Rule 301.

Qualification of Members

(a) A Member of the Exchange may be a corporation, partnership, or
LLC. Each Member must:
(1) be a broker-dealer registered pursuant to Section 15 of the
Exchange Act; and
(2) meet the qualifications for a Member in accordance with
Exchange Rules applicable thereto.
(b) A Member that does not maintain an office in the United States
responsible for preparing and maintaining financial and other reports required to be filed
with the Commission and the Exchange must:
(1) prepare all such reports, and maintain a general ledger chart of
account and any description thereof, in English and U.S. dollars;
(2) reimburse the Exchange for any expense incurred in connection
with examinations of the Member to the extent that such expenses exceed the
cost of examining a Member located within the continental United States; and
(3) ensure the availability of an individual fluent in English and
knowledgeable in securities and financial matters to assist representatives of the
Exchange during examinations.
(c) Every Member shall have as the principal purpose of being a Member
the conduct of a securities business. Such a purpose shall be deemed to exist if and so
long as:
(1) the Member has qualified and acts in respect of its business on
the Exchange in one or more of the following capacities: (i) an Electronic Access
Member; (ii) a Primary Market Maker; or (iii) a Competitive Market Maker; and
(2) all transactions effected by the Member are in compliance with
Section 11(a) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted
-9-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

thereunder.
Rule 302.

Member Application Procedures

(a) ISE or ISE Gemini Members. An ISE Member or ISE Gemini Member
in good standing is eligible to become an ISE Mercury Member of the same category
(i.e., an ISE or ISE Gemini PMM Member is eligible to become an ISE Mercury PMM
Member, an ISE or ISE Gemini CMM Member is eligible to become an ISE Mercury
CMM Member and an ISE or ISE Gemini EAM Member is eligible to become an ISE
Mercury EAM Member). ISE and ISE Gemini Member applicants are not required to
complete and submit an Exchange application. Instead, only Exchange forms
concerning electing to trade on the Exchange, submitting to the Exchange’s jurisdiction,
and operational matters need to be completed and tendered.
(b) Non-ISE or ISE Gemini Members. All applicants seeking to become a
Member of the Exchange that are not ISE or ISE Gemini Members must submit an
application to the Exchange in accordance with such procedures as shall be established
by the Exchange via regulatory circular including submission deadlines and payment of
any applicable application fees. The Exchange shall provide non-ISE or ISE Gemini
Members with at least sixty (60) days advance written notice of the date upon which the
Exchange shall allocate options classes and appoint market makers pursuant to
Exchange Rule 802 in order to ensure that these Members have a reasonable
opportunity to participate in those processes. A market participant must have
completed a membership application to be eligible to participate in the processes set
forth in Rule 802. In addition, the following shall apply:
(i) Applications must be accompanied by a non-refundable
application fee.
(ii) Within a reasonable time following receipt of an application, the
name of the applicant shall be posted by the Exchange.
(iii) An applicant must be approved by the Exchange to perform in
at least one of the recognized capacities of a Member as stated in Rule 301(c).
(iv) Upon completion of the application process, the Exchange shall
consider whether to approve the application, unless there is just cause for delay.
Persons associated with the applicant are subject to investigation by the
Exchange and may be required to appear in person before the Exchange. The
Exchange may also require any person associated with a Member who may
possess information relevant to the applicant’s suitability to be a Member to
provide information or testimony.
(v) The Exchange will determine whether to approve an application.
Written notice of the action of the Exchange, specifying in the case of disapproval
of an application the grounds therefor, shall be provided to the applicant.

-10-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(vi) If the application process is not completed within six (6) months
of the filing of the application form and payment of the appropriate fee, the
application shall be deemed to be automatically withdrawn.
(vii) With respect to each Membership that becomes effective in
accordance with this Rule, the Exchange shall promptly notify all Members
thereof.
(c) Rights of Members. No rights shall be conferred upon a
Member except those set forth in the LLC Agreement or Rules as amended from
time to time. A Membership shall not convey any ownership interest in the
Exchange. Memberships may not be leased and are not transferable except in
the event of a change in control or corporate reorganization involving a Member.
In such case, Member status may be transferred to a qualified affiliate or
successor upon written notice to the Exchange.
(d) Fees and Charges for Members. Members shall be subject to
such fees and charges as are established by the Exchange from time to time
pursuant to Rule 205 and the Exchange Fee Schedule. The entire fee for a
Member shall be due and payable in full on or before the first day on which the
Membership is effective on a nonrefundable basis. An organization holding a
Membership in its name shall be responsible for paying all fees and charges for
that Membership.
(e) Exchange Jurisdiction over Members. Every Member shall be
subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Exchange under the Exchange Act,
the LLC Agreement and the Rules, including without limitation the Exchange’s
disciplinary jurisdiction under Chapter 16 of the Rules.
Rule 303.

Denial of and Conditions to Becoming a Member

(a) An applicant to become a Member of the Exchange must seek
approval in the form and manner prescribed by the Exchange.
(b) The Exchange may deny (or condition) approval of a Member, or
may prevent a person from becoming associated (or condition an association) with
a Member, for the same reasons that the SEC may deny or revoke a broker-dealer
registration and for those reasons required or allowed under the Exchange Act.
(c) The Exchange also may deny (or condition) approval of a Member,
or may prevent a person from becoming associated with (or condition an
association) with a Member, when the applicant, directly or indirectly:
(1) has a negative net worth, has financial difficulties involving an
amount that is more than five percent (5%) of the applicant’s net worth, or has a
pattern of failure to pay just debts (whether or not such debts have been the
subject of a bankruptcy action);

-11-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(2) is unable satisfactorily to demonstrate a capacity to adhere to
all applicable Exchange, SEC, the Clearing Corporation and Federal Reserve
Board policies, rules and regulations, including those concerning recordkeeping, reporting, finance and trading procedures; or
(3) is unable satisfactorily to demonstrate reasonably adequate
systems capability and capacity.
(d) When an applicant is a subject of an investigation conducted by
any SRO or government agency involving its fitness for becoming a Member, the
Exchange need not act on the application until the matter has been resolved.
(e) The Exchange may determine not to permit a Member or person
associated with a Member to continue as a Member or associated therewith, if the
Member or associated person:
(1) fails to meet any of the qualification requirements for
becoming a Member or associated with a Member after approval thereof;
(2) fails to meet any condition placed by the Exchange on such
Member or association with a Member;
(3) violates any agreement with the Exchange; or
(4) becomes subject to a statutory disqualification under the
Exchange Act.
(f) If a Member or person associated with a Member that becomes
subject to a statutory disqualification under the Exchange Act wants to continue as
a Member of the Exchange or in association with a Member, the Member or
associated person must, within thirty (30) days of becoming subject to a statutory
disqualification, submit an application to the Exchange seeking to continue as a
Member or in association with a Member notwithstanding the statutory
disqualification. Failure to timely file such an application is a factor that may be
taken into consideration by the Exchange in making determinations pursuant to
paragraph (e) of this Rule.
(g) Subject to Chapter 15 (Summary Suspension) of the Rules, any
applicant whose application to become a Member is denied Membership or
conditioned, or any person whose association with a Member is denied or
conditioned pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Rule, and any Member or
person associated with a Member who is not permitted pursuant to paragraph (e) of
this Rule to continue as a Member or to be associated with a Member or which
continuance as a Member or association is conditioned, may appeal the
Exchange’s decision under Chapter 17 (Hearings and Review) of the Rules.
Rule 304.

Approval to Operate Multiple Memberships

-12-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(a) An applicant to become a Member or an approved Member may seek
approval to exercise trading privileges associated with more than one Membership in
the form and manner prescribed by the Exchange.
(b) An applicant or approved Member will be denied approval with respect
to a particular Membership if (together with any of its affiliates) approval would result in
the applicant or approved Member being approved to exercise the trading privileges
associated with more than 30% of the Exchange Rights issued and outstanding at any
time. No Member shall exercise voting rights in excess of those permitted under the
Exchange's LLC Agreement or Constitution.
Rule 305.

Persons Associated with Members

(a) Persons associated with Members shall be bound by the Constitution
and Rules of the Exchange and the rules of the Clearing Corporation. The Exchange
may bar a person from becoming or continuing to be associated with a Member if such
person does not agree in writing, on a form prescribed by the Exchange, to furnish the
Exchange with information with respect to such person’s relationship and dealings with
the Member, and information reasonably related to such person’s other securities
business, as may be required by the Exchange, and to permit the examination of its
books and records by the Exchange to verify the accuracy of any information so
supplied.
(b) Each Member shall file with the Exchange and keep current a list and
descriptive identification of those persons associated with the Member(s) who are its
executive officers, directors, principal shareholders, and general partners. Such
persons shall file with the Exchange a Uniform application for Securities Industry
Registration or Transfer (Form U-4).
(c) A claim of any person associated with a Member described in the first
sentence of paragraph (b) of this Rule against such organization shall be subordinate in
right of payment of customers and other Members.
Rule 306.

Registration Requirements

(a) Registration of Individual Associated Persons Engaged in the
Securities Business.
(1) Individual associated persons engaged or to be engaged in the
securities business of a Member shall be registered with the Exchange in the
category of registration appropriate to the function to be performed as prescribed
by the Exchange. Before the registration can become effective, the individual
associated person shall submit the appropriate application for registration, pass a
qualification examination appropriate to the category of registration as prescribed
by the Exchange and submit any required registration and examination fees. A
Member shall not maintain a registration with the Exchange for any person (1)
who is no longer active in the Member’s securities business; (2) who is no longer
functioning in the registered capacity; or (3) where the sole purpose is to avoid
-13-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

an examination requirement. A Member shall not make application for the
registration of any person where there is no intent to employ that person in the
Member’s securities business. A Member may, however, maintain or make
application for the registration of an individual who performs legal, compliance,
internal audit, back-office operations, or similar responsibilities for the Member,
or a person who performs administrative support functions for registered
personnel, or a person engaged in the securities business of a foreign securities
affiliate or subsidiary of the Member.
(2) Persons Exempt from Registration. The following individual
associated persons of Members are exempt from the registration requirements
set forth in paragraph (1):
(A) individual associated persons whose functions are solely
and exclusively clerical or ministerial;
(B) individual associated persons who are not actively
engaged in the securities business;
(C) individual associated persons whose functions are
related solely and exclusively to the Member’s need for nominal corporate
officers or for capital participation;
(D) individual associated persons whose functions are
related solely and exclusively to:
(i) transactions in commodities;
(ii) transactions in security futures; and/or
(iii) effecting transactions on the floor of another
national securities exchange and who are registered as floor
members with such exchange.
(b) Financial/Operations Principal. Each Member subject to
Exchange Act Rule 15c3-1 shall designate a Financial/Operations Principal. The
duties of a Financial/Operations Principal shall include taking appropriate actions
to assure that the Member complies with applicable financial and operational
requirements under the Rules and the Exchange Act, including but not limited to
those requirements relating to the submission of financial reports and the
maintenance of books and records. Each Financial/Operations Principal is
required to have successfully completed the Financial and Operations Principal
Examination (Series 27 Exam). Each Financial/Operations Principal designated
by a Trading Member shall be registered in that capacity with the Exchange as
prescribed by the Exchange. A Financial/Operations Principal of a Member may
be a full-time employee, a part-time employee or independent contractor of the
Member.

-14-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(c) Chief Compliance Officer. Each Member shall designate a
Chief Compliance Officer on Schedule A of Form BD. An individual designated
as a Chief Compliance Officer is required to register with the Exchange and pass
the appropriate heightened qualification examination(s) as prescribed by the
Exchange. A person who has been designated as a Chief Compliance Officer on
Schedule A of Form BD for at least two years immediately prior to January 1,
2002, and who has not been subject within the last ten years to any statutory
disqualification as defined in Section 3(a)(39) of the Act; a suspension; or the
imposition of a fine of $5,000 or more for a violation of any provision of any
securities law or regulation, or any agreement with, rule or standard of conduct of
any securities governmental agency, securities self-regulatory organization, or as
imposed by any such regulatory or self-regulatory organization in connection with
a disciplinary proceeding shall be required to register in the category of
registration appropriate to the function to be performed as prescribed by the
Exchange, but shall be exempt from the requirement to pass the heightened
qualification examination as prescribed by the Exchange.
(d) Registration Required Under Chapter 6. Individual associated
persons of a Member that conduct a public customer business must also comply
with the registration requirements set forth in Rule 601 and Rule 602. These
additional registration categories include: (i) Registered Options Principal; and (ii)
Registered Representative.
(e) Requirement for Examination on Lapse of Registration. Any
person whose registration has been revoked by the Exchange as a disciplinary
sanction or whose most recent registration has been terminated for two or more
years immediately preceding the date of receipt by the Exchange of a new
application shall be required to pass a qualification examination appropriate to
the category of registration as prescribed by the Exchange.
Supplementary Material to Rule 306
.01 Each individual required to register under this Rule shall electronically
file a Form U4 through the Central Registration Depository system (“Web CRD”)
operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Incorporated (“FINRA”).
.02 Each individual required to register under this Rule shall electronically
submit to Web CRD any required amendments to Form U4.
.03 Any Member that discharges or terminates the employment or
retention of an individual required to register under this Rule shall comply with
the termination filing requirements set forth in Rule 601(c) and Rule 603, which
include the filing of a Form U5.
.04 Each individual required to register under this Rule is required to
satisfy the continuing education requirements set forth in Rule 604 and any other
applicable continuing education requirements as prescribed by the Exchange.
-15-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

.05 The Exchange may, in exceptional cases and where good cause is
shown, waive the applicable qualification examination and accept other
standards as evidence of an applicant's qualifications for registration. Advanced
age or physical infirmity will not individually of themselves constitute sufficient
grounds to waive a qualification examination. Experience in fields ancillary to the
securities business may constitute sufficient grounds to waive a qualification
examination.
.06 For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) above, the Exchange shall consider
an individual associated person to be engaged in the securities business of a
Member if:
(a) the individual associated person engages in one or more of the
following activities on behalf of the Member:
(1) proprietary trading;
(2) market-making;
(3) effecting transactions on behalf of a broker-dealer;
(4) supervision or monitoring of proprietary trading, market-making,
or brokerage activities;
(5) supervision or training of those engaged in proprietary trading,
market-making, or brokerage activities with respect to those activities; or
(b) the individual associated person engages in the management of one or
more of the activities enumerated in paragraphs (1) through (5) above as an
officer, partner or a director.
.07 Each Member must register with the Exchange as a Principal each
individual acting in any of the following capacities: (i) officer; (ii) partner; (iii)
director; (iv) supervisor of proprietary trading, market-making or brokerage
activities; and/or (v) supervisor of those engaged in proprietary trading, marketmaking or brokerage activities with respect to those activities. Each Member
must register with the Exchange at least two individuals acting in one or more of
the heightened capacities described in (i)-(v) above. The Exchange may waive
this requirement if a Member demonstrates conclusively that only one individual
acting in one or more of the heightened capacities described in (i) through (v)
above should be required to register. A Member that conducts proprietary
trading only and has 25 or fewer registered persons shall only be required to
have one officer or partner who is registered in this capacity.
For purposes of this Rule, a Member shall be considered to conduct only
proprietary trading if the Member has the following characteristics:

-16-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(a) The Member is not required by Section 15(b)(8) of the Exchange Act to
become a FINRA member but is a member of another registered securities
exchange not registered solely under Section 6(g) of the Exchange Act;
(b) All funds used or proposed to be used by the Member are the Trading
Member’s own capital, traded through the Member’s own accounts;
(c) The Member does not, and will not, have customers; and
(d) All persons registered on behalf of the Member acting or to be acting in
the capacity of a trader must be owners of, employees of, or contractors to the
Member.
.08 (a) An individual associated person who:
(1) is engaged in proprietary trading, market-making and/or
effecting transactions on behalf of a broker-dealer is required to register and
qualify as a Securities Trader (TD) in WebCRD;
(2) (i) supervises or monitors proprietary trading, market-making
and/or brokerage activities for broker-dealers; (ii) supervises or trains those
engaged in proprietary trading, market-making and/or effecting transactions
on behalf of a broker-dealer, with respect to those activities; and/or (iii) is an
officer, partner or director of a Member is required to register and qualify as a
Securities Trader Principal (TP) in WebCRD and satisfy the prerequisite
registration and qualification requirements; and
(3) is a Chief Compliance Officer (or performs similar functions)
for a Member that engages in proprietary trading, market-making or effecting
transactions on behalf of a broker-dealer is required to register and qualify as
a Securities Trader Compliance Officer (CT) in WebCRD and satisfy the
prerequisite registration and qualification requirements.
(b) The following sets forth the qualification requirements for each of the
required registration categories described in paragraph (a) to .08 of Supplementary
Material to Rule 306:
CATEGORY OF
REGISTRATION

QUALIFICATION
EXAMINATION(S)

Securities Trader (TD)

Series 57

Securities Trader
Principal (TP)**

Series 24

ALTERNATIVE
ACCEPTABLE
QUALIFICATIONS

General Securities Sales
Supervision Registration
and General Securities
Principal – Sales
Supervisor Module
-17-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Registration (Series 9/10
and Series 23)*
Securities Trader
Compliance Officer (CT)

Series 14

General Securities
Principal Registration
(GP) or Securities Trader
Principal (TP) (Series 24)

*Because the Series 23 is not available in WebCRD, each applicant must provide
documentation of a valid Series 23 license upon request for the Series 24 registration in
WebCRD.
**Securities Trader Principals’ (TP) supervisory authority is limited to supervision of the
securities trading functions of members, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of .08 of
Supplementary Material to Rule 306 and officers, partners, and directors of a member.
Rule 307.

Documents Required of Applicants and Members

(a) Although the Exchange may request additional information, at a
minimum, the partnership agreement and all amendments thereto, in the case of a
partnership, the articles of incorporation, by-laws and all amendments thereto, in the
case of a corporation, and in the case of a limited liability company, the articles of
organization and operating agreement and all amendments thereto shall be filed with,
and shall be subject to review by, the Exchange; however, no action or failure to act by
the Exchange shall be construed to mean that the Exchange has in any way passed on
the investment merits of or given approval to any such document.
(b) Every Member shall file with the Exchange and keep current an
address where notices may be served.
(c) In a manner and form prescribed by the Exchange, every Member shall
pledge to abide by the Constitution and Rules of the Exchange, as amended from time
to time, and by all circulars, notices, directives or decisions adopted pursuant to or
made in accordance with the Constitution and Rules.
(d) Members shall keep and maintain a current copy of the Constitution
and Rules in a readily accessible place. Members that are approved to do business
with the public pursuant to Rule 600 shall make the Constitution and Rules available for
examination by customers.
Rule 308. Dissolution and Liquidation of Members
Every Member shall promptly notify the Exchange in writing upon the
adoption of a plan of liquidation or dissolution. Upon receipt of such notice, the
Member’s trading privileges may be suspended in accordance with Chapter 15
(Summary Suspension) of these Rules.

-18-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Rule 309. 	

Limitation on Affiliation between the Exchange and
Members

Without prior SEC approval, the Exchange, or any facility of the Exchange,
or any entity with which the Exchange or any facility of the Exchange is affiliated shall
not, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, acquire or maintain an
ownership interest in a Member. In addition, a Member shall not be or become an
affiliate of the Exchange, or any facility of the Exchange, or any entity with which the
Exchange or any facility of the Exchange is affiliated. Nothing in this rule shall prohibit a
Member from acquiring or holding any equity interest in ISE Holdings, Inc. that is
permitted by the Certificate of Incorporation of ISE Holdings, Inc. In addition, nothing in
this Rule shall prohibit any Member from being or becoming an affiliate of the
Exchange, or any facility of the Exchange, or an affiliate of any affiliate of the Exchange
or any facility of the Exchange solely by reason of any officer, director or partner of such
Member being or becoming an Exchange Director (as defined in the Constitution)
pursuant to the Constitution.

-19-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 4
Business Conduct
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 4, as such rules may be in effect from time to
time (the “Chapter 4 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference into this ISE Mercury
Chapter 4, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby applicable to ISE Mercury
Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with the Chapter 4 Rules as though
such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined terms, including any variations thereof,
contained in the Chapter 4 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury-related
meaning of such term. Solely by way of example, and not in limitation or in exhaustion:
the defined term “Exchange” in the Chapter 4 Rules shall be read to refer to ISE
Mercury; the defined term “Rule” in the Chapter 4 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE
Mercury Rule; the defined term “Chapter” in the Chapter 4 Rules shall be read to refer
to the ISE Mercury Chapter; and the defined term “Member” in the Chapter 4 Rules
shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Member. For the avoidance of doubt, the
reference to “lessor” in Rule 408 shall not apply to ISE Mercury, as ISE Mercury
memberships cannot be leased under ISE Mercury Rules.

-20-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 5
Securities Traded on the Exchange
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 5, as such rules may be in effect from time to
time (the “Chapter 5 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference into this ISE Mercury
Chapter 5, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby applicable to ISE Mercury
Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with the Chapter 5 Rules as though
such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined terms, including any variations thereof,
contained in the Chapter 5 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury-related
meaning of such term. Solely by way of example, and not in limitation or in exhaustion:
the defined term “Exchange” in the Chapter 5 Rules shall be read to refer to ISE
Mercury; the defined term “Rule” in the Chapter 5 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE
Mercury Rule; the defined term “Market Maker” in the Chapter 5 Rules shall be read to
refer to the ISE Mercury Market Maker; and the defined term “Member” in the Chapter 5
Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Member.

-21-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 6
Doing Business With the Public
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 6, as such rules may be in effect from time to
time (the “Chapter 6 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference into this ISE Mercury
Chapter 6, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby applicable to ISE Mercury
Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with the Chapter 6 Rules as though
such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined terms, including any variations thereof,
contained in the Chapter 6 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury-related
meaning of such term. Solely by way of example, and not in limitation or in exhaustion:
the defined term “Exchange” in the Chapter 6 Rules shall be read to refer to ISE
Mercury; the defined term “Rule” in the Chapter 6 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE
Mercury Rule; the defined term “Options Principal” in the Chapter 6 Rules shall be read
to refer to the ISE Mercury Options Principal; and the defined term “Member” in the
Chapter 6 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Member.

-22-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 7
Doing Business On The Exchange
Rule 700.

Days and Hours of Business

The Board shall determine the days the Exchange shall be open for
business (referred to as “business days”) and the hours of such days during which
transactions may be made on the Exchange.
(a) Except for unusual conditions as may be determined by the Board,
hours during which transactions in options on a narrow-based index, as defined in
Rule 2001, and individual stocks may be made on the Exchange shall correspond
to the normal business days and hours for business established by the markets
currently trading the stocks underlying Exchange options.
(b) Options on Exchange-Traded Fund Shares, as defined in Rule

502(h), may be traded on the Exchange until 4:15 p.m. each business day.

(c) Options on a broad-based index, as defined in Rule 2001, may be
traded on the Exchange until 4:15 p.m. each business day.
(d) Options on Index-Linked Securities, as defined in Rule 502(k)(1),
may be traded on the Exchange until 4:15 p.m. each business day.
(e) The Exchange shall not be open for business on the following
holidays: New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Presidents’ Day, Good
Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day or
Christmas Day. When any holiday observed by the Exchange falls on a Saturday,
the Exchange will not be open for business on the preceding Friday. When any
holiday observed by the Exchange falls on a Sunday, the Exchange will not be open
for business on the following Monday, unless unusual business conditions exist at the
time.
Rule 701.

Trading Rotations

(a) General Rules. A “trading rotation” is a process by which the
	
Primary Market Maker initiates trading in a specified options class.

(1) The Exchange may direct that one or more trading rotations
be employed on any business day to aid in producing a fair and orderly market.
(2) For each rotation so employed, except as the Exchange may
direct, rotations shall be conducted in the order and manner the Primary Market
Maker determines to be appropriate under the circumstances.

-23-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(3) The Primary Market Maker, with the approval of the Exchange,
shall have the authority to determine the rotation order and manner or deviate
from the rotation procedures. Such authority may be exercised before and
during a trading rotation.
(4) Two (2) or more trading rotations may be employed

simultaneously, if the Primary Market Maker, with the approval of the

Exchange, so determines.

(b) Opening Rotations. Trading rotations shall be employed at the
opening of the Exchange each business day.
(1) For each class of options contracts that has been approved for
trading, the opening rotation shall be conducted by the Primary Market Maker
appointed to such class of options.
(2) The opening rotation in each class of options shall be held
promptly following the opening of the market for the underlying security. For
purposes of this Rule, “market for the underlying security” shall be either the
primary listing market, the primary volume market (defined as the market with
the most liquidity in that underlying security for the previous two calendar
months), or the first market to open the underlying security, as determined by
the Exchange on an issue-by-issue basis and announced to the membership
on the Exchange’s web site.
(3) In the event the underlying security has not opened within a
reasonable time after 9:30 a.m. Eastern time, the Primary Market Maker shall
report the delay to the Exchange and an inquiry shall be made to determine the
cause of the delay. The opening rotation for options contracts in such security
shall be delayed until the market for the underlying security has opened unless
the Exchange determines that the interests of a fair and orderly market are best
served by opening trading in the options contracts.
(4) The Exchange may delay the commencement of the opening
rotation in any class of options in the interests of a fair and orderly market.
(c) Rotations After Trading Hours. As provided below transactions
may be effected in a class of options after the end of normal trading hours in
connection with a trading rotation.
(1) A trading rotation may be employed whenever the Exchange
concludes that such action is appropriate in the interests of a fair and orderly
market. The factors that may be considered include, but are not limited to,
whether there has been a recent opening or reopening of trading in the
underlying security, a declaration of a “fast market” pursuant to Rule 704, or a
need for a rotation in connection with expiring individual stock options or index
options, an end of the year rotation, or the restart of a rotation which is already
in progress.
-24-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(2) The decisions to employ a trading rotation in non-expiring
options shall be disseminated prior to the commencement of such rotation. In
general, no more than one trading rotation will be commenced after the normal
close of trading.
(3) If a trading rotation is in progress and the Exchange
determines that a final trading rotation is needed to assure a fair and orderly
market close, the rotation in progress shall be halted and a final rotation begun
as promptly as possible.
(4) Any trading rotation in non-expiring options conducted after
the normal close of trading may not begin until five (5) minutes after news of
such rotation is disseminated by the Exchange.
Rule 702.

Trading Halts

(a) Halts. An Exchange official designated by the Board may halt
trading in any stock option in the interests of a fair and orderly market.
(1) The following are among the factors that may be considered in
determining whether the trading in a stock option should be halted:
(i)
trading in the underlying security has been halted or
suspended in one or more of the markets trading the underlying security.
(ii)
the opening of such underlying security has been
delayed because of unusual circumstances.
present.

(iii)

other unusual conditions or circumstances are

(2) A designated Exchange official may halt trading (including a
rotation) for a class or classes of options contracts whenever there is a halt of
trading in an underlying security in one or more of the markets trading the
underlying security. In such event, without the need for action by the Primary
Market Maker, all trading in the effected class or classes of options may be
halted. The Exchange shall disseminate through its trading facilities and over
OPRA a symbol in respect of such class or classes of options indicating that
trading has been halted, and a record of the time and duration of the halt shall
be made available to vendors. No Member or person associated with a
Member shall effect a trade on the Exchange in any options class in which
trading has been halted under the provisions of this Rule during the time in
which the halt remains in effect.
(b) Resumptions. Trading in a stock option that has been the subject
of a halt under paragraph (a)(1) above may be resumed upon the determination by
an Exchange official designated by the Board that the conditions which led to the

-25-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

halt are no longer present or that the interests of a fair and orderly market are best
served by a resumption of trading.
(c) Trading Pauses. Trading on the Exchange in any option contract
shall be halted whenever trading in the underlying security has been paused by the
primary listing market. Trading in such options contracts may be resumed upon a
determination by the Exchange that the conditions that led to the pause are no longer
present and that the interests of a fair and orderly market are best served by a
resumption of trading, which in no circumstances will be before the Exchange has
received notification that the underlying security has resumed trading on at least one
exchange.
Supplementary Material to Rule 702
.01

The Exchange shall nullify any transaction that occurs:
(a)

during a trading halt in the affected option on the Exchange; or

(b)
with respect to equity options (including options overlying ETFs),
during a regulatory halt as declared by the primary listing market for the
underlying security.
Rule 703.

Trading Halts Due To Extraordinary Market Volatility

The Exchange shall halt trading in all securities whenever a
marketwide trading halt (commonly known as a circuit breaker) is initiated on the
New York Stock Exchange in response to extraordinary market conditions.
Rule 703A. Trading During Limit Up-Limit Down States in Underlying
Securities
(a) Definitions: For purposes of this Rule 703A:
(1) The term “limit up-limit down” shall mean the procedures
applicable to the trading of equity securities that underlie options traded on the
Exchange that prevent trades in individual equity securities from occurring
outside of specified price bands.
(2) The term “Limit State” shall mean the condition when the
national best bid or national best offer for an underlying security equals an
applicable price band, as determined by the primary listing exchange for the
underlying security.
(3) The term “Straddle State” shall mean the condition when the
national best bid or national best offer for an underlying security is nonexecutable, as determined by the primary listing exchange for the underlying
security, but the security is not in a Limit State.
-26-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(b) Order Handling: When a security underlying an options class traded
on the Exchange enters a Limit State or Straddle State, trading shall continue on the
Exchange with the following modified order handling procedures:
(1) Market Orders. All incoming market orders will be automatically
rejected during a Straddle State or Limit State, and all unexecuted market orders
pending in the System will be automatically canceled upon the initiation of a Limit
State or Straddle State.
(2) Stop Orders. Incoming stop orders will be automatically
rejected during a Limit State or Straddle State, and all unexecuted stop orders
pending in the System cannot be elected during a Limit State or Straddle State.
Such order will be held until the end of a Limit State or Straddle State, at which
point the order will become eligible to be elected if the market for the particular
option contract reaches the specified contract price.
(c) Market Maker Obligations: When the security underlying an option
class is in a Limit State or Straddle State, the maximum quotation spread requirements
for market maker quotes contained in Rule 803(b)(5) and the continuous quotation
requirements contained in Rule 804(e) shall be suspended. The time periods
associated with Limit States and Straddle States will not be considered by the
Exchange when evaluating whether a market maker complied with the continuous
quotation requirements contained in Rule 804(e).
Rule 704.

Collection and Dissemination of Quotations

(a) Each market maker shall communicate to the Exchange its bid and
offers in accordance with the requirements of Rule 602 of Regulation NMS under the
Exchange Act and the Rules of the Exchange.
(b) The Exchange will disseminate to quotation vendors the highest bid
and the lowest offer, and the aggregate quotation size associated therewith that is
available to Public Customer Orders, in accordance with the requirements of Rule 602
of Regulation NMS under the Exchange Act.
(c) Unusual Market Conditions.
(1) An Exchange official designated by the Board shall have the
power to determine that the level of trading activities or the existence of unusual
market conditions is such that the Exchange is incapable of collecting,
processing, and making available to quotation vendors the data for the option in
a manner that accurately reflects the current state of the market on the
Exchange. Upon making such a determination, the Exchange shall designate
the market in such option to be “fast.” When a market for an option is declared
fast, the Exchange will provide notice that its quotations are not firm by
appending an appropriate indicator to its quotations.

-27-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(2) If a market is declared fast, designated Exchange officials shall
have the power to: (i) direct that one or more trading rotations be employed
pursuant to Rule 701; (ii) suspend the minimum size requirement of Rule 804(b);
or (iii) take such other actions as are deemed in the interest of maintaining a fair
and orderly market.
(3)The Exchange will monitor the activity or conditions that caused
a fast market to be declared, and a designated Exchange official shall review the
condition of such market at least every thirty (30) minutes. Regular trading
procedures shall be resumed by the Exchange when a designated Exchange
official determines that the conditions supporting a fast market declaration no
longer exist. The Exchange will provide notice that its quotations are once again
firm by removing the indicator from its quotations.
(4) If the conditions supporting a fast market declaration cannot be
managed utilizing one or more of the procedures described above, then a
designated Exchange official shall halt trading in the class or classes so affected.
Rule 705.

Limitation of Liability

(a) The Exchange, its Directors, officers, committee members,
employees, contractors or agents shall not be liable to Members nor any persons
associated with Members for any loss, expense, damages or claims arising out of
the use of the facilities, systems or equipment afforded by the Exchange, nor any
interruption in or failure or unavailability of any such facilities, systems or
equipment, whether or not such loss, expense, damages or claims result or are
alleged to result from negligence or other unintentional errors or omissions on the
part of the Exchange, its Directors, officers, committee members, employees,
contractors, agents or other persons acting on its behalf, or from systems failure, or
from any other cause within or outside the control of the Exchange. Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, the Exchange shall have no liability to any person
for any loss, expense, damages or claims which result from any error, omission or
delay in calculating or disseminating any current or closing index value or any
reports of transactions in or quotations for options or other securities, including
underlying securities.
(b) The Exchange makes no warranty, express or implied, as to
results to be obtained by any person or entity from the use of any data transmitted
or disseminated by or on behalf of the Exchange or any reporting authority
designated by the Exchange, including but not limited to, reports of transactions in
or quotations for securities traded on the Exchange or underlying securities, or
reports of interest rate measures or index values or related data, and the Exchange
makes no express or implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular
purpose or use with respect to any such data.
(c) No Member or person associated with a Member shall institute a
lawsuit or other legal proceeding against the Exchange or any Director, officer,
-28-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

employee, contractor, agent or other official of the Exchange or any subsidiary of
the Exchange, for actions taken or omitted to be taken in connection with the official
business of the Exchange or any subsidiary, except to the extent such actions or
omissions constitution violations of the federal securities laws for which a private
right of action exists. This provision shall not apply to appeals of disciplinary
actions or other actions by the Exchange as provided for in the Rules.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) above, and subject to the

express limits set forth below, the Exchange may compensate Members for 

losses resulting directly from the malfunction of the Exchange's physical 

equipment, devices and/or programming.

(1) For the aggregate of all claims made by all market participants
related to the use of the Exchange on a single trading day, the Exchange's
payments shall not exceed $250,000.
(2) In the event that all of the claims arising out of the use of the
Exchange cannot be fully satisfied because in the aggregate they exceed the
limitations provided for in this Rule, then the maximum permitted amount will be
proportionally allocated among all such claims arising on a single trading day.
(3) All claims for compensation pursuant to this Rule shall be in
writing and must be submitted no later than the opening of trading on the next
business day following the day on which the use of the Exchange gave rise to
such claims. Once in receipt of a claim, the Exchange will verify that: (i) a valid
order was accepted into the Exchange’s systems; and (ii) an Exchange system
failure occurred during the execution or handling of that order.
(4) The limits on compensation in this Rule 705(d) shall not apply to
Members to the extent that such Members are acting as Linkage Handlers, as
defined in Supplementary Material .03 to Rule 1901.
Rule 706.

Access to and Conduct on the Exchange

(a) Access to Exchange. Unless otherwise provided in the Rules, no
one but a Member or a person associated with a Member shall effect any Exchange
transactions. The Exchange may share any Member-designated risk settings in the
trading system with the Clearing Member that clears transactions on behalf of the
Member.
(b) Exchange Conduct. Members and persons employed by or
associated with any Member, while using the facilities of the Exchange, shall not
engage in conduct (i) inconsistent with the maintenance of a fair and orderly
market; (ii) apt to impair public confidence in the operations of the Exchange; or (iii)
inconsistent with the ordinary and efficient conduct of business. Activities that may
violate the provisions of this paragraph (b) include, but are not limited to, the
following:

-29-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(1) failure of a market maker to provide quotations in accordance
with Rule 804;
(2) failure of a market maker to bid or offer within the ranges 

specified by Rule 803(b)(4);

(3) failure of a Member to supervise a person employed by or
associated with such Member adequately to ensure that person’s compliance
with this paragraph (b);
(4) failure to abide by a determination of the Exchange;
(5) refusal to provide information requested by the Exchange; and
(6) failure to abide by the provisions of Rule 717.
Supplementary Material to Rule 706
.01 (a) General. The Exchange shall be available for entry and execution
of orders by Sponsored Customers with authorized access. To obtain authorized
access to the Exchange, each Sponsored Customer must enter into a Sponsored
Customer Agreement with the Exchange in such form as the Exchange may
provide.
.01 (b) Sponsored Customers. A Sponsored Customer may obtain
authorized access to the Exchange only if such access is authorized in advance
by one or more Sponsoring Members as follows:
(1) Sponsored Customers must enter into and maintain customer
agreements with one or more Sponsoring Members establishing proper
relationship(s) and account(s) through which the Sponsored Customers may
trade on the Exchange. Such customer agreement(s) must incorporate the
sponsorship provisions set forth in paragraph (2) below.
(2) For a Sponsored Customer to obtain and maintain authorized access
to the Exchange, a Sponsored Customer and its Sponsoring Member must agree
in writing to the following sponsorship provisions:
(i) Sponsoring Member must have entered into and maintained an
Access Agreement with the Exchange. The Sponsoring Member must
designate the Sponsored Customer by name in a Sponsored Customer
Addendum to the Access Agreement as such.
(ii) Sponsoring Member acknowledges and agrees that
(A) All orders entered by the Sponsored Customer and any
person acting on behalf of or in the name of such Sponsored
-30-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Customer and any executions occurring as a result of such orders
are binding in all respects on the Sponsoring Member, and
(B) Sponsoring Member is responsible for any and all
actions taken by such Sponsored Customer and any person acting
on behalf of or in the name of such Sponsored Customer.
(iii) Sponsoring Member shall comply with the Exchange’s
Certificate of Formation, Constitution, Rules and procedures with regard to
the Exchange and Sponsored Customer shall comply with Exchange’s
Certificate of Formation, Constitution, Rules and procedures with regard to
the Exchange, as if Sponsored Customer were an Exchange Member.
(iv) Sponsored Customer shall maintain, keep current and provide
to the Sponsoring Member a list of persons who have been granted
access to the Exchange on behalf of the Sponsored Customer
(“Authorized Traders”).
(v) Sponsored Customer shall familiarize its Authorized Traders
with all of the Sponsored Customer's obligations under this Rule and will
assure that they receive appropriate training prior to any use or access to
the Exchange.
(vi) Sponsored Customer may not permit anyone other than
Authorized Traders to use or obtain access to the Exchange.
(vii) Sponsored Customer shall take reasonable security
precautions to prevent unauthorized use of access to the Exchange,
including unauthorized entry of information into the Exchange’s System, or
the information and data made available therein. Sponsored Customer
understands and agrees that Sponsored Customer is responsible for any
and all orders, trades and other messages and instructions entered,
transmitted or received under identifiers, passwords and security codes of
Authorized Traders, and for the trading and other consequences thereof.
(viii) Sponsored Customer acknowledges its responsibility to
establish adequate procedures and controls that permit it to effectively
monitor its employees, agents and customers’ use and access to the
Exchange for compliance with this rule.
(ix) Sponsored Customer shall pay when due all amounts, if any,
payable to Sponsoring Member, the Exchange or any other third parties
that arise from the Sponsored Customers access to and use of the
Exchange. Such amounts include, but are not limited to applicable
exchange and regulatory fees.

-31-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(3) The Sponsoring Member must provide the Exchange with a Sponsored
Customer Addendum to its Access Agreement acknowledging its responsibility
for the orders, executions and actions of its Sponsored Customer.
Rule 707.

Clearing Member Give Up

A Member must give up the name of the Clearing Member through
whom the transaction will be cleared. If there is a subsequent change in identity
of the Clearing Member through whom a transaction will be cleared, the Member
must, as promptly as possible, report such change to the Exchange.
Rule 708.

Units of Trading

The unit of trading in each series of options traded on the
Exchange shall be the unit of trading established for that series by the Clearing
Corporation pursuant to the rules of the Clearing Corporation and the
agreements of the Exchange with the Clearing Corporation.
Rule 709.

Meaning of Premium Quotes and Orders

(a) General. Except as provided in paragraph (b), orders and
quotations shall be expressed in terms of dollars per unit of the underlying security.
For example, a bid of “5” shall represent a bid of $500 for an options contract
having a unit of trading consisting of 100 shares of an underlying security, or a bid
of $550 for an options contract having a unit of trading consisting of 110 shares of
an underlying security.
(b) Special Cases. Orders and quotations for an options contract for
which the Exchange has established an adjusted unit of trading in accordance with
Rule 708 shall be expressed in terms of dollars per 1/100 part of the total securities
and/or other property constituting such adjusted unit of trading. For example, an
offer of “3” shall represent an offer of $300 for an options contract having a unit of
trading consisting of 100 shares of an underlying security plus ten (10) rights.
(c) Mini Options. Bids and offers for an option contract overlying 10
shares shall be expressed in terms of dollars per 1/10th part of the total value of the
contract. An offer of “.50” shall represent an offer of $5.00 on an option contract
having a unit of trading consisting of 10 shares.
Rule 710.

Minimum Trading Increments

(a) The Board may establish minimum trading increments for options
traded on the Exchange. Such changes by the Board will be designated as a
stated policy, practice, or interpretation with respect to the administration of this
Rule 710 within the meaning of paragraph (3)(A) of Section 19(b) of the Exchange
Act and will be filed with the SEC as a rule change for effectiveness upon filing.

-32-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Until such time as the Board makes a change in the increments, the following
principles shall apply:
$.05; and
$.10.

(1) if the options contract is trading at less than $3.00 per option,
(2) if the options contract is trading at $3.00 per option or higher,

(b) Minimum trading increments for dealings in options contracts other
than those specified in paragraph (a) may be fixed by the Exchange from time to
time for options contracts of a particular series.
(c) Notwithstanding the above, the Exchange may trade in the
minimum variation of the primary market in the underlying security.
Supplementary Material to Rule 710
.01
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Rule 710, the Exchange
will operate a pilot program, scheduled to expire on June 30, 2016, to permit
options classes to be quoted and traded in increments as low as $.01. The
Exchange will specify which options trade in such pilot, and in what increments,
in Market Information Circulars distributed to Members.
The Exchange may replace any penny pilot issues that have been
delisted with the next most actively traded multiply listed options classes that are
not yet included in the penny pilot, based on trading activity in the previous six
months. The replacement issues may be added to the penny pilot on the second
trading day following July 1, 2015, and the second trading day following January
1, 2016.
.02
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Rule 710, the Exchange
will permit foreign currency options and options on a Foreign Currency Index to
be quoted and traded in one-cent increments.
.03
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Rule 710, the minimum
trading increment for Mini Options shall be determined in accordance with
Supplementary Material .13(d) to Rule 504.
Rule 711.

Acceptance of Quotes and Orders

(a) All bids or offers made and accepted on the Exchange in accordance
with the Rules shall constitute binding contracts, subject to applicable requirements of
the Constitution and the Rules and the rules of the Clearing Corporation.

-33-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(b) A trade may be nullified if all parties participating in the trade agree to
the nullification. In such case, one party must notify the Exchange and the Exchange
promptly will disseminate the nullification to OPRA.
Rule 712.

Submission of Orders and Clearance of Transactions

(a) Order Identification. When entering orders on the Exchange, each
Member shall submit trade information in such form as may be prescribed by the
Exchange in order to allow the Exchange to properly prioritize and match orders and
quotations pursuant to Rule 713 and report resulting transactions to the Clearing
Corporation.
(b) All transactions made on the Exchange shall be submitted for
clearance to the Clearing Corporation, and all such transactions shall be subject to the
rules of the Clearing Corporation. Every Clearing Member shall be responsible for the
clearance of the Exchange transactions of such Clearing Member and of each Member
who gives up such Clearing Member’s name pursuant to a written letter of clearing
authorization or written letter of guarantee, which letter of clearing authorization or letter
of guarantee must be submitted to the Exchange.
(c) On each business day at or prior to such time as may be prescribed by
the Clearing Corporation, the Exchange shall furnish the Clearing Corporation a report
of each Clearing Member’s matched trades.
Rule 713.

Priority of Quotes and Orders

(a) Definitions.
As provided in Rule 100(a)(4) and (a)(29), a “bid” is a quotation or limit order to buy
options contracts and an “offer” is a quotation or limit order to sell options contracts.
“Quotations,” which are defined in Rule 100(a)(42), may only be entered on the
Exchange by market makers in the options classes to which they are appointed under
Rule 802. Limit orders may be entered by market makers in certain circumstances as
provided in the Rules and by Electronic Access Members (either as agent or as
principal). “Priority Customer Orders” and “Professional Orders” are defined in Rule
100(a)(37B) and (37C).
(b) Priority on the Exchange. The highest bid and lowest offer shall have
priority on the Exchange.
(1) In the case where the lowest offer for any options contract is
$.05, no Member shall enter a market order to sell that series.
(2) Wherever this condition occurs, any such market order shall
be considered a limit order to sell at a price of $.05.

-34-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(c) Priority. Except as provided under Rule 715(g), Priority Customer
Orders on the Exchange shall have priority over Professional Orders and market maker
quotes at the same price in the same options series.
(d) Precedence of Priority Customer Orders. Except as provided under
Rule 715(g), if there are two (2) or more Priority Customer Orders for the same options
series at the same price on the Exchange, priority shall be afforded to such Priority
Customer Orders in the sequences in which they are received by the Exchange (i.e., in
time priority).
(e) Precedence of Professional Orders and Market Maker Quotes. Except
as provided under Rule 715(g), if there are two (2) or more Professional Orders or
market maker quotes at the Exchange’s best bid or offer, after all Priority Customer
Orders (if any) at that price have been filled, executions at that price will be allocated
between the Professional Orders and market maker quotes pursuant to an allocation
procedure to be determined by the Exchange from time to time; provided, however, that
if the Primary Market Maker is quoting at the Exchange’s best bid or offer, it shall have
precedence over Professional Orders and Competitive Market Maker quotes for
execution of orders that are for a specified number of contracts or fewer, which number
shall be determined by the Exchange from time to time.
(f) Priority on Split Price Transactions. If a Member purchases (sells) one
(1) or more options contracts of a particular series at a particular price, it shall at the
next lower (higher) price at which there are Professional Orders or market maker
quotes, have priority over such Professional Orders and market maker quotes in
purchasing (selling) up to the equivalent number of options contracts of the same series
that it purchased (sold) at the higher (lower) price, but only if the purchase (sale) so
effected represents the opposite side of a transaction with the same offer (bid) as the
earlier purchase (sale).
Supplementary Material to Rule 713
.01
Rule 713(e) (Priority of Quotes and Orders) states that Priority Customer
Orders have priority on the Exchange. That rule further provides that the Exchange will
determine a procedure for allocating executions among Professional Orders and market
maker quotes in cases where all Priority Customer Orders have been executed and
there are two or more Professional Orders or market maker quotes at the best price.
This procedure is as follows:
(a) Subject to the two limitations in paragraphs (b) and (c) below and
subject to paragraph .03 (Preferenced Orders), Professional Orders and market
maker quotes at the best price receive allocations based upon the percentage of
the total number of contracts available at the best price that is represented by
the size of the Professional Order or quote;
(b) If the Primary Market Maker is quoting at the best price, it has
participation rights equal to the greater of (i) the proportion of the total size at the
best price represented by the size of its quote, or (ii) sixty percent (60%) of the
-35-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

contracts to be allocated if there is only one (1) other Professional Order or
market maker quotation at the best price, forty percent (40%) if there are two (2)
other Professional Orders and/or market maker quotes at the best price, and
thirty percent (30%) if there are more than two (2) other Professional Orders
and/or market maker quotes at the best price; and
(c) Orders for five (5) contracts or fewer will be executed first by the
Primary Market Maker; provided however, that on a quarterly basis the
Exchange will evaluate what percentage of the volume executed on the
Exchange (excluding volume resulting from the execution of orders in the
Facilitation Mechanism (see Rule 716(d))) is comprised of orders for five (5)
contracts or fewer executed by Primary Market Makers, and will reduce the size
of the orders included in this provision if such percentage is over forty percent
(40%).
This procedure only applies to the allocation of executions among Professional
Orders and market maker quotes existing in the Exchange’s central order book at
the time the order is received by the Exchange. No market participant is
allocated any portion of an execution unless it has an existing interest at the
execution price. Moreover, no market participant can execute a greater number
of contracts than is associated with the price of its existing interest. Accordingly,
the Primary Market Maker participation rights and the small order preference
contained in this allocation procedure are not guarantees; the Primary Market
Maker (i) must be quoting at the execution price to receive an allocation of any
size, and (ii) cannot execute a greater number of contracts than the size that is
associated with its quote.
.02 All-or-none orders, as defined in Rule 715(c), and minimum quantity
orders, as defined in Rule 715(l), are contingency orders that have no priority on
the book. Such orders are maintained in the system and remain available for
execution after all other trading interest at the same price has been exhausted.
.03 Preferenced Orders. An Electronic Access Member may designate a
“Preferred Market Maker” on orders it enters into the System (“Preferenced
Orders”).
(a) A Preferred Market Maker may be the Primary Market Maker
appointed to the options class or any Competitive Market Maker appointed to the
options class.
(b) If the Preferred Market Maker is not quoting at a price equal to the
NBBO at the time the Preferenced Order is received, the allocation procedure
contained in paragraph .01 shall be applied to the execution of the Preferenced
Order.
(c) If the Preferred Market Maker is quoting at the NBBO at the time the
Preferenced Order is received, the allocation procedure contained in paragraph
-36-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

.01 shall be applied to the execution of the Preferenced Order except that the
Primary Market Maker will not receive the participation rights described in
paragraphs .01(b) and (c), and instead the Preferred Market Maker shall have
participation rights equal to the greater of:
(i) the proportion of the total size at the best price represented by
the size of its quote, or
(ii) sixty percent (60%) of the contracts to be allocated if there is
only one (1) other Professional Order or market maker quotation at the
best price and forty percent (40%) if there are two (2) or more other
Professional Orders and/or market maker quotes at the best price.
(d) Preferred Competitive Market Makers are subject to enhanced quoting
requirements as provided in Rule 804(e)(2)(iii).
.04 Notification of Public Customer Interest on the Book. The Exchange shall
make available to Members the quantity of Public Customer contracts included in the
Exchange's highest bid and lowest offer.
Rule 714.

Automatic Execution of Orders

Incoming orders that are executable against orders and quotes in the
System will be executed automatically by the System subject to the following:
(a) NBBO Price Protection. Orders, other than Intermarket Sweep Orders
(as defined in Rule 1900(h)), will not be automatically executed by the System at prices
inferior to the NBBO (as defined in Rule 1900(j)).
(1) Orders that are not automatically executed will be handled as
provided in Supplementary Material .02 to Rule 1901; provided that Members
may specify that a Non-Customer order should instead be rejected automatically
by the System at the time of receipt.
(2) There is no NBBO price protection with respect to any other
market whose quotations are Non-Firm (as defined in Rule 1900(k)).
(b) Other Order Protections. Subject to the NBBO price protection in (a)
above, the following additional order protections are automatically enforced by the
System:
(1) Price Level Protection. There is a limit on the number of price
levels at which an incoming order to sell (buy) will be executed automatically
when there are no bids (offers) from other exchanges at any price for the options
series. Orders are executed at each successive price level until the maximum
number of price levels is reached, and any balance is either handled by the
Primary Market Maker pursuant to Rule 803(c)(1) (in the case of Priority
Customer Orders) or canceled (in the case of Professional Orders). The number
-37-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

of price levels, which may be between one (1) and ten (10), is determined by the
Exchange from time-to-time on a class-by-class basis.
(2) Limit Order Price Protection. There is a limit on the amount by
which incoming limit orders to buy may be priced above the Exchange’s best
offer and by which incoming limit orders to sell may be priced below the
Exchange’s best bid. Limit orders that exceed the pricing limit are rejected. The
limit is established by the Exchange from time-to-time for orders to buy (sell) as
the greater of the Exchange’s best offer (bid) plus (minus): (i) an absolute
amount not to exceed $2.00, or (ii) a percentage of the Exchange’s best bid/offer
not to exceed 10%.
(3) Size Limitation. There is a limit on the number of contracts an
incoming order may specify. Orders that exceed the maximum number of
contracts are rejected. The maximum number of contracts, which shall not be
less than 10,000, is established by the Exchange from time-to-time.
(c) In the event of unusual market conditions and in the interest of a fair
and orderly market, the Exchange may temporarily establish the levels at which the
order protections contained in paragraph (b) are trigged as necessary and appropriate.
Rule 715.

Types of Orders

(a) Market Orders. A market order is an order to buy or sell a stated
number of options contracts that is to be executed at the best price obtainable when
the order reaches the Exchange.
(b) Limit Orders. A limit order is an order to buy or sell a stated
number of options contracts at a specified price or better.
(1) Marketable Limit Orders. A marketable limit order is a limit
order to buy (sell) at or above (below) the best offer (bid) on the Exchange.
(2) Fill-or-Kill Orders. A fill-or-kill order is a limit order that is to be
executed in its entirety as soon as it is received and, if not so executed, treated
as cancelled.
(3) Immediate-or-Cancel Orders. An immediate-or-cancel order is
a limit order that is to be executed in whole or in part upon receipt. Any portion
not so executed is to be treated as cancelled.
(4) Non-displayed Penny Orders. A non-displayed penny order is
a limit order that specifies a one-cent price increment in a security that has a
minimum trading increment pursuant to Rule 710 that is larger than one-cent.
Non-displayed penny orders shall be available for execution at the stated limit
price, but shall only be displayed to market participants and the public at the
minimum trading increment for the security. The displayed price of a nondisplayed penny order will be the closest minimum trading increment that does
-38-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

not violate the limit price. The Exchange shall designate which qualifying
securities shall be eligible for non-displayed penny orders.
(5) Intermarket Sweep Orders. An Intermarket Sweep Order 

(ISO) is a limit order that meets the requirements of Rule 1900(h).

(6) Stopped Order. A stopped order is a limit order that meets the
requirements of Rule 1901(b)(8). To execute stopped orders, Members must
enter them into the Facilitation Mechanism or Solicited Order Mechanism
pursuant to Rule 716.
(c) All-Or-None Orders. An all-or-none order is a limit or market
order that is to be executed in its entirety or not at all.
(d) Stop Orders. A stop order is an order that becomes a market
order when the stop price is elected. A stop order to buy is elected when the
option is bid or trades on the Exchange at, or above, the specified stop price. A
stop order to sell is elected when the option is offered or trades on the Exchange
at, or below, the specified stop price.
(e) Stop Limit Orders. A stop limit order is an order that becomes
a limit order when the stop price is elected. A stop limit order to buy is elected
when the option is bid or trades on the Exchange at, or above, the specified stop
price. A stop limit order to sell becomes a sell limit order when the option is
offered or trades on the Exchange at, or below, the specified stop price.
(f) Customer Participation Orders. A Customer Participation Order
(“CPO”) is a limit order on behalf of a Public Customer that, in addition to the limit
order price in standard increments according to Rule 710, includes a price stated
in one-cent increments (the “Participation Interest”) at which the Public Customer
wishes to participate in trades executed in the same options series in penny
increments through the Price Improvement Mechanism pursuant to Rule 723.
The Participation Interest price must be higher than the limit order price in the
case of a CPO to buy, and lower than the limit order price in the case of a CPO
to sell. The size of the order will be automatically decremented when the Public
Customer participates in the execution of an order at the Participation Interest
price.
(g) Reserve Orders. A Reserve Order is a limit order that contains
both a displayed portion and a non-displayed portion.
1. Both the displayed and non-displayed portions of a Reserve
Order are available for potential execution against incoming marketable orders.
A non-marketable Reserve Order will rest on the order book.
2. The displayed portion of a Reserve Order shall be ranked at
the specified limit price and the time of order entry.
-39-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

3. The displayed portion of a Reserve Order will trade in

accordance with Rule 713(c) and (d) for Priority Customer Orders, and Rule

713(e) and Supplementary Material .01, for Professional Orders.

4. When the displayed portion of a Reserve Order is
decremented, either in full or in part, it shall be refreshed from the nondisplayed portion of the resting Reserve Order. If the displayed portion is
refreshed in part, the new displayed portion shall include the previously
displayed portion. Upon any refresh, the entire displayed portion shall be
ranked at the specified limit price and obtain a new time stamp, i.e., the time
that the new displayed portion of the order was refreshed. The new displayed
portion will trade in accordance with Rule 713(c) and (d) for Priority Customer
Orders, and Rule 713(e) and Supplementary Material .01, for Professional
Orders.
5. The initial non-displayed portion of a Reserve Order rests on
the order book and is ranked based on the specified limit price and time of
order entry. Thereafter, non-displayed portions, if any, always obtain the same
time stamp as that of the new displayed portion in paragraph 4 above. The
non-displayed portion of any Reserve Order is available for execution only after
all displayed interest has been executed. The non-displayed portion of any
Reserve Order will trade in accordance with Rule 713(c) and (d) for Priority
Customer Orders, and Rule 713(e) and Supplementary Material .01, for
Professional Orders.
(h) Attributable Order. An Attributable Order is a market or limit
order which displays the user firm ID for purposes of electronic trading on the
Exchange. Use of Attributable Orders is voluntary. Attributable Orders may not
be available for all Exchange systems. The Exchange will issue a Regulatory
Information Circular specifying the systems and the class of securities for which
the Attributable Order type shall be available.
(i) Customer Cross Orders. A Customer Cross Order is comprised
of a Priority Customer Order to buy and a Priority Customer Order to sell at the
same price and for the same quantity.
(j) Qualified Contingent Cross Order. A Qualified Contingent Cross
Order is comprised of an originating order to buy or sell at least 1000 contracts
that is identified as being part of a qualified contingent trade, as that term is
defined in Supplementary Material .01 below, coupled with a contra-side order or
orders totaling an equal number of contracts.
(k) Reserved

-40-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(l) Day Order. An order to buy or sell which, if not executed, expires
at the end of the day on which it was entered. All orders by their terms are Day
Orders unless otherwise specified.
(m) Do-Not-Route Orders. A do-not-route order is a market or limit
order that is to be executed in whole or in part on the Exchange only. Due to
prices available on another options exchange (as provided in Chapter 19 (Order
Protection; Locked and Crossed Markets)), any balance of a do-not-route order
that cannot be executed upon entry, or placed on the Exchange’s limit order
book, will be automatically cancelled.
(n) Add Liquidity Order. An Add Liquidity Order is a limit order that
is to be executed in whole or in part on the Exchange (i) only after being
displayed on the Exchange’s limit order book; and (ii) without routing any portion
of the order to another market center. Members may specify whether an Add
Liquidity Order shall be cancelled or re-priced to the minimum price variation
above the national best bid price (for sell orders) or below the national best offer
price (for buy orders) if, at the time of entry, the order (i) is executable on the
Exchange; or (ii) the order is not executable on the Exchange, but would lock or
cross the national best bid or offer. If at the time of entry, an Add Liquidity Order
would lock or cross one or more non-displayed orders on the Exchange, the Add
Liquidity Order shall be cancelled or re-priced to the minimum price variation
above the best non-displayed bid price (for sell orders) or below the best nondisplayed offer price (for buy orders). An Add Liquidity Order will only be repriced once and will be executed at the re-priced price. An Add Liquidity Order
will be ranked in the Exchange’s limit order book in accordance with Rule 713.
(o) Opening Only Order. An Opening Only order is a limit order
that can be entered for the opening rotation only. Any portion of the order that is
not executed during the opening rotation is cancelled.
(p) Good-Till-Date Order. A Good-Till-Date Order is a limit order to
buy or sell which, if not executed, will be cancelled at the sooner of the end of the
expiration date assigned to the order, or the expiration of the series.
(q) Minimum Quantity Order. A Minimum Quantity Order is an
order that is initially available for partial execution only for a specified number of
contracts or greater. A member may specify whether any subsequent executions
of the order must also be for the specified number of contracts or greater, or if
the balance may be executed as a regular order. If all executions are to be for
the specified number of contracts or greater and the balance of the order after
one or more partial execution(s) is less than the minimum, such balance is
treated as all-or-none.
(r) Good-Till-Canceled Order (GTC Order). An order to buy or sell
that remains in force until the order is filled, canceled or the option contract
expires; provided, however, that GTC Orders will be canceled in the event of a
-41-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

corporate action that results in an adjustment to the terms of an option contract.
(s) Sweep Order. A Sweep Order is a limit order that is to be
executed in whole or in part on the Exchange and the portion not so executed
shall be routed pursuant to Supplementary Material .05 to Rule 1901 to Eligible
Exchange(s) for immediate execution as soon as the order is received by the
Eligible Exchange(s). Any portion not immediately executed by the Eligible
Exchange(s) shall be canceled. If a Sweep Order is not marketable when it is
submitted to the Exchange, it shall be canceled.

Supplementary Material to Rule 715
.01
A “qualified contingent trade” is a transaction consisting of two or more
component orders, executed as agent or principal, where:
(a) At least one component is an NMS Stock, as defined in Rule
600 of Regulation NMS under the Exchange Act;
(b) all components are effected with a product or price contingency
that either has been agreed to by all the respective counterparties or arranged for
by a broker-dealer as principal or agent;
(c) the execution of one component is contingent upon the

execution of all other components at or near the same time;

(d) the specific relationship between the component orders (e.g.,
the spread between the prices of the component orders) is determined by the
time the contingent order is placed;
(e) the component orders bear a derivative relationship to one
another, represent different classes of shares of the same issuer, or involve the
securities of participants in mergers or with intentions to merge that have been
announced or cancelled; and
(f) the transaction is fully hedged (without regard to any prior 

existing position) as a result of other components of the contingent trade.

Rule 716.

Block Trades

(a) Block-Size Orders. Block-size orders are orders for fifty (50)
contracts or more.
(b) For purposes of this Rule, a “broadcast message” means an
electronic message that is sent by the Exchange to all Members, and a “Response”
means an electronic message that is sent by Members in response to a broadcast
message.
-42-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(c) Block Order Mechanism. The Block Order Mechanism is a
process by which a Member can obtain liquidity for the execution of block-size
orders.
(1) Upon the entry of an order into the Block Order Mechanism, a
broadcast message will be sent that includes the series, and may include price,
size and/or side, as specified by the Member entering the order, and Members
will be given an opportunity to enter Responses with the prices and sizes at
which they would be willing to trade with a block-size order.
(2) At the conclusion of the time given Members to enter
Responses, either an execution will occur automatically, or the order will be
cancelled.
(i)
Bids (offers) on the Exchange at the time the block
order is executed that are priced higher (lower) than the block execution
price, as well as Responses that are priced higher (lower) than the block
execution price, will be executed at the block execution price.
(ii)
Responses, quotes and Professional Orders at the
block execution price will participate in the execution of the block-size
order according to Rule 713(e).
(d) Facilitation Mechanism. The Facilitation Mechanism is a process
by which an Electronic Access Member can execute a transaction wherein the
Electronic Access Member seeks to facilitate a block-size order it represents as
agent, and/or a transaction wherein the Electronic Access Member solicited interest
to execute against a block-size order it represents as agent. Electronic Access
Members must be willing to execute the entire size of orders entered into the
Facilitation Mechanism.
(1) Upon the entry of an order into the Facilitation Mechanism, a
broadcast message that includes the series, price and size of the Agency
Order, and whether it is to buy or sell, will be sent and Members will be given
an opportunity to enter Responses with the prices and sizes at which they want
to participate in the facilitation of the order.
(2) Responses may be priced at the price of the order to be
facilitated or at a better price and must not exceed the size of the order to be
facilitated.
(3) At the end of the period given for the entry of Responses, the
facilitation order will be automatically executed.
(i)
Unless there is sufficient size to execute the entire
facilitation order at a better price, Priority Customer bids (offers) at the
time the facilitation order is executed that are priced higher (lower) than
the facilitation price will be executed at the facilitation price. Professional
-43-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Orders and market maker quotes at the time the facilitation order is
executed that are priced higher (lower) than the facilitation price will be
executed at their stated price, thereby providing the order being facilitated
a better price for the number of contracts associated with such higher bids
(lower offers). The facilitation order will be cancelled at the end of the
exposure period if an execution would take place at a price that is inferior
to the best bid (offer) on ISE Mercury.
(ii)
The facilitating Electronic Access Member will execute
at least forty percent (40%) of the original size of the facilitation order, but
only after better-priced Responses, orders and quotes, as well as Priority
Customer Orders at the facilitation price, are executed in full. Thereafter,
Responses quotes and Professional Orders at the facilitation price will
participate in the execution of the facilitation order based upon the
percentage of the total number of contracts available at the facilitation
price that is represented by the size of the Response, Professional Order
or quote.
(iii)
Upon entry of an order into the Facilitation
Mechanism, the facilitating Electronic Access Member can elect to
automatically match the price and size of orders, quotes and responses
received during the exposure period up to a specified limit price or without
specifying a limit price. In this case, the facilitating Electronic Access
Member will be allocated its full size at each price point, or at each price
point within its limit price if a limit is specified, until a price point is reached
where the balance of the order can be fully executed. At such price point,
the facilitating member shall be allocated at least forty percent (40%) of
the original size of the facilitation order, but only after Priority Customer
interest at such price point. Thereafter, all other orders, Responses, and
quotes at the price point will participate in the execution of the facilitation
order based upon the percentage of the total number of contracts
available at the facilitation price that is represented by the size of the
order, Response or quote. An election to automatically match better
prices cannot be cancelled or altered during the exposure period.
(e) Solicited Order Mechanism. The Solicited Order Mechanism is
a process by which an Electronic Access Member can attempt to execute orders
of 500 or more contracts it represents as agent (the “Agency Order”) against
contra orders that it solicited. Each order entered into the Solicited Order
Mechanism shall be designated as all-or-none.
(1) Upon entry of both orders into the Solicited Order Mechanism
at a proposed execution price, a broadcast message that includes the series,
price and size of the Agency Order, and whether it is to buy or sell, will be sent
and Members will be given an opportunity to enter Responses with the prices
and sizes at which they would be willing to participate in the execution of the
Agency Order.
-44-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(2) At the end of the period given Members to enter Responses, the
Agency Order will be automatically executed in full or cancelled.
(i) If at the time of execution there is insufficient size to
execute the entire Agency Order at an improved price (or prices), the
Agency Order will be executed against the solicited order at the proposed
execution price so long as, at the time of execution: (A) the execution
price is equal to or better than the best bid or offer on the Exchange, and
(B) there are no Priority Customer Orders on the Exchange that are priced
equal to the proposed execution price. If there are Priority Customer
Orders on the Exchange on the opposite side of the Agency Order at the
proposed execution price and there is sufficient size to execute the entire
size of the Agency Order, the Agency Order will be executed against the
bid or offer, and the solicited order will be cancelled. The aggregate size
of all orders, quotes and Responses at the bid or offer will be used to
determine whether the entire Agency Order can be executed. Both the
solicited order and Agency Order will be cancelled if an execution would
take place at a price that is inferior to the best bid or offer on the
Exchange, or if there is a Priority Customer on the book at the proposed
execution price but there is insufficient size on the Exchange to execute
the entire Agency Order.
(ii) If at the time of execution there is sufficient size to
execute the entire Agency Order at an improved price (or prices), the
Agency Order will be executed at the improved price(s), subject to the
condition in (i)(A), and the solicited order will be cancelled. The aggregate
size of all orders, quotes and Responses at each price will be used to
determine whether the entire agency order can be executed at an
improved price (or prices).
(iii) When executing the Agency Order against the bid or
offer in accordance with paragraph (i) above, or at an improved price in
accordance with paragraph (ii) above, Priority Customer Orders will be
executed first. Professional Orders and market maker quotes participate
in the execution of the Agency Order based upon the percentage of the
total number of contracts available at the best price that is represented by
the size of the Professional Order or market maker quote.
(3) Prior to entering Agency Orders into the Solicited Order
Mechanism on behalf of a customer, EAMs must deliver to the customer a written
notification informing the customer that its order may be executed using the
Exchange’s Solicited Order Mechanism. Such written notification must disclose
the terms and conditions contained in this Rule and must be in a form approved
by the Exchange.
Supplementary Material to Rule 716

-45-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

.01
It will be a violation of a member’s duty of best execution to its
customer if it were to cancel a facilitation order to avoid execution of the order at
a better price. The availability of the Facilitation Mechanism does not alter a
Member’s best execution duty to get the best price for its customer. Accordingly,
while facilitation orders can be canceled during the time period given for the entry
of Responses, if a Member were to cancel a facilitation order when there was a
superior price available on the Exchange and subsequently re-enter the
facilitation order at the same facilitation price after the better price was no longer
available without attempting to obtain that better price for its customer, there
would be a presumption that the Member did so to avoid execution of its
customer order in whole or in part by other brokers at the better price.
.02
Responses represent non-firm interest that can be canceled at any
time prior to execution. Responses are not displayed to any market participants.
.03

Reserved.

.04
The time given to Members to enter Responses under paragraphs
(c)(1), (d)(1) and (e)(1) shall be 500 milliseconds.
.05
Under paragraph (e) above, Members may enter contra orders that
are solicited. The Solicited Order Mechanism provides a facility for Members that
locate liquidity for their customer orders. Members may not use the Solicited
Order Mechanism to circumvent Exchange Rule 717(d) limiting principal
transactions. This may include, but is not limited to, Members entering contra
orders that are solicited from (1) affiliated broker-dealers, or (2) broker-dealers
with which the Member has an arrangement that allows the Member to realize
similar economic benefits from the solicited transaction as it would achieve by
executing the customer order in whole or in part as principal. Additionally, any
solicited contra orders entered by Members to trade against Agency Orders may
not be for the account of an Exchange market maker that is assigned to the
options class.
.06
Split Prices. Orders and Responses may be entered into the
Facilitation and Solicitation Mechanisms and receive executions at the mid-price
between the standard minimum trading increments for the options series (“Split
Prices”). This means that orders and Responses for options with a minimum
increment of 5 cents may be entered into the Facilitation and Solicitation
Mechanisms and receive executions in 2.5 cent increments (e.g., $1.025, $1.05,
$1.075, etc.), and that orders and Responses for options with a minimum
increment of 10 cents may be entered into the Facilitation and Solicitation
Mechanism and receive executions at 5 cent increments (e.g., $4.05, $4.10,
$4.15, etc.). Orders and quotes in the market that receive the benefit of the
facilitation price under paragraph (d) may also receive executions at Split Prices.
Non-displayed penny orders and quotes will otherwise be executed only at the
regular trading increment for the security (e.g., if the displayed market is $2.00 by
-46-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

$2.05 and there is a hidden penny order to buy at 2.03, the hidden penny order
will participate in the execution algorithms applied by the Facilitation and
Solicited Order Mechanisms at the split price of $2.025; and if the hidden penny
price in this example is $2.02, the hidden penny order will participate in the
execution algorithms at the regular trading increment of $2.00).
.07

Reserved.

.08

Reserved.

.09
Penny Prices. Orders and Responses may be entered into the Block
Mechanism and receive executions at penny increments. Orders and quotes in the
market that receive the benefit of the block execution price under paragraph (c)(2)(i)
may also receive executions at penny increments.
Rule 717.

Limitations on Orders

(a) Reserved.
(b) Limit Orders.
Electronic Access Members shall not enter Priority Customer
limit orders into the System in the same options series, for the account or
accounts of the same or related beneficial owners, in such a manner that the
beneficial owner(s) effectively is operating as a market maker by holding itself out
as willing to buy and sell such options contract on a regular or continuous basis.
In determining whether a beneficial owner effectively is operating as a market
maker, the Exchange will consider, among other things: the simultaneous or
near-simultaneous entry of limit orders to buy and sell the same options contract
and the entry of multiple limit orders at different prices in the same options series.
(c) Reserved.
(d) Principal Transactions.
Electronic Access Members may not execute as principal
orders they represent as agent unless (i) agency orders are first exposed on the
Exchange for at least one (1) second, (ii) the Electronic Access Member has
been bidding or offering on the Exchange for at least one (1) second prior to
receiving an agency order that is executable against such bid or offer, or (iii) the
Member utilizes the Facilitation Mechanism pursuant to Rule 716(d), or (iv) the
Member utilizes the Price Improvement Mechanism for Crossing Transactions
pursuant to Rule 723.
(e) Solicitation Orders.

-47-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Electronic Access Members may not execute orders they
represent as agent on the Exchange against orders solicited from Members and
non-member broker-dealers to transact with such orders unless (i) the unsolicited
order is first exposed on the Exchange for at least one (1) second, (ii) the
Member utilizes the Solicited Order Mechanism pursuant to Rule 716(e), (iii) the
Member utilizes the Facilitation Mechanism pursuant to Rule 716(d) or (iv) the
Member utilizes the Price Improvement Mechanism for Crossing Transactions
pursuant to Rule 723.
(f) Reserved.
(g) Orders for the Account of Another Member.
Electronic Access Members shall not cause the entry of orders for
the account of an Exchange market maker that is exempt from the provisions of
Regulation T of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System pursuant
to Section 7(c)(2) of the Exchange Act unless such orders are identified as
orders for the account of an Exchange market maker in the manner prescribed
by the Exchange.
Supplemental Material to Rule 717
.01
Rule 717(d) prevents an Electronic Access Member from executing
agency orders to increase its economic gain from trading against the order
without first giving other trading interest on the Exchange an opportunity to either
trade with the agency order or to trade at the execution price when the Member
was already bidding or offering on the book. However, the Exchange recognizes
that it may be possible for an Electronic Access Member to establish a
relationship with a customer or other person (including affiliates) to deny agency
orders the opportunity to interact on the Exchange and to realize similar
economic benefits as it would achieve by executing agency orders as principal.
It will be a violation of Rule 717(d) for an Electronic Access Member to be a party
to any arrangement designed to circumvent Rule 717(d) by providing an
opportunity for a customer or other person (including affiliates) to regularly
execute against agency orders handled by the Electronic Access Member
immediately upon their entry into the System.
.02
It will be a violation of Rule 717(e) for an Electronic Access Member
to cause the execution of an order it represents as agent on the Exchange by
orders it solicited from Members and non-member broker-dealers to transact with
such orders, whether such solicited orders are entered into the System directly
by the Electronic Access Member or by the solicited party (either directly or
through another Member), if the Member fails to expose orders on the Exchange
as required by Rule 717(e).
.03
The requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) above apply, as well, to
non-displayed penny orders entered on the Exchange. For the purposes of
these paragraphs, agency orders priced in penny increments are deemed
-48-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

“exposed” and member proprietary orders priced in penny increments are
deemed bids or offers.
.04
Non-marketable all-or-none limit orders and non-marketable
minimum quantity orders shall be deemed “exposed” for the purposes of
paragraphs (d) and (e) one second following a broadcast notifying market
participants that such an order to buy or sell a specified number of contracts at a
specified price either as all-or-none or with a specified minimum quantity has
been received in the options series. For non-marketable minimum quantity
orders, the broadcast will specify the minimum quantity that can be executed.
.05
With respect to the non-displayed reserve portion of a reserve
order, the exposure requirement of paragraphs (d) and (e) are satisfied if the
displayable portion of the reserve order is displayed at its displayable price for
one second.
.06
The exposure requirement of paragraph (d) and (e) of Rule 717
applies to the entry of orders with knowledge that there is a pre-existing
unexecuted agency, proprietary, or solicited order on the Exchange. Members
may demonstrate that orders were entered without knowledge by providing
evidence that effective information barriers between the persons, business units
and/or systems entering the orders onto the Exchange were in existence at the
time the orders were entered. Such information barriers must be fully
documented and provided to the Exchange upon request.
Rule 718.

Reserved

Rule 719.

Transaction Price Binding

The price at which an order is executed shall be binding
notwithstanding that an erroneous report in respect thereto may have been
rendered, or no report rendered. A report shall not be binding if an order was not
actually executed but was reported to have been executed in error.

-49-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Rule 720.
Nullification and Adjustment of Options Transactions
including Obvious Errors
The Exchange may nullify a transaction or adjust the execution price of a
transaction in accordance with this Rule. However, the determination as to whether a
trade was executed at an erroneous price may be made by mutual agreement of the
affected parties to a particular transaction. A trade may be nullified or adjusted on the
terms that all parties to a particular transaction agree, provided, however, that such
agreement to nullify or adjust must be conveyed to the Exchange in a manner
prescribed by the Exchange prior to 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time on the first trading day
following the execution. It is considered conduct inconsistent with just and equitable
principles of trade for any Member to use the mutual adjustment process to circumvent
any applicable Exchange rule, the Act or any of the rules and regulations thereunder.
(a)

Definitions.

(1)
Customer. For purposes of this Rule, Customer has the same
definition as Priority Customer in Rule 100(a)(37A).
(2)
Erroneous Sell/Buy Transaction. For purposes of this Rule, an
“erroneous sell transaction” is one in which the price received by the person
selling the option is erroneously low, and an “erroneous buy transaction” is one in
which the price paid by the person purchasing the option is erroneously high.
(3)
Official. For purposes of this Rule, an Official is an Officer of the
Exchange or such other employee designee of the Exchange that is trained in
the application of this Rule.
(4)
Size Adjustment Modifier. For purposes of this Rule, the Size
Adjustment Modifier will be applied to individual transactions as follows:
Number of Contracts per Execution
1-50
51-250
251-1000
1001 or more

Adjustment – TP Plus/Minus
N/A
2 times adjustment amount
2.5 times adjustment amount
3 times adjustment amount

(b)
Theoretical Price. Upon receipt of a request for review and prior to any
review of a transaction execution price, the “Theoretical Price” for the option must be
determined. For purposes of this Rule, if the applicable option series is traded on at
least one other options exchange, then the Theoretical Price of an option series is the
last NBB just prior to the trade in question with respect to an erroneous sell transaction
or the last NBO just prior to the trade in question with respect to an erroneous buy
transaction unless one of the exceptions in sub-paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) below
exists. For purposes of this provision, when a single order received by the Exchange is
executed at multiple price levels, the last NBB and last NBO just prior to the trade in
-50-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

question would be the last NBB and last NBO just prior to the Exchange’s receipt of the
order.
(1)
Transactions at the Open. For a transaction occurring during the
opening rotation (see Rule 701) the Exchange will determine the Theoretical
Price if there is no NBB or NBO for the affected series just prior to the erroneous
transaction or if the bid/ask differential of the NBB and NBO just prior to the
erroneous transaction is equal to or greater than the Minimum Amount set forth
in the chart contained in sub-paragraph (b)(3) below. If the bid/ask differential is
less than the Minimum Amount, the Theoretical Price is the NBB or NBO just
prior to the erroneous transaction.
(2)
No Valid Quotes. The Exchange will determine the Theoretical
Price if there are no quotes or no valid quotes for comparison purposes. Quotes
that are not valid are all quotes in the applicable option series published at a time
where the last NBB is higher than the last NBO in such series (a “crossed
market”), quotes published by the Exchange that were submitted by either party
to the transaction in question, and quotes published by another options exchange
against which the Exchange has declared self-help.
(3)
Wide Quotes. The Exchange will determine the Theoretical Price if
the bid/ask differential of the NBB and NBO for the affected series just prior to
the erroneous transaction was equal to or greater than the Minimum Amount set
forth below and there was a bid/ask differential less than the Minimum Amount
during the 10 seconds prior to the transaction. If there was no bid/ask differential
less than the Minimum Amount during the 10 seconds prior to the transaction
then the Theoretical Price of an option series is the last NBB or NBO just prior to
the transaction in question, as set forth in paragraph (b) above.
Bid Price at Time of Trade
Below $2.00
$2.00 to $5.00
Above $5.00 to $10.00
Above $10.00 to $20.00
Above $20.00 to $50.00
Above $50.00 to $100.00
Above $100.00
(c)

Minimum Amount
$0.75
$1.25
$1.50
$2.50
$3.00
$4.50
$6.00

Obvious Errors.

(1)
Definition. For purposes of this Rule, an Obvious Error will be deemed to
have occurred when the Exchange receives a properly submitted filing where the
execution price of a transaction is higher or lower than the Theoretical Price for the
series by an amount equal to at least the amount shown below:

-51-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Theoretical Price
Below $2.00
$2.00 to $5.00
Above $5.00 to $10.00
Above $10.00 to $20.00
Above $20.00 to $50.00
Above $50.00 to $100.00
Above $100.00

Minimum Amount
$0.25
$0.40
$0.50
$0.80
$1.00
$1.50
$2.00

(2)
Time Deadline. A party that believes that it participated in a
transaction that was the result of an Obvious Error must notify the Exchange’s
Market Control in the manner specified from time to time by the Exchange in a
circular distributed to Members. Such notification must be received by the
Exchange’s Market Control within the timeframes specified below:
(A)
Customer Orders. For an execution of a Customer order, a
filing must be received by the Exchange within thirty (30) minutes of the
execution, subject to sub-paragraph (C) below; and
(B)
“Non-Customer” Orders. For an execution of any order other
than a Customer order, a filing must be received by the Exchange within
fifteen (15) minutes of the execution, subject to sub-paragraph (C) below.
(C)
Linkage Trades. Any other options exchange will have a total
of forty-five (45) minutes for Customer orders and thirty (30) minutes for
non-Customer orders, measured from the time of execution on the
Exchange, to file with the Exchange for review of transactions routed to
the Exchange from that options exchange and executed on the Exchange
(“linkage trades”). This includes filings on behalf of another options
exchange filed by a third-party routing broker if such third-party broker
identifies the affected transactions as linkage trades. In order to facilitate
timely reviews of linkage trades the Exchange will accept filings from
either the other options exchange or, if applicable, the third-party routing
broker that routed the applicable order(s). The additional fifteen (15)
minutes provided with respect to linkage trades shall only apply to the
extent the options exchange that originally received and routed the order
to the Exchange itself received a timely filing from the entering participant
(i.e., within 30 minutes if a Customer order or 15 minutes if a nonCustomer order).
(3)
Official Acting on Own Motion. An Official may review a transaction
believed to be erroneous on his/her own motion in the interest of maintaining a
fair and orderly market and for the protection of investors. A transaction reviewed
pursuant to this paragraph may be nullified or adjusted only if it is determined by
the Official that the transaction is erroneous in accordance with the provisions of
-52-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

this Rule, provided that the time deadlines of sub-paragraph (c)(2) above shall
not apply. The Official shall act as soon as possible after becoming aware of the
transaction, and ordinarily would be expected to act on the same day that the
transaction occurred. In no event shall the Official act later than 8:30 a.m.
Eastern Time on the next trading day following the date of the transaction in
question. A party affected by a determination to nullify or adjust a transaction
pursuant to this provision may appeal such determination in accordance with
paragraph (k) below; however, a determination by an Official not to review a
transaction or determination not to nullify or adjust a transaction for which a
review was conducted on an Official’s own motion is not appealable. If a
transaction is reviewed and a determination is rendered pursuant to another
provision of this Rule, no additional relief may be granted under this provision.
(4)
Adjust or Bust. If it is determined that an Obvious Error has
occurred, the Exchange shall take one of the actions listed below. Upon taking
final action, the Exchange shall promptly notify both parties to the trade
electronically or via telephone.
(A)
Non-Customer Transactions. Where neither party to the
transaction is a Customer, the execution price of the transaction will be
adjusted by the Official pursuant to the table below. Any non-Customer
Obvious Error exceeding 50 contracts will be subject to the Size
Adjustment Modifier defined in sub-paragraph (a)(4) above.
Theoretical Price
(TP)
Below $3.00
At or above $3.00

Sell Transaction
Buy Transaction
Adjustment – TP
Adjustment – TP Plus
Minus
$0.15
$0.15
$0.30
$0.30

(B)
Customer Transactions. Where at least one party to the
Obvious Error is a Customer, the trade will be nullified, subject to subparagraph (C) below.
(C)
If any Member submits requests to the Exchange for review
of transactions pursuant to this rule, and in aggregate that Member has
200 or more Customer transactions under review concurrently and the
orders resulting in such transactions were submitted during the course of
2 minutes or less, where at least one party to the Obvious Error is a nonCustomer, the Exchange will apply the non-Customer adjustment criteria
set forth in sub-paragraph (A) above to such transactions.
(d)

Catastrophic Errors.

(1)
Definition. For purposes of this Rule, a Catastrophic Error will be
deemed to have occurred when the execution price of a transaction is higher or
-53-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

lower than the Theoretical Price for the series by an amount equal to at least the
amount shown below:
Theoretical Price
Below $2.00
$2.00 to $5.00
Above $5.00 to $10.00
Above $10.00 to $20.00
Above $20.00 to $50.00
Above $50.00 to $100.00
Above $100.00

Minimum Amount
$0.50
$1.00
$1.50
$2.00
$2.50
$3.00
$4.00

(2)
Time Deadline. A party that believes that it participated in a
transaction that was the result of a Catastrophic Error must notify the Exchange’s
Market Control in the manner specified from time to time by the Exchange in a
circular distributed to Members. Such notification must be received by the
Exchange’s Market Control by 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time on the first trading day
following the execution. For transactions in an expiring options series that take
place on an expiration day, a party must notify the Exchange’s Market Control
within 45 minutes after the close of trading that same day.
(3)
Adjust or Bust. If it is determined that a Catastrophic Error has
occurred, the Exchange shall take action as set forth below. Upon taking final
action, the Exchange shall promptly notify both parties to the trade electronically
or via telephone. In the event of a Catastrophic Error, the execution price of the
transaction will be adjusted by the Official pursuant to the table below. Any
Customer order subject to this sub-paragraph will be nullified if the adjustment
would result in an execution price higher (for buy transactions) or lower (for sell
transactions) than the Customer’s limit price.
Theoretical Price (TP)
Below $2.00
$2.00 to $5.00
Above $5.00 to $10.00
Above $10.00 to $20.00
Above $20.00 to $50.00
Above $50.00 to
$100.00
Above $100.00
(e)

$0.50
$1.00
$1.50
$2.00
$2.50
$3.00

Sell Transaction
Adjustment – TP
Minus
$0.50
$1.00
$1.50
$2.00
$2.50
$3.00

$4.00

$4.00

Buy Transaction
Adjustment – TP Plus

Significant Market Events.
-54-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(1)
Definition. For purposes of this Rule, a Significant Market Event
will be deemed to have occurred when: criterion (A) below is met or exceeded or
the sum of all applicable event statistics, where each is expressed as a
percentage of the relevant threshold in criteria (A) through (D) below, is greater
than or equal to 150% and 75% or more of at least one category is reached,
provided that no single category can contribute more than 100% to the sum and
any category contributing more than 100% will be rounded down to 100%. All
criteria set forth below will be measured in aggregate across all exchanges.
(A)
Transactions that are potentially erroneous would result in a
total Worst-Case Adjustment Penalty of $30,000,000, where the WorstCase Adjustment Penalty is computed as the sum, across all potentially
erroneous trades, of:
(i)
$0.30 (i.e., the largest Transaction Adjustment value
listed in sub-paragraph (e)(3)(A) below); times
(ii)

the contract multiplier for each traded contract; times

(iii)

the number of contracts for each trade; times

(iv)
the appropriate Size Adjustment Modifier for each
trade, if any, as defined in sub-paragraph (e)(3)(A) below.
(B)
Transactions involving 500,000 options contracts are
potentially erroneous;
(C)
Transactions with a notional value (i.e., number of contracts
traded multiplied by the option premium multiplied by the contract
multiplier) of $100,000,000 are potentially erroneous;
(D)

10,000 transactions are potentially erroneous.

(2)
Coordination with Other Options Exchanges. To ensure consistent
application across options exchanges, in the event of a suspected Significant
Market Event, the Exchange shall initiate a coordinated review of potentially
erroneous transactions with all other affected options exchanges to determine
the full scope of the event. When this paragraph is invoked, the Exchange will
promptly coordinate with the other options exchanges to determine the
appropriate review period as well as select one or more specific points in time
prior to the transactions in question and use one or more specific points in time to
determine Theoretical Price. Other than the selected points in time, if applicable,
the Exchange will determine Theoretical Price in accordance with paragraph (b)
above.
(3)
Adjust or Bust. If it is determined that a Significant Market Event
has occurred then, using the parameters agreed as set forth in sub-paragraph
(e)(2) above, if applicable, an Official will determine whether any or all
-55-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

transactions under review qualify as Obvious Errors. The Exchange shall take
one of the actions listed below with respect to all transactions that qualify as
Obvious Errors pursuant to sub-paragraph (c)(1) above. Upon taking final action,
the Exchange shall promptly notify both parties to the trade electronically or via
telephone.
(A)
The execution price of each affected transaction will be
adjusted by an Official to the price provided below unless both parties
agree to adjust the transaction to a different price or agree to bust the
trade. In the context of a Significant Market Event, any error exceeding 50
contracts will be subject to the Size Adjustment Modifier defined in subparagraph (a)(4) above.
Theoretical Price
(TP)
Below $3.00
At or above $3.00

Sell Transaction
Buy Transaction
Adjustment – TP
Adjustment – TP Plus
Minus
$0.15
$0.15
$0.30
$0.30

(B)
Where at least one party to the transaction is a Customer,
the trade will be nullified if the adjustment would result in an execution
price higher (for buy transactions) or lower (for sell transactions) than the
Customer’s limit price.
(4)
Nullification of Transactions. If the Exchange, in consultation with
other options exchanges, determines that timely adjustment is not feasible due to
the extraordinary nature of the situation, then the Exchange will nullify some or all
transactions arising out of the Significant Market Event during the review period
selected by the Exchange and other options exchanges consistent with this
paragraph. To the extent the Exchange, in consultation with other options
exchanges, determines to nullify less than all transactions arising out of the
Significant Market Event, those transactions subject to nullification will be
selected based upon objective criteria with a view toward maintaining a fair and
orderly market and the protection of investors and the public interest.
(5)
Final Rulings. With respect to rulings made pursuant to this
paragraph, the number of affected transactions is such that immediate finality is
necessary to maintain a fair and orderly market and to protect investors and the
public interest. Accordingly, rulings by the Exchange pursuant to this paragraph
are non-appealable.
(f)
Trading Halts. The Exchange shall nullify any transaction that occurs
during a trading halt in the affected option on the Exchange pursuant to Rule 702.

-56-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(g)
Erroneous Print in Underlying. A trade resulting from an erroneous
print(s) disseminated by the underlying market that is later nullified by that underlying
market shall be adjusted or busted as set forth in sub-paragraph (c)(4) of this Rule,
provided a party notifies the Exchange’s Market Control in a timely manner as set forth
below. For purposes of this paragraph, a trade resulting from an erroneous print(s)
shall mean any options trade executed during a period of time for which one or more
executions in the underlying security are nullified and for one second thereafter. If a
party believes that it participated in an erroneous transaction resulting from an
erroneous print(s) pursuant to this paragraph it must notify the Exchange’s Market
Control within the timeframes set forth in sub-paragraph (c)(2) above, with the allowed
notification timeframe commencing at the time of notification by the underlying market(s)
of nullification of transactions in the underlying security. If multiple underlying markets
nullify trades in the underlying security, the allowed notification timeframe will
commence at the time of the first market’s notification.
(h)
Erroneous Quote in Underlying. A trade resulting from an erroneous
quote(s) in the underlying security shall be adjusted or busted as set forth in subparagraph (c)(4) this Rule, provided a party notifies the Exchange’s Market Control in a
timely manner as set forth below. An erroneous quote occurs when the underlying
security has a width of at least $1.00 and has a width at least five times greater than the
average quote width for such underlying security during the time period encompassing
two minutes before and after the dissemination of such quote. For purposes of this
paragraph, the average quote width shall be determined by adding the quote widths of
sample quotations at regular 15-second intervals during the four-minute time period
referenced above (excluding the quote(s) in question) and dividing by the number of
quotes during such time period (excluding the quote(s) in question). If a party believes
that it participated in an erroneous transaction resulting from an erroneous quote(s)
pursuant to this paragraph it must notify the Exchange’s Market Control in accordance
with sub-paragraph (c)(2) above.
(i)
Stop (and Stop-Limit) Order Trades Triggered by Erroneous Trades.
Transactions resulting from the triggering of a stop or stop-limit order by an erroneous
trade in an option contract shall be nullified by the Exchange, provided a party notifies
the Exchange’s Market Control in a timely manner as set forth below. If a party believes
that it participated in an erroneous transaction pursuant to this paragraph it must notify
the Exchange’s Market Control within the timeframes set forth in sub-paragraph (c)(2)
above, with the allowed notification timeframe commencing at the time of notification of
the nullification of transaction(s) that triggered the stop or stop-limit order.
(j)
Linkage Trades. If the Exchange routes an order pursuant to the Plan (as
defined in Rule 1900(n)) that results in a transaction on another options exchange (a
“Linkage Trade”) and such options exchange subsequently nullifies or adjusts the
Linkage Trade pursuant to its rules, the Exchange will perform all actions necessary to
complete the nullification or adjustment of the Linkage Trade.
(k)
Appeals. If a Member affected by a determination made under this Rule so
requests within the time permitted below, the Obvious Error Panel (“Obvious Error
-57-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Panel”) will review decisions made by the Official under this Rule, including whether an
obvious error occurred and whether the correct determination was made.
(1)
The Obvious Error Panel will be comprised of representatives from
four (4) Members. Two (2) of the representatives must be directly engaged in
market making (any such representative, a “MM Representative”) and the other
two (2) representatives must be employed by an Electronic Access Member (any
such representative, a “Non-MM Representative”). To qualify as a representative
of a Member other than a Member engaged in market making, a person must:
(A) be employed by a Member whose revenues from options
market making activity do not exceed ten percent (10%) of its total
revenues; or
(B)
have as his or her primary responsibility the handling of
Public Customer orders or supervisory responsibility over persons with
such responsibility, and not have any responsibilities with respect to
market making activities.
(2)
The Exchange shall designate at least ten (10) MM
Representatives and at least ten (10) Non-MM Representatives to be called upon
to serve on the Obvious Error Panel as needed. In no case shall an Obvious
Error Panel include a person affiliated with a party to the trade in question. To the
extent reasonably possible, the Exchange shall call upon the designated
representatives to participate on an Obvious Error Panel on an equally frequent
basis.
(3)
A request for review on appeal must be made in writing via e-mail
or other electronic means specified from time to time by the Exchange in a
circular distributed to Members within thirty (30) minutes after the party making
the appeal is given notification of the initial determination being appealed. The
Obvious Error Panel shall review the facts and render a decision as soon as
practicable, but generally on the same trading day as the execution(s) under
review. On requests for appeal received after 3:00 p.m. Eastern Time, a decision
will be rendered as soon as practicable, but in no case later than the trading day
following the date of the execution under review.
(4)
The Obvious Error Panel may overturn or modify an action taken by
the Official under this Rule. All determinations by the Obvious Error Panel shall
constitute final action by the Exchange on the matter at issue.
(5)
If the Obvious Error Panel votes to uphold the decision made
pursuant to paragraph (k)(1) above, the Exchange will assess a $5,000.00 fee
against the Member(s) who initiated the request for appeal. In addition, in
instances where the Exchange, on behalf of a Member, requests a determination
by another market center that a transaction is clearly erroneous, the Exchange
will pass any resulting charges through to the relevant Member.
-58-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(6)
Any determination by an Official or by the Obvious Error Panel shall
be rendered without prejudice as to the rights of the parties to the transaction to
submit their dispute to arbitration.
Supplementary Material to Rule 720
.01 Limit Up-Limit Down State. During a pilot period set to coincide with the pilot
period for the Plan to Address Extraordinary Market Volatility Pursuant to Rule 608 of
Regulation NMS under the Act (the “Plan”), including any extensions to the pilot period
for the Plan, an execution will not be subject to review as an Obvious Error or
Catastrophic Error pursuant to paragraph (c) or (d) of this Rule if it occurred while the
underlying security was in a “Limit State” or “Straddle State,” as defined in the Plan to
Address Extraordinary Market Volatility Pursuant to Rule 608 of Regulation NMS under
the Act (the “Limit Up-Limit Down Plan”). Nothing in this provision shall prevent such
execution from being reviewed on an Official’s own motion pursuant to sub-paragraph
(c)(3) of this Rule, or a bust or adjust pursuant to paragraphs (e) through (j) of this Rule.
.02 For the purposes of this Rule, to the extent the provisions of this Rule would
result in the Exchange applying an adjustment of an erroneous sell transaction to a
price lower than the execution price or an erroneous buy transaction to a price higher
than the execution price, the Exchange will not adjust or nullify the transaction, but
rather, the execution price will stand.
.03 When Market Control determines that an Error has occurred and action is
warranted under paragraphs (c) or (d) above, the identity of the parties to the trade will
be disclosed to each other in order to encourage conflict resolution.
Rule 720A. Erroneous Trades due to System Disruptions and Malfunctions
(a) Verifiable Disruptions or Malfunctions of Exchange Systems.
(1) Transactions arising out of a “verifiable disruption or
malfunction” in the use or operation of any Exchange automated quotation,
dissemination, execution, or communication system may either be nullified or
adjusted by Market Control. Transactions that qualify for price adjustment will be
adjusted in accordance with the guidelines contained in Rule 720(b)(2)(i)(A) and
(B).
(2) Absent extraordinary circumstances, any such action by Market
Control pursuant to this Rule shall be initiated within sixty (60) minutes of the
occurrence of the erroneous transaction that resulted from a verifiable disruption
or malfunction. Each member involved in the transaction shall be notified as
soon as practicable.

-59-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(3) Any member aggrieved by the action of Market Control taken
pursuant to paragraph (1) above may appeal such action in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (b).
(b) Procedures for Review of Decisions Made Pursuant to Rule 720A(a).
(1) If a party to a ruling by Market Control made pursuant to
subsection (a) of this Rule requests within the time permitted below, a Review
Panel, will be utilized to review decisions made by Market Control under this
Rule.
(i) The Review Panel will be comprised of representatives
from four (4) Member firms. Two (2) of the representatives must be
directly engaged in market making activity and two (2) of the
representatives must be employed by an Electronic Access Member. To
qualify as a representative of an Electronic Access Member on a Review
Panel, a person must (i) be employed by a Member whose revenues from
options market making activity do not exceed ten percent (10%) of its total
revenues; or (ii) have as his or her primary responsibility the handling of
Public Customer orders or supervisory responsibility over persons with
such responsibility, and not have any responsibilities with respect to
market making activities.
(ii) The Exchange shall designate at least five (5) market
maker representatives and at least five (5) Electronic Access Member
representatives to be called upon to serve on the Review Panel as
needed. In no case shall a Review Panel include a person related to a
party to the trade in question. To the extent reasonably possible, the
Exchange shall call upon the designated representatives to participate on
a Review Panel on an equally frequent basis.
(iii) A request for review on appeal must be made via
facsimile or e-mail within thirty (30) minutes after the party making the
appeal is given notification of the initial determination being appealed.
The Review Panel shall review the facts and render a decision within the
time frame prescribed by the Exchange.
(iv) The Review Panel may overturn or modify an action
taken by the Exchange under this Rule. All determinations by the Review
Panel shall constitute final action by the Exchange on the matter at issue.
Rule 721.

Crossing Orders

(a) Customer Cross Orders are automatically executed upon entry
provided that the execution is at or between the best bid and offer on the Exchange and
(i) is not at the same price as a Priority Customer Order on the Exchange’s limit order
book and (ii) will not trade through the NBBO.

-60-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(1) Customer Cross Orders will be automatically canceled if they
cannot be executed.
(2) Customer Cross Orders may only be entered in the regular
trading increments applicable to the options class under Rule 710.
(3) Supplemental Material .01 to Rule 717 applies to the entry and
execution of Customer Cross Orders.
(b) Qualified Contingent Cross Orders are automatically executed upon
entry provided that the execution (i) is not at the same price as a Priority Customer
Order on the Exchange’s limit order book and (ii) is at or between the NBBO.
(1) Qualified Contingent Cross Orders will be automatically
canceled if they cannot be executed.
(2) Qualified Contingent Cross Orders may only be entered in the
regular trading increments applicable to the options class under in Rule 710.
Rule 722. Reserved.
Rule 723. Price Improvement Mechanism for Crossing
Transactions
(a) The Price Improvement Mechanism is a process by which an
Electronic Access Member can provide price improvement opportunities for a
transaction wherein the Electronic Access Member seeks to facilitate an order it
represents as agent, and/or a transaction wherein the Electronic Access Member
solicited interest to execute against an order it represents as agent (a “Crossing
Transaction”).
(b) Crossing Transaction Entry. A Crossing Transaction is comprised of
the order the Electronic Access Member represents as agent (the “Agency Order”) and
a counter-side order for the full size of the Agency Order (the “Counter-Side Order”).
The Counter-Side Order may represent interest for the Member’s own account, or
interest the Member has solicited from one or more other parties, or a combination of
both.
(1) A Crossing Transaction must be entered only at a price that is
equal to or better than the national best bid or offer (“NBBO”) and better than the
limit order or quote on the ISE Mercury orderbook on the same side of the
Agency Order.
increments.

(2) The Crossing Transaction may be priced in one-cent

(3) The Crossing Transaction may not be canceled, but the price of
the Counter-Side Order may be improved during the exposure period.
-61-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(c) Exposure Period. Upon entry of a Crossing Transaction into the Price
Improvement Mechanism, a broadcast message that includes the series, price and size
of the Agency Order, and whether it is to buy or sell, will be sent to all Members. This
broadcast message will not be included in the Exchange’s disseminated best bid or
offer and will not be disseminated through OPRA.
(1) Members will be given 500 milliseconds to indicate the size and
price at which they want to participate in the execution of the Agency Order
(“Improvement Orders”).
(2) Improvement Orders may be entered by all Members for their
own account or for the account of a Public Customer in one-cent increments at
the same price as the Crossing Transaction or at an improved price for the
Agency Order, and for any size up to the size of the Agency Order.
(3) During the exposure period, Improvement Orders may not be
canceled, but may be modified to (1) increase the size at the same price, or (2)
improve the price of the Improvement Order for any size up to the size of the
Agency Order.
(4) During the exposure period, responses (including the CounterSide Order, Improvement Orders, and any changes to either) submitted by
Members shall not be visible to other auction participants.
(5) The exposure period will automatically terminate (i) at the end of
the 500 millisecond period, (ii) upon the receipt of a market or marketable limit
order on the Exchange in the same series, or (iii) upon the receipt of a nonmarketable limit order in the same series on the same side of the market as the
Agency Order that would cause the price of the Crossing Transaction to be
outside of the best bid or offer on the Exchange.
(d) Execution. At the end of the exposure period the Agency Order will be
executed in full at the best prices available, taking into consideration orders and quotes
in the Exchange market, Improvement Orders, Customer Participation Orders (see
Supplementary Material .06 below) and the Counter-Side Order. The Agency Order will
receive executions at multiple price levels if there is insufficient size to execute the
entire order at the best price.
(1) At a given price, Priority Customer interest is executed in full
before Professional Orders and any other interest of Members (i.e., proprietary
interest from Electronic Access Members and Exchange market makers).
(2) After Priority Customer interest at a given price, Professional
Orders and Members’ interest will participate in the execution of the Agency
Order based upon the percentage of the total number of contracts available at
the price that is represented by the size of the Members’ interest.

-62-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(3) In the case where the Counter-Side Order is at the same price
as Members’ interest in (d)(2), the Counter-Side order will be allocated the
greater of one (1) contract or forty percent (40%) of the initial size of the Agency
Order before other Member interest is executed. Upon entry of Counter-Side
orders, Members can elect to automatically match the price and size of orders,
quotes and responses received during the exposure period up to a specified limit
price or without specifying a limit price. In this case, the Counter-Side order will
be allocated its full size at each price point, or at each price point within its limit
price if a limit is specified, until a price point is reached where the balance of the
order can be fully executed. At such price point, the Counter-Side order shall be
allocated the greater of one contract or forty percent (40%) of the original size of
the Agency Order, but only after Priority Customer Orders at such price point are
executed in full. Thereafter, all other orders, Responses, and quotes at the price
point will participate in the execution of the Agency Order based upon the
percentage of the total number of contracts available at the price that is
represented by the size of the order, Response or quote. An election to
automatically match better prices cannot be cancelled or altered during the
exposure period.
(4) When a market order or marketable limit order on the opposite
side of the market from the Agency Order ends the exposure period, it will
participate in the execution of the Agency Order at the price that is mid-way
between the best counter-side interest and the NBBO, so that both the market or
marketable limit order and the Agency Order receive price improvement.
Transactions will be rounded, when necessary, to the $.01 increment that favors
the Agency Order.
Supplementary Material to Rule 723
.01 It shall be considered conduct inconsistent with just and equitable
principles of trade for any Member to enter orders, quotes, Agency Orders,
Counter-Side Orders or Improvement Orders for the purpose of disrupting or
manipulating the Price Improvement Mechanism. Such conduct includes, but is
not limited to, engaging in a pattern of conduct where the Member submitting the
Agency Order into the PIM breaks-up the Agency Order into separate orders for
two (2) or fewer contracts for the purpose of gaining a higher allocation
percentage than the Member would have otherwise received in accordance with
the allocation procedures contained in paragraph (d) above.
.02 The Price Improvement Mechanism may only be used to execute bona
fide Crossing Transactions.
.03
Initially, and for at least a Pilot Period expiring on July 18, 2016,
there will be no minimum size requirements for orders to be eligible for the Price
Improvement Mechanism. During the Pilot Period, the Exchange will submit
certain data, periodically as required by the Commission, to provide supporting
evidence that, among other things, there is meaningful competition for all size
-63-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

orders within the Price Improvement Mechanism, that there is significant price
improvement for all orders executed through the Price Improvement Mechanism,
and that there is an active and liquid market functioning on the Exchange outside
of the Price Improvement Mechanism. Any raw data which is submitted to the
Commission will be provided on a confidential basis.
.04 Only one PIM may be ongoing at any given time in a series. PIMs will
not queue or overlap in any manner.
.05 Paragraphs (c)(5) and (d)(4) will be effective for a Pilot Period expiring
on July 18, 2016. During the Pilot Period, the Exchange will submit certain data
relating to the frequency with which the exposure period is terminated by
unrelated orders. Any raw data which is submitted to the Commission will be
provided on a confidential basis.
.06 Pursuant to Rule 723(c)(2), Electronic Access Members may enter
Improvement Orders for the account of Public Customers. Without limiting the
forgoing, Electronic Access Members may enter Improvement Orders with
respect to CPOs (as defined in Rule 715(f)). An Improvement Order can be
entered with respect to a CPO if: (1) the limit order price of the CPO is equal to
the best bid or offer on the Exchange at the time the PIM is initiated; and (2) the
CPO is on the same side of the market as the Counter-Side Order. The
Improvement Order must be entered for the existing size of the limit order up to
the size of the Agency Order and for the price of the Participation Interest.
.07 Any solicited Counter-Side Orders submitted by an Electronic Access
Member to trade against Agency Orders may not be for the account of an
Exchange market maker assigned to the options class.
.08 Reserved.
.09 Counter-Side Orders and Improvement Orders entered into the Price
Improvement Mechanism only will execute against the Agency Order, and any
unexecuted interest will be automatically cancelled.
.10 PIM ISO Order. A PIM ISO order (PIM ISO) is the transmission of two
orders for crossing pursuant to Rule 723 without regard for better priced
Protected Bids or Protected Offers (as defined in Rule 1900) because the
Member transmitting the PIM ISO to the Exchange has, simultaneously with the
routing of the PIM ISO, routed one or more ISOs, as necessary, to execute
against the full displayed size of any Protected Bid or Protected Offer that is
superior to the starting PIM auction price and has swept all interest in the
Exchange’s book priced better than the proposed auction starting price. Any
execution(s) resulting from such sweeps shall accrue to the PIM order.

-64-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 8
Market Makers
Rule 800.

Registration of Market Makers

(a) A market maker is a Member with Designated Trading
Representatives registered pursuant to Rule 801. Market makers are registered
with the Exchange for the purpose of making transactions as dealer-specialists in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. Registered market makers are
designated as specialists on the Exchange for all purposes under the Exchange Act
and the rules and regulations thereunder.
(b) To register as a Competitive or Primary Market Maker, a Member
shall file an application in writing on such forms as the Exchange may prescribe.
Applications shall be reviewed by the Exchange, which shall consider an applicant’s
market making ability and such other factors as the Exchange deems appropriate.
After reviewing the application, the Exchange shall either approve or disapprove the
applicant’s registration as a Competitive or Primary Market Maker.
(c) The registration of any Member as a Competitive or Primary
Market Maker may be suspended or terminated by the Exchange upon a
determination that such Member has failed to properly perform as a market maker.
Rule 801.

Designated Trading Representatives

(a) Market maker quotations and orders may be submitted to the
Exchange’s System only by Designated Trading Representatives (“DTRs”). A DTR
is permitted to enter quotes and orders only for the account of the market maker
with which he is associated.
(b) Registration of Designated Trading Representatives. The
Exchange may, upon receiving an application in writing from a market maker on a
form prescribed by the Exchange, approve a person as a DTR.
(1) DTRs may be:
(i)
individual Members registered with the Exchange as
market makers, or
(ii)
officers, partners, employees or associated persons
of Members that are registered with the Exchange as market makers.
(2) The Exchange may require a market maker to provide
additional information the Exchange considers necessary to establish whether
a person should be approved.
-65-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(3) A person may be conditionally approved as a DTR subject to
any conditions the Chief Regulatory Officer considers appropriate in the
interests of maintaining a fair and orderly market.
(c) Suspension or Withdrawal of Registration.
(1) The Exchange may suspend or withdraw the registration
previously given to a person to be a DTR if the Exchange determines that:
(i)
the person has caused the market maker to fail to
comply with the Rules of the Exchange;
(ii)
the person is not properly performing the
responsibilities of a DTR;
(iii)
the person has failed to meet the conditions set forth
under paragraph (b) above; or
(iv)
the Exchange believes it is in the best interest of fair
and orderly markets.
(2) If the Exchange suspends the registration of a person as a
DTR, the market maker must not allow the person to submit quotes and orders
into the Exchange’s System.
(3) The registration of a DTR will be withdrawn upon the written
request of the Member for which the DTR is registered. Such written request
shall be submitted on the form prescribed by the Exchange.
Rule 802.

Appointment of Market Makers

(a) In the manner prescribed by the Exchange, a market maker may seek
appointment to one or more options classes traded on the Exchange. The Board or a
committee designated by the Board shall appoint classes of options contracts traded on
the Exchange to market makers taking into consideration: (i) the financial resources
available to the market maker, (ii) the market maker’s experience and expertise in
market making or options trading, and (iii) the maintenance and enhancement of
competition among market makers in each class of options contracts to which they are
appointed. The Board or designated committee shall make appointments in the best
interest of the Exchange to provide competitive markets. No appointment of a market
maker shall be without the market maker’s consent to such appointment, provided that
refusal to accept an appointment may be deemed sufficient cause for termination or
suspension of a market maker’s registration.
(b) Appointments to Primary Market Makers. A Primary Market Maker
shall be appointed to each options class traded on the Exchange.

-66-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(1) A Primary Market Maker seeking appointment to options on
equity indexes, foreign currency indexes, foreign currency options and
Exchange-Traded Fund Shares (collectively “ Index-Based Products”) shall
provide, at the discretion of the Exchange, and upon its request, specific
performance commitments, which shall include, at a minimum, commitments
regarding (i) the average quotation size it will disseminate in the Index-Based
Product, and (ii) the maximum quotation spread it will disseminate in such
product at least ninety percent of the time.
(c) Appointments to Competitive Market Makers. Competitive market
makers may request appointments to options classes traded on the Exchange, subject
to the trading licensing requirements of Rule 2013 with respect to index options and
Rule 2213 with respect to foreign currency options.
(1) On a quarterly basis, the Exchange shall assign points to each
options class equal to its percentage of overall industry volume (not including
exclusively traded index options), rounded down to the nearest one hundredth of
a percentage with a maximum of 15 points. New listings will be assigned a point
value of zero for the remainder of the quarter in which it was listed.
(2) A Competitive Market Maker may seek appointments to options
classes that total: (A) 20 points for the first CMM Right it holds; and (B) 10 points
for the second and each subsequent CMM Right it holds.
(3) A Competitive Market Maker may request changes to its
appointments at any time upon advance notification to the Exchange in a form
and manner prescribed by the Exchange.
(d)
The Exchange may suspend or terminate any appointment of a
market maker under this Rule and may make additional appointments whenever, in the
Exchange’s judgment, the interests of a fair and orderly market are best served by such
action. In the case of an Index-Based Product, during the term of that appointment, the
Exchange may also base a decision to suspend or terminate a Primary Market Maker’s
appointment on the failure of the Primary Market Maker to meet the terms of its
commitments under paragraph (b)(1) above.
(e)
Market Maker Performance. In making appointments to market
makers, the Exchange may evaluate the performance of market makers relating to,
among other things, quality of markets, competition among market makers, observance
of ethical standards, and administrative factors. The Exchange may consider any
relevant information, including but not limited to the results of a market maker evaluation
questionnaire, trading data, a market maker’s regulatory history and such other factors
and data as may be pertinent in the circumstances. Moreover, failure by a market
maker to meet minimum performance standards may result in, among other things: (1)
suspension, termination or restriction of an appointment to one or more of the options
classes appointed to the market maker; (2) restriction of appointments to additional
options classes; or (3) suspension, termination, or restriction of the market maker’s
registration.
-67-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Supplementary Material to Rule 802
.01 Index-Based Options. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of Rule 802, a
Primary Market Maker shall specify the average size and maximum quotation
spread to which it will commit on a quarterly basis for four successive calendar
quarters. The Primary Market Maker may specify differing size and quotation
commitments for different series of an options class, such as by committing to a
larger size and narrower quotations for the at-the-money series or series nearer
to expiration. A Primary Market Maker also may, but is not required to, provide
commitments regarding marketing or other support with respect to the IndexBased Product. In addition, a Primary Market Maker may, but is not required to,
provide information regarding order flow arrangements with order flow providers.
When an Index-Based Product is allocated to a Primary Market Maker, that
Primary Market Maker's size and spread quotations for the fourth quarter
following listing shall remain in effect thereafter on a quarter-to-quarter basis
unless the Primary Market Maker has requested, and the Exchange or
designated committee has approved, a change in such commitments. Any other
commitments that a Primary Market Maker has made also shall remain in effect
until modified by the Exchange or designated committee upon the request of the
Primary Market Maker.
.02 A Member that is approved to act in the capacity of a Competitive
Market Maker with respect to one or more CMM Rights may voluntarily be
appointed to act as an “Alternative Primary Market Maker,” so long as the
Exchange has determined that such Member has the appropriate systems and
procedures in place to undertake the responsibilities of a Primary Market Maker.
(a) The Exchange may appoint an Alternative Primary Market
Maker to an options class only in the event that no Primary Market Makers seek
allocation of the security.
(b) If no Primary Market Makers seek allocation of an options class,
all eligible Competitive Market Makers will be given notice and an opportunity to
seek allocation of the security as an Alternative Primary Market Maker. Such
allocations will be made by the Allocation Committee according to the guidelines
contained in Rule 802.
(c) An Alternative Primary Market Maker shall have all of the
responsibilities and privileges of a Primary Market Maker under the Rules with
respect to all appointed options classes.
(d) If an Alternative Primary Market Maker ceases trading of an
options class, the class will be reallocated by the Exchange to a Primary Market
Maker or another Alternative Primary Market Maker, as appropriate.
.03 There is no restriction on a Competitive Market Maker seeking
appointment to options classes in which it or an affiliated market-maker holds a
-68-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Competitive Market Maker or Primary Market Maker appointment, provided that
such Member has sufficient Competitive Market Maker points for each such
appointment.
Rule 803.

Obligations of Market Makers

(a) General. Transactions of a market maker should constitute a
course of dealings reasonably calculated to contribute to the maintenance of a fair
and orderly market, and market makers should not make bids or offers or enter into
transactions that are inconsistent with such a course of dealings. Ordinarily, market
makers are expected to:
(1) Refrain from purchasing a call option or a put option at a price
more than $0.25 below parity, although a larger amount may be appropriate
considering the particular market conditions. In the case of calls, parity is
measured by the bid in the underlying security, and in the case of puts, parity is
measured by the offer in the underlying security.
(2) The $0.25 amount above may be increased, or the provisions
of this Rule may be waived, by the Exchange on a series-by-series basis.
(b) Appointment. With respect to each options class to which a
market maker is appointed under Rule 802, the market maker has a continuous
obligation to engage, to a reasonable degree under the existing circumstances, in
dealings for his own account when there exists, or it is reasonably anticipated that
there will exist, a lack of price continuity, a temporary disparity between the supply
of and demand for a particular options contract, or a temporary distortion of the
price relationships between options contracts of the same class. Without limiting
the foregoing, a market maker is expected to perform the following activities in the
course of maintaining a fair and orderly market:
(1) To compete with other market makers to improve the market
in all series of options classes to which the market maker is appointed.
(2) To make markets that, absent changed market conditions, will
be honored for the number of contracts entered into the Exchange’s System in
all series of options classes to which the market maker is appointed.
(3) To update market quotations in response to changed market
conditions in all series of options classes to which the market maker is
appointed.
(4) To price options contracts fairly by, among other things,
bidding and offering so as to create differences of no more than $5 between the
bid and offer following the opening rotation in an equity or index options
contract. Prior to the opening rotation, spread differentials shall be no more
than $.25 between the bid and offer for each options contract for which the bid
is less than $2, no more than $.40 where the bid is at least $2 but does not
-69-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

exceed $5, no more than $.50 where the bid is more than $5 but does not
exceed $10, no more than $.80 where the bid is more than $10 but does not
exceed $20, and no more than $1 where the bid is $20 or greater, provided that
the Exchange may establish differences other than the above for one or more
options series.
(i) The bid/offer differentials stated in paragraph (b)(4) of this
Rule shall not apply to in-the-money options series where the underlying
securities market is wider than the differentials set forth above. For these
series, the bid/ask differential may be as wide as the spread between the
national best bid and offer in the underlying security.
(ii) The Exchange or its authorized agent may calculate bids
and asks for various indices for the sole purpose of determining
permissible bid/ask differentials on options on these indices. These
values will be calculated by determining the weighted average of the bids
and asks for the components of the corresponding index. These bids and
asks will be disseminated by the Exchange at least every fifteen (15)
seconds during the trading day solely for the purpose of determining the
permissible bid/ask differential that market-makers may quote on an inthe-money option on the indices. For in-the-money series in index options
where the calculated bid/ask differential is wider than the applicable
differential set out in paragraph (b)(4) of this Rule, the bid/ask differential
in the index options series may be as wide as the calculated bid/ask
differential in the underlying index. The Exchange will not make a market
in the basket of stock comprising the indices and is not guaranteeing the
accuracy or the availability of the bid/ask values.
(c) Primary Market Makers. In addition to the obligations contained in
this Rule for market makers generally, for options classes to which a market maker
is the appointed Primary Market Maker, it shall have the responsibility to:
(1) As soon as practical, address Priority Customer Orders
that are not automatically executed pursuant to Rule 714(b)(1) in a
manner consistent with its obligations under paragraph (b) of this Rule by
either (i) executing all or a portion of the order at a price that at least
matches the NBBO and that improves upon the Exchange’s best bid (in
the case of a sell order) or the Exchange’s best offer (in the case of a buy
order); or (ii) releasing all or a portion of the order for execution against
bids and offers on the Exchange.
(2) Initiate trading in each series pursuant to Rule 701.
(d) Classes of Options To Which Not Appointed. With respect to
classes of options to which a market maker is not appointed, it should not engage in
transactions for an account in which it has an interest that are disproportionate in
relation to, or in derogation of, the performance of his obligations as specified in
-70-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

paragraph (b) above with respect to those classes of options to which it is 

appointed. Market makers should not:

(1) Individually or as a group, intentionally or unintentionally,
dominate the market in options contracts of a particular class, or
(2) Effect purchases or sales on the Exchange except in a
reasonable and orderly manner.
Supplementary Material To Rule 803
.01 A Primary Market Maker must act with due diligence in handling orders
of Public Customers and must accord priority to such orders addressed pursuant
to paragraph (c) of this Rule over the Primary Market Maker’s principal orders.
.02 Rule 1004 of Regulation SCI under the Exchange Act requires the
establishment of standards for the designation of those Members the Exchange
reasonably determines are, taken as a whole, the minimum necessary for the
maintenance of a fair and orderly market should the Exchange’s business
continuity and disaster recovery plans be activated. Rule 1004 also requires the
Exchange to designate Members pursuant to those standards and require
participation by such Designated Members in scheduled functional and
performance testing of the operation of such plans, in the manner and frequency
specified by the Exchange, provided that such frequency shall not be less than
once every 12 months. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 1004, Primary
Market Makers have been designated by the Exchange as necessary for the
maintenance of a fair and orderly market should the Exchange’s business
continuity and disaster recovery plans be activated. As the result of such
designation, Primary Market Makers are required to participate in scheduled
functional and performance testing of such plans at least once every 12 months.
.03 Any Member that is approved to act in the capacity of a Primary
Market Maker may voluntarily act as a “Back-Up Primary Market Maker” in
options series in which it is quoting as a Competitive Market Maker.
(a) A Back-Up Primary Market Maker assumes all of the
responsibilities and privileges of a Primary Market Maker under the Rules with
respect to any series in which the appointed Primary Market Maker fails to have
a quote in the System.
(b) If more than one Competitive Market Maker that has
volunteered to be a Back-Up Primary Market Maker is quoting in an options
series at the time that a Primary Market Maker ceases quoting, the Competitive
Market Maker with the largest offer at the lowest price in the series at that time
will be chosen to be the Back-Up Primary Market Maker. In the event of a tie
based on price and size, the Competitive Market Maker with time priority will be
automatically chosen.
-71-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(c) The Back-Up Primary Market Maker is automatically restored to
Competitive Market Maker status when the appointed Primary Market Maker
initiates quoting in the series.
.04 In addressing Public Customer Orders that are not automatically
executed because there is a displayed bid or offer on another exchange trading
the same options contract that is better than the best bid or offer on the
Exchange pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this Rule, the Exchange will act in
compliance with these Rules and with the provisions of the Exchange Act and the
rules thereunder, including, but not limited to, the requirements in Section
(6)(b)(4) and (5) of the Exchange Act that the rules of national securities
exchange provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees, and other
charges among its members and issuers and other persons using its facilities,
and not be designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers,
brokers, or dealers.
.05 All orders entered on the Exchange and routed to another exchange
via an ISO pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this Rule that result in an execution
shall be binding on the member that entered such orders.
Rule 804.

Market Maker Quotations

(a) Options Classes. A quotation only may be entered by a market
maker, and only in the options classes to which the market maker is appointed
under Rule 802.
(b) Price and Size Associated with Quotes. A market maker’s bid and
offer for a series of options contracts shall state a price accompanied by the
number of contracts at that price the market maker is willing to buy or sell upon
receipt of an order or upon interaction with a quotation entered by another market
maker on the Exchange.
(1) Price. The price of market maker quotes shall be in the
minimum trading increments applicable to the security under Rule 710;
provided that, with respect to any security designated by the Exchange as
available for non-displayed penny orders under Rule 715(b)(4), market maker
quotes may be in one-cent increments. In such designated securities, quotes
entered in one-cent increments will be firm as provided in paragraph (d) below,
but shall only be displayed to market participants and the public at the minimum
trading increment for the security. The displayed price of such quotes will be
the closest minimum trading increment that is higher for offers and the closest
minimum trading increment that is lower for bids.
(2) Size. Unless the Exchange has declared a fast market
pursuant to Rule 704, the initial size of a market maker’s opening quote must
be for the minimum number of contracts determined by the Exchange on a
class by class basis, which minimum shall be at least one contract.
-72-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(c) Two-Sided Quotes. A market maker that enters a bid (offer) on the
Exchange must enter an offer (bid) within the spread allowable under Rule
803(b)(4).
(d) Firm Quotes. (1) Market maker bids and offers are firm for orders
and Exchange market maker quotations both under this Rule and Rule 602 of
Regulation NMS under the Exchange Act (“Rule 602 of Reg NMS”) for the number
of contracts specified according to the requirements of paragraph (b) above.
Market maker bids and offers are not firm under this Rule and Rule 602 of Reg
NMS if:
(i)
a system malfunction or other circumstance impairs
the Exchange’s ability to disseminate or update market quotes in a timely
and accurate manner;
(ii)
the level of trading activities or the existence of
unusual market conditions is such that the Exchange is incapable of
collecting, processing, and making available to quotation vendors the data
for the option in a manner that accurately reflects the current state of the
market on the Exchange, and as a result, the market in the option is
declared to be “fast” pursuant to Rule 704;
(iii) during trading rotations; or
(iv) any of the circumstances provided in paragraph (c)(3) of
Rule 602 of Reg NMS exist.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) above, if a market maker's bid
(offer) can trade with the offer (bid) of another market maker, the Exchange shall
have the authority to implement a delay so that no execution shall occur between
such quotations for a period of no more than one second. During such period,
the System will update quotations that may be received; provided however, that
during such period all quotations shall otherwise remain firm and the System
shall automatically execute all incoming orders against such quotations.
(e) Continuous Quotes. A market maker must enter continuous
quotations for the options classes to which it is appointed pursuant to the following:
(1) Primary Market Makers. Primary Market Makers must enter
continuous quotations and enter into any resulting transactions in all of the series
listed on the Exchange of the options classes to which it is appointed on a daily
basis.
(2) Competitive Market Makers. (i) On any given day, a

Competitive Market Maker is not required to enter quotations in the options 

classes to which it is appointed.


-73-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(ii) A Competitive Market Maker may initiate quoting in
options classes to which it is appointed intraday.
(iii) Whenever a Competitive Market Maker enters a quote in
an options class to which it is appointed, it must maintain continuous
quotations in that class for 60% of the time the class is open for trading on
the Exchange; provided, however, that a Competitive Market Maker shall
be required to maintain continuous quotations for 90% of the time the
class is open for trading on the Exchange in any options class in which it
receives Preferenced Orders (see Supplementary Material .03 to Rule 713
regarding Preferenced Orders).

(iv) A Competitive Market Maker may be called upon by an
Exchange official designated by the Board to submit a single quote or
maintain continuous quotes in one or more of the series of an options
class to which the Competitive Market Maker is appointed whenever, in
the judgment of such official, it is necessary to do so in the interest of fair
and orderly markets.
(f) Temporary Withdrawal of Quotations by Primary Market Makers.
A Primary Market Maker may apply to the Exchange to withdraw temporarily from
its Primary Market Maker status in an options class. The Primary Market Maker
must base its request on demonstrated legal or regulatory requirements that
necessitate its temporary withdrawal, or provide the Exchange an opinion of
counsel certifying that such legal or regulatory basis exists. The Exchange will act
promptly on such a request, and, if the request is granted, the Exchange will
temporarily reassign the options class to another Primary Market Maker.
(g) Automated Quotation Adjustments.
(1) A market maker must provide parameters by which the
Exchange will automatically remove a market maker's quotations in all
series of an options class. The Exchange will automatically remove a
market maker’s quotation when, during a time period established by the
market maker, the market maker exceeds: (i) the specified number of
total contracts in the class, (ii) the specified percentage of the total size of
the market maker’s quotes in the class, (iii) the specified absolute value of
the net between contracts bought and contracts sold in the class, or (iv)
the specified absolute value of the net between (a) calls purchased plus
puts sold in the class, and (b) calls sold plus puts purchased in the class.
(2) A market maker must provide a market wide parameter
by which the Exchange will automatically remove a market maker’s quotes
in all classes when, during a time period established by the market maker,
the total number of quote removal events specified in Rule 804(g)(1)
-74-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

exceeds the market wide parameter provided to the Exchange by the
market maker.
(h) In order to control the number of quotations the Exchange
disseminates, the Exchange shall utilize a mechanism so that newly-received
quotations and other changes to the Exchange's best bid and offer are not
disseminated for a period of up to, but not more than one second.
Supplementary Material To Rule 804
.01 Continuous Quotations. A Primary Market Maker shall be deemed to have
provided continuous quotes pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of Rule 804 if it provides twosided quotes for 90% of the time that an options class is open for trading on the
Exchange. Compliance with this Primary Market Marker quoting requirement and the
Competitive Market Maker quoting requirements contained in (e)(2)(iii) above will be
applied to all option classes quoted collectively on a daily basis. Overall compliance
with market maker quoting obligations will be determined on a monthly basis. However,
the ability of the Exchange to determine compliance on a monthly basis does not: (1)
relieve market makers from their obligation to meet daily quoting requirements in Rule
804; and (2) prohibit the Exchange from bringing disciplinary action against a market
maker for failure to meet its daily quoting requirements set forth in Rule 804. If a
technical failure or limitation of a system of the Exchange prevents a market maker from
maintaining, or prevents a market maker from communicating to the Exchange, timely
and accurate quotes, the market maker shall promptly notify the Exchange and the
duration of such failure shall not be considered in determining whether the market
maker has satisfied the quoting requirements. The Exchange may consider other
exceptions to this continuous electronic quote obligation based on demonstrated legal
or regulatory requirements or other mitigating circumstances.
.02 The obligation contained in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of Rule 804 does not include
adjusted option series, nor series with a time to expiration of nine (9) months or greater
for options on equities and exchange-traded funds or with a time to expiration of twelve
(12) months or greater for index options. Competitive Market Makers may choose to
quote such series in addition to regular series in the options class, but such quotations
will not be considered when determining whether a Competitive Market Maker has met
the obligation contained in paragraph (e)(2)(iii). A CMM that chooses to quote adjusted
series and/or long-term options must meet all of the quoting obligations applicable to
CMMs generally, and may be preferenced in such series and receive enhanced
allocations pursuant to ISE Rule 713, Supplementary Material .03, only if it complies
with the heightened 90% quoting requirement contained in Rule 804(e)(2)(iii). For
purposes of Rule 804, an adjusted options series is an options series wherein, as a
result of a corporate action by the issuer of the underlying security, one option contract
in the series represents the delivery of other than 100 shares of underlying stock or
exchange-traded fund shares.

-75-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Rule 805.

Market Maker Orders

(a) Options Classes to Which Appointed. Market makers may not
place principal orders to buy or sell options in the options classes to which they are
appointed under Rule 802, other than opening only orders, immediate-or-cancel
orders, market orders, fill-or-kill orders, sweep orders, block-size orders executed
through the Block Order Mechanism pursuant to Rule 716(c), and non-displayed
penny orders (in securities designated by the Exchange pursuant to Rule
715(b)(4)). Competitive Market Makers shall comply with the provisions of Rule
804(e)(2)(iii) upon the entry of such orders if they were not previously quoting in the
series.
(b) Options Classes Other Than Those to Which Appointed.
(1) A market maker may enter all order types permitted to be
entered by non-customer participants under the Rules to buy or sell options in
classes of options listed on the Exchange to which the market maker is not
appointed under Rule 802, provided that:
(i)
the spread between a limit order to buy and a limit
order to sell the same options contract complies with the parameters
contained in Rule 803(b)(4); and
(ii)
the market maker does not enter orders in options
classes to which it is otherwise appointed, either as a Competitive or
Primary Market Maker.
(2) Competitive Market Makers. The total number of contracts
executed during a quarter by a Competitive Market Maker in options classes to
which it is not appointed may not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the total
number of contracts traded by such Competitive Market Maker in classes to
which it is appointed and with respect to which it was quoting pursuant to Rule
804(e)(2).
(3) Primary Market Makers. The total number of contracts
executed during a quarter by a Primary Market Maker in options classes to
which it is not appointed may not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total number
of contracts traded per each Primary Market Maker Membership.
Rule 806.

Trade Reporting and Comparison

The details of each trade executed on the Exchange are
automatically reported at the time of execution. Members need not separately
report their transactions for trade comparison purposes.

-76-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Rule 807.

Securities Accounts and Orders of Market Makers

(a) Identification of Accounts. A Primary Market Maker in ExchangeTraded Fund Shares, as defined in Rule 502(h), is obligated to conduct all trading in
Exchange-Traded Fund Shares in account(s) that have been reported to the
Exchange. In addition, in a manner prescribed by the Exchange, each market
maker shall file with the Exchange and keep current a list identifying all accounts for
stock, options, non-U.S. currency, non-U.S. currency options, futures or options on
futures on such currency, or any other derivatives based on such currency, physical
commodities, physical commodity options, commodity futures contracts, options on
commodity futures contracts, any other derivatives based on such commodity and
related securities trading in which the market maker may, directly or indirectly,
engage in trading activities or over which it exercises investment direction. No
market maker shall engage in stock, options, non-U.S. currency, non-U.S. currency
options, futures or options on futures on such currency, physical commodities,
physical commodity options, commodity futures contracts, options on commodity
futures contracts, any other derivatives based on such commodity or any other
derivatives based on such currency or related securities trading in an account which
has not been reported pursuant to this Rule.
(b) Reports of Orders. Each market maker shall, upon the request of
the Exchange and in the prescribed form, report to the Exchange every order
entered by the market maker for the purchase or sale of (i) a security underlying
options traded on the Exchange, or (ii) a security convertible into or exchangeable
for such underlying security, as well as opening and closing positions in all such
securities held in each account reported pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Rule.
The report pertaining to orders must include the terms of each order, identification
of the brokerage firms through which the orders were entered, the times of entry or
cancellation, the times report of execution were received and, if all or part of the
order was executed, the quantity and execution price.
(c) Joint Accounts. No market maker shall, directly or indirectly, hold
any interest or participate in any joint account for buying or selling any options
contract unless each participant in such joint account is a Member and unless such
account is reported to and not disapproved by the Exchange. Such reports in a
form prescribed by the Exchange shall be filed with the Exchange before any
transaction is effected on the Exchange for such joint account. A participant in a
joint account must:
(1) Be either a market maker or a Clearing Member that carries
the joint account.
(2) File and keep current a completed application on such form as
is prescribed by the Exchange.
(3) Be jointly and severally responsible for assuring that the
account complies with all the Rules of the Exchange.
-77-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(4) Not be a market maker appointed to the same options classes
to which the joint account holder is also appointed as a market maker.
Rule 808.

Letters of Guarantee

(a) Required of Each Market Maker. No market maker shall make any
transactions on the Exchange unless a Letter of Guarantee has been issued for
such Member by a Clearing Member and filed with the Exchange, and unless such
Letter of Guarantee has not been revoked pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Rule.
(b) Terms of Letter of Guarantee. A Letter of Guarantee shall provide
that the issuing Clearing Member accepts financial responsibilities for all Exchange
transactions made by the guaranteed Member.
(c) Revocation of Letter of Guarantee. A Letter of Guarantee filed
with the Exchange shall remain in effect until a written notice of revocation has
been filed with the Exchange. A revocation shall in no way relieve a Clearing
Member of responsibility for transactions guaranteed prior to the effective date of
such revocation.
Rule 809.

Financial Requirements for Market Makers

(a) Primary Market Makers. Every Primary Market Maker shall maintain
net liquidating equity of not less than $3,250,000 plus $25,000 excess equity for each
underlying security upon which appointed options are open for trading in excess of the
initial ten (10) underlying securities.
(b) Competitive Market Makers. Every Competitive Market Maker shall
maintain net liquidating equity of not less than $1,000,000.
(c) Each market maker that makes an arrangement to finance his
transactions as a market maker must identify to the Exchange the source of the
financing and its terms. The Exchange must be informed immediately of the
intention of any party to terminate or change any such arrangement.
Supplemental Material to Rule 809
.01 For purposes of Rule 809, the term “net liquidating equity” means the sum of
positive cash balances and long securities positions less negative cash balances and
short securities positions.
Rule 810.

Reserved

Rule 811.

Directed Orders

(a) Definitions.

-78-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(1) A “Directed Order” is an order routed from an Electronic Access
Member to an Exchange market maker through the Exchange’s System.
(2) A “Directed Market Maker” is a market maker that receives a
Directed Order.
(3) The “NBBO” is defined in Rule 1900.
(b) Exchange market makers may only receive and handle orders on an
agency basis if they are Directed Orders and only in the manner prescribed in
this Rule 811. A market maker can elect whether or not to accept Directed
Orders on a daily basis. If a market maker elects to be a Directed Market
Maker, it must accept Directed Orders from all Electronic Access Members and
cannot reject a Directed Order. The identity of the Electronic Access Member
that entered the Directed Order will be made available to the Directed Market
Maker.
(c) Obligations of Directed Market Makers.
(1) Directed Market Makers must hold the interests of orders
entrusted to them above their own interests and fulfill in a professional manner all
other duties of an agent, including, but not limited to, ensuring that each such
order, regardless of its size or source, receives proper representation and timely,
best possible execution in accordance with the terms of the order and the rules
and policies of the Exchange.
(2) Directed Market Makers must ensure that their acceptance and
execution of Directed Orders as agent are in compliance with applicable Federal
and Exchange rules and policies.
(3) Within one (1) second of receipt of a Directed Order, Directed
Market Makers must either enter the Directed Order into the PIM pursuant to
Rule 723 or release the Directed Order to the Exchange’s limit order book
pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Rule.
(i) If the Directed Market Maker is quoting at the NBBO on
the opposite side of the Directed Order, the Directed Market Maker is
prohibited from adjusting the price of its quote to a price that is less
favorable than the price available at the NBBO or reducing the size of its
quote prior to submitting the Directed Order to the PIM, unless such quote
change is the result of an automated quotation system that operates
independently from the existence or non-existence of a pending Directed
Order. Otherwise changing a quote on the opposite side of the Directed
Order except as specifically permitted herein will be a violation of Rule 400
(Just and Equitable Principles of Trade).

-79-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

(ii) If a Directed Market Maker fails to either enter a Directed
Order into the PIM or release the order within one (1) second of its receipt,
the Directed Order will be automatically released by the System and
processed according to paragraph (e) of this Rule.
(d) Directed Market Maker Guarantee. If the Directed Market
Maker is quoting at the NBBO on the opposite side of the market from a Directed
Order at the time the Directed Order is received by the Directed Market Maker,
and the Directed Order is marketable, the System will automatically guarantee
execution of the Directed Order against the Directed Market Maker at the price
and the size of its quote (the “Guarantee”). The Directed Market Maker cannot
alter the Guarantee.
(e) Except as provided in this paragraph (e), when a Directed Order
is released, the System processes the order in the same manner as any other
order received by the Exchange. Directed Orders will not be automatically
executed at a price that is inferior to the NBBO and, except as provided in
paragraph (e)(3), will be handled pursuant to Supplementary Material .02 and .03
to Rule 1901 when the Exchange best bid or offer is inferior to the NBBO.
(1) A marketable Directed Order will be matched against orders and
quotes according to Rule 713 except that, at any given price level, the Directed
Market Maker will be last in priority.
(i) If, after all other interest at the NBBO is executed in full,
there is any remaining unexecuted quantity of the Directed Order and the
Directed Market Maker is quoting at the NBBO or a Guarantee exists, a
broadcast message will be sent to all Members. After one (1) second, any
additional interest at the same or better price will be executed according to
Rule 713.
(ii) If there continues to be any remaining unexecuted
quantity of the Directed Order, it will be executed against any interest at
the same price from the Directed Market Maker. If a Guarantee exists at
that price, an execution will occur for at least the size of the Guarantee.
(iii) If there continues to be any remaining unexecuted
quantity of the Directed Order and the Directed Order is marketable at the
next price level without trading through the NBBO, the Directed Order will
be allocated according to Rule 713 except that the Directed Market Maker
will be last in priority. If an execution at any given price level would cause
the Directed Order to be executed at a price inferior to the NBBO, the
order will be handled according to Supplementary Material .02 and .03 to
Rule 1901.
(iv) Paragraph (e)(1)(iii) will be repeated until the Directed
Order is (A) fully executed, (B) handled according to Supplementary
-80-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

Material .02 and .03 to Rule 1901, or (C) no longer marketable, in which
case it will be placed on the limit order book.
(2) If a Directed Order is not marketable at the time it is released:
(i) If a Guarantee exists, a broadcast message will be sent to
all Members. After one (1) second, the Directed Order will be executed
against any contra interest at the Guarantee price or better according to
Rule 713. Thereafter, the Directed Order will be executed against the
Directed Market Maker for at least the size of the Guarantee. If there is
any remaining unexecuted quantity of the Directed Order, it will be placed
on the Exchange’s limit order book.
(ii) If no Guarantee exists, the Directed Order will be placed
on the Exchange’s limit order book. In this case, the Directed Market
Maker may not enter a proprietary order to execute against the Directed
Order during the one (1) second following the release of the Directed
Order.
(3) If, at the time a Directed Order is released by the Directed
Market Maker, the Directed Order is marketable but the Exchange best bid or
offer is inferior to the NBBO, and the Directed Market Maker is the Primary
Market Maker in the option class for the Directed Order, then a broadcast
message shall be sent to all Members displaying the Directed Order. After one
(1) second, the Directed Order will be executed against any contra interest at the
NBBO price or better according to Rule 713, except that the Directed Market
Maker will be last in priority. Thereafter, if there is any remaining unexecuted
quantity of the Directed Order, it will be handled according to Supplementary
Material .02 and .03 to Rule 1901.

-81-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 9

[Reserved]


-82-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 10
Closing Transactions
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 10, as such rules may be in effect from time
to time (the “Chapter 10 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference into this ISE
Mercury Chapter 10, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby applicable to ISE
Mercury Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with the Chapter 10 Rules as
though such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined terms, including any variations
thereof, contained in the Chapter 10 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercuryrelated meaning of such term. Solely by way of example, and not in limitation or in
exhaustion: the defined term “Exchange” in the Chapter 10 Rules shall be read to refer
to ISE Mercury; the defined term “Rule” in the Chapter 10 Rules shall be read to refer to
the ISE Mercury Rule; the defined term “Clearing Member” in the Chapter 10 Rules
shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Clearing Member; and the defined term
“Member” in the Chapter 10 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Member.

-83-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 11
Exercises and Deliveries
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 11, as such rules may be in effect from time
to time (the “Chapter 11 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference into this ISE
Mercury Chapter 11, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby applicable to ISE
Mercury Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with the Chapter 11 Rules as
though such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined terms, including any variations
thereof, contained in the Chapter 11 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercuryrelated meaning of such term. Solely by way of example, and not in limitation or in
exhaustion: the defined term “Exchange” in the Chapter 11 Rules shall be read to refer
to ISE Mercury; the defined term “Rule” in the Chapter 11 Rules shall be read to refer to
the ISE Mercury Rule; the defined term “Clearing Member” in the Chapter 11 Rules
shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Clearing Member; and the defined term
“Member” in the Chapter 11 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Member.

-84-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 12
Margins
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 12, as such rules may be in effect from time
to time (the “Chapter 12 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference into this ISE
Mercury Chapter 12, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby applicable to ISE
Mercury Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with the Chapter 12 Rules as
though such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined terms, including any variations
thereof, contained in the Chapter 12 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercuryrelated meaning of such term. Solely by way of example, and not in limitation or in
exhaustion: the defined term “Exchange” in the Chapter 12 Rules shall be read to refer
to ISE Mercury; the defined term “Rule” in the Chapter 12 Rules shall be read to refer to
the ISE Mercury Rule; and the defined term “Member” in the Chapter 12 Rules shall be
read to refer to the ISE Mercury Member.

-85-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 13
Net Capital Requirements
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 13, as such rules may be in effect
from time to time (the “Chapter 13 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference
into this ISE Mercury Chapter 13, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby
applicable to ISE Mercury Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with
the Chapter 13 Rules as though such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined
terms, including any variations thereof, contained in the Chapter 13 Rules shall
be read to refer to the ISE Mercury-related meaning of such term. Solely by way
of example, and not in limitation or in exhaustion: the defined term “Exchange” in
the Chapter 13 Rules shall be read to refer to ISE Mercury; the defined term
“Rule” in the Chapter 13 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Rule; the
defined term “President” in the Chapter 13 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE
Mercury President; and the defined term “Member” in the Chapter 13 Rules shall
be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Member.

-86-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 14
Records, Reports and Audits
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 14, as such rules may be in effect
from time to time (the “Chapter 14 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference
into this ISE Mercury Chapter 14, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby
applicable to ISE Mercury Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with
the Chapter 14 Rules as though such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined
terms, including any variations thereof, contained in the Chapter 14 Rules shall
be read to refer to the ISE Mercury-related meaning of such term. Solely by way
of example, and not in limitation or in exhaustion: the defined term “Exchange” in
the Chapter 14 Rules shall be read to refer to ISE Mercury; the defined term
“Rule” in the Chapter 14 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Rule; the
defined term “Market Maker” in the Chapter 14 Rules shall be read to refer to the
ISE Mercury Market Maker; and the defined term “Member” in the Chapter 14
Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Member.

-87-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 15
Summary Suspension
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 15, as such rules may be in effect from time
to time (the “Chapter 15 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference into this ISE
Mercury Chapter 15, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby applicable to ISE
Mercury Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with the Chapter 15 Rules as
though such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined terms, including any variations
thereof, contained in the Chapter 15 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercuryrelated meaning of such term. Solely by way of example, and not in limitation or in
exhaustion: the defined term “Exchange” in the Chapter 15 Rules shall be read to refer
to ISE Mercury; the defined term “Rule” in the Chapter 15 Rules shall be read to refer to
the ISE Mercury Rule; the defined term “Board” in the Chapter 15 Rules shall be read to
refer to the ISE Mercury Board; and the defined term “Member” in the Chapter 15 Rules
shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Member. For the avoidance of doubt, the
reference to “leases” in Rule 1503 shall not apply to ISE Mercury, since ISE Mercury
memberships can’t be leased.

-88-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 16
Discipline
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 16, as such rules may be in effect from time
to time (the “Chapter 16 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference into this ISE
Mercury Chapter 16, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby applicable to ISE
Mercury Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with the Chapter 16 Rules as
though such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined terms, including any variations
thereof, contained in the Chapter 16 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercuryrelated meaning of such term. Solely by way of example, and not in limitation or in
exhaustion: the defined term “Exchange” in the Chapter 16 Rules shall be read to refer
to ISE Mercury; the defined term “Rule” in the Chapter 16 Rules shall be read to refer to
the ISE Mercury Rule; the defined term “Affiliate” in the Chapter 16 Rules shall be read
to refer to the ISE Mercury Affiliate; and the defined term “Member” in the Chapter 16
Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Member. In addition, for the avoidance
of doubt, the contract with FINRA that is referred to in Rule 1615 also covers ISE
Mercury.

-89-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 17
Hearings and Review
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 17, as such rules may be in effect from time
to time (the “Chapter 17 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference into this ISE
Mercury Chapter 17, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby applicable to ISE
Mercury Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with the Chapter 17 Rules as
though such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined terms, including any variations
thereof, contained in the Chapter 17 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercuryrelated meaning of such term. Solely by way of example, and not in limitation or in
exhaustion: the defined term “Exchange” in the Chapter 17 Rules shall be read to refer
to ISE Mercury; the defined term “Rule” in the Chapter 17 Rules shall be read to refer to
the ISE Mercury Rule; the defined term “Business Conduct Committee” in the Chapter
17 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Business Conduct Committee; and
the defined term “Member” in the Chapter 17 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE
Mercury Member.

-90-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 18
Arbitration
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 18, as such rules may be in effect from time
to time (the “Chapter 18 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference into this ISE
Mercury Chapter 18, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby applicable to ISE
Mercury Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with the Chapter 18 Rules as
though such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined terms, including any variations
thereof, contained in the Chapter 18 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercuryrelated meaning of such term. Solely by way of example, and not in limitation or in
exhaustion: the defined term “Exchange” in the Chapter 18 Rules shall be read to refer
to ISE Mercury; the defined term “Rule” in the Chapter 18 Rules shall be read to refer to
the ISE Mercury Rule; and the defined term “Member” in the Chapter 18 Rules shall be
read to refer to the ISE Mercury Member.

-91-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 19
Intermarket Linkage
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 19, as such rules may be in effect from time
to time (the “Chapter 19 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference into this ISE
Mercury Chapter 19, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby applicable to ISE
Mercury Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with the Chapter 19 Rules as
though such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined terms, including any variations
thereof, contained in the Chapter 19 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercuryrelated meaning of such term. Solely by way of example, and not in limitation or in
exhaustion: the defined term “Exchange” in the Chapter 19 Rules shall be read to refer
to ISE Mercury; the defined term “Rule” in the Chapter 19 Rules shall be read to refer to
the ISE Mercury Rule; the defined term “Bid” in the Chapter 19 Rules shall be read to
refer to the ISE Mercury Bid; and the defined term “Member” in the Chapter 19 Rules
shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Member.

-92-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 20
Index Rules
The rules contained in ISE Chapter 20, as such rules may be in effect from time
to time (the “Chapter 20 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference into this ISE
Mercury Chapter 20, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby applicable to ISE
Mercury Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with the Chapter 20 Rules as
though such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined terms, including any variations
thereof, contained in the Chapter 20 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercuryrelated meaning of such term. Solely by way of example, and not in limitation or in
exhaustion: the defined term “Exchange” in the Chapter 20 Rules shall be read to refer
to ISE Mercury; the defined term “Rule” in the Chapter 20 Rules shall be read to refer to
the ISE Mercury Rule; the defined term “Exchange Official” in the Chapter 20 Rules
shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Official; and the defined term “Member” in the
Chapter 20 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Member.

-93-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 21

[Reserved]

-94-

ISE Mercury, LLC Rules

CHAPTER 22
Rate-Modified Foreign Currency Options Rules

The rules contained in ISE Chapter 22, as such rules may be in effect
from time to time (the “Chapter 22 Rules”), are hereby incorporated by reference
into this ISE Mercury Chapter 22, and are thus ISE Mercury Rules and thereby
applicable to ISE Mercury Members. ISE Mercury Members shall comply with
the Chapter 22 Rules as though such rules were fully-set forth herein. All defined
terms, including any variations thereof, contained in the Chapter 22 Rules shall
be read to refer to the ISE Mercury-related meaning of such term. Solely by way
of example, and not in limitation or in exhaustion: the defined term “Exchange” in
the Chapter 22 Rules shall be read to refer to ISE Mercury; the defined term
“Rule” in the Chapter 22 Rules shall be read to refer to the ISE Mercury Rule;
and the defined term “Member” in the Chapter 22 Rules shall be read to refer to
the ISE Mercury Member.

-95-

Adopted as of January 6, 2015

CONSTITUTION

OF

ISE MERCURY, LLC

TABLE OF CONTENTS
	
Page
ARTICLE I SOLE LLC MEMBER ................................................................................................1 

Section 1.1 Sole LLC Member ...........................................................................................1 

Section 1.2 Meetings of Sole LLC Member .......................................................................1 

Section 1.3 Special Meetings of Sole LLC Member ..........................................................1 

Section 1.4. Notice of Sole LLC Member Meetings; Proxies; Record Date; 

No Action by Written Consent ....................................................................1 

ARTICLE II EXCHANGE RIGHTS...............................................................................................2 

Section 2.1 Annual Meeting ...............................................................................................2 

Section 2.2 Special Meetings..............................................................................................2 

Section 2.3 Notice of Meetings...........................................................................................3 

Section 2.4 Quorum ............................................................................................................3 

Section 2.5 Voting ..............................................................................................................4 

Section 2.6 Proxies..............................................................................................................4 

Section 2.7 Record Date .....................................................................................................4 

Section 2.8 List of Holders .................................................................................................5 

Section 2.9 No Action by Written Consent. .......................................................................5 

ARTICLE III DIRECTORS ...........................................................................................................5 

Section 3.1 General Powers ................................................................................................5 

Section 3.2 Number, Tenure, Qualifications and Voting....................................................6 

Section 3.3 Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships...................................................8 

Section 3.4 Resignation ......................................................................................................8 

Section 3.5 Removal ...........................................................................................................8 

Section 3.6 Meetings...........................................................................................................8 

Section 3.7 Quorum and Voting .........................................................................................9 

Section 3.8 Written Consent of Directors in Lieu of a Meeting .........................................9 

Section 3.9 Compensation ..................................................................................................9 

Section 3.10 Nomination of Directors ................................................................................9 

Section 3.11 Interested Directors......................................................................................10 

Section 3.12 Chairman of the Board.................................................................................11 

Section 3.13 Vice Chairman of the Board ........................................................................11 

ARTICLE IV OFFICERS............................................................................................................11 

Section 4.1 Officers ..........................................................................................................11 

Section 4.2 Election and Term of Office ..........................................................................11 

Section 4.3 Resignation and Removal ..............................................................................11 

Section 4.4 Compensation and Bond ................................................................................12 

Section 4.5 Qualification ..................................................................................................12 

Section 4.6 President and Chief Executive Officer ..........................................................12 

Section 4.7 Chief Regulatory Officer................................................................................12 

Section 4.8 Vice Presidents...............................................................................................12 

Section 4.9 Treasurer ........................................................................................................12 

Section 4.10 Secretary ......................................................................................................13
	

Section 4.11 Assistant Treasurers .....................................................................................13 

Section 4.12 Assistant Secretaries ....................................................................................13 

Section 4.13 Delegation of Duties. ...................................................................................13 

ARTICLE V COMMITTEES .......................................................................................................13 

Section 5.1 Committees of the Board of Directors ...........................................................13 

Section 5.2 Executive Committee .....................................................................................14 

Section 5.3 Nominating Committee..................................................................................14 

Section 5.4 Corporate Governance Committee ................................................................15 

Section 5.5 Finance & Audit Committee ..........................................................................15 

Section 5.6 Compensation Committee..............................................................................15 

Section 5.7 Conduct of Proceedings .................................................................................15 

ARTICLE VI INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE ..........................................................16 

Section 6.1 Right to Indemnification ................................................................................16 

Section 6.2 Right to Advancement of Expenses ...............................................................16 

Section 6.3 Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit..................................................................16 

Section 6.4 Non-Exclusivity of Rights .............................................................................17 

Section 6.5 Insurance ........................................................................................................17 

Section 6.6 Indemnification of Employees and Agents of the Exchange .........................17 

Section 6.7 Contract Rights ..............................................................................................17 

ARTICLE VII EXCHANGE RIGHTS..........................................................................................18 

Section 7.1 Uncertificated Rights .....................................................................................18 

ARTICLE VIII WAIVER OF NOTICE ........................................................................................18 

Section 8.1 Waiver of Notice............................................................................................18 

ARTICLE IX CHECKS, NOTES, DRAFTS, ETC. ......................................................................18 

Section 9.1 Checks, Notes, Drafts, Etc. ............................................................................18 

ARTICLE X AMENDMENTS......................................................................................................18 

Section 10.1 Amendments ................................................................................................18 

ARTICLE XI REGULATION.......................................................................................................19
	
Section 11.1 Rulemaking ..................................................................................................19 

Section 11.2 Supervision ..................................................................................................19
	
Section 11.3 Securities......................................................................................................20 

Section 11.4 Penalties .......................................................................................................20 

ARTICLE XII PROVISIONS REGARDING EXCHANGE RIGHTS, MEMBERS
	
AND TRADING PRIVILEGES ............................................................................21 

Section 12.1 PMM Rights.................................................................................................21 

Section 12.2 CMM Rights ................................................................................................21 

Section 12.3 EAM Rights .................................................................................................21 


Section 12.4 Approval of Holders of Exchange Rights....................................................22 

Section 12.5 Eligibility for Trading Privileges; Members................................................22 

Section 12.6 Membership Agreement................. .............................................................22 

ARTICLE XIII DEFINITION OF TERMS...................................................................................22 

Section 13.1 Definitions....................................................................................................22 


CONSTITUTION OF
ISE MERCURY, LLC

ARTICLE I
	
SOLE LLC MEMBER 

Section 1.1 Sole LLC Member. ISE Mercury, LLC (the “Exchange”) is a single
member limited liability company with one limited liability company interest currently
authorized (the “LLC Interest”). The holder of the LLC interest is International Securities
Exchange Holdings, Inc., which may assign the LLC Interest as provided in the LLC Agreement
(the “Sole LLC Member”).
Section 1.2 Meetings of Sole LLC Member. (a) Meetings of the Sole LLC
Member shall be held at such place within or without the State of Delaware, as may be fixed
by the Board of Directors in conjunction with meetings of holders of Exchange Rights (as
defined in Article VI of the Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Exchange (the
“LLC Agreement”)).
(b) The Sole LLC Member shall meet annually along with the holders of
Exchange Rights on such date and place and at such time as may be designated by the Board
of Directors provided in Section 2.1 to elect the members of the Board of Directors and
transact such other business as may be set forth in the written notice of the meeting.
Section 1.3 Special Meetings of Sole LLC Member. A special meeting of the
Sole LLC Member may be called by the Chairman of the Board of the Exchange or a
majority of the Board of Directors for any purpose or purposes, and shall be called by the
Secretary of the Exchange at the request of the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution
adopted by a majority of the total number of directors which the Exchange would at the time
have if there were no vacancies (the “Whole Board”), including no less than fifty percent
(50%) of the Non-Industry Directors (as defined in Section 3.2). A special meeting shall also
be called by the Secretary of the Exchange at the request of the Sole LLC Member. The Board
of Directors may designate the place of meeting for any special meeting, and if no such
designation is made, the place of meeting shall be the principal executive offices of the
Exchange.
Section 1.4. Notice of Sole LLC Member Meetings; Proxies; Record Date;
No Action by Written Consent. Whenever the Sole LLC Member is required or permitted to
take any action at a meeting, unless notice is waived as provided in Section 8.1 of this
Constitution, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall state the place, date and
hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the
meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by law, and except in instances in which the Sole
LLC Member duly waives notice, the written notice of any meeting shall be given personally or
by mail, not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to
the Sole LLC Member. If mailed, notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the mail,
postage prepaid, directed to the Sole LLC Member at the address of the Sole LLC Member as it
appears on the records of the Exchange. When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place,
-1-

notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced
at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the Exchange may
transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If, however,
the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date
is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to the Sole
LLC Member.
In order that the Exchange may determine the holder of the Interest entitled to
notice of or to vote at any meeting of the Sole LLC Member or any adjournment thereof or for
the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which
record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is
adopted by the Board of Directors, and which shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten
(10) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other
action. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, (l) the record date for determining
the holder of the Interest entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the Sole LLC Member
shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the date on which notice is given, or,
if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the
meeting is held, and (2) the record date for determining the holder of the Interest for any other
purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the
resolution relating thereto. A determination of the holder of the Interest of record entitled to
notice of or to vote at a meeting of the Sole LLC Member shall apply to any adjournment of the
meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the
adjourned meeting. Only such holder of the Interest as shall be holder of record on the date so
fixed shall be entitled to notice of, and to vote at, such meeting and any adjournment thereof, or
to participate in such action, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of the Interest on
the books of the Exchange after any record date so fixed.
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Sole LLC Member must
be taken at any annual or special meeting of the Sole LLC Member and may not be taken by
any consent in writing by the Sole LLC Member.
ARTICLE II
EXCHANGE RIGHTS
Section 2.1 Annual Meeting. An annual meeting of the holders of Exchange
Rights shall be held on such date and at such time as may be designated by the Board of
Directors at the principal executive offices of the Exchange, or at such other place within or
without the State of Delaware as may be fixed by the Board of Directors for the purpose of
electing directors to fill expiring terms.
Section 2.2 Special Meetings. A special meeting of the holders of Exchange
Rights entitled to vote on any business to be considered at any such meeting may be called by
the Chairman of the Board of the Exchange or a majority of the Board of Directors for any
purpose or purposes, and shall be called by the Secretary of the Exchange at the request of
the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board,
including no less than fifty percent (50%) of the Non-Industry Directors (as defined in
Section 3.2). The Board of Directors may designate the place of meeting for any special
-2-

meeting, and if no such designation is made, the place of meeting shall be the principal
executive offices of the Exchange.
Section 2.3 Notice of Meetings. Whenever holders of Exchange Rights are
required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, unless notice is waived as provided in
Section 8.1 of this Constitution, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall
state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the
purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.
Unless otherwise provided by law, and except as to any holder of Exchange
Rights duly waiving notice, the written notice of any meeting shall be given personally or by
mail, not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to
each holder of Exchange Rights entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, notice shall be
deemed given when deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, directed to each such holder at
such holder’s address as it appears on the records of the Exchange. Any previously
scheduled meeting of the holders of Exchange Rights may be postponed by resolution of the
Board of Directors and upon public notice given by press release prior to the time previously
scheduled for such meeting of holders.
When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be
given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at
which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the Exchange may transact any
business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If, however, the
adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is
fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each
holder of Exchange Rights of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Section 2.4 Quorum. Except as otherwise provided by law, the LLC
Agreement or by this Constitution, at any meeting of holders of Exchange Rights the holders
of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding Exchange Rights entitled to vote
generally in the election of Industry Directors (as defined in Section 3.2)(the “Voting
Rights”), either present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of any business at such meeting, except that, when specified business is to
be voted on by a series voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the voting power of
such series entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of such business.
To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the chairman of the meeting or a
majority of the voting power of the Voting Rights so represented may adjourn the
meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum (or in the case of
specified business to be voted on as a series, the chairman or a majority of the rights of
such series entitled to vote which are so represented may adjourn the meeting with
respect to such specified business). No notice of the time and place of adjourned
meetings need be given except as provided in the last paragraph of Section 2.3 of this
Constitution. The holders of Exchange Rights present at a duly organized meeting may

-3-

continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of a
sufficient number of holders to result in less than a quorum.
Section 2.5 Voting. Except with respect to the directors elected by the Sole
LLC Member, as set forth in Section 3.2(b) hereof, whenever directors are to be elected at a
meeting, they shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at the meeting by the holders of
Exchange Rights entitled to vote thereon. Whenever any company action, other than the
election of directors, is to be taken by vote of the holders of Exchange Rights at a meeting,
such company action shall, except as otherwise required by law, by the LLC Agreement or
by this Constitution, be authorized by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the
Exchange Rights present or represented by proxy and entitled to vote with respect to such
company action.
Except as otherwise provided by law, or by the LLC Agreement, each holder
of record of Exchange Rights entitled to vote on any matter at any meeting of holders of
Exchange Rights shall be entitled to one vote for each Exchange Right standing in the name
of such holder on the books of the Exchange on the record date for the determination of the
holders entitled to vote at the meeting.
Upon the demand of any holder of Exchange Rights entitled to vote, the vote
for directors or the vote on any other matter at a meeting shall be by written ballot, but
otherwise the method of voting and the manner in which votes are counted shall be
discretionary with the presiding officer at the meeting.
Section 2.6 Proxies. Each holder of Exchange Rights entitled to vote at a
meeting of holders may authorize another person or persons to act for him or her by proxy,
but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after eleven (11) months from its date, unless
the proxy provides for a longer period. Every proxy shall be signed by the holder or by his or
her duly authorized attorney. Such proxy must be filed with the Secretary of the Exchange or
his or her representative at or before the time of the meeting.
Section 2.7 Record Date. In order that the Exchange may determine the
holders of Exchange Rights entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of holders or any
adjournment thereof or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors
may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution
fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which shall not be more than
sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty
(60) days prior to any other action.
If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, (l) the record date for
determining holders of Exchange Rights entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of
holders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the date on which notice is
given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on
which the meeting is held, and (2) the record date for determining holders of Exchange
Rights for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board
of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.

-4-

A determination of holders of Exchange Rights of record entitled to notice of
or to vote at a meeting of holders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided,
however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Only such holders of Exchange Rights as shall be holders of record on the
date so fixed shall be entitled to notice of, and to vote at, such meeting and any adjournment
thereof, or to participate in such action, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of
any rights on the books of the Exchange after any record date so fixed.
Section 2.8 List of Holders. The Secretary of the Exchange shall prepare and
make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of holders of Exchange Rights, a complete
list of the holders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing
the address of each holder and the number of Exchange Rights registered in the name of each
holder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any holder, for any purpose germane to
the meeting for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting on a reasonably
accessible electronic network, provided that information required to gain access to such list is
provided with the notice of the meeting, or during ordinary business hours, at the principal
place of business of the Exchange. In the event that the Exchange determines to make the list
available on an electronic network, the Exchange may take reasonable steps to ensure that
such information is available only to holders of Exchange Rights. If the meeting is to be held
at a place, then the list shall also be produced at the place of the meeting during the whole
time thereof, and may be inspected by any holder of Exchange Rights who is present. If the
meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall also be
open to the examination of any holders of Exchange Rights during the whole time of the
meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to
access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting. Nothing in this Section
shall require the Exchange to include electronic mail addresses or other electronic contact
information on such list.
The list of holders of Exchange Rights shall be the only evidence as to who
are the holders entitled to examine the list required by this Section or the books of the
Exchange, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of holders of Exchange Rights.
Section 2.9 No Action by Written Consent. Any action required or permitted
to be taken by the holders of Exchange Rights must be taken at an annual meeting or special
meeting of the holders of Exchange Rights and may not be taken by any consent in writing
by such holders.
ARTICLE III
DIRECTORS
Section 3.1 General Powers. The business and affairs of the Exchange shall
be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and
authorities by this Constitution expressly conferred upon it, the Board of Directors may
exercise all such powers of the Exchange and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by

-5-

the LLC Agreement or by this Constitution required to be exercised or done by the Sole LLC
Member or the holders of Exchange Rights.
Section 3.2 Number, Tenure, Qualifications and Voting. (a) The number of
directors shall be no less than eight (8) and no more than sixteen (16) and in no event shall
the number of Industry Directors constitute less than 30% of the members of the Board and in
no event shall the number of Non-Industry Directors constitute less than the number of
Industry Directors. A director may not be subject to a statutory disqualification (as defined in
Section 3(a)(39) of the Exchange Act).
(b) The Board shall be composed as follows:
(i)		

At least 30% of the members of the Board shall be officers, directors or
partners of Exchange Members and shall be elected by a plurality of
the holders of the Exchange Rights (the “Industry Directors”), wherein
such Industry Directors shall consist of at least one (1) PMM Director
(an officer, director or partner of a Primary Market Maker that is
elected by a plurality of holders of the PMM Rights); at least one (1)
CMM Director (an officer, director or partner of a Competitive Market
Maker that is elected by a plurality of holders of the CMM Rights); and
at least one (1) EAM Director (an officer, director or partner of a
Electronic Access Member that is elected by a plurality of holders of
the EAM Rights); provided, however, that the number of PMM
Director(s), CMM Director(s), and EAM Director(s) shall always be
equal to one another (i.e. either one (1) PMM Director, one (1) CMM
Director and one (1) EAM Director, or two (2) PMM Directors, two (2)
CMM Directors and two (2) EAM Directors);

(ii)		

At least 50% of the members of the Board shall meet the requirements
of non- industry representatives and shall be elected by the Sole LLC
Member (the “Non-Industry Directors”), at least one (1) of whom shall
be a public representative (the “Public Director”); and

(iii)		 One (1) director shall be the person then holding the office of President
and Chief Executive Officer of the Exchange and shall be elected by
the Sole LLC Member.
(c)
Upon approval of the Exchange’s Form 1 Application by the Securities
and Exchange Commission (the “Approval Date”), the Sole LLC Member will appoint the
initial Directors of the Board (“Initial Directors”) and such Initial Directors shall serve only
until the first annual meeting of the holders of Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC Member
following such appointment, which meeting shall be held as promptly as possible after the
effective date of the LLC Agreement and within ninety (90) days after the Approval Date. At
each annual meeting of the holders of Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC Member, the Sole
LLC Member shall elect the successors to such Non-Industry Directors whose terms are
expiring. The Non-Industry Directors shall hold office for a term expiring at each
succeeding annual meeting of the holders of Exchange Rights and Sole LLC Member held in
the first year following the year of their election, and until their successors are elected and
-6-

qualified. At each annual meeting of the holders of Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC
Member, the holders of Exchange Rights shall elect the successors to such Industry Directors
whose terms are expiring. In the event there is more than one (1) PMM Director, one (1)
CMM Director, and one (1) EAM Director elected at any annual meeting, the Industry
Directors shall be divided into two classes, and designated as Class I or Class II directors.
Each of Class I and Class II shall be comprised of half of the Industry Directors. At the first
annual meeting of the holders of Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC Member, the Class I
directors shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2016 annual meeting of the holders of
Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC Member and the Class II directors shall be elected for a
term expiring at the 2017 annual meeting of the holders of Exchange Rights and the Sole
LLC Member. Thereafter, the Industry Directors shall hold office for a term expiring at each
succeeding annual meeting of holders of Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC Member held in
the second year following the year of their election, and until their successors are elected and
qualified. The President and Chief Executive Officer shall hold office for a term of one (1)
year, or until such earlier time as such person no longer serves as President and Chief
Executive Officer of the Exchange.
(d) All meetings of the Board of Directors of the Exchange (and any
committees of the Exchange) pertaining to the self-regulatory function of the Exchange
(including disciplinary matters) or relating to the structure of the market which the Exchange
regulates shall be closed to all persons other than members of the Board of Directors and
officers, staff, counsel or other advisors whose participation is necessary or appropriate to the
proper discharge of such regulatory functions and any representatives of the Commission. In
no event shall members of the Board of Directors of the Sole LLC Member who are not also
members of the Board of Directors of the Exchange or any officers, staff, counsel or advisors
of the Sole LLC Member who are not also officers, staff, counsel or advisors of the Exchange
be allowed to participate in any meetings of the Board of Directors of the Exchange (or any
committees of the Exchange) pertaining to the self-regulatory function of the Exchange
(including disciplinary matters) or relating to the structure of the market which the Exchange
regulates.
(e) Qualifications and other Requirements.
(i)
No Exchange Member shall have more than one officer,
director or partner of such Exchange Member elected to the Board of
Directors during any term.
(ii)
The President and Chief Executive Officer shall serve on the
Board only for so long as such person remains the President and Chief
Executive Officer.
(iii) No Industry Director may serve on the Board of Directors for
more than three (3) consecutive terms. In determining the amount of time a
Director has served on the Board of Directors, such Director’s service as a
director for any predecessor entity of the Exchange shall be taken into
account. Any such director may be eligible for election following a two-year
hiatus from service on the Board of Directors.
-7-

Section 3.3 Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships. In the event that a
director position becomes available, whether through a vacancy resulting from death,
resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, or a newly
created directorship resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, the
Nominating Committee, in the case of a vacancy for an Industry Directorship, and the
Corporate Governance Committee, in the case of a vacancy for a Non-Industry Directorship,
shall nominate, and the Board of Directors shall elect, by the affirmative vote of a majority of
the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, a person
satisfying the qualifications for the class of directors in which there is a vacancy, and any
director so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of holders of
Exchange Rights and the Sole LLC Member at which the term of office of the class to which
such director has been elected expires and until such director’s successor shall have been
duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting
the Whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Section 3.4 Resignation. Any director may resign at any time upon written
notice to the Exchange. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein
or, if the time be not specified, upon receipt thereof, and the acceptance of such resignation,
unless required by the terms thereof, shall not be necessary to make such resignation
effective.
Section 3.5 Removal. Any director may be removed from office at any time,
but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of, in the case of the Non-Industry
Directors, the Sole LLC Member, and in the case of the Industry Directors, the holders of at
least a majority of the Exchange Rights.
Section 3.6 Meetings. Meetings of the Board of Directors, regular or special,
may be held at any place within or without the State of Delaware. Members of the Board of
Directors, or of any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a
meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or
similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the
meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting by such means shall constitute
presence in person at such meeting. An annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be
held as soon as practicable following each annual meeting of holders of Exchange Rights and
the Sole LLC Member. The Board of Directors may fix times and places for such annual
and additional regular meetings of the Board of Directors and no further notice of such
meetings need be given. A special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held
whenever called by
the Chairman of the Board or by the Secretary if a majority of the Board of Directors
shall request such a meeting, at such time and place as shall be specified in the notice or
waiver thereof. The person or persons authorized to call a special meeting of the Board
of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings. Notice of any special meeting
shall be given to each director at his or her business or residence in writing, by
electronic mail or by telegram or by telephone communication. If mailed, such notice
shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so
addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least five (5) days before such meeting. If
by electronic mail, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the
electronic mail is sent at least twenty-four hours before the meeting. If by telegram,
-8-

such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the telegram is delivered to the
telegraph company at least twenty-four hours before such meeting. If by facsimile
transmission, such notice shall be transmitted at least twenty-four hours before such
meeting. If by telephone, the notice shall be given at least twelve hours prior to the time
set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any
regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of
such meeting, except for amendments to this Constitution as provided under Section
10.1 of this Constitution.
Section 3.7 Quorum and Voting. A number of directors equal to at least a
majority of the Whole Board, including no less than fifty percent (50%) of the Non-Industry
Directors, provided that such requirement shall be deemed satisfied if at least fifty percent
(50%) of the Non-Industry Directors are (i) present at or (ii) have waived their attendance for
a meeting after receiving an agenda prior to such meeting, shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, but if there be less
than a quorum, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to
time, and no further notice thereof need be given other than announcement at the meeting
so adjourned. Except as otherwise provided by law, by the LLC Agreement, or by this
Constitution, the vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a
quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.8 Written Consent of Directors in Lieu of a Meeting. Any action
required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any
committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors
or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing
or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or of
such committee.
Section 3.9 Compensation. Directors may receive compensation for services
to the Exchange in their capacities as directors or otherwise in such manner and in such
amounts as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Section 3.10 Nomination of Directors. (a) (i) Subject to Section 3.2(c),
nominees for election of the Industry Directors shall be selected by the Nominating
Committee as described in Section 5.3(c) or as provided in this Section 3.10.
(ii) In addition to the nominees for Industry Directors named by the
Nominating Committee, persons eligible to serve as such may be nominated for
election to the Board of Directors by a petition, signed by the holders of not less than
five percent (5%) of the outstanding Exchange Rights of the series entitled to elect
such person if there are more than eighty (80) Exchange Rights in the series entitled
to vote, ten percent (10%) of the outstanding rights of such series entitled to elect
such person if there are between eighty (80) and forty (40) Exchange Rights in the
series entitled to vote, and twenty-five percent (25%) of the outstanding Exchange
Rights of such series entitled to elect such person if there are less than forty (40)
Exchange Rights in the series entitled to vote. Such petition must be filed with the
Secretary at least 45 days prior to the annual meeting for such year. For purposes of
determining whether a person has been nominated for election by petition by the
-9-

requisite percentage, no Exchange Member, alone or together with its affiliates, may
account for more than fifty percent (50%) of the signatures of the holders of
outstanding Exchange Rights of the series entitled to elect such person, and any such
signatures by such Exchange Member, alone or together with its affiliates, in excess
of such fifty percent (50%) limitation shall be disregarded.
(b) (i) Nominees for election of the Non-Industry Directors, including the
Public Director(s), shall be selected by the Corporate Governance Committee or by the Sole
LLC Member in the manner set forth in subparagraph (ii) below. In the event any nominee
named by the Corporate Governance Committee withdraws or becomes ineligible, the
Corporate Governance Committee may select an additional nominee to replace the
withdrawn or ineligible nominee. In making nominations, such committee shall give due
consideration to a member’s longevity of service on the Board of Directors and the benefits
of rotation of the Non-Industry Directors serving on the Board of Directors.
(ii) In addition to the nominees named by the Corporate Governance
Committee, persons may be nominated for election to the Board as Non-Industry
Directors by a petition, signed by the Sole LLC Member. Such petition must be filed
with the Secretary at least 45 days prior to the annual meeting for such year.
(c) Nominees for director shall provide the Secretary such information as is
reasonably necessary to serve as the basis for a determination of the nominee’s classification
as a Non-Industry Director, a Public Director or an Industry Director.
Section 3.11 Interested Directors. (a) No director shall directly or
indirectly participate as a member of the Board of Directors or of any committee in any
matter which would substantially affect his or her interest or the interests of any person in
whom he or she is directly or indirectly interested, although interested directors may be
counted in determining the presence of a quorum at the meeting of the Board of Directors
or of a committee which authorizes actions with respect to such matter.
(b) An interested director shall disqualify himself or herself or shall be
disqualified by a vote of the Board of Directors or the chairman of any committee.
(c) For purposes of this Section, a director is not personally interested by
reason of being or having been a member of a committee which has made prior inquiry,
examination or investigation of the subject under consideration, nor in the determination of
matters that may affect the Exchange Members as a whole or certain types of Exchange
Members, and Industry Directors shall not be prohibited from participating in such
determination by reason of their participation in the normal course of the conduct of
Exchange business.
Section 3.12 Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall be a
Non-Industry Director who is elected by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the
directors then in office. The Chairman of the Board shall serve as such for a term of one (1)
year. The Chairman of the Board shall have the authority provided in this Constitution and
the Rules, but shall not be an officer of the Exchange. The Chairman of the Board shall
preside at all meetings of holders of Exchange Rights, the Sole LLC Member, and of the
Board of Directors.
-10-

Section 3.13 Vice Chairman of the Board. The Vice Chairman of the
Board shall be elected from among the directors by the affirmative vote of at least twothirds of the directors then in office. The Vice Chairman of the Board shall serve as such
for a term of one (1) year. In the case of the absence or inability of the Chairman of the
Board to act, or a vacancy in the office of the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman
of the Board shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the Chairman of the
Board, unless determined otherwise by the Board of Directors. The Vice Chairman of the
Board shall have the authority provided in this Constitution and the Rules, but shall not be
an officer of the Exchange.
ARTICLE IV
OFFICERS
Section 4.1 Officers. The Board of Directors shall elect a President and
Chief Executive Officer, a Secretary, a Chief Regulatory Officer and a Treasurer, and one or
more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries and one or more Assistant
Treasurers. All officers elected by the Board of Directors shall have such powers and duties
as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this
Article IV, together with such other powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred
by the Board of Directors or any committee thereof. Any number of such offices may be
held by the same person, but no officer shall execute, acknowledge or verify any instrument
in more than one capacity. The Board of Directors may elect, and may delegate power to
elect, such other officers, agents and employees as it may deem necessary or proper, who
shall hold their offices or positions for such terms, have such authority and perform such
duties as may from time to time be determined by or pursuant to authorization of the Board
of Directors.
Section 4.2 Election and Term of Office. The officers of the Exchange shall
be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors
held after each annual meeting of the Sole LLC Member and holders of Exchange Rights. If
the election of officers shall not be accomplished at such meeting, such election shall be
accomplished as soon thereafter as convenient. Subject to Section 4.3 of this Constitution,
each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall
have qualified or until his or her death, removal or resignation.
Section 4.3 Resignation and Removal. Any officer may resign at any time
upon written notice to the Exchange. Any elected officer may be removed by a majority of
the members of the Whole Board, with or without cause, at any time. The Board of Directors
may delegate such power of removal as to officers, agents and employees not elected by the
Board of Directors. Such removal shall be without prejudice to a person’s contract rights, if
any, but the appointment of any person as an officer, agent or employee of the Exchange
shall not itself create contract rights.

-11-

Section 4.4 Compensation and Bond. The compensation of the officers of the
Exchange shall be fixed by the Board of Directors, but this power may be delegated to any
officer in respect of other officers under his or her control. The Exchange may secure the
fidelity of any or all of its officers, agents or employees by bond or otherwise.
Section 4.5 Qualification. The officers and employees of the Exchange shall
not be holders of Exchange Rights nor affiliated with an Exchange Member.
Section 4.6 President and Chief Executive Officer. (a) The President and
Chief Executive Officer shall be elected by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 4.1
and shall be nominated for a directorship by virtue of his or her office. The President and
Chief Executive Officer shall manage the affairs of the Exchange and shall be the
representative of the Exchange in all public matters. The President and Chief Executive
Officer shall not engage in any other occupation during his or her incumbency except with
the approval of the Board of Directors. The President and Chief Executive Officer may be
removed by a vote of two-thirds of the directors then in office, exclusive of the President and
Chief Executive Officer, in the event that he or she refuses, fails, neglects or is unable to
discharge his or her duties or for any cause affecting the best interests of the Exchange. In
the case of temporary absence or inability to act, the President and Chief Executive Officer
may designate any other officer to assume all the functions and discharge all the duties of the
President and Chief Executive Officer. Upon his or her failure to do so, or if the office of the
President and Chief Executive Officer is vacant, any officer so designated by the Board of
Directors shall perform the functions and duties of the President and Chief Executive Officer.
(b) The President and Chief Executive Officer shall have such powers and
perform such duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
Section 4.7 Chief Regulatory Officer. The Chief Regulatory Officer shall
have general supervision of the regulatory operations of the Exchange, including
responsibility for overseeing the Exchange’s surveillance, examination, and enforcement
functions and for administering any regulatory services agreements with another selfregulatory organization to which the Exchange is a party. The Chief Regulatory Officer shall
meet with the Corporate Governance Committee of the Exchange in executive session at
regularly scheduled meetings of such committee, and at any time upon request of the Chief
Regulatory Officer or any member of the Corporate Governance Committee. The Chief
Regulatory Officer may, but is not required to, also serve as the General Counsel of the
Exchange.
Section 4.8 Vice Presidents. Each Vice President shall have such powers and
perform such duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
Section 4.9 Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have charge of all funds and
securities of the Exchange, shall endorse the same for deposit or collection when necessary
and deposit the same to the credit of the Exchange in such banks or depositaries as the Board
of Directors may authorize. He or she may endorse all commercial documents requiring
endorsements for or on behalf of the Exchange, may sign all receipts and vouchers for
payments made to the Exchange and may disburse funds in accordance with the Rules or as
directed by the Board of Directors. He or she shall have all such further powers and duties
-12-

as generally are incident to the position of Treasurer or as may be assigned to him or her by
the Board of Directors.
Section 4.10 Secretary. The Secretary shall record all the proceedings of the
meetings of the holders of Exchange Rights, the Sole LLC Member and the Board of
Directors in a book to be kept for that purpose and shall also record therein all action taken
by written consent of directors in lieu of a meeting. He or she shall determine whether a
nominee for either director or a prospective committee member meets the required
qualifications for such a position and shall review the qualifications of such persons at least
annually. He or she shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the Exchange. He
or she shall have charge of the ledger setting forth the holders of Exchange Rights and such
other books and papers as the Board of Directors may direct, but he or she may delegate
responsibility for maintaining such ledger to any transfer agent appointed by the Board of
Directors. He or she shall have all such further powers and duties as generally are incident to
the position of Secretary or as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
Section 4.11 Assistant Treasurers. In the absence or inability to act of the
Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer may perform all the duties and exercise all the powers of
the Treasurer. An Assistant Treasurer shall also perform such other duties as the Treasurer or
the Board of Directors may assign to him.
Section 4.12 Assistant Secretaries. In the absence or inability to act of the
Secretary, any Assistant Secretary may perform all the duties and exercise all the powers of
the Secretary. An Assistant Secretary shall also perform such other duties as the Secretary or
the Board of Directors may assign to him.
Section 4.13 Delegation of Duties. In case of the absence of any officer of
the Exchange, or for any other reason that the Board of Directors may deem sufficient,
the Board of Directors may confer for the time being the powers or duties, or any of
them, of such officer upon any other officer or upon any director.
ARTICLE V
COMMITTEES
Section 5.1 Committees of the Board of Directors. (a) The Board of
Directors may from time to time, by resolution passed by a majority of the Whole Board,
designate one or more additional committees (the “Board Committees”), each committee to
consist of one or more directors of the Exchange. The Board of Directors may designate one
or more directors as alternate members of any Board Committee, who may replace any
absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. The resolution of the Board
of Directors may, in addition or alternatively, provide that in the absence or disqualification
of a member of a Board Committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting
and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may
unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the
place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such Board Committee, to the extent
provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors or in this Constitution, shall have and
may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the
-13-

business and affairs of the Exchange, and may authorize the seal of the Exchange to be affixed
to all papers which may require it, except with respect to those matters referred to in Section
5.2 of this Constitution and as otherwise provided by law. Unless the resolution of the Board
of Directors expressly so provides, no such Board Committee shall have the power or
authority to authorize the issuance of Exchange Rights. Any such Board Committee may
adopt rules governing the method of calling and time and place of holding its meetings.
Unless otherwise set forth herein or as provided by the Board of Directors, a majority of any
such Board Committee (or the member thereof, if only one) shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, and the vote of a majority of the members of such Board Committee
present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such Board Committee.
Each such Board Committee shall keep a record of its acts and proceedings and shall report
thereon to the Board of Directors whenever requested so to do. Any or all members of any
such Board Committee may be removed, with or without cause, by resolution of the Board of
Directors, passed by a majority of the Whole Board.
(b) A committee or subcommittee, other than a Board Committee, may
consist of industry and non-industry representatives who are not directors. Such committee
members may be appointed by the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors may delegate
such authority. Such committee members may only be removed, with or without cause, by
resolution of the Board of Directors, passed by a majority of the Whole Board. Each
prospective committee member who is not a director shall, upon request, provide the
Secretary of the Exchange with such information as is reasonably requested in order to verify
that the prospective committee member meets any specified qualifications.
Section 5.2 Executive Committee. The Executive Committee shall consist
of six (6) directors, including the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board,
the President and Chief Executive Officer and three (3) other directors, so long as the number
of Non-Industry Directors shall equal or exceed the number of Industry Directors. The Board
shall appoint the members of the Executive Committee in accordance with this Section 5.2.
The Chairman of the Executive Committee shall be the President and Chief Executive Officer
of the Exchange. The Executive Committee shall have and may exercise all the powers and
authority of the Board of Directors, except that the Executive Committee shall not have the
powers of the Board of Directors with respect to approving: (i) any merger, consolidation,
sale of substantially all of the assets or dissolution of the Exchange; or (ii) any matters
pertaining to the self-regulatory function of the Exchange (including disciplinary matters and
taking any action under Article XI of this Constitution) or relating to the structure of the
market which the Exchange regulates.
Section 5.3 Nominating Committee. (a) The Nominating Committee shall
not act as a committee of the Board of Directors, but rather shall be a committee of the
Exchange. The Nominating Committee shall be composed of three (3) Exchange Member
Representatives. No officer or employee of the Exchange shall serve on the Nominating
Committee. Not less than 60 days, but not more than 75 days, prior to each annual meeting
of the Sole LLC Member and holders of Exchange Rights, the Nominating Committee shall
select nominees for each Industry Directorship to be filled. The Board shall appoint the
members of the Nominating Committee in accordance with the qualifications prescribed in
this Section 5.3.
-14-

(b) A member of the Nominating Committee may not simultaneously serve
on the Board of Directors, unless such member is in the final year of his or her term as
director and does not stand for reelection to the Board of Directors until such time as he or
she is no longer a member of the Nominating Committee.
(c) The Nominating Committee shall nominate persons for election to the
Board of Directors as the Industry Directors by the holders of Exchange Rights during the
annual meeting pursuant to the following:
(1) The Nominating Committee shall meet on such dates and at such
times as determined by the Committee for the purpose of selecting not less than one
(1) nominee for each expiring term and vacancy on the Board of Directors for
Industry Directors.
(2) The Nominating Committee will accept recommendations
of nominations for an expiring term or vacancy of an Industry Director from
the holders of Exchange Rights.
(3) In the event any nominee named by the Nominating Committee
withdraws or becomes ineligible, the Nominating Committee may select an additional
nominee to replace the withdrawn or ineligible nominee.
(d) At all meetings, a quorum for the transaction of business shall consist of a
majority of the members of the Nominating Committee. In the absence of a quorum, a
majority of the committee members present may adjourn the meeting until a quorum is
present.
Section 5.4 Corporate Governance Committee. The Corporate Governance
Committee shall consist of at least three (3) of the Non-Industry Directors, each of whom
shall meet the requirements established in the Corporate Governance Committee charter.
The Board of Directors shall adopt a charter setting forth the responsibilities of the
Corporate Governance Committee.
Section 5.5 Finance & Audit Committee. The Finance & Audit Committee
shall consist of not less than three (3) and no more than five (5), Non-Industry Directors each
of whom shall meet the requirements established in the Finance & Audit Committee charter.
The Board of Directors shall adopt a charter setting forth the responsibilities of the Finance
& Audit Committee.
Section 5.6 Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee shall
consist of not less than three (3), and no more than five (5), Non-Industry Directors each of
whom shall meet the requirements established in the Compensation Committee charter.
The Board of Directors shall adopt a charter setting forth the responsibilities of the
Compensation Committee.
Section 5.7 Conduct of Proceedings. Except as otherwise provided in this
Constitution, the Rules or by resolution of the Board of Directors, each Committee may
determine the manner in which its proceedings shall be conducted.
-15-

ARTICLE VI
INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE
Section 6.1 Right to Indemnification. Each person who was or is made a
party or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or
proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a
“proceeding”), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal
representative is or was a director or an officer of the Exchange or is or was serving at the
request of the Exchange as a director, officer, employee or agent of any other corporation or
of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to
any employee benefit plan (hereinafter an “indemnitee”), whether the basis of such
proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent
or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be
indemnified and held harmless by the Exchange to the fullest extent authorized by the Act,
as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment,
only to the extent that such amendment permits the Exchange to provide broader
indemnification rights than the Act permitted the Exchange to provide prior to such
amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including, without limitation,
attorneys’ fees, judgments, fines, excise taxes or penalties under the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement)
reasonably incurred by such indemnitee in connection therewith; provided, however, that
except as provided in Section 6.3 with respect to proceedings seeking to enforce rights to
indemnification, the Exchange shall indemnify any such indemnitee seeking
indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such
indemnitee only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of
Directors.
Section 6.2 Right to Advancement of Expenses. The right to indemnification
conferred in Section 6.1 shall include the right to be paid by the Exchange the expenses
(including attorneys’ fees) incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final
disposition (hereinafter an “advancement of expenses”); provided, however, that, if the Act
requires, an advancement of expenses incurred by an indemnitee in his or her capacity as a
director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such
indemnitee, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) shall be made
only upon delivery to the Exchange of an undertaking (hereinafter an “undertaking”), by or
on behalf of such indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be
determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal
(hereinafter a “final adjudication”) that such indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified for
such expenses under this Section 6.2 or otherwise.
Section 6.3 Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit. If a claim under Section 6.1 or
Section 6.2 is not paid in full by the Exchange within thirty (30) days after a written claim
has been received by the Exchange, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of
expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be twenty (20) days, the indemnitee may
-16-

at any time thereafter bring suit against the Exchange to recover the unpaid amount of the
claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the Exchange
to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the
indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such
suit. In (i) any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder
(but not in a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right of an advancement of
expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (ii) in any suit brought by the Exchange to recover
an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the Exchange shall be
entitled to recover such expenses upon a final adjudication that, the indemnitee has not met
any applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the Act. Neither the failure of the
Exchange (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or the Sole LLC
Member) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that
indemnification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because the indemnitee has
met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Act, nor an actual determination by
the Exchange (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or the Sole LLC
Member) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a
presumption that the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the
case of such a suit brought by the indemnitee, be a defense to such suit. In any suit brought
by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses
hereunder, or brought by the Exchange to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to
the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is not entitled to be
indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Article VI or otherwise shall be
on the Exchange.
Section 6.4 Non-Exclusivity of Rights. The right to indemnification and the
advancement of expenses conferred in this Article VI shall not be exclusive of any other right
which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the LLC
Agreement, provision of this Constitution, agreement, vote of the Sole LLC Member or
disinterested directors or otherwise.
Section 6.5 Insurance. The Exchange may maintain insurance, at its expense,
to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Exchange or another
corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability
or loss, whether or not the Exchange would have the power to indemnify such person against
such expense, liability or loss under the law.
Section 6.6 Indemnification of Employees and Agents of the Exchange. The
Exchange may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant
rights to indemnification, and rights to the advancement of expenses, to any employee or
agent of the Exchange to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article VI with respect to
the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Exchange.
Section 6.7 Contract Rights. The rights to indemnification and to the
advancement of expenses conferred in Section 6.1 and Section 6.2 shall be contract rights
and such rights shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer,
employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitee’s heirs, executors and
administrators.
-17-

ARTICLE VII
EXCHANGE
RIGHTS
Section 7.1 Uncertificated Rights. The Exchange Rights shall be
uncertificated rights. The Secretary of the Exchange shall maintain a ledger of such rights.
Within a reasonable time following the issuance of any uncertificated rights, the Exchange
shall send to the registered holder thereof written confirmation of such issuance of rights.
ARTICLE VIII
WAIVER OF
NOTICE
Section 8.1 Waiver of Notice. Whenever notice is required to be given to any
holder of Exchange Rights, the Sole LLC Member or director of the Exchange under
any provision of the Act or the LLC Agreement or this Constitution, a written waiver
thereof, signed by the person or persons entitled to notice, whether before or after the
time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. In the case
of a holder of Exchange Rights, such waiver of notice may be signed by such holder’s
attorney or proxy duly appointed in writing. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall
constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting
for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction
of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the
business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the
holders of Exchange Rights, the Sole LLC Member, directors or members of a
committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice.
ARTICLE 

IX
	
CHECKS, NOTES, DRAFTS, ETC.
	
Section 9.1 Checks, Notes, Drafts, Etc. Checks, notes, drafts, acceptances,
bills of exchange and other orders or obligations for the payment of money shall be signed by
such officer or officers or person or persons as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized
committee thereof may from time to time designate.
ARTICLE X
AMENDMENTS
-18-

Section 10.1 Amendments. This Constitution may be amended, added to,
rescinded or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors, provided that notice of the
proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting and, in the case of the Board of
Directors, in a notice given no less than twenty-four hours prior to the meeting provided,
however, if such amendment would alter or change the powers, preferences or
special rights of the Sole LLC Member’s Interest so as to affect it adversely, such
amendment shall also be approved by the Sole LLC Member, in the manner set forth in the
LLC Agreement and in this Constitution.
ARTICLE XI
REGULATION
Section 11.1 Rulemaking. The Board of Directors may, by majority vote
adopt, amend or repeal such Rules as it may deem necessary or proper, including, but not
limited to, Rules with respect to:
(a) The trading of securities on the Exchange;
(b) The access of Exchange Members to and the conduct of such Exchange
Members with the Exchange System and their use of System facilities;
(c) Insolvency of the Exchange Members;
(d) The partners, officers, directors, stockholders and employees of
Exchange;
(e) The business conduct of Exchange Members;
(f) The business connections of Exchange Members, and their association
with or domination by or over corporations or other persons engaged in the securities
business;
(g) Capital requirements for Exchange Members;
(h) The arbitration of disputes, claims and controversies between Exchange
Members and procedures relating thereto; and
(i) The conduct and procedure for disciplinary hearings and reviews
therefrom.
Section 11.2 Supervision. The Board of Directors shall have general
supervision over the examination of Exchange Members and associated persons in
connection with their conduct of business related to being a member of the Exchange.
(a) The Board of Directors may examine the business conduct and financial
condition of Exchange Members and associated persons.
(b) The Board of Directors may adopt Rules with respect to the Exchange’s
supervision over partnership and corporate arrangements and over officers of Exchange
-19-

Members, as well as with respect to the employment, compensation and duties of such
employees as it may deem appropriate.
(c) The Board of Directors shall supervise all matters relating to the
collection, dissemination and use of quotations and of reports of prices on the Exchange.
(d) The Board of Directors shall have the power to approve or disapprove any
connection or means of communication with the Exchange and may require the
discontinuance of any such connection or means of communication.
Section 11.3 Securities. The Board of Directors may approve the admission
of securities for trading on the Exchange or may remove the same from trading on the
Exchange.
Section 11.4 Penalties. The Board of Directors may prescribe and impose
penalties for violations of this Constitution or Rules for neglect or refusal to comply with
orders, directions or decisions of the Board of Directors, or for any other offenses against the
Exchange.

-20-

ARTICLE 

XII 

PROVISIONS REGARDING MEMBERS AND 

TRADING PRIVILEGES 

Section 12.1 PMM Rights.
(a) Each PMM Right shall have the trading rights and privileges as set forth
herein and in the Rules for Primary Market Makers so long as the holder thereof meets the
Exchange’s eligibility criteria and is in good standing. Each such Exchange Member shall
be entitled to enter quotations and orders into the Exchange’s System for such Exchange
Member’s own account and to perform other functions specified in the Rules to facilitate
execution and handling of orders placed into the Exchange’s System with respect to options
classes allocated by the Exchange as provided in the Rules. Each such Exchange Member
shall also be permitted to effect proprietary transactions in other options classes traded on
the Exchange pursuant to the Rules.
(b) The trading privileges associated with a PMM Right shall not be
transferable. A holder of PMM Rights may withdraw from the Exchange upon the approval
of the Exchange, which shall be given upon a determination that the holder of PMM
Rights has satisfied all obligations to the Exchange. Upon such approval and without any
payment related thereto, the PMM Rights will be transferred back to the Exchange.
Section 12.2 CMM Rights.
(a) Each CMM Right shall have the trading rights and privileges as set forth
herein and in the Rules for Competitive Market Makers so long as the holder thereof meets
the Exchange’s eligibility criteria and is in good standing. Each such Exchange Member
shall be entitled to enter quotations and orders into the Exchange’s System for such
Exchange Member’s own account and to perform other functions specified in the Rules to
facilitate execution and handling of orders placed into the Exchange’s System with respect
to options classes allocated by the Exchange as provided in the Rules. Each such Exchange
Member shall also be permitted to effect proprietary transactions in other options classes
traded on the Exchange pursuant to the Rules.
(b) The trading privileges associated with a CMM Right shall not be
transferable. A holder of CMM Rights may withdraw from the Exchange upon the approval
of the Exchange, which shall be given upon a determination that the holder of EAM
Rights has satisfied all obligations to the Exchange. Upon such approval and without any
payment related thereto, the CMM Rights will be transferred back to the Exchange.
Section 12.3 EAM Rights.
(a)
Each EAM Right shall have the trading rights and privileges as set
forth herein and in the Rules for Electronic Access Members so long as the holder
thereof meets the Exchange’s eligibility criteria and is in good standing. Each such
Exchange Member shall be entitled to (i) enter orders into the Exchange’s System,
-21-

and/or (ii) clear Exchange Transactions.
(b) The trading privileges associated with an EAM Right shall not be
transferable. A holder of EAM Rights may withdraw from the Exchange upon the approval
of the Exchange, which shall be given upon a determination that the holder of EAM
Rights has satisfied all obligations to the Exchange. Upon such approval and without any
payment related thereto, the EAM Rights will be transferred back to the Exchange.
Section 12.4 Approval of Holders of Exchange Rights. Each holder of an
Exchange Right must be approved by the Exchange with respect to each right held by such
holder. Any holder of Exchange Rights approved by the Exchange shall be deemed an
Exchange Member. The good standing of a holder of Exchange Rights may be suspended,
terminated or otherwise withdrawn, as provided in the Rules, if any of the requirements for
approval set forth therein cease to be maintained, or if such holder violates any agreements
with the Exchange or any of the provisions of this Constitution or the Rules.
Section 12.5 Eligibility for Trading Privileges; Members. Exchange
Members shall be corporations, partnerships or limited liability companies that meet the
requirements for approval as stated in this Constitution and the Rules. Exchange Members
must have as the principal purpose of their ownership of Exchange Rights the conduct of a
public securities business as defined in the Rules. The good standing of an Exchange
Member may be suspended, terminated or otherwise withdrawn, as provided in the Rules, if
any of said conditions for approval cease to be maintained or such Exchange Member
violates any of its agreements with the Exchange or any of the provisions of this
Constitution or the Rules. Unless such an Exchange Member is in good standing, the
Exchange Member shall have no rights or trading privileges except as otherwise provided
by law, this Constitution or the Rules, shall not hold itself out for any purpose as an
Exchange Member, and shall not deal with the Exchange on any basis except as an entity
without trading privileges.
Section 12.6 Membership Agreement. No Exchange Member shall be
entitled to any privileges thereof until such Exchange Member has agreed to be bound by this
Constitution and the Rules by execution of a Membership Agreement. By such
agreement such Exchange Member pledges to abide by the same as it has been or shall be
from time to time amended.
ARTICLE XIII
DEFINITION OF
TERMS
Section 13.1 Definitions. When used in this Constitution, unless the context
otherwise requires:
(a) The term “the Act” shall mean the Delaware Limited Liability Company
Act, 6 § 18-101, et seq.
-22-

(b) The term “affiliate” of a person or “affiliated with” another person means
a person who, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is
controlled by, or is under common control with, another person.
(c) The term “Board Committees” has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1 of
this Constitution.
(d) The term “CMM Right” has the meaning set forth in the LLC
Agreement.
(e) The term “Commission” means the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission.
(f) The term “Competitive Market Maker” means an Exchange Member that
is approved to exercise trading privileges associated with CMM Rights.
(g) The term “Constitution” means this Constitution, as may be amended or
amended and restated from time to time.
(h) The term “control” means the power to exercise a controlling influence
over the management or policies of a person, unless such power is solely the result of an
official position with such person. Any person who owns beneficially, directly or indirectly,
more than twenty percent (20%) of the voting power in the election of directors of a
corporation, or more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the voting power in the election of
directors of any other corporation which directly, or through one or more affiliates, owns
beneficially more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the voting power in the election of
directors of such corporation, shall be presumed to control such corporation.
(i) The term “EAM Right” has the meaning set forth in the LLC Agreement.
(j) The term “Electronic Access Member” means an Exchange Member that
is approved to exercise trading privileges associated with EAM Rights.
(k) The term “Exchange” has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of this
(l) The term “Exchange Act” means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended and the rules promulgated thereunder.
(m) The term “Exchange Member” means an organization that has been
approved to exercise trading rights associated with Exchange Rights.
(n) The term “Exchange Member Representative” means an
associated person of an Exchange Member.
(o) The term “Exchange Rights” has the meaning set forth in the LLC
Agreement.
(p) The term “Exchange Transaction” means a transaction executed on or
through the facilities of the Exchange.
-23-

(q) The term “good standing” means that an Exchange Member is not
delinquent respecting Exchange dues, fees or other charges and is not suspended or barred
from effecting Exchange Transactions or from association with an Exchange Member either
by the Exchange or by means of a statutory disqualification.
(r) The term “Industry Directors” has the meaning set forth in Section
3.2 of this Constitution.
(s) The term “industry representative” means a person who is an officer,
director or employee of a broker or dealer or who has been employed in any such capacity at
any time within the prior three (3) years, as well as a person who has a consulting or
employment relationship with or has provided professional services to the Exchange and a
person who had any such relationship or provided any such services to the Exchange at any
time within the prior three (3) years.
(t) The term “LLC Agreement” means the Limited Liability Company
Agreement of the Exchange, dated as of [
].
(u) The term “Non-Industry Directors” has the meaning set forth in Section
3.2 of this Constitution.
(v) The term “non-industry representative” means any person that would not
be considered an “industry representative,” as well as (i) a person affiliated with a broker or
dealer that operates solely to assist the securities-related activities of the business of nonmember affiliates, (ii) an employee of an entity that is affiliated with a broker or dealer that
does not account for a material portion of the revenues of the consolidated entity, and who is
primarily engaged in the business of the non-member entity.
(w) The term “Person” shall mean an individual, partnership (general or
limited), joint stock company, corporation, limited liability company, trust or unincorporated
organization, or any governmental entity or agency or political subdivision thereof.
(x) The term “person associated with a holder” or an “associated person”
means any partner, officer, director, or branch manager of a holder of Exchange Rights (or
any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions), any person directly
or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such holder of
Exchange Rights, or any employee of such holder of Exchange Rights.
(y)

The term “PMM Rights” has the meaning set forth in the LLC

Agreement.
(z) The term “Primary Market Maker” means an Exchange Member that is
approved to exercise trading privileges associated with PMM Rights.
(aa) The term “Public Director” has the meaning set forth in Section 3.2 of
this Constitution.
(bb) The term “public representative” means a non-industry representative
-24-

who has no material relationship with a broker or dealer or any affiliate of a broker or
dealer or the Exchange or any affiliate of the Exchange.
(cc) The term “Rules” means the rules of the Exchange as adopted or
amended from time to time.
(dd) The terms “Sole LLC Member” has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1
of this Constitution.
(ee) The “System” means the electronic system operated by the Exchange
that receives and disseminates quotes, executes orders and reports transactions.
(ff) The terms “Voting Rights” has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5 of
this Constitution.
(gg) The term “Whole Board” has the meaning set forth in Section 1.3 of
this Constitution.

-25-

MILBANK, TWEED, HADLEY &

M~CLOY

LLP

28 LIBERTY STREET 

LOS ANGELES 


NEW YORK, N.Y. 10005-1413 


BEIJING 


FAX 2 I 3-629-5063 


86 I 0-5969-2700 

FAX 86 I 0-5969-2707 


WASHINGTON, D.C. 


HONG KONG 


2 I 3-892-4000 


852-2971-4881{ 


202-835-7500 

I AX 202-835-7586 


212-530-5000 


LONDON 


FAX 2 I2-530-5219 


44-20-7615-3000 

!.\X 44-20-7615-3100 


FAX 852-2840-0792 


SEOlJL 

822-6137-2600 

FAX 822-6137-2626 


SINGAPORE 


J.'RANKFURT

65-6428-2400 

FAX 65-6-+28-2500 


49-69-71914-3400
49-69-71914-3500

MtJNICil

January 6. 2016

-+9-89-25559-3600
49-89-25559-3700

TOKYO 

813-5410-280 I 

FAX 813-5410-2891 


s;\o P HJLO
55-11-3927-7700

FAX

I

International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc.
60 Broad Street
New York, NY 10004

Re: lSI: Trust
Ladies and Gentlemen:
You have requested our opinion as to certain matters of Delaware law set forth
below relating to the Third Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of International Securities
Exchange Trust, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), dated as of December 22, 2014 by and
among International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. ("ISE Holdings"), U.S. Exchange
Holdings. Inc. ("U.S. Exchange Holdings"), the Delaware Trustee and the Trustees (the
"Governing Instrument"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise herein defined arc
used as defined in the Governing Instrument, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
In rendering this opinion, we have examined and relied on copies of the following
documents, each in the form provided to us: the Governing Instrument; the Certificate of Trust of
the Trust filed in the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the "State Office")
on December 19, 2007 (the "Trust Certificate"); the Second Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of ISE Holdings filed in the State Office on December 19, 2014 and attached

#4821-8249-3728

International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc.
January 6, 2016
Page 2

hereto as Exhibit B (the "ISE Holdings Certificate"); the Third Amended and Restated Certificate
of Incorporation of U.S. Exchange Holdings filed in the State Office on December 22, 2014 and
attached hereto as Exhibit C (the "U.S. Exchange Holdings Certificate"); and the Second
Amended and Restated Bylaws of ISE Holdings attached hereto as Exhibit D (the "ISE Holdings
Bylaws"). In such examinations, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the
conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies and the legal
capacity of natural persons who executed the documents. We have further assumed for the
purposes of this opinion: (i) the due formation or organization, valid existence and good standing
of the Trust and each entity that is a signatory to any of the documents reviewed by us under the
laws of the jurisdiction of its respective formation or organization; (ii) the due authorization,
execution and delivery by, or on behalf of, each of the signatories thereto of the above­
referenced documents; and (iii) that the documents examined by us are in full force and effect,
set forth the entire understanding of the parties thereto with respect to the subject matter thereof
and have not been amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, except as herein referenced.
We have not reviewed any documents other than those identified above in connection with this
opinion, and we have assumed that there arc no other documents that are contrary to or
inconsistent with the opinion expressed herein. No opinion is expressed herein with respect to
the requirements of, or compliance with, federal or state securities or blue sky laws. We have
not participated in the preparation of, and express no opinion concerning, any offering materials
relating to the Trust. As to facts material to our opinion, other than those assumed, we have
relied, without independent investigation, on the above-referenced documents and on the
accuracy. as of the date hereoC of the matters therein contained.
Based on and subject to the foregoing, and limited in all respects to matters of
Delaware law, it is our opinion that the Governing Instrument constitutes a legal, valid and
binding obligation of each Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, ISE Holdings and U.S. Exchange
Holdings enforceable against each Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, ISE Holdings and U.S.
Exchange Holdings in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by
(A) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or
other laws, rules or regulations of general application relating to or affecting the enforcement of
creditors' rights and remedies, as from time to time in efTect, (B) application of equitable
principles (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at
law), (C) considerations of public policy or the effect of applicable law relating to fiduciary
duties, and (D) principles of course of dealing or course of performance and standards of good
faith, fair dealing, materiality and reasonableness that may be applied by a court to the exercise
of rights and remedies and the possible unavailability of the remedies of injunctive relief and
specific performance; provided that we express no opinion with respect to the enforceability of
(i) any document referenced or incorporated by reference in the Governing Instrument, (ii) the
Governing Instrument against or with respect to any Person who or which is not a party thereto,
(iii) any purported waiver or consent granted by any party to the Governing Instrument pursuant
thereto except to the extent such Person may so waive or consent and has efTectively so waived

#4821-8249-3728

International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc.
January 6, 2016
Page 3

or consented in accordance with applicable law, and (iv) Section 7.l(b) to the extent that it
purports to alter the otherwise applicable standards of evidence in a judicial proceeding.
This opinion speaks only as of the date hereof and is based on our understandings
or assumptions as to present facts, and on our review of the above-referenced documents and the
application of Delaware law as the same exist on the date hereo[ and we undertake no obligation
to update or supplement this opinion after the date hereof for the benefit of any person or entity
with respect to any facts or circumstances that may hereafter come to our attention or any
changes in facts or law that may hereafter occur or take effect. The opinion herein expressed is
intended solely for the benefit of the addressee hereof in connection with the matters
contemplated hereby and may not be disclosed to, or relied upon by, any other person or entity,
or for any other purpose, without our prior written consent, provided that this opinion may be
disclosed to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Vcry truly yours,

Rli/AJS

#482 I -8249-3 728

Shareholding structure of Deutsche Börse Group – economic view (confidential)
as of 1 January 2016
Deutsche Börse AG 1)

Eurex
Frankfurt AG 2)

100%

100%

100%

Eurex Global
Derivatives AG

62.82% European Energy
Exchange AG 3)

100%

50%

Eurex Zürich AG 5)

100%

Impendium
Systems Ltd

100%

Börse Frankfurt
Zertifikate Holding
S.A. in liquidation

100%

Market News
International Inc.

100%

Börse Frankfurt
Zertifikate AG

100%

EGEX European
Gas Exchange
GmbH7)

Eurex Clearing Asia
Pte. Ltd.

100%

100%
Eurex Clearing
Security Trustee
GmbH

5%

Taiwan Futures
Exchange Corp.

100%

Global Environ­
mental Exchange
GmbH7)

100%

100%
55.8%

Powernext SA

98.5%

49.9%

European
Commodity
Clearing AG

Global Markets
Exchange Group
International LLP

20%

100%

U.S. Exchange,
L.L.C. (dormant)

100%

Eurex Services
GmbH (dormant)

100%

6.31%

ICE US Holding
Company L.P.

80%

13.25%

100%

20%

ISE Mercury, LLC

Deutsche Börse
Services s.r.o

BrainTrade Gesell­
schaft für Börsen­
systeme mbH

100%

Clearstream
Banking S.A.

100%

Risk Transfer Re
S.A.

16.2%

Clearstream
Banking Japan,
Ltd.

Deutsche Börse
Commodities GmbH

50%

30%

EPEX Spot SE

Infobolsa S.A.

14.86%

100%

Digital Vega
FX Ltd

12%

PHINEO gAG 11)

50%
REGIS-TR S.A.

Bondcube Limited

0.95%

11.53%

EEX Power
Derivatives
GmbH 7)

EPEX Spot
Schweiz AG

Infobolsa
Deutschland GmbH

Tradegate AG
Wertpapierhandels­
bank

0.51%

S.W.I.F.T. SCRL

25%
75%

0.42%

ISF Internationale
Schule Frankfurt­
Rhein-Main
GmbH & Co. KG

0.00008%

Tradegate
Exchange GmbH 4)

National Settle­
ment Depository

99.99%
30%

Difubolsa, Serviços
de Difusão e Infor­
maçao de Bolsa S.A.

R5FX Ltd

100%

Clearstream
Banking AG10)

100%

Clearstream Fund
Services Ireland
Limited

100%

Clearstream
Global Securities
Services Limited

100%

Clearstream
Nominees Limited

100%

Clearstream
Operations
Prague s.r.o

81%
4.91%

Bombay Stock
Exchange Ltd.

Open Finance, S.L.

60%

100%

The Options
Clearing
Corporation

100%

100%

STOXX Ltd.

100%

100%
International
Securities
Exchange, LLC

Clearstream
International S.A.

100%

50%
International Se­
curities Exchange
Holdings, Inc.

100%

28.57%

European Com­
modity Clearing
Luxembourg S.à r.l.

U.S. Exchange
Holdings, Inc.

50.1%

Need to Know
News, LLC

Deutsche Börse
Cloud Exchange AG

100%

85%
15%

Deutsche Boerse
Systems Inc.

100%

Zimory GmbH 9)

1.5%

79.44%
Eurex Bonds
GmbH

100%

14.29%

MNI Financial and
Economic Informa­ 14.29%
tion (Beijing) Co. Ltd.

Finnovation S.A.

29.51%

Eurex Repo GmbH6)

Clearstream
Holding AG 7)

100%

100%

50%

Eurex Clearing AG 6)

Deutsche Boerse
Asia Holding Pte.
Ltd.

ISE ETF Ventures
LLC (dormant)

JV Epex-Soops
B.V.

49.9%

Indexium AG

18.8%
100%

ISE Gemini, LLC

8.33%

8.33%

The Options
Price Reporting
Authority, LLC

Hanweck Associates,
LLC

51.7%

18%

100%
Cleartrade
Exchange (UK)
Limited

EDH Resources, Inc.

9.46%

100%

ETC Acquisition
Corp.

Cleartrade
Exchange Pte.
Limited 8)

50%
Index Marketing
Solutions
Limited

BATS Global
Markets, Inc

2.25%

100%

Longitude LLC

100%

Longitude S.A.

Weather Risk
Solutions, LLC

50%

Gaspoint Nordic A / S

20%

European Market
Coupling Company
GmbH i.L.

12%

Shareholdings divested, liquidated or merged since January 2014
 ID’s SAS divested in Q3/2014
 KOMUNUMO LTD divested in Q3/2014
 Imarex ASA divested in Q1 / 2014
 PRISMA European Capacity Platform GmbH divested in Q1/2014

store-x
Storage Capacity
Exchange GmbH

Special company information
a)
1)
2)
3)
4)

Exchange administrating and operating institutions (in accordance with
German law)
of Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse (FWB, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange)
of Eurex Deutschland
of European Energy Exchange (EEX)
of Tradegate Exchange

b) Specific participation rights
5) Preference shares or profit participation rights issued
c)
6)
7)
8)
9)
10)
11)

Profit and loss transfer agreement and /or control rights
Including control
Excluding control
Preference shares issued which grant full control
Including treasury stock, excluding phantom shares, represents juridical shareholding
Including control, excluding profit and loss transfer
In addition, Deutsche Börse AG holds an interest in Phineo Pool GbR which
holds an 48 per cent stake in Phineo gAG. This interest is jointly managed.

100%

Clearstream
Services S.A.

50%

LuxCSD S.A.

Founded or acquired since January 2014
Changes in shareholding structure or company purpose considered for or implemented since January 2014
 Eurex Frankfurt AG: restructured in Q4/2014, Deutsche Börse AG as new parent company
 U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc.: restructured in Q4/2014, 15 per cent of shares transferred from Eurex Frankfurt AG to Deutsche Börse AG
 Eurex Services GmbH: restructured in Q4/2014, U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc. as new parent company
 ISE Gemini, LLC: formerly Topaz Exchange, LLC, change of company name implemented in Q1/2014
 BATS Global Markets, Inc.: merger with Direct Edge ECN LLC implemented in Q1 / 2014
 European Energy Exchange AG: increase in shareholding implemented in Q4/2014
 EPEX Spot SE: decrease in shareholding held by European Energy Exchange AG in Q1/2015 due to share trade against Powernext SA shares
 Cleartrade Exchange Pte. Limited.: increase in shareholding by European Energy Exchange AG implemented in Q3/2014
 European Market Coupling Company GmbH i.L.: in the process of being liquidated, planned to be completed in Q2/2015
 Digital Vega FX Ltd: decrease in shareholding in Q4/2014 due to conversion of loan into equity by another shareholder
 Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd.: decrease in shareholding in Q4/2014 due to acquisition of United Stock Exchange (USE) through cash/equity funding
 Open Finance, S.L.: increase in shareholding implemented in Q3/2014
 Börse Frankfurt Zertifikate Holding S.A. in liquidation: liquidation planned to be finalised in H1/ 2015
 Börse Frankfurt Zertifikate AG: all shares transferred to Deutsche Börse AG in Q3/ 2014
 Bondcube Limited: increase in shareholding implemented in Q3/2014
 Tradegate AG Wertpapierhandelsbank: increase in shareholding implemented in Q4/2014
 Clearstream Banking S.A.: all shares held by Clearstream Holding AG transferred to Clearstream International S.A. in Q1 / 2014
 Clearstream Fund Services Ireland Limited: planned to be merged with Clearstream Global Securities Services Limited (prior Citco Global Securities
Services Ltd.), implementation planned for Q1/2015
Company status remained unchanged since January 2014

