Cornell University School of Hotel Administration

The Scholarly Commons
Articles and Chapters

School of Hotel Administration Collection

2010

Key Issues in Strategic Human Resources
Kate Walsh
Cornell University, kmw33@cornell.edu

Michael C. Sturman
Cornell University, mcs5@cornell.edu

John Longstreet
Quaker Steak & Lube Restaurants

Follow this and additional works at: http://scholarship.sha.cornell.edu/articles
Part of the Hospitality Administration and Management Commons, and the Human Resources
Management Commons
Recommended Citation
Walsh, K., Sturman, M. C., & Longstreet, J. (2010). Key issues in strategic human resources [Electronic version]. Retrieved [insert date],
from Cornell University, School of Hospitality Administration site: http://scholarship.sha.cornell.edu/articles/237

This Article or Chapter is brought to you for free and open access by the School of Hotel Administration Collection at The Scholarly Commons. It has
been accepted for inclusion in Articles and Chapters by an authorized administrator of The Scholarly Commons. For more information, please contact
hlmdigital@cornell.edu.

Key Issues in Strategic Human Resources
Abstract

[Excerpt] This chapter, on strategic human resource management (SHRM), is really not for the hospitality
human resources (HR) director. We already believe—whether through education and training, through
insight gained from experience, or through self-interest— that HR directors accept as true the importance of
an organization's HR function and its HR assets. The strategic nature of HR decision making extends far
beyond the doors of the HR department. Just as money changes hands and is important to more than those in
a finance department, nearly all decisions in a company's purview involve HR in some way, shape, or form.
The purpose of this chapter is thus to help those already making HR decisions do so in a way that takes
advantage of what we have learned from research in SHRM.
Keywords

hospitality management, hospitality industry, strategic human resource management, decision making
Disciplines

Hospitality Administration and Management | Human Resources Management
Comments

Required Publisher Statement
© SAGE. Final version published as: Walsh, K., Sturman, M. C., & Longstreet, J. (2010). Key issues in
strategic human resources. In C. Enz (Ed.), The Cornell School of Hotel Administration handbook of applied
hospitality strategy (pp. 394-414). Los Angeles, CA: SAGE. Reprinted with permission. All rights reserved.

This article or chapter is available at The Scholarly Commons: http://scholarship.sha.cornell.edu/articles/237

Key Issues in Strategic Human Resources

Kate Walsh, Michael C. Sturman, and John Longstreet

This chapter, on strategic human resource management (SHRM), is really not for the hospitality
human resources (HR) director. We already believe—whether through education and training, through
insight gained from experience, or through self-interest— that HR directors accept as true the
importance of an organization's HR function and its HR assets. The strategic nature of HR decision
making extends far beyond the doors of the HR department. Just as money changes hands and is
important to more than those in a finance department, nearly all decisions in a company's purview
involve HR in some way, shape, or form. The purpose of this chapter is thus to help those already
making HR decisions do so in a way that takes advantage of what we have learned from research in
SHRM.
There are a number of critical challenges inherent in the nature of HR decision making that
make its strategic implementation so difficult. Human assets have characteristics that differ from most
other resources in the company, such as its physical product and financial capital. Most notably—and
similar to other investments, such as the value associated with a hotel's name recognition or brand—
they are intangible and therefore, simply unclear. Human performance is difficult to predict; it is very
challenging to make a strong case that a particular investment in employees (e.g., a new pay plan, a new
training program) clearly leads to specific improvements in employees' performance, which then has a
direct effect on the financial results of a company. We look through a very fuzzy lens when we try to
examine the financial value one person brings to an organization.
At the same time, costs associated with people are comparatively crystal clear. While the link
from employee pay to employee attitudes to employee behaviors to customer perceptions to customer
repurchase behaviors to organizational results is murky at best, the cost of that employee's pay is known
with absolutely certainty, as is the direct cost of raising pay and providing training. Our traditional
accounting systems add to this contradiction. Employees are not owned by their organizations and thus
cannot be found on the asset side of the balance sheet. Instead, they only appear as expenses on the
income statement. Because they represent a cost, it is tempting to treat employees as expenses to be
minimized. The irony is that the work of people is one of the few organizational assets that can actually

appreciate in value. The organizational leader making investment decisions about employees is looking
through a very strange pair of bifocals indeed: Looking down, one is confronted by the blur associated
with the value of intangible assets; looking over the top, one sees the clear image of their cost. Decision
makers are confronted with the temptation of managing that which is easy to understand, especially
when the results are immediately apparent. One of the goals of this chapter is to draw attention to the
more long-term benefits that can be realized from investments in people.
Nowhere are these ideas more salient than in the hospitality industry. HR remains one of the
key challenges hospitality decision makers face. Industry leaders in both the hotel and restaurant
industries report human capital challenges—recruiting, retaining, motivating, training, and developing
the workforce—as the problems that "keep them awake at night" (Enz, 2001,2004). Hospitality leaders
are concerned because in service firms the success of products depends on their delivery by employees.
Thus, service organizations rely on their employees to create memorable experiences that develop a
loyal customer base and ultimately carry out the firm's strategic initiatives (Liao & Chuang, 2004; Skaggs
& Youndt, 2004). Yet, most hospitality organizations operate with extremely lean margins. Many of
these companies face triple-digit turnover and find it challenging to attract, retain, and develop a
talented labor pool capable of creating relationships with customers that result in repeat business. At
the same time, most organizations also are required to offer immediate, significant returns to their
investors. Thus, when salaries and wages represent the number one expense item on the profit and loss
(P and L) statement, decision makers find it difficult to justify increased investments in HR, as any
additional pay or training budget cuts into immediate bottom-line profits.
The challenge decision makers face is thus twofold: How can organizations recognize the value
associated with their human capital, and how can they make better decisions to manage the associated
investments? While employee behaviors maybe difficult to predict, observe, and measure, investments
in employees still need to be strategically managed. Drawing from current knowledge of SHRM, we help
those making strategic decisions improve their insight to make choices about HR investments. We
review the latest research in SHRM and examine how this research maps onto practical issues of
concern in the hospitality industry.
The organization of this chapter is as follows: First, we discuss the challenges inherent in trying
to understand and trace investments in employees and HR initiatives to the bottom line, and we
consider these issues and challenges in practice. We review the challenge of understanding the impact
of employee performance on organizational outcomes and discuss ways the use of HR metrics and
analytics can aid in decision making. Following this discussion, the table is turned to the executive voice:

John Longstreet, former senior vice president of people strategy at ClubCorp and current president and
CEO of Quaker Steak & Lube Restaurants, weighs in on the dialogue of HR strategy and offers some
provocative insights and practices that he put in place at ClubCorp. In the last section, we reconcile
different viewpoints between HR practice and research and discuss the implications for both
constituencies, as well as for the field of SHRM.

Current Theory
SHRM is rooted in fundamental concepts in strategy, which essentially is about how to achieve
firm profitability. Core research in strategy is concerned with identifying both the external and internal
factors that enable firms to shape a competitive advantage and achieve superior performance (Harrison
& Enz, 2005). To achieve superior performance, firms need to create cost efficiencies that enable them
to operate on lean margins or alternatively differentiate themselves so as to charge price premiums.
When examining competitive strength within the firm, the resource-based view (RBV) is helpful for
identifying sources of advantage (Barney & Wright, 1998). This approach to strategy considers the role
that internal resources, such as physical assets, organizational systems, and human capital play in
helping a firm create value and become competitively distinct and profitable (Barney, 1991; Peteraf,
1993).
SHRM is concerned with two forms of resources. The first resource is an organization's human
capital—the knowledge, skills, and abilities of its employees. The challenge for HR strategic decision
makers is to transform human capital into a firm capability that is valuable, rare, and difficult to imitate
(Amit & Shoemaker, 1993; Barney, 1991). The second resource is an organization's systems—specifically
HR policies and practices—that serve to support the development of human capital. The challenge with
this resource is to select the appropriate cost-efficient bundle that will help employees perform best.
Using these two forms of resources, SHRM is shaped by four primary challenges, or overarching
goals. The first challenge is to tap into the intellectual and skill-based prowess of a company's
employees and use this knowledge and skill set to the organization's best advantage. In other words,
research in SHRM considers how to take employees as a source of human capital and turn this resource
into a firm capability that creates competitive advantage. The second challenge is to turn an
organization's HR infrastructure—or its bundle of HR initiatives and programs—into a source of
competitive advantage—usually through setting procedures that enable a firm's human capital to
appreciate in value. The third and overlapping challenge is to determine how a firm's HR initiatives can
work in tandem to support the overall firm strategy. Central to this challenge is to understand the "black

box" of return on investment (ROI) in HR initiatives, based upon the overall short-term and long-term
financially based trade-offs that need to be considered. The final challenge is to apply HR tools, such as
metrics and analytics, to aid in strategic decision making. We discuss each of these challenges in turn,
including their implications for the hospitality industry.
Employees as a Source of Competitive Advantage
While a great deal of research in professional service firms, such as law and medical practices,
focuses on the value employees bring to their organizations as human assets (i.e., Hitt, Bierman,
Shimizu, & Kochhar, 2001; Kannan & Akhilesh, 2002; Sherer, 1995; Zucker, Darby, & Brewer, 1998), very
little research has considered the value of employees performing low-skilled service work, such as those
hired for hotels, restaurants, and other types of hospitality service organizations. With annual turnover,
even of management staff, often climbing over 100%, the common line of thought and practice has
been to curtail investments in employees, as they will likely soon leave the organization. This is despite
abundant anecdotal accounts depicting the value associated with great employee service.
What we do know from research findings is that employees as a form of human capital have
knowledge, skills, and abilities that can be applied to their work to generate "rents" or value for the
organization (Becker, 1962; Bontis, 1998; Bontis, Crossan, & Hullard, 2002; Coff, 1997). When they are
highly competent and performing their jobs well, employees are actually able to work in a tacit manner,
meaning they are able to attend to a task at a skill level that is almost instinctive and does not require a
great deal of planning or conscious thought. When a group of employees collectively act this way, they
create an organizational system or routine that is so efficient it becomes a source of advantage or firm
capability that other companies cannot replicate (Argote & Ingram, 2000; Coff, 1997; Hall, 1992; Lado &
Wilson, 1994; Nelson & Winter, 1982; Nonaka, 1994; Teece, Pisano, & Shuen, 1997). One only has to
think of a front desk clerk so competent working the computer system that he or she can seamlessly and
simultaneously check-in—and graciously interact with—a hotel guest to picture what this type of
performance can mean to a business. At the aggregate level, this application of human capital has been
termed "knowledge value added" and refers to core organizational knowledge embedded within its
routines and processes. It represents a collective and integrated use of employees' knowledge, skills,
and abilities (Kannan & Akhilesh, 2002).
In addition to creating efficient routines, employees—especially those in service-based
organizations—can create firm advantages by acting as boundary spanners that form crucial
relationships with key stakeholders, such as customers and suppliers (Coff, 1997; Skaggs & Youndt,

2004). These sorts of links act as valuable sources of information that firms can use to shape their
product and innovate. For example, employees can connect with restaurant customers in such a way
that they can collect and pass along suggestions to the chef on how to create variation on the menu. The
boundary spanner role is especially important to service organizations, because these sorts of customer
interactions influence not only ways employees collect information but, simultaneously, ways customers
help produce the service (Normann, 1984).
HR decision makers have long tried to argue that employees bring value to the organization and
actually represent an investment that provides a substantial return. The questions are: What kind of
return do they bring? What is the potential risk if employees leave the firm and bring their capital over
to the competition (Coff, 1997)? Recent research has suggested intangible assets add approximately
50% to a firm's market value (Ulrich & Smallwood, 2005). As a beginning point in understanding the
value of human capital as a type of intangible asset, researchers have found a positive relationship
between the aggregated bundle of employees' knowledge, skills, and abilities and the organization's
performance as reflected in profitability; however, as mentioned, most of this research has been
conducted using professional service firms and more broadly, research-oriented industries, as a context
(Bouillon et al., 1995-1996; Carmeli & Tishler, 2004; Hitt et al., 2001; Sherer, 1995; Zucker et al., 1998).
With the exception of one exploratory study that offers preliminary ways to gauge human capital and
customer capital in the hotel industry (and found an association between human capital and
performance) (Engstrom, Westnes, & Westnes, 2003), this type of research is negligible in service firms
that offer a basic product for sale. In reality, studies measuring the link between human capital and firm
performance represent only a beginning point. The next question to logically consider is: What is the
relationship between HR initiatives and firm value? In other words, do HR investments make a
difference?
Human Resource Infrastructure as a Source of Competitive Advantage
What types of investments in employees yield the highest return? Specifically, what sorts of HR
initiatives should organizations use to obtain the most beneficial use of employees' knowledge, skills,
and abilities and as a result, create a competitive advantage? Following Huselid's (1995) work, a great
deal of research emerged examining the impact of HR policy and practices on outcomes, such as
organizational turnover, productivity, profitability, and market value (Becker & Gerhart, 1996; Delaney &
Huselid, 1996; Huselid, Jackson, & Schuler, 1997; Wright, Smart, & McMahan, 1995; Youndt, Snell, Dean,
& Lepak, 1996). The findings of one study suggest that one standard deviation change in an

organization's HR program (termed "high-performing work system") can improve firm market value by
$15,000 to $60,000 per employee (Huselid & Becker, 1995). At a minimum, companies with greater
investments in their HR programs enjoy higher overall profitability (Becker & Huselid, 1998).
Similar to investments in human capital, researchers argue that investments in the HR
infrastructure, such as hiring, training, and performance management systems, create "invisible assets"
that enhance firm capabilities (Becker & Gerhart, 1996). These sorts of investments (1) teach and
encourage employees to improve their knowledge, skills, and abilities; (2) motivate them to exert
greater effort on behalf of their organizations; and (3) improve their overall productivity (Delaney &
Huselid, 1996; Youndt et al., 1996). They can include job rotation schedules, "empowerment programs,
the use of participative decision making, and various forms of compensation strategies. In fact, the
initiatives that appear to have the greatest impact on human capital are the presence of intensive and
extensive training, competitive pay, and promotion-from-within policies. For organizations that rely on
teams, the following HR programs foster the development of social capital and crucial knowledgesharing among members: socialization activities, mentoring programs, team-based reward structures,
and incentives (Youndt & Snell, 2004).
Using resource-based concepts, Wright, Dunford, and Snell (2001) argued that the firm's core
competencies are created when HR programs improve a company's human capital through influencing
the creation, transfer, and integration of knowledge. In this framework, employees represent stocks of
resources. HR programs can be used to increase not only human capital within an organization but also
its level of social and organization capital (referring to the value of relationships among people and an
organization's routines and processes) (Wright et al., 2001). Each of these "stocks" represents the
creation, transfer, and integration of knowledge, respectively. Thus, HR programs are the processes by
which a firm creates a combined flow of knowledge that represents a valuable, rare, and inimitable
competency. The real advantage comes from treating HR programs as dynamic approaches shaped by a
firm's overall strategy. When HR programs are shifting and interdependent, it is difficult for competitors
to copy them (Becker & Huselid, 1998; Wright et al., 2001).
When they are effective, HR initiatives work in tandem to create a competitive advantage, such
that the effect is both direct and multiplicative (Delaney & Huselid, 1996). Firms gain a competitive
advantage not only because they undertake HR programs but also because of the way they selectively
choose the appropriate mix of programs (Wright et al., 1995). While we know that a well-designed
program of HR initiatives is strongly related to an organization's value, we still understand less about the
ways in which they work together to do so. In other words, researchers are now trying to understand

the black box of HR investments (see Exhibit 27.1). Specifically, how does the investment mix of HR
initiatives help improve a firm's depth of human capital such that the company creates a unique
competitive advantage, reflected in enhanced firm performance? What is the process by which this
happens? (Becker, Huselid, Pickus, & Spratt, 1997).
Figure 27.1 The Black Box of Human Resources

Identifying and Opening the Black Boxes: From the Strategic Mix to Customer Impact
As one can surmise by reading this chapter so far, while SHRM research has identified
appropriate strategic questions and problems, the field is still a long way from providing definitive
answers for decision makers to use. In part, this is because of the various approaches researchers take
to examine strategic HR issues. Different areas of research in SHRM have treated different phenomena
as "black boxes"—that is, researchers have identified inputs and outputs to these boxes and made
conclusions about the effects of the inputs based on the associated outputs. Unfortunately, researchers
still cannot explain the process by which inputs (i.e., human capital and HR programs) influence outputs
(i.e., firm performance); hence, the internal workings of the black box remain a mystery.
The early work by Huselid and Becker (1995) on high-performance work systems treated
companies as a whole, as a black box. These researchers examined the HR-related inputs to the box,
identified as high performance work systems, considered the associated outputs, and drew conclusions
about the relationship between the two (e.g., Delaney & Huselid, 1996; Huselid, 1995; Huselid et al.,
1997).Their work leads to the premise that greater use of high-performance work systems is related to
better business outcomes. Unfortunately, this work is not definitive in identifying and explaining what
goes on inside the "black box" of the company.

In addition, a central problem with treating the entire company as a black box is that the
concept implicitly assumes that all employees should be treated similarly—that is, one could conclude
that high-performance work systems should be used with all employees to reap the potential benefits.
As Boudreau and Ramstad (1997) noted, however, it is naive, and definitely not strategic, to think about
managing all HR in the same way. Companies do not invest in all properties in a similar manner; not all
products are marketed the same way and not all customers are treated identically. Similarly, HR
investments should be selectively managed using a decision science process that Boudreau and Ramstad
(2005) termed "talentship." Which employees or groups of employees provide the highest return to the
organization? What types of HR investments should be made in these employees?
Questions such as these prompted research viewing different employee groups as the black box
to be opened and understood. Researchers who study the HR architecture examine the appropriate
strategy to employ with different employee groups (Lepak & Snell, 1999; Youndt & Snell, 2004). These
researchers argued that employees vary with regard to their uniqueness and strategic value, making
some employee groups more valuable to the organization than others. Applying terminology from the
RBV, uniqueness refers to the degree to which the employees work is rare, specialized, and/or firm
specific (Lepak & Snell, 2002). Strategic value refers to the ability of the employee to "improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of the firm, exploit market opportunities and/or neutralize potential
threats" (Lepak & Snell, 2002, p. 519). Employee groups that fall into both categories require different
HR investments than, for example, employees that fall into neither.
To create HR capabilities that are valuable, rare, and difficult to imitate, decision makers need to
consider how to package HR initiatives to realize employees' potential (Barney & Wright, 1998). The real
advantage comes not from initiating HR programs but rather, from actually bundling them together for
different groups of employees in coherent, strategic ways (Lepak & Snell, 2002; Wright & Snell, 1991).
Thus, the inputs to the black box are customized through different HR initiatives such that the
organization creates a unique competency and competitive advantage (Jackson, Schuler, & Rivero,
1989).
Research on the HR architecture would suggest that employees, such as hotel employees, have
strategic value to the firm but they are not necessarily unique; their skills are widely transferable. Thus,
this employee group should be viewed with a short-term orientation. They should be paid market wage,
evaluated using a results-oriented measure and managed with the possibility they may leave. More
developmentally, long-term HR initiatives, including using above-market compensation plans as well as
goal-oriented appraisal systems, should be applied to employee groups whose skills are more unique

and firm-specific, such as knowledge-based workers, including perhaps the management staff of a
hospitality organization (Lepak & Snell, 2002). However, the more a hospitality organization competes
by trying to differentiate its level of service, and the more that employees are expected to utilize
company-specific knowledge (e.g., for handling customer complaints, for providing exceptional service),
then the more that these companies should invest in these employees, enhance their human capital,
and strive for retention.
Treating groups of employees as a "black box" has problems similar to that of treating all
employees the same. Even employees within a strategic group respond to stimuli in different ways, have
various preferences, and perform in their unique ways. In response, some researchers have treated an
individual employee's performance as the black box (Boudreau, Sturman, & Judge, 1994), thus
prompting a stream of research termed "utility analysis" (see, for example, Boudreau, 1991, for a
review). Utility analysis estimates the value of a HR intervention by first considering the effects of an HR
program on employee performance and then by determining the value of the program through an
estimate of the value associated with improved employee performance. A more thorough discussion of
this method is presented later in the chapter, but the primary concept is that it is possible to quantify
the additional benefits employees bring to their organizations through HR interventions. The way that
improved performance is converted to a dollar value, though, has long been viewed as one of (if not the
most) controversial aspect of this research (Boudreau et al., 1994). Thus, while having a better
understanding of how HR programs affect individual employees may be a more useful and accurate way
of examining the inputs associated with HR programs, the difficulty of quantifying the outputs
associated with the better performance has made the utility analysis tool less than successful in
practice.
Finally, one can go beyond the utility analysis perspective and still open the black box of
employee performance. Instead of considering employee performance as an outcome that has some
associated value, one could specifically look at how HR programs operate, through the employee, to
affect outcomes associated with business success. Specifically, how do HR programs influence customer
outcomes? Rather than match HR initiatives with the appropriate employee group or focus on stocks of
capital and flows of knowledge some researchers argue that all HR initiatives should be focused on
meeting not employees' needs but rather, customers' needs.
This concept maps well onto the service-oriented nature of the hospitality industry. Because
service quality is so crucial to a hotel, restaurant, or travel firm's customer base and, relatedly, its
customer management programs, HR initiatives can add value when they help improve ways employees

connect with customers and meet their needs (Kundo & Vora, 2004; McGovern & Panaro, 2004). HR
programs, such as staffing and training, can and should be viewed from the customer's perspective
(Ulrich & Brockbank, 2005). In other words, decision makers can ask themselves: What would our
customers think of the employees we hire? What types of training would be important to our customer
base? How do we measure improvement in our customer satisfaction levels or in repeat customer
business from these programs? Questions such as these help focus HR decisions on the key product for
sale and keep HR decisions aligned with the organization's overall goals (Ulrich & Brockbank, 2005).
Unfortunately, while there is certainly conceptual appeal associated with relating HR programs
to customer outcomes, it, too, is a path fraught with obstacles. On one hand, decision makers could
again treat the entire company as a black box and examine the association between HR programs and
customer outcomes; yet, once again they are confronted with the lack of knowledge as to what really is
going on because of the HR programs. On the other hand, if decision makers try to research the links
from HR programs to employee behaviors to customer outcomes, they are faced with a daunting
research task. The field of HR needs to develop better tools and methods if it is going to make
investigations such as these possible.
With all of these approaches to studying the strategic value of HR, researchers are trying to
provide information to help companies understand how HR practices affect companywide outcomes.
But the field has far to go, and the insights gained from any one perspective must be viewed cautiously,
as each method has its own set of assumptions and flaws. We therefore must consider what companies
can do on their own behalf to advance their understanding of strategic HR value and how they can make
better decisions in this regard.
Human Resources at the Strategic Table
Although many argue that HR decisions have important strategic implications, because decision
makers are having difficulty quantifying these implications, as they can more easily do with other types
of tangible investment choices, they are not making much progress toward using HR data in meaningful
ways (Lawler & Mohrman, 2003). Yet it pays to be strategic, and the vagaries of HR outcomes are not
impenetrable obstacles. As an example, consider the field of marketing. Similar to HR, marketing deals
with unclear decision paths, psychological phenomena, and hard-to-predict outcomes. Yet the field of
marketing has developed the tools and analytics to model customer behavior and help decision makers
make better strategic choices. The difficulties inherent in HR decision making present challenges, but the
field can follow the model of marketing and develop the methods and analytics (Boudreau & Ramstad,

2005). The benefits of this course of action are becoming evident. The SHRM literature suggests that
those who can manage their HR more strategically will be rewarded with greater financial returns
(Becker & Huselid, 1998).
Yet as mentioned, while organizations, especially service-based firms, have been quick to cite
employees as the most important asset, when expenses need to be minimized, many HR initiatives, such
as training programs, are the first to be reduced or eliminated (Barney & Wright, 1998). One reason for
this reaction is that many HR professionals lack the type of analytic and data-based decision-making
capabilities needed to understand and communicate the return associated with their investments
(Lawler, Levenson, & Boudreau, 2004). Thus, to manage HR investments strategically—similar to ways
companies manage their financial assets and their products—it is necessary to gather information and
use appropriate analytics to guide decision making. This requires the development of HR metrics and the
use of HR decision-making models. We review some basic tools at hand.
HR Metrics
Boudreau and Ramstad (2003) identified three categories of metrics that can aid in the
understanding and evaluation of HR investments: efficiency, effectiveness, and impact (see Exhibit 27.2
for a summary). Metrics of efficiency ascertain how well the HR function performs its basic
administrative tasks and include items such as absence rate, vacancy rate, time-to-fill positions, cost per
hire, training cost per employee, etc. These metrics are the easiest to collect and provide useful
information on the effectiveness of HR administration. Regrettably, they do not provide insight into how
HR practices help improve organizational performance.
The second kind of metric captures effectiveness. These metrics help reveal if HR programs have
the intended effect on the people whom they are supposed to influence. For example, training
programs should be evaluated on more than just participation or cost (efficiency measures); they should
be evaluated on the sort of capabilities (i.e., knowledge, skills, abilities) gained by participants. Staffing
programs should be evaluated by the effectiveness of new hires provided by the program. Whereas an
efficiency measure of staffing may consider time to hire and turnover rate, effectiveness measures
should capture the quality of stayers versus leavers, if dysfunctional turnover is decreasing, and if the
hiring system is providing employees with the competencies needed to deliver the company's service or
product.
The third type of metric helps determine if HR systems are developing and optimizing the
capabilities of the company. Lawler et al. (2004) described this sort of metric as allowing one to

demonstrate "a link between what HR does and tangible effects on the organization's ability to gain and
sustain competitive advantage" (p. 29). Ultimately, the "holy grail" for HR management is to
demonstrate the effectiveness of HR programs on the bottom line. The creation of this sort of metric,
though, is not a simple process. Relevant numbers cannot be easily looked up in an information system
or captured through an employee or customer survey. Rather, one must employ statistical techniques
and/or experimental approaches. It is only through this sort of research-based approach, a process we
label here human resource analytics, can a decision maker attempt to understand the effects caused by
the implementation of HR programs.
Exhibit 27.2 Examples of the Different Types of Human Resources Metrics

Human Resource Analytics
To understand HR analytics, the comparison to the field of marketing again provides a useful
illustration. Marketing research is an entire field devoted to developing methods for providing
information that can guide marketing decisions. The material is commonly taught as part of a basic
education in marketing. Those obtaining degrees in marketing learn about conducting experiments,
surveying customers, and using statistical analyses to estimate the affects associated with given
programs. Unfortunately, there is little comparable formal "science" in the HR field.
In part, the necessary tools are already present. The fundamental principles behind marketing
research can be applied to understanding HR programs. Experiments, surveys, and analyses can be used

in conjunction with relevant HR metrics to guide decision making. Just as, for example, an advertising
campaign can be evaluated in terms of how well it attracts new customers, the same techniques can be
applied to evaluate the effectiveness of a recruiting campaign for job openings; the methods used to
evaluate the promotional campaign can be used to assess a new pay-for-performance system. The
experimental and analytical techniques employed in marketing research can be used to estimate the
affects associated with any number of HR programs, whose effects are captured by the effectiveness
and impact metrics discussed earlier. These concepts are beginning to be applied in the training
evaluation literature that examines the ways employees' improvements with their job skills (following a
training intervention) are tied to improved organizational performance and profitability.
In addition to borrowing techniques from marketing research, there have also been advances in
HR analytics specific to the HR field. Specifically, cost-benefit analysis tools have emerged to help guide
HR decision making. As mentioned, utility analysis is a tool designed to quantify the benefits associated
with HR interventions. Based on the assumption that individual performance has some quantifiable
dollar value, utility analysis presents a set of techniques to estimate the benefits and costs associated
with specific HR programs (for an introduction to the utility analysis tool, see Sturman, 2003). In brief,
the utility analysis tool calculates the impact of an HR program by multiplying the number of employees
affected by a program by the impact of the program on individual employee quality improvement. An
estimated cost associated with the program is subtracted from this number (Boudreau & Berger, 1985).
While the basic technique is fairly straightforward, research developing the tool has made refinements
of the technique more accurate, as well as more complex (Sturman, 2000). Specifically, it is often
difficult to estimate specific improvements an HR intervention has on an employee's performance.
The potential for sophisticated HR analytics has existed for several decades. The utility analysis
tool has existed since the 1950s but is still generally unused by managers. Some have argued that this is
a flaw associated with the technique itself (e.g., Latham & Whyte, 1994; Whyte & Latham, 1997). Others
have argued, though, that the sophistication of the method combined with little formal training on its
use limited its widespread adoption (Sturman, 2000). Similarly, while the field of marketing research
goes back to the 1920s (Bartels, 1965), there has not been any sort of widespread application of HR
analytics as a component of HR education. Nonetheless, it is our hope that such approaches to HR
decision making can become a common element in business education.
In sum, we argue that individuals making strategic HR decisions should be trained in the use of
HR analytics to guide that decision making. To obtain the most from a firm's human capital and HR,
decision makers need to be able to make good HR choices. Whoever is making decisions regarding the

investment in, and deployment of, an organization's human capital needs to have the necessary
information and (generally, computerized) tools to assist in analysis.

Issues in Practice
SHRM research provides many general suggestions on how to be more strategic or at least on
how to approach HR decision making from a more strategic perspective. Lacking, though, are specific
recommendations that have immediate applicability for practice. This is not surprising, nor should it be
expected, as the specifics of every business will necessitate different approaches. The purpose of this
chapter is not to provide the one path to strategic HR success; rather, our goal is to help readers learn
from the advances in the field so that they can strike out on their own path. We offer a basic trail
guide—ideas to consider when linking employees with firm strategy.
From an applied perspective, the first key piece of information needed before HR investment
decisions can be made is to understand the value associated with employee performance. In an industry
focused on the delivery of customer service, there are very few examples of where employee
performance does not matter. Instead, the question becomes: How does employee performance make a
difference? The more it matters, the more decision makers should examine their HR investments.
Investments may be needed to choose the right employees (e.g., invest in a selection system and attract
with appropriate salary and benefits), develop the employees that make the biggest difference (e.g.,
invest in training), and retain these employees (e.g., invest in their pay), as well as collect information on
these employees (e.g., invest in performance appraisal systems). The greater the value of employee
performance, the more that interventions designed to improve performance can produce value. Thus,
the more value there is associated with employee performance, the more a company may want to
invest in this human capital.
Decision makers also need to consider what resources are needed to make strategic HR choices.
Companies must consider whether they should "make or buy" their HR as part of an overall competitive
strategy. HR decisions, and even human assets, can be outsourced. For example, when selecting a
housekeeper, a hotel can fully handle the hiring process from recruitment to evaluation to selection;
alternatively, they can hire agencies to manage the selection process. Then again, they can simply
outsource the entire function and thus hire another company to perform all cleaning tasks. This "make
or buy" decision must be made very carefully. If one does not consider the potential value associated
with employee performance, then the decision will be driven by a cost perspective. The collection of

important HR metrics, combined with a scientific approach to HR analytics, can help determine the most
profitable decision.
Drawing upon a hospitality analogy, so to speak, the strategic management of HR is like playing
blackjack. Predicting any single behavior or result, like predicting any single hand dealt, is difficult at
best. One could have a perfect photographic memory, a salient understanding of probability, and the
ability to cognitively compute all the necessary numbers; but, if one sits down and plays a hand with no
prior information, the chances of winning are nearly no better than the intuitive (drunk) player sitting at
the next seat. But, as one collects information, plays hand after hand, and makes wise decisions as to
when to "invest," the chances of winning increases. For SHRM, while developing the right system is
difficult, the house is not nearly as stacked against the decision makers. If decision makers draw upon
the existing research, including their understanding of human capital, and build a solid HR system,
companies using a strategic approach to HR decision making can win—and win big.

Commentary
By John Longstreet
Much of the debate regarding SHRM revolves around the ROI of HR initiatives. If we assume
that, as a rule, HR initiatives are designed to, in some way, improve the "employee experience" at work,
the justification for a considerable focus on HR is found in The Service Profit Chain by Sasser, Schlesinger,
and Heskett (1997). The book focuses on the relationship between employee satisfaction, customer
satisfaction, and profitability.
Ten years before the book was written, as a hotel general manager (GM), I embraced a concept
that if I took care of my employees, they would take care of my guests, and my hotel would be
successful. Certainly appropriate facilities, ongoing capital improvements, sales and marketing, cost
control, and a myriad of other details are important. But it was crystal clear to me that if my employees
were happy, as a rule so were my guests, and our gross operating profit (GOP) exceeded other
operations without a similar "employee focus."
In 1998, with the assistance of Cornell Hotel School researchers, the service-profit chain was
"proved up." Looking at 76 hotels, 6,500 employees, and a representative sample of the guests who
stayed at those hotels, the researchers were able to establish a statistical correlation between employee
satisfaction scores, guest satisfaction scores, and "GOP to budget" comparisons (Simons, 2002). A similar

conclusion was reached in a 2005 analysis of 160 businesses and country clubs, their employees, and
members at ClubCorp.
So, if we will agree that themes expressed in the service-profit chain are valid, the next
question—logically—would be "What HR initiatives are most important in driving employee
satisfaction?" I would argue that the best way to answer this question is to ask the employees.
Combining our own data with that which has been collected from employees for years and compiled by
organizations like the Corporate Leadership Council, clearly a huge component of employee satisfaction
was, not surprisingly, "their supervisor." So, at ClubCorp we embarked on a program, designed in
simplest of terms to improve our supervisors and managers. The program, called Leadership 101, was
introduced in 3-day sessions held around the country to some 1,200 managers and supervisors. This is
not to ignore other key indicators of satisfaction, like compensation, benefits, and recognition, but
having a team of supervisors equipped to create a great-place-to-work environment seemed like the
most logical first step.
This mission of "creating a great place to work" should be the overriding mantra of the HR
function. That said, it is the operators who actually impact the work environment on a day-to-day basis,
and good HR programs cannot make up for bad managers. Consequently HR's role is as the cheerleader
for the cause and as a resource to assist operators in the achievement of this goal. Using a customer
service model, the employee is the "customer" of the manager and supervisor, and the manager and
supervisor is the "customer" of the HR department. Of course, another key role of HR is to help ensure
we find and hire the right supervisors and managers in the first place.
The concept of HR as a service provider to operators leads to another key theme among HR
circles and mentioned earlier in this chapter. How can HR professionals get the attention of operators
or, put another way, how can they get a "seat at the table"? As an operator turned HR person, I have
found that firsthand knowledge and empathy of "ops" has been absolutely critical to gain buy in from
the operators on strategic HR initiatives. Operators are more likely to react well to terminology that they
understand and conversely tend to bristle at "HR speak." As in reaching any audience, it is important
that you speak their language.
Besides determining what HR initiatives are most important and how to gain acceptance, the
chapter also deals with identifying employee groups that "provide the highest return to the
organization" and tailoring HR investments accordingly. While acknowledging that training programs
must differ based on the level and position of the employee, we reject that notion that HR programs
should be different for one group of employee versus another. One of the most powerful leadership

models, in my opinion, is "side-by-side" leadership, recognizing that every employee, manager, and
executive works side by side in achieving a common company vision. In a hotel, if there were employees
more important than others, it might be the room attendants or dish machine operators, since these are
the hardest positions to fill and perhaps the hardest jobs to do. Side by side leadership is important in
maintaining happy employees.
In summary, the service-profit chain provides the framework by which HR priorities and
strategies should be developed. HR needs to recognize operators as their customers, understanding and
empathizing with their challenges and needs. In that way, HR is more likely to gain a "seat at the table"
and gain acceptance of important strategic initiatives.

Point-Counterpoint
We very much appreciate Mr. Longstreet's comments and ideas; readers should know Mr.
Longstreet successfully led an extremely effective HR program at ClubCorp. He is now president and CEO
of Quaker Steak & Lube Restaurants. Research has a great deal to learn from business practices that
work, and his HR strategic initiatives at ClubCorp are a model to follow. We are grateful for the insights
he offers to this chapter. With the goal of learning from dialogue, we'd like to engage in one here and
offer a counterpoint to some of Mr. Longstreet's arguments. We specifically focus on the rub between
research and practice and identify areas both where we disagree and agree with ideas being applied in
industry practice.
From a perspective of those who are working with HR's impact and challenges in real time, we
agree with Mr. Longstreet that there is a lot of appeal to the service-profit chain, especially the notion of
asking managers, as well as HR, to focus on improving the employee experience. These ideas are akin to
more recent ideas in the leadership literature of servant or super leadership (Manz & Sims, 1991). While
we do not dispute that it is best to treat your employees as customers, and in doing so create a safe and
desirable work environment, we do believe that the service-profit chain has the potential to be
somewhat limited in its overall usefulness, mostly because of the employee satisfaction-performance
link.
While the relationship between job satisfaction and profitability has been substantiated at
ClubCorp, as a general notion, the link between job satisfaction and employee performance often
proves tenuous. Research continues to suggest that a happy employee is not always high performing
(Way, Sturman, & Raab, in press). For example, in an analysis of 312 studies, with a combined sample of
over 54,000 employees, the estimated relationship between job satisfaction and job performance was

around 0.30 (Judge, Thoresen, Bono, & Patton, 2001). Or in other words, less than 10% of the variance
in job performance can be predicted by an employee's level of job satisfaction. (In addition, the causal
link between satisfaction and performance is not entirely clear. For example, a good case can be made
that if employees are performing well on the job and are recognized for that, they will be happier
employees.) While the relationship between the two phenomena is still positive, and focusing on job
satisfaction is arguably a very important endeavor, there may exist additional ways for HR to contribute
to business success.
Yet, as we'd suggest to Mr. Longstreet, we may just be telling the same story using different
words; the "side-by-side" leadership program Mr. Longstreet describes represents a valuable investment
in the company's human capital. Both practice and research would agree that the goal of strengthening
leadership within organizations is crucial to employees having the ability, motivation, and opportunity to
perform well. In fact, Schneider and colleagues (2005) recently found a causal link among servicefocused leadership, employees' use of organization citizenship behaviors with customers, customer
satisfaction, and sales. Establishing these types of links between leadership, employee performance, and
critical measures of success such as sales and employee turnover, may make clear how HR can help
drive organizational success.
We believe Mr. Longstreet to be dead-on when he asserts that HR needs to understand the
nature of the business and—"must have firsthand knowledge and empathy of operations"— to have the
credibility, and hence potential, to make meaningful changes to the workplace. Keith Hammonds
recently made quite a stir in the HR field with a paper entitled "Why We Hate HR" (Hammonds, 2005).
Part of the problem with HR management that Hammonds identifies is exactly this issue. HR managers
need to know who is the company's core customer; they need to know who is the competition, and they
need to know what the company does well. This requires knowledge beyond just what is managed
within the walls of the HR department; it requires knowledge of the business. It also speaks to one of
the four core competencies identified by Ulrich (1997) as crucial to HR's ability to impact its
organization.
Training programs aside, Mr. Longstreet rejected our notion that HR programs should be
different for one group of employees versus another. In the spirit of good debate, here, we simply have
to offer a counterargument. While we agree that employees should uniformly be treated ethically,
legally, and with respect and dignity, as expressed by Hammonds (2005), sameness is not a proxy for
equity. It is not simply that different jobs contribute to the organizational mission in different ways (as
Mr. Longstreet implies when he comments about the critical role of the frontline employee), but also

that employees within that job perform at different levels. HR decision making needs to be all about
differentiation. Which specific employees need specific skills? How can managers ensure that they
retain their top talent? Should top performance be encouraged with pay increases that are among the
highest in the organization? How can we encourage average or below-average employees to either
increase their performance or perhaps leave the company? Again, our disagreement here is likely a
matter of semantics.
Clearly, we are in agreement with Mr. Longstreet that HR needs to contribute to business
success, and perhaps we only differ slightly in the mechanisms through which this happens. Yet, this
potential disagreement actually highlights one of our other major points in our chapter: HR needs to be
able to assess its impact and understand how HR decisions (both at the policy level and at the individual
level) make this happen. While the service-profit chain has proved valuable for ClubCorp in identifying a
relationship between the "black box's" inputs and outputs, we still needed metrics and analytics to learn
more about this issue and explain the process by which value-added occurs. The SHRM field can help
here, as can greater researcher-practitioner collaboration. We hope this chapter encourages work in this
area.

Reconciliation and Insights
As both research and practice have shown, the business of managing an organization's
investment in its human capital is complex. Clearly, one of the central goals of HR decision makers is
managing this investment portfolio through assessing the return of its bundle of HR initiatives. We
emerge from our discussion of the process of SHRM with a salient, overarching theme.
HR decision makers will not be effective in managing their HR investments without delineating
specific ways HR initiatives contribute to a firm's overall competencies, goals, and objectives. While a
seemingly simple concept, as we hope we made clear, there exist a variety of ways to approach this
goal—none of which are easy to prove. Thus, to even engage operational leaders in the discussion, HR
decision makers need to apply the language and metrics that will make all organizational leaders take
notice of ways their human capital appreciates in value and, to borrow concepts from the RBV, shape a
firm's distinguishing competencies. This includes, as Mr. Longstreet so aptly pointed out, understanding
the business' needs and practices, in addition to understanding the industry in which the business
operates. With this information in hand, HR decision makers can engage operational leaders in shaping
the organization's competitive advantage through reinforcing cultural values and developing employees'
knowledge and skill-base. They can also help enact change and create organizational agility through

aligning the hiring, training, compensation, and firing processes (Brockbank, 1999). With all of these
processes, effective HR decision makers should use business core competency goals and metrics as the
benchmark for evaluating HR initiatives (Ulrich, 1997; Wright, Snell, & Jacobson, 2004).
As Brockbank (1999) suggested, HR leaders need to go beyond the logical role of matching HR
processes to a firm's strategy and be what he terms "strategically proactive." This means that HR leaders
should be focused on tomorrow's organizational challenges. They should work on enhancing an
organization's innovative capabilities through removing obstacles to creative processes and streamlining
ways operational decisions are made. HR leaders also need to be crystal clear on what their organization
knows (knowledge), what it does (skills), and how it thinks (culture). In doing so, they will be able to
contribute more effectively to organizational change plans, including mergers and acquisitions (M & As).
Finally, HR decision makers need to be in continuous conversion with sales and marketing personnel,
staying ahead of customer trends and understanding ways employees can help attract and sustain a
loyal customer-base (Brockbank, 1999).
This concept of linking employees with customers leads to our final insight. We believe the area
of greatest potential for service organizations lies in understanding the crucial ways employees create
value for the purchasers of the organization's product. More recent research in marketing examines the
lifetime potential revenues customers bring to an organization, as well as the value of maintaining
customer relationships (Duffy, 2000; Gupta & Lehmann, 2003). It is widely understood that frontline
service employees play crucial roles in the reproduction of intangible service experiences or products
(Bowen, 1986). The wild cards in the equation are the customers, who often are not even cognizant of
their own service expectations let alone their satisfaction with service experiences—or their own role in
shaping those experiences. We understand that service encounters are complex and variable and as a
result, often difficult to script.
What we need to understand are the financial ways employees contribute to the lifetime value
of loyal and repeat customers. Broadly, we know that employees can contribute through communicating
customer needs to preferred-customer databases, to learning various ways customers wish to
reproduce service experiences, and to being such an efficient and recognizable part of the service
experience that loyal customers are willing to pay price premiums for the ease and predictability of the
service encounter (Reichheld, 1996). These types of behaviors turn what is termed "encounter-based"
service experiences into "relationship-based" service experiences that add value to the firm. The
customer switches from doing business with an organization to doing business with people who
represent the organization (Gutek & Walsh, 2000). Research suggests that the customers who form

relationships with their service organizations actually appreciate in potential value, quite similar to the
investments in employees (Reichheld, 1996). What we do not know is how to measure the specific ways
employees contribute to the long-term potential of an established customer base, as well as help attract
a new one. Numerically linking these contributions to long-term revenue brings home the crucial ways
employees contribute to any successful service business. Human capital—-and its associated HR
investments—represent intangible assets that have remarkable potential to enhance both current and
future firm value.

Implications for Strategic Human Resource Management in Hospitality
What do these insights suggest for future research and practice in hospitality? As we mentioned,
industry leaders in both the hotel and restaurant industries report human capital challenges recruiting,
retaining, motivating, training, and developing the workforce—as the problems that "keep them awake
at night" (Enz, 2001, 2004). While short-term recruiting and turnover issues may ebb and flow with
economic conditions, the general problem of acquiring, developing, and retaining a high-quality
workforce that is ready to meet one's future organizational needs is a problem that does not go away in
any financial environment. Obviously, industry leaders recognize the serious challenge of understanding
the investment return from what is typically viewed in the short term, as a very significant P and L
expense. Coupled with this contradiction is the fact that, as any GM, financial planner, and/or hotel
controller would advise, critical strategic decisions must be based on sound financial analysis—even of
an organizations crucial intangible assets, such as investments in its employees.
Yet, at the same time, it is not difficult to realize in a service-oriented business, how crucial
employees, especially frontline employees, are to an organization's success. Building from the concepts
discussed by Mr. Longstreet, as well as the recognition that frontline employees are the ones carrying
out a firm's strategic initiatives (Liao & Chuang, 2004; Skaggs & Youndt, 2004), we offer that both
hospitality-based HR research and practice should begin with these employees. In other words, when
determining the return on investing in and developing a hospitality firm's human capital, both research
and practice should begin with the crucial customer-employee interaction.
More specifically, hotel or restaurant guests have many "touch points" or encounters with
employees, as throughout their visit, they consume the product for sale. We suggest focusing on the
data embedded in these encounters. Through guest comments systems and client feedback programs,
most organizations already know which aspects of their service delivery system are working and which
are candidates for improvement. We argue that these data represent points for future investigation

from not a service quality perspective but perhaps in a more nuanced manner, from an HR, operational
one. For example, what are specific employees specifically doing to manage the service encounter in
ways that the most valuable, repeat customers appreciate? Or alternatively, how do these employees
create efficiencies around the work they do that are reflected in high-volume exchanges with satisfied
customers and clients? How are efforts such as these reflected in additional revenues or cost savings to
the hotel or restaurant? Questions such as these help identify what employees are doing right—all the
critical and significant things they do to help build and sustain a successful business.
With an understanding of data such as these in hand, HR decision makers can then assess not
only what outstanding performance "looks like" in terms of bottom-line impact, but they can also
determine the routines that outstanding employees enact, that can be embedded in the organization's
processes. At a broader level, decision makers can conduct similar analyses examining the impact of past
and current investments in various employee groups (reflected in the wages and benefits required to
obtain them) on the hotel's current revenue stream and even profitability. Ideas such as these are aimed
at applying financial modeling to understand the impact of human capital at both the individual and
group level.
The same type of analyses would be useful to analyze the impact of different HR investments.
For example, with information from loyal guests in hand, decision makers could examine ways criteria
provided by these guests are embedded into performance appraisal systems, are used to identify
training standards, and/or are shaped into hiring guidelines for evaluating job candidates. In this way,
HR policies and practices become aligned to not only support and develop these high-performing
employees but also to encourage others to adopt similar behaviors. Practices such as these would help
create and sustain a high-performing work culture. In addition, the success of HR initiatives could be
calibrated against how well employees are succeeding in managing those crucial customer linkages that
help generate repeat business.
The linkages between customer and employees represent one leverage point from which our
ideas could be directly applied to hospitality research and practice. Connecting employee performance
to what matters most to a hotel or restaurant, along with the ability to accurately strengthen and
measure this connection through HR processes, metrics, and analytics pose exciting opportunities for
decision makers. The impact of human capital and HR initiatives is obviously critical to a service-oriented
business. Understanding the financial depth of this impact likely represents an occasion for hotel and
restaurant organizations to differentiate themselves in significant ways from their competition. We look

forward to future hospitality research and practice that focuses on this opportunity and offers a greater
understanding of the strategic value of HR.

Conclusion
In this chapter, we sought to not only review key issues in SHRM but also to identify areas of
opportunity and leverage. Our review made salient for us that research has a long way to go in providing
definitive answers for hospitality practitioners. Yet, it is clearly moving in that direction. Applying metrics
and adopting a financial decision-making framework will help all decision makers—whether HR or
operational—examine the return associated with human capital investments and HR initiatives. The key
lies in understanding ways these assets appreciate in value to the organization. The business leaders
who can best leverage their human capital will be the ones contributing to the long-term strength of
their companies.

References
Amit, R., & Shoemaker, P. J. (1993). Strategic assets and organizational rent. Strategic Management
Journal, 14, 33-46.
Argote, L., & Ingram, P. (2000). Knowledge transfer: A basis for competitive advantage in firms.
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 82, 150-169.
Barney, J. B. (1991). Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage. Journal of Management, 17,
99-120.
Barney, J. B., & Wright, P. M. (1998). On becoming a strategic partner: The role of human resources in
gaining competitive advantage. Human Resource Management, 37, 31-46.
Bartels, R. (1965). Development of marketing thought: A brief history. In G. Swartz (Ed.), Science in
marketing. New York: Wiley.
Becker, B., & Gerhart, B. (1996). The impact of human resource management on organizational
performance: Progress and prospects. Academy of Management Journal, 39, 779-801.
Becker, B., & Huselid, M. A. (1998). High performance work systems and firm performance: A synthesis
of research and managerial implications. Research in Personnel and Human Resource
Management, 76, 53-101.
Becker, B., Huselid, M. A., Pickus, P. S., & Spratt, M. F. (1997). HR as a source of shareholder value:
Research and recommendations. Human Resource Management, 36, 39-47.

Becker, G. S. (1962). Investment in human capital: A theoretical analysis. The Journal of Political
Economy, 70(5), 9-49.
Bontis, N. (1998). Intellectual capital: An exploratory study that develops measures and models.
Management Decision, 36, 63-76.
Bontis, N., Crossan, M., & Hullard, J. (2002). Managing an organizational learning system by aligning
stocks and flows. Journal of Management Studies, 39, 437-469.
Boudreau, J. W (1991). Utility analysis for decision in human resource management. In M. D. Dunnette &
L. M. Hough (Eds.), Handbook of industrial and organizational psychology (2nd ed.) (Vol. 2, pp.
621-745). Palo Alto, CA: Consulting Psychologists Press.
Boudreau, J. W, & Berger, C. J. (1985). Decision-theoretic utility analysis applied to employee
separations and acquisitions [Monograph]. Journal of Applied Psychology, 70, 581-612.
Boudreau, J. W, & Ramstad, P. M. (1997). Measuring intellectual capital: Learning from financial history.
Human Resource Management, 36, 343-356.
Boudreau, J. W, & Ramstad, P. M. (2003). Strategic HRM measurement in the 21st century: From
justifying HR to strategic talent leadership. In M. Goldsmith, R. P. Gandossy, & M. S. Efron (Eds.),
MM in the 21st Century (pp. 79-90). New York: Wiley.
Boudreau, J. W., & Ramstad, P. M. (2005). Talentship, talent segmentation and sustainability: A new HR
decision science paradigm for a new strategy definition. Human Resource Management, 44, 129136.
Boudreau, J. W, Sturman, M. C, & Judge, T. A. (1994). Utility analysis: What are the black boxes and do
they affect decisions? In N. Anderson 8c P. Herriot (Eds.), Assessment and selection in
organizations (pp. 77-96). New York: Wiley.
Bouillon, M. L., Doran, B. M., 8c Orazem, P. F. (1995-1996). Human capital investment effects on firm
returns. Journal of Applied Business Research, 12, 30-41.
Bowen, D. E. (1986). Managing customers as human resources in service organization. Human Resource
Management, 25, 371-383.
Brockbank, W (1999). If HR were really strategically proactive: Present and future directions in HR's
contribution to competitive advantage. Human Resource Management, 38, 337-352.
Carmeli, A., 8c Tishler, A. (2004). The relationship between intangible organizational elements and firm
performance. Strategic Management Journal, 25, 1257-1278.
Coff, R. W. (1997). Human assets and management dilemmas: Coping with hazards on the road to
resource-based theory. Academy of Management Review, 22, 374-402.

Delaney, J. T., & Huselid, M. A. (1996). The impact of human resource management practices on
perceptions of organizational performance. Academy of Management Journal, 39, 949-969.
Duffy, J. (2000). Measuring customer capital. Strategy & Leadership, 28, 10-13.
Engstrom, T. E. J., Westnes, P., & Westnes, S. F. (2003). Evaluating intellectual capital in the hotel
industry. Journal of Intellectual Capital, 4, 287-303.
Enz, C. A. (2001). What keeps you up at night?: Key issues of concern for lodging managers. Cornell Hotel
and Restaurant Administration Quarterly, 4, 38-45.
Enz, C. A. (2004). Issues of concern for restaurant owners and managers. Cornell Hotel and Restaurant
Administration Quarterly, 45(4), 315-332.
Gupta, S., & Lehmann, D. R. (2003). Cutomers are assets. Journal of Interactive Marketing, 17, 9-24.
Gutek, B. A., & Walsh, T. (2000). The brave new service strategy. New York: Amacom.
Hall, R. (1992). The strategic analysis of intangible resources. Strategic Management Journal, 13, 135144.
Hammonds, K. H. (2005). Why we hate HR. Fast Company, 97, 41-47.
Harrison, J. S., & Enz, C. A. (2005). Hospitality strategic management. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley.
Hitt, M. A., Bierman, L., Shimizu, K., & Kochhar, R. (2001). Direct and moderating effects of human
capital on strategy and performance in professional service firms: A resource-based perspective.
Academy of Management Journal, 44, 13-28.
Huselid, M. A. (1995). The impact of human resource management practices on turnover, productivity
and corporate financial performance. Academy of Management Journal, 38, 635-672.
Huselid, M. A., & Becker, B. E. (1995). High performance work systems and organizational performance.
Paper presented at the 1995 Academy of Management Conference, Vancouver, BC.
Huselid, M. A., Jackson, S. E., & Schuler, R. S. (1997). Technical and strategic human resource
management effectiveness as determinants of firm performance. Academy of Management
Journal, 40, 171-188.
Jackson, S. E., Schuler, R. S., & Rivero, J. C. (1989). Organizational characteristics as predictors of
personnel practices. Personnel Psychology, 42, 727-786.
Judge, T. A., Thoresen, C. J., Bono, J. E., & Patton, G. K. (2001). The job-satisfaction-job performance
relationship: A qualitative and quantitative review. Psychological Bulletin, 127, 376-407.
Kannan, G., & Akhilesh, K. B. (2002). Human capital knowledge value added. Journal of Intellectual
Capital, 3, 167-179.

Kundo, S. C, 8c Vora, J. A. (2004). Creating a talented workforce for delivering service quality. Human
Resource Planning, 27, 40-51.
Lado, A. A., & Wilson, M. C. (1994). Human resource systems and sustained competitive advantage: A
competency-based perspective. Academy of Management Review, 19, 699-727.
Latham, G. P., & Whyte, G. (1994). The futility of utility analysis. Personnel Psychology, 47, 31-46.
Lawler, E. E., Levenson, A., & Boudreau, J. W (2004). HR metrics and analytics: Use and impact. HR.
Human Resource Planning, 27(4), 27-35.
Lawler, E. E., & Mohrman, S. A. (2003). HR as a strategic partner: What does it take to make it happen?
Human Resource Planning, 26(5), 15-29.
Lepak, D. P., & Snell, S. A. (1999). The human resource architecture: Toward a theory of human capital
allocation and development. Academy of Management Review, 24, 31-48.
Lepak, D. P., & Snell, S. A. (2002). Examining the human resource architecture: The relationships among
human capital, employment and human resource configurations. Journal of Management, 28,
517-543.
Liao, H., & Chuang, A. (2004). A multilevel investigation of factors influencing employee service
performance and customer outcomes. Academy of Management Journal, 47, 41-58.
Manz, C. C, 8c Sims, H. P. (1991). Superleadership: Beyond the myth of heroic leadership. Organizational
Dynamics, 19, 18-35.
McGovern, T, 8c Panaro, J. (2004). The human side of customer relationship management. Benefits
Quarterly, 20, 26-33.
Nelson, R. R., & Winter, S. G. (1982). The evolutionary theory of economic change. Cambridge, MA:
Belknap Press.
Nonaka, I. (1994). A dynamic theory of knowledge creation. Organization Science, 5, 14-37.
Normann, R. (1984). Service management: Strategy and leadership in service businesses. Chichester, UK:
Wiley.
Peteraf, M. (1993). The cornerstone of competitive advantage: A resource-based view. Strategic
Management Journal, 14,179-191.
Reichheld, F. E (1996). The loyalty effect: The hidden force behind growth, profits and lasting value.
Boston: Harvard Business School Press.
Sasser, W. E., Schlesinger, L. A., & Heskett, J. L. (1997). The service profit chain. New York: Free Press.

Schneider, B., Ehrhart, M. G., Mayer, D. M., Saltz, J. L., & Niles-Jolly, K. (2005). Understanding
organization- customer links in service settings. Academy of Management Journal, 48, 10171032.
Sherer, P. D. (1995). Leveraging human assets in law firms: Human capital structures and organizational
capabilities. Industrial and Labor Relations Review, 48, 671 -691.
Simons, T. (2002). The high cost of low trust. Harvard Business Review, 80(9), 18-19.
Skaggs, B. C, & Youndt, M. (2004). Strategic positioning, human capital and performance in service
organizations: A customer interaction approach. Strategic Management Journal, 25, 85-99.
Sturman, M. C. (2000). Implications of utility analysis adjustments for estimates of human resource
intervention value. Journal of Management, 26, 281-299.
Sturman, M. C. (2003). Introducing utility analysis for hospitality: A tool for quantifying the value of
human resource interventions. Cornell Hotel and Restaurant Administration Quarterly, 44, 106116.
Teece, D. J., Pisano, G., 8c Shuen, A. (1997). Dynamic capabilities in strategic management. Strategic
Management Journal, 18, 509-534.
Ulrich, D. (1997). Human resource champions. Boston: Harvard Business School Press.
Ulrich, D., & Brockbank, W. (2005). Focusing on customers. HR Magazine, 50(6), 62-66.
Ulrich, D., & Smallwood, N. (2005). HR's new ROI: Return on Intangibles. Human Resource Management,
44, 137-142.
Way, S. A., Sturman, M. C, & Raab, C. (in press). What matters more? Contrasting the effects of job
satisfaction and service climate on hotel F8cB managers' job performance. Cornell Hospitality
Quarterly.
Whyte, G., & Latham, G. P. (1997). The futility of utility analysis revisited: When even an expert fails.
Personnel Psychology, 50, 601 -610.
Wright, P.M., Dunford, B. B., & Snell, S. A. (2001). Human resources and the resource based view of the
firm. Journal of Management, 27, 701-721.
Wright, P. M., Smart, D. L., & McMahan, G. C. (1995). Matches between human resources and strategy
among NCAA basketball teams. Academy of Management Journal, 38, 1052-1074.
Wright, P. M., & Snell, S. A. (1991). Toward an integrative view of Strategic Human Resource
Management. Human Resource Management Review, 1, 203-235.
Wright, P. M., Snell, S. A., & Jacobson, P. (2004). Current approaches to HR strategies: Inside-out versus
outside-in. Human Resource Planning, 27, 36-46.

Youndt, M. A., 8c Snell, S. A. (2004). Human resource configurations, intellectual capital and
organizational performance. Journal of Managerial Issues, 16, 337-360.
Youndt, M. A., Snell, S. A., Dean, J. W, 8c Lepak, D. P. (1996). Human resource management,
manufacturing strategy and firm performance. Academy of Management Journal, 39,836-866.
Zucker, L. G., Darby, M. R., 8c Brewer, M. B. (1998). Intellectual capital and the birth of U.S.
biotechnology enterprises. The American Economic Review, 88(1), 290-306.

