UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE INSPECTIONS AND EXAMINATIONS
100 F STREET, NE
WASHINGTON, DC 20549

October 9, 2012

Dear Senior Executive or Principal of a Newly Registered Investment Adviser: 1
We are sending you this letter to introduce you to the National Exam Program ("NEP"), which is
administered by the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations ("OCIE") within the
United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission"), and to provide you with
information about upcoming examinations of certain newly registered investment advisers and
the topical areas that may be examined? The NEP staff will contact you separately ifyour firm
is selectedfor an examination.

I.

Information About the NEP

An investment adviser registered with the Commission has an obligation to comply with the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the "Advisers Act") and the rules adopted by the Commission
thereunder. OCIE examines registered advisers, including firms that advise private funds, to
assess whether they are operating in a manner consistent with the federal securities laws. OCIE
administers such examinations through the NEP, which is comprised of staff in the
Commission's 11 regional offices and the home office in Washington, D.C. The NEP's mission
is to protect investors and maintain market integrity through risk-focused examinations that
promote compliance, prevent fraud, monitor risk, and inform policy.

TI.

Presence Exams of Certain Newly Registered Investment Advisers

Consistent with our mission and objectives, the NEP is launching an initiative to conduct
focused, risk-based examinations of investment advisers to private funds that recently registered
with the Commission ("Presence Exams"). The Presence Exams initiative will take place over
the next two years and it has three primary phases: engagement; examination; and reporting.
Each phase is described further below.

For purposes of this letter, we distinguish an investment adviser as "newly registered'' if it registered with the
Commission after the definitional and transitional rules under Dodd-Frank Wall Street Refonn and Consumer
Protection Act of2010 became effective (July 21,201 I). In addition, this letter is specifically directed to senior
officers of investment advisers that manage private funds.
2

The Commission, as a matter of policy, disclaims responsibility for any publication or statement by any of its
employees. The views expressed herein are those of the staff and do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Commission or the other staff members of the Commission.

A. Engagement Phase
The NEP is engaged in a nationwide outreach to inform newly registered firms about their
obligations under the Advisers Act and related rules, the Presence Exams initiative, and OCIE's
practice of engaging directly with firms' senior management. As part of our outreach initiatives,
the NEP has published compliance outreach materials, staff letters, risk alerts, special studies,
speeches, and other documents that are available on the Commission's website. The
Commission's website also contains information and links to relevant laws and rules, staff
guidance, enforcement cases, and staff issued no-action and interpretive letters (generally from
2001 to present). 4 Some of these resources and their reference links are provided at the end of
this letter. 5
In addition, the Commission's staff engages in compliance outreach for investment advisers
through initiatives such as our Compliance Outreach Program. This program is designed to
provide senior officers, including Chief Compliance Officers, with a forum to discuss
compliance issues, share experiences, engage in discussions with Commission staff, and learn
about effective compliance practices. The program features both regional meetings at various
locations across the country and national seminars in Washington D.C.

B. Examination Phase
During the examination phase of the Presence Exams initiative, NEP staff will review one or
more of the following higher-risk areas of the business and operations of advisers selected for an
examination: 6

Marketing. Investment advisers may utilize marketing materials to solicit new investors or retain
existing investors. NEP staff will review marketing materials to evaluate whether the investment
adviser has made false or misleading statements about its business or performance record; made
any untrue statement of a material fact; omitted material facts; made any statement that is
In particular, you are encouraged to review the staff's letter to newly registered investment advisers that was
sent to your ftrm when it registered through lARD. For a more detailed overview of the NEP and the issues of
focus for the examination staff, see recent speeches by OCIE's Director, Carlo di Florio, and former Deputy
Director, Norm Champ.
4

Staff interpretations and no-action letters provided by the Commission's Division of Investment Management
are informal interpretative and advisory assistance and represent the views of persons who are continuously
working with the provisions of the Advisers Act. Opinions expressed by the staff, however, are not an official
expression of the Commission's views and they do not have the force of law. You may wish to speak with an
attorney or a compliance professional about specific provisions and how they apply to your ftrm.
This letter does not provide a complete description of all of the legal obligations of SEC-registered advisers nor
does it provide a comprehensive inventory of resources that may be available.

6

The books and records of all registered investment advisers are subject to compliance examinations by
Commission staff, including the records and reports of any private funds to which investment advisers
registered under Advisers Act provide investment advice. If your ftrm is examined, you are required to provide
examiners with access to all requested advisory records that are maintained by your ftrm (under certain
conditions, documents may remain private under the attorney-client privilege).

otherwise misleading; or engaged in any manipulative, fraudulent, or deceptive activities. In
addition, NEP staff will review how investment advisers solicit investors for the private funds
they manage, including the use of placement agents.

Portfolio Management. An investment adviser has an obligation to act in the best interests of its
advisory clients and to identify, mitigate, and disclose any material conflict of interest. NEP
staff will review and evaluate investment advisers' portfolio decision-making practices,
including the allocation of investment opportunities and whether advisers' practices are
consistent with disclosures provided to investors.
Conflicts of Interest. The NEP staff will review the procedures and controls that advisers use to
identify, mitigate, and manage certain conflicts of interest within their firms. Some areas of the
conflicts of interest that NEP staff will review includes: allocation of investments, fees, and
expenses; sources of revenue; payments made by private funds to advisers and related persons;
employees' outside business activities and personal securities trading; and transactions by
advisers with affiliated parties.
Safety of Client Assets. Registered investment advisers that have "custody" of client assets must
take specific measures to protect client assets from loss or theft. NEP staff will review advisers'
compliance with the relevant provisions of the Advisers Act and related rules that are designed to
prevent the loss or theft of client assets. When obtained, NEP staff also will review independent
audits of private funds for consistency with the Advisers Act custody rule.
Valuation. Investment advisers must have effective policies and procedures regarding the
valuation of client holdings and assessment of fees based on those valuations. NEP staff will
review advisers' valuation policies and procedures, including their methodology for fair valuing
illiquid or difficult to value instruments. NEP staff also will review advisers' procedures for
calculating management and performance fees, and allocation of expenses to private funds.
If your firm is selected for an examination, after the completion of the on-site portion of the
examination, NEP staff may send you a letter indicating that the examination has concluded
without findings or a letter that describes the deficiencies identified and asks your firm to
undertake corrective action. If serious deficiencies are found, in addition to sending an
examination summary letter, NEP staff may refer the problems to the Commission's Division of
Enforcement, or to a self-regulatory organization, state regulatory agency, or other regulator for
possible action.

C. Reporting Phase
At the conclusion of the Examination Phase, the NEP intends to report its observations to the
Commission and the public. These observations may include common practices identified in the
higher-risk focus areas, industry trends, and significant issues. In sharing examiners'
observations from Presence Exams, the NEP staff hopes to encourage firms to review
compliance in these areas and to promote improvements in investment adviser compliance
programs.

* *

*

We hope that this letter was useful in introducing you to the Presence Exams initiative and the
examination program generally, and will better acquaint you and your personnel with
compliance resources. Should you have any questions regarding this letter, please identify the
Commission's regional office that is assigned to your advisory finn and contact any member of
NEP management in that office. 7

Drew Bowden
Deputy Director

cc: Chief Compliance Officer

7

Instructions regarding identifying the Commission' s office applicable to your firm are provided in the attached
"Additional Information: Reference Materials" guide in the section titled "Information Regarding the NEP and
Examinations."

Additional Information: Reference Materials
You may find the following non-exclusive list of informational sources to be helpful. Items
referenced by a "../" below are highlighted in the letter.
Information About the Advisers Act
•

The Advisers Act and rules are available on the Commission's website at
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment.shtml).

•

Overview of the Regulation oflnvestment Advisers (April2012), available on the
Commission's website at http://sec.gov/about/offices/oia/oia investman/rplaze042012.pdf

•

SEC-Stafflssued Interpretive Guidance and Studies, available on the Commission's
website at http://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment.shtml.

../ Information for Newly-Registered Investment Advisers, available on the Commission's
website at http://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/advoverview.htm.
Information Regarding the NEP and Examinations
•

Overview of Examinations by the Securities and Exchange Commission's Office of
Compliance Inspections and Examinations (February 2012), available on the
Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ocie/ocieoverview.pdf

•

Examination Brochure, available on the Commission's website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ocie/ocie exambrochure.pdf.

•

NEP website, available at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ocie.shtml.

../ Listing of local Commission office (contact information for senior examination staff) is
available at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ocie/ocie org.htm. The Commission's
regional office designated for an adviser can be found by first identifying the adviser's
Principal Office and Place of Business on its Form ADV (as used in: Form ADV, Part
1A, Instructions, Items 1 and 2; ScheduleD; Form ADV-W, Item 1) and then identifying
the Commission's regional office assigned to that state jurisdiction (which can be found
at http://www.sec.gov/contact/addresses.htm).
Information Relevant to the Higher-Risk Topical Areas
../ Speech by Commission Staff Carlo di Florio, "Address at the Private Equity International
Private Fund Compliance Forum" (May 2, 2012), available on the Commission's website
at http://sec.gov/news/speech/2012/spch050212cvd.htm# ftnref2.

./ Speech by Commission StaffNorm Champ, "What SEC Registration Means for Hedge
Fund Advisers" (May 11, 20 12), available on the Commission's website at
http://sec.gov/news/speech/20 12/spch051112nc.htm.
Information Regarding the Role of Senior Management in Compliance and Ethics
•

Speech by Commission Staff Carlo di Florio, "The Role of Compliance and Ethics in
Risk Management" (October 17, 2011), available on the Commission's website at
http://www.sec.gov/news/speech/2011/spchl01711cvd.htm.

•

Speech by Commission Staff Stephen M. Cutler, "Second Annual General Counsel
Roundtable: Tone at the Top: Getting it Right" (December 4, 2004), available on the
Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov/news/speech/spch 120304smc.htm.

Information About the Compliance Outreach Program
•

Information about the Compliance Outreach Program for investment advisers and any
scheduled events is available at http://www.sec.gov/info/complianceoutreach iafunds.htm.

Historical Observations by Commission Staff Regarding Hedge Funds
•

Commission Staff report regarding the "Implications of the Growth of Hedge Funds"
(September 2003), available on the Commission's website at
http://www.sec.gov/news/studies/hedgefunds0903 .pdf.

