UNITED STATES

S E C U R I T I E S A N D EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON,

D.C.

20549

O F F I C E O F THE
GENERAL COUNSEL

May 12,2006

VIA FEDEX
Janette Bloom
Clerk of Court
Supreme Court of Nevada
201 South Carson Street, Suite 201
Carson City, Nevada 89701-4702
Re:

Response of Securities and Exchange Commission in Nanopierce Technologies,
Inc. v. The Depository Trust and Clearing Corp., No. 45364 (Nev.)

Dear Ms. Bloom:
While the amicus curiae brief of the North American Securities Administrators
Association, Inc. argues that conflict preemption is not applicable to this case, that brief in fact
brings into stark highlight why this lawsuit is in direct conflict with the federal regulatory regime,
and why it is critically important that the case be dismissed on preemption grounds. The
Securities and Exchange Commission therefore asks the Court to consider this short response.
The premise of NASAA7sbrief is that assuming the allegations of the complaint are true,
as would be done if those allegations were being examined on a motion to dismiss for failure to
state a claim, there can be no inconsistency between a state law suit and the Securities Exchange
Act regulatory regime governing the nation's clearance and settlement system. & NASAA Br.
at 2, 17,23. As we explained in the amicus brief of the Commission, plaintiffs in essence allege
that (a) the clearance and settlement system has certain "defects," and (b) defendants have
violated state law by failing to disclose those defects. Comrn. Br. at 22-25. If the defects do not
exist, defendants cannot be liable for fraud for failing to disclose them. And without the defects,
plaintiffs' allegation that operation of the system in accordance with the Commission-approved
rules is a form of manipulation also fails.
Plaintiffs' claims are preempted because evaluating these claims of alleged defects has
been entrusted by Congress to the Commission, not to the state courts. The Commission found
that the clearance and settlement system complies with the requirements of the Exchange Act
when it approved the system more than twenty years ago, and it has continued to be of that view
as it has exercised oversight responsibility ever since. The essential predicate to plaintiffs' case,
therefore, is a state court determination that the Commission has misunderstood how the
clearance and settlement system functions. The conflict arises because before plaintiffs can
attempt to prove their claim that defendants made misrepresentations or engaged in
manipulation, they must first ask a state court to displace or supersede the Commission as the
regulatory fact finder.

Ms. Bloom
May 12,2006
Page 2

Under plaintiffs' theory of the case, if the Nevada courts disagree with the Commission's
exercise of its expert judgment, defendants can potentially be held liable for huge damages, they
might be required to make "disclosures" that defendants and the Commission both believe to be
false, and they could be forced, either by court order or by the desire to avoid future damage
awards, into changing the way they do business, perhaps by adopting practices that the
Commission believes are inconsistent with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the proper
functioning of the national clearance and settlement system. On the other hand, if the Nevada
courts agree with the Commission's judgment, a new set of plaintiffs in a different state may
bring the exact same allegations and repeat the process, presumably until cases have been
brought in all fifty states, with a win in even one state causing the undesirable consequences we
have enumerated on a nationwide basis. A legal regime more antithetical to a nationally uniform
regulatory system, or more likely to wreak havoc with the national clearance and settlement
system, is difficult to imagine.
As noted in the Commission's brief, the Commission has adopted Regulation SHO for
the purpose of preventing abusive naked short selling, and it has stated that if it concludes that
further steps are required, it will take them. Comm. Br. at 28-29. The national regulatory regime
should be permitted to function as Congress intended it, not disrupted and displaced by state law
actions brought against key participants in the clearance and settlement process for obeying
Commission-approved rules. Preemption cannot be evaded by invoking the presumption that
allegations in a complaint are true for purposes of ruling on a motion to dismiss. Otherwise, any
regulatory determination, by any federal regulatory agency, could be subjected to review under
the law of fifty states merely by alleging that the regulator has made an incorrect determination of
the operative facts, and that the regulated entity has committed fraud by failing to disclose the
truth. The Court should refuse to take that path and should instead affirm the judgment of the
district court.

Respectfully,

Brian G. Cartwright
General Counsel

cc:

William E. Cooper, Esq.
David N. Frederick, Esq.
Nicholas E. Hales, Esq.
Dennis L. Kennedy, Esq.

Bruce T. Laxalt, Esq.
Gregg M. Mashberg, Esq.
Michael J. Morrison, Esq.

