__________________________________________________________________________
2014 SUMMARY REPORT OF COMMISSION STAFF’S EXAMINATIONS OF
EACH NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATION
__________________________________________________________________________

As Required by Section 15E(p)(3)(C)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

This is a report of the Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Commission has expressed no view regarding the analysis, findings, or conclusions
contained herein.
__________________________________

December 2014

TABLE OF CONTENTS

I.

REGULATORY AND NRSRO OVERVIEW.................................................................... 2
A.

Statutory Framework and Rules....................................................................................... 2

B.

Registered NRSROs......................................................................................................... 3

II. OFFICE OF CREDIT RATINGS AND EXAMINATION OVERVIEW ....................... 4
A.

Examinations under Section 15E(p)(3) ............................................................................ 4

B.

Examination Overview .................................................................................................... 5

III. SUMMARY OF RESPONSES TO RECOMMENDATIONS FROM PREVIOUS
REPORTS AND NOTED INSTANCES OF REMEDIAL ACTION ...................................... 6
IV. SUMMARY OF ESSENTIAL FINDINGS ......................................................................... 7

V.

A.

Review Area: Adherence to Policies, Procedures, and Methodologies .......................... 8

B.

Review Area: Management of Conflicts of Interest ..................................................... 11

C.

Review Area: Implementation of Ethics Policies ......................................................... 15

D.

Review Area: Internal Supervisory Controls ................................................................ 15

E.

Review Area: Governance ............................................................................................ 20

F.

Review Area: DCO Activities ...................................................................................... 22

G.

Review Area: Complaints ............................................................................................. 24

H.

Review Area: Post-Employment................................................................................... 25
CONCLUSION ................................................................................................................... 25

I.

REGULATORY AND NRSRO OVERVIEW

This report summarizes the examinations conducted by staff from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (the “Staff”) under Section 15E(p)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (“Exchange Act”). 1 This is a report of the Staff and, as such, reflects solely the Staff’s
views. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) is making this Staff
report public as required by Section 15E(p)(3)(C) of the Exchange Act.
A.

Statutory Framework and Rules

On September 29, 2006, President George W. Bush signed into law the Credit Rating Agency
Reform Act of 2006 (the “Rating Agency Act”). 2 Section 4 of the Rating Agency Act added
Section 15E to the Exchange Act (“Section 15E”), which provided authority for the Commission
to implement registration, recordkeeping, financial reporting, and oversight rules with respect to
those credit rating agencies that register with the Commission as nationally recognized statistical
rating organizations (“NRSROs”). The Rating Agency Act also amended Section 17 of the
Exchange Act to provide the Commission with recordkeeping, reporting, and examination
authority over registered NRSROs. 3 Significantly, Section 15E(c)(2) expressly prohibits the
Commission from regulating “the substance of credit ratings or the procedures and
methodologies by which any [NRSRO] determines credit ratings.” 4
In 2007, the Commission implemented the NRSRO registration and oversight program created
by the Rating Agency Act by adopting Rules 17g-1 through 17g-6 and Form NRSRO. 5 Pursuant
to these rules, registered NRSROs must, among other things, make certain public disclosures,
make and retain certain records, furnish certain financial reports to the Commission, establish
and enforce procedures to manage the handling of material non-public information, and disclose
and manage conflicts of interest. These rules also prohibit an NRSRO from having certain
conflicts of interest and engaging in certain unfair, coercive, or abusive practices. The
Commission amended several of these rules in February 2009 and December 2009 with the goals
of further increasing the transparency of NRSRO rating methodologies; strengthening the
disclosures of rating performance; prohibiting NRSROs from engaging in certain unfair,
coercive, or abusive practices; and enhancing NRSRO record keeping. 6
1

15 U.S.C. § 78o-7(p)(3)(C). Unless otherwise noted, all Section and Rule references in this report are to
the Exchange Act and rules under the Exchange Act. See 15 U.S.C § 78o-7; 15 U.S.C. § 78q (a) & (b); 17
CFR 240.17g-1 through 17g-7.

2

Credit Rating Agency Reform Act of 2006, Pub. L. No. 109-291, 120 Stat. 1327 (2006).

3

See Sections 17(a) and 17(b) of the Exchange Act.

4

15 U.S.C. § 78o-7(c)(2).

5

See Oversight of Credit Rating Agencies Registered as Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating
Organizations, Exchange Act Release No. 55857 (Jun. 5, 2007), 72 FR 33564 (Jun. 18, 2007).

6

See Amendments to Rules for Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations, Exchange Act
Release No. 59342 (Feb. 2, 2009), 74 FR 6456 (Feb. 9, 2009) and Amendments to Rules for Nationally

2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 2

On July 21, 2010, President Barack Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which, among other things, amended
Section 15E to enhance the regulation and oversight of NRSROs by imposing new reporting,
disclosure, and examination requirements. 7 The Dodd-Frank Act mandated the creation of the
Office of Credit Ratings (“OCR”), which was established in June 2012 with the appointment of
its Director, Thomas J. Butler. OCR is responsible for oversight of credit rating agencies
registered with the Commission as NRSROs.
The Dodd-Frank Act directed the Commission to adopt rules to implement a number of
provisions related to NRSROs. In January 2011, the Commission adopted new Rule 17g-7. 8
In August 2014, the Commission adopted new rules and amended certain existing rules. 9
Specifically, the Commission adopted new Rules 17g-8, 17g-9, and 17g-10 as well as Form ABS
Due Dilligence-15E, and amended Rules 17g-1 through 17g-3 and 17g-5 through 17g-7 as well
as Form NRSRO. These new rules and amended rules were not in effect as of the time period
covered by the 2014 examinations, thus the Staff’s 2014 examination activities did not review
whether the NRSROs’ conduct complied with these new rules and amended rules.
B.

Registered NRSROs

In 2007, following the adoption of its first set of NRSRO rules, the Commission began granting
registrations to credit rating agencies that applied to be registered as an NRSRO. A credit rating
agency may apply to be registered with respect to one or more of the following five classes of
credit ratings: (1) financial institutions, brokers, or dealers (“financial institutions”); (2)
insurance companies; (3) corporate issuers; (4) issuers of asset-backed securities (“asset-backed
securities” or “ABS”); and (5) issuers of government securities, municipal securities, or
securities issued by a foreign government (“government securities”). 10
The ten credit rating agencies registered as NRSROs as of December 1, 2014, and dates of their
initial registrations are listed below:

Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations, Exchange Act Release No. 61050 (Nov. 23, 2009), 74 FR
63832 (Dec. 4, 2009).
7

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203, § 932, 124 Stat.
1376, 1872-83 (2010).

8

See Disclosure for Asset-Backed Securities Required by Section 943 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Securities Act of 1933 Release No. 9175; Exchange Act Release
No. 63741 (Jan. 20, 2011), 76 FR 4515 (Jan. 26, 2011).

9

10

See Final Rule: Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations, Exchange Act Release No. 72936
(Aug. 27, 2014); 79 FR 55078 (Sept. 15, 2014).
See Section 3(a)(62)(A) of the Exchange Act.

2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 3

NRSRO 11
A.M. Best Company, Inc. (“AMB”)
DBRS, Inc. (“DBRS”)
Egan-Jones Ratings Company (“EJR”)
Fitch Ratings, Inc. (“Fitch”)
HR Ratings de México, S.A. de C.V. (“HR”)
Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (“JCR”)
Kroll Bond Rating Agency, Inc. (“KBRA”) 12
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”)
Morningstar Credit Ratings, LLC (“Morningstar”) 13
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”)

Date of Registration
September 24, 2007
September 24, 2007
December 21, 2007
September 24, 2007
November 5, 2012
September 24, 2007
February 11, 2008
September 24, 2007
June 23, 2008
September 24, 2007

More information on NRSRO registration applications and the state of competition,
transparency, and conflicts of interest among NRSROs is included in the Annual Report to
Congress under Section 6 of the Rating Agency Act, available on the Commission’s website:
http://www.sec.gov/ocr.
II.

OFFICE OF CREDIT RATINGS AND EXAMINATION OVERVIEW

A.

Examinations under Section 15E(p)(3)

Generally, the purpose of NRSRO examinations is to monitor compliance with federal securities
laws and rules, identify conduct or insufficient policies and procedures or internal controls that
potentially violate such laws and rules, and encourage remedial action. Examinations also serve
to inform the Commission and the NRSROs’ compliance personnel of regulatory obligations and
noteworthy industry developments. If the examination staff identifies potential violations of
federal securities laws or rules, the Staff may refer the matter to the Commission’s Division of
Enforcement, which is responsible for further investigation of these potential violations.
Section 15E(p)(3)(A) requires OCR to conduct an examination of each NRSRO at least annually.
Section 15E(p)(3)(B) provides that the examination shall include a review of the following eight
topic areas (“Section 15E Review Areas”): (i) whether the NRSRO conducts business in
accordance with its policies, procedures, and rating methodologies; (ii) the management of
conflicts of interest by the NRSRO; (iii) the implementation of ethics policies by the NRSRO;
(iv) the internal supervisory controls of the NRSRO; (v) the governance of the NRSRO; (vi) the
11

Orders granting registration can be found at: http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ocr.shtml. Paragraph (i) of
Rule 17g-1 requires an NRSRO to make its current Form NRSRO and Exhibits 1 through 9 to Form
NRSRO publicly available on its website, or through another comparable, readily accessible means within
10 business days after the date the Commission grants an initial application for registration as an NRSRO
or registration for an additional class of credit ratings, and within 10 business days after updating its
registration, furnishing its annual certification, or withdrawing from registration.

12

Formerly known as LACE Financial Corp.

13

Formerly known as Realpoint LLC.

2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 4

activities of the designated compliance officer (“DCO”) of the NRSRO; (vii) the processing of
complaints by the NRSRO; and (viii) the policies of the NRSRO governing the post-employment
activities of its former personnel.
Section 15E(p)(3)(C) requires the Commission to make publicly available an annual report
summarizing: (i) the essential findings of all Section 15E examinations, as deemed appropriate
by the Commission; (ii) the NRSROs’ responses to any material regulatory deficiencies
identified by the Commission; and (iii) whether the NRSROs have appropriately addressed the
recommendations of the Commission contained in previous annual reports on examinations. 14
B.

Examination Overview

The 2014 examinations generally focused on NRSROs’ activities for the period covering January
1, 2013 through December 31, 2013 (the “Review Period”). The examinations also reviewed
certain activities or credit rating actions from outside of the Review Period.
The 2014 examinations reviewed the Section 15E Review Areas and examined how each
NRSRO adhered to Section 15E and Rules 17g-1 through 17g-7. Each of the NRSRO
examinations was based upon an individualized risk assessment by the Staff that determined
which of the Section 15E Review Areas to emphasize particularly and the issues to focus on
within the Section 15E Review Areas. The individualized risk assessments took into account a
number of factors, including the NRSRO’s credit rating activities and operations, the Staff’s
findings and other observations from prior examinations, the impact of an internal control or
compliance failure by the NRSRO, recent industry developments affecting NRSROs and the
asset classes in which the NRSRO is registered, the NRSRO’s filings with the SEC and public
disclosures, and relevant tips, complaints, and referrals received by the Commission. As a result
of these individualized risk assessments, the 2014 examinations included a review of each of the
Section 15E Review Areas while also being tailored to the specific risk profile of each NRSRO.
The 2014 examinations also focused on multiple NRSROs’ activities and ratings concerning
certain issues that the Staff’s risk assessments determined to be relevant at these NRSROs.
Three examples are summarized in this paragraph. First, the Staff reviewed multiple NRSROs’
written policies and procedures, controls, and documentation, if any, related to Information
Technology (“IT”) and cybersecurity. In addition, the Staff conducted more focused assessments
of certain IT and cybersecurity issues at these NRSROs; these assessments leveraged the
knowledge of and personnel from the SEC’s Office of Information Technology, and such
personnel participated in portions of the onsite examinations of some of the NRSROs. Second,
the Staff reviewed multiple NRSROs’ ratings activity or rating files related to government
securities. Third, the Staff reviewed some NRSROs’ ratings-related activities and publications
concerning certain new types of asset-backed securities. Any findings by the Staff concerning
NRSROs’ IT and cybersecurity or their ratings activity related to government securities or these
14

This report does not cover examinations or reviews that may be conducted outside the scope of Section
15E.

2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 5

new types of asset-backed securities are addressed in this Report in the Sections concerning the
relevant Review Areas.
The operations of many NRSROs are international or global in scale, and such NRSROs have
one or more credit rating affiliates located outside the United States which are included in their
NRSRO registration. Such foreign credit rating affiliates and some of their personnel may
participate in ratings activities, including determination of particular ratings, related to U.S.based entities or to foreign entities that Americans invest in or that otherwise affect the U.S.
capital markets. Based on these factors, the 2014 examinations included additional focus on the
operations and rating activity by certain NRSROs’ foreign credit rating affiliates beyond that
conducted by OCR in years prior. The Staff assessed whether NRSROs applied rating policies
and procedures, methodologies, criteria, and models consistently in their different offices,
whether these NRSROs exercised sufficient compliance oversight of their foreign credit rating
affiliates, and whether deficiencies at these foreign credit rating affiliates could pose risks to
these NRSROs’ U.S. operations. This additional focus included the Staff’s onsite visits to
offices of certain NRSROs’ credit rating affiliates located in countries other than the United
States. The Staff reviewed files of selected rating actions that personnel in these foreign offices
were involved in determining, and during the onsite visits interviewed analytical personnel
concerning these rating files and other personnel who worked in or had responsibilities related to
these NRSROs’ foreign offices. The Staff’s findings and recommendations related to its onsite
visits and related examination activities of the foreign credit rating affiliates of these NRSROs
are addressed in this Report in the Sections concerning the relevant Review Areas.
For purposes of this report only, we will refer to Fitch, Moody’s, and S&P as larger NRSROs
and the seven other NRSROs (AMB, DBRS, EJR, HR, JCR, KBRA, and Morningstar) as smaller
NRSROs.
III.
SUMMARY OF RESPONSES TO RECOMMENDATIONS FROM PREVIOUS
REPORTS AND NOTED INSTANCES OF REMEDIAL ACTION
The Staff’s determination that an NRSRO appropriately addressed a recommendation does not
constitute the Staff’s endorsement of that NRSRO or its policies, procedures, or operations. In a
future examination, the Staff may check the NRSRO’s response to recommendations that it
previously deemed to be appropriately addressed. The Staff may also review and make
recommendations concerning the NRSRO’s policies, procedures, or operations related to the
general subject matter of a recommendation that it previously deemed to be appropriately
addressed. The Staff’s assessment of whether an NRSRO appropriately addressed a
recommendation reflects solely the Staff’s view and does not necessarily reflect the views of the
Commission.
The Staff’s assessment of whether an NRSRO has appropriately addressed a recommendation
depends on the specific facts and circumstances of each recommendation, including the
promptness of the NRSRO’s response, the severity of the conduct at issue, and whether the
remedial action undertaken by the NRSRO is expected to fully resolve the Staff’s concerns. To
assess whether NRSROs appropriately addressed findings from the 2013 examinations, the Staff
reviewed each NRSRO’s written submissions that responded to the Staff’s findings and
recommendations and described its planned remedial measures, and participated in a follow-up
2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 6

call in 2013 with each NRSRO to discuss its written response. During the 2014 examinations,
the Staff assessed each NRSRO’s progress in implementing planned remedial measures and
tested the existence or effectiveness of such remedial measures where possible.
NRSROs responded to the 2013 recommendations with remedial measures such as adopting new
or revising existing policies or procedures, enhancing or implementing new internal controls,
implementing new software systems, and conducting compliance and analytical training. Based
on the Staff’s 2014 examinations, the Staff has determined that all recommendations from the
2013 examinations have been appropriately addressed.
Since the Section 15E examinations began in 2010, all of the NRSROs have increased their
understanding of their obligations as regulated entities. The frequency of communications
between NRSROs and the Staff has increased, and there have been enhancements in the nature of
the information provided by NRSROs to the Staff during examinations. In addition, at many of
the NRSROs, improvements that were initiated or implemented in previous years have been
enhanced or become embedded in their operations and culture.
During the 2014 examinations, the Staff observed improvements at one or more NRSROs
concerning: (i) compliance resources, monitoring, and culture; (ii) documentation and resources
for criteria and model development and validation; (iii) document retention; and (iv) board of
directors or governing committee (“Board” or “Boards”) oversight and documentation.
The Staff’s observations of these improvements do not constitute its endorsement of any NRSRO
or its particular policies and procedures or operations. The Staff will continue to evaluate and
test the sufficiency of some of these NRSROs’ improvements in future examinations, and may
make findings and recommendations related to these improvements if appropriate.
IV.

SUMMARY OF ESSENTIAL FINDINGS

Section 15E(p)(3)(C)(i) requires this Report to contain a summary of the essential findings of the
annual examinations, as deemed appropriate by the Commission.
For purposes of this Report, “essential findings” are all findings from the 2014 examinations that
were included with one or more recommendations in an exam summary letter sent to an NRSRO.
“Essential findings” do not include the Staff’s general observations that are not included in an
exam summary letter to an NRSRO. These essential findings are not findings of the
Commission. In this Report, essential findings are organized by the applicable Section 15E
Review Areas. The Commission has not determined whether any finding discussed in this report
constitutes a “material regulatory deficiency,” but may do so in the future.
In the following Sections of this Report, the numbered headers identify in general terms the
Staff’s findings concerning one or more NRSROs, and the paragraph or paragraphs following
each numbered header provide additional NRSRO-level detail concerning these findings and the
Staff’s corresponding recommendations.

2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 7

A.

Review Area: Adherence to Policies, Procedures, and Methodologies

Section 15E and Commission rules require that NRSROs maintain and enforce various written
policies and procedures. Section 15E(c)(3)(A) requires NRSROs to establish, maintain, enforce,
and document an effective internal control structure governing the implementation of and
adherence to policies, procedures, and methodologies for determining credit ratings. A general
description of the procedures and methodologies used by the NRSRO to determine credit rating
must be included in Exhibit 2 to Form NRSRO.
The Staff reviewed ratings actions of each NRSRO for certain issuers to determine whether the
NRSRO conducted business in accordance with its policies, procedures, methodologies, and
criteria. In addition, the Staff reviewed NRSROs’ other ratings-related activities such as the
development and review of methodologies, criteria, and models. The Staff also reviewed rating
files and documentation of other ratings-related activities to evaluate whether each NRSRO
adhered to recordkeeping requirements. To select rating files to review, the Staff used a riskbased sampling process that considered issues such as the significance of the rated asset class to
the financial markets and the NRSRO’s business, the NRSRO’s activity in the rated asset class,
the likelihood of harm if a rating was not determined in accordance with the NRSRO’s
methodologies and procedures, news reports and developments concerning NRSROs or
particular asset classes, and information the Staff learned during examinations.
The Staff’s reviews of the Section 15E Review Areas included testing whether each NRSRO
operated in accordance with its policies, procedures, and methodologies. The Staff’s essential
findings regarding NRSROs conducting ratings-related activities in accordance with their
policies, procedures, methodologies, and criteria are discussed in this Section of this Report. The
Staff’s essential findings regarding NRSROs’ adherence to policies and procedures related to
other Review Areas are generally discussed in later Sections of this Report. Instances where
policies, procedures, and methodologies needed to be established or improved are also generally
discussed in later Sections of this Report.
The Staff’s essential findings regarding whether each NRSRO has conducted its business in
accordance with its policies, procedures and methodologies are as follows:
1.
There were several instances where one larger NRSRO and four smaller NRSROs did not
apply their rating policies and procedures or did not apply or make required disclosures
concerning their methodologies or criteria.
At one smaller NRSRO, a substantial number of rating actions did not adhere to certain policies
and procedures concerning disclosure of methodologies applied to ratings, conducting timely
surveillance, or implementation of issuer-requested edits to rating releases. Another smaller
NRSRO did not appear to adhere to its rating definitions for one surveillance rating by assigning
a rating that did not appear to reflect this NRSRO’s internal analysis concerning this issuer. In
addition, the rating publication did not explain all of the key reasons for this rating action.
Another rating file from this NRSRO’s foreign credit rating affiliate implemented an issuerrequested edit to a rating release that was not permitted by its policies and procedures. Several
rating publications of one larger NRSRO did not clearly explain how this NRSRO applied its
2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 8

criteria to these ratings or did not describe criteria deviations made for these ratings, as required
by its policies and procedures.
The Staff recommended various corrective measures to these three NRSROs to ensure that they
adhere to their rating policies and procedures and correctly apply and make required disclosures
concerning their rating definitions, methodologies, and criteria.
Another smaller NRSRO did not downgrade certain classes of mortgage-backed securities after
these securities experienced temporary interest shortfalls, which appeared to be inconsistent with
its published methodology and ratings definitions. This NRSRO also did not update its
surveillance ratings of some mortgage-backed securities on a monthly basis as required by its
methodology. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO review its ratings policies and
procedures, methodologies, and ratings definitions, as well as related disclosures, to ensure they
reflect its actual practices. At another smaller NRSRO, it was unclear whether rating committee
members applied its published methodology. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO ensure
that it applies its published methodology and documents its application of this methodology.

2.
One larger NRSRO and one smaller NRSRO did not adhere to some of their policies and
procedures concerning timely dissemination of accurate ratings.
At one larger NRSRO, there were a notable number of instances where the credit officer was not
promptly notified of errors in a rating publication or an analyst did not document the plan to
correct these errors, in contravention of its policies and procedures. There were also a few
instances where this NRSRO’s public website was not promptly updated to reflect rating
changes.
At one smaller NRSRO, actual practices for dissemination of ratings on the NRSRO’s website
and other sources did not adhere to its written policies and procedures, one rating action was
published after a significant delay, and there were weaknesses in this NRSRO’s policies and
procedures concerning timely publication of ratings.
The Staff recommended that these two NRSROs review and enhance or revise their policies and
procedures and internal controls concerning timely publication and updating of ratings
information.

3.
One larger NRSRO and three smaller NRSROs did not adhere to some of their policies
and procedures when developing or reviewing certain methodologies, criteria, or models.
One larger NRSRO issued a rating using a model that its model review committee had
previously determined was no longer suitable, and adopted a replacement model several months
after the timeframe set by this committee. The Staff recommended that this larger NRSRO
ensure it has sufficient internal controls for the review and application of criteria and models.
One smaller NRSRO published a methodology that was not approved by the responsible
committee, in contravention of its policies and procedures. Another smaller NRSRO did not
2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 9

review many of its methodologies within the timeframe required by its policies and procedures.
A third smaller NRSRO did not review its rating model as required by its policies and
procedures. The Staff recommended that these three NRSROs ensure they adhere to their
policies and procedures concerning reviewing rating methodologies or models.

4.
One larger NRSRO and one smaller NRSRO did not adhere to several of their policies
and procedures concerning access to and protection of confidential information and Material
Non-Public Information.
One larger NRSRO provided non-employee members of its Board with information regarding
future changes in rating methodologies; it was unclear whether this NRSRO’s providing this
information was permissible, because its policies and procedures regarding non-employee Board
members’ access to confidential information and Material Non-Public Information (“MNPI”)
were not sufficiently clear. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO clarify its policies and
procedures and ensure it has adequate internal controls concerning its governing body’s access to
confidential information and MNPI. One smaller NRSRO did not review some personnel’s
permissions to access MNPI or confidential information as required by its policies and
procedures, and some of this NRSRO’s analysts sent MNPI or confidential information to their
personal email accounts in contravention of its policies and procedures. The Staff recommended
that this NRSRO adhere to and enforce such policies and procedures.

5.
Certain rating files and rating publications of two larger NRSROs and four smaller
NRSROs that were reviewed by the Staff did not adhere to document retention requirements and
other operational policies and procedures.
Rule 17g-2(a)(2) requires NRSROs to make and retain certain information for each rating it
issues, including the identities of certain personnel who participated in determining or approved
the credit rating and a record of whether the credit rating was solicited or unsolicited. Rule 17g2(b) requires an NRSRO to retain certain books and records related to its rating business. For
example, Rule 17g-2(b)(2) requires an NRSRO to retain internal records and work papers used to
form the basis of a rating it issues, and Rule 17g-2(b)(7) requires the NRSRO to retain its
external and internal communications, including electronic communications, related to initiating,
determining, maintaining, monitoring, changing, or withdrawing a rating. Rule 17g-2(f) requires
an NRSRO to promptly furnish to the Commission or its representatives copies of required
records, including English translations of those documents upon request.
Several rating files at one smaller NRSRO contained incomplete or inaccurate information in
rating committee memos or were missing documents in its document retention system. This
smaller NRSRO also had weaknesses in its email retention practices, and did not promptly
produce certain email communications and rating file materials requested by the Staff. The Staff
recommended that this NRSRO ensure it makes and retains required records, enhance its
document retention practices, and comply with its obligations under Rule 17g-2(f).

2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 10

At one larger NRSRO, several rating files and rating publications were missing required
documents, did not adhere to operational policies and procedures, or did not make certain
required disclosures. At another larger NRSRO and two smaller NRSROs, some rating files did
not contain complete and accurate documentation related to rating committee presentations and
records or the methodology, criteria, or models applied. Another smaller NRSRO’s press
releases for unsolicited ratings did not make disclosures required by its policies and procedures.
The Staff recommended that these five NRSROs enhance their internal controls to ensure that
they comply with Rule 17g-2 and their policies and procedures concerning determining ratings,
creation and retention of ratings-related records, and disclosures on rating publications.

B.

Review Area: Management of Conflicts of Interest

Section 15E(h)(1) requires an NRSRO to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to address and manage conflicts of interest. Rule 17g-5(b)
identifies certain types of conflicts of interest that an NRSRO must disclose in Exhibit 6 to Form
NRSRO and establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures to address and
manage. The NRSRO’s written policies and procedures to address and manage these conflicts
must be disclosed in Exhibit 7 to Form NRSRO. For example, Rules 17g-5(b)(1) and (2)
concern the conflicts of interest related to being paid by issuers, underwriters, or obligors to
determine ratings with respect to securities that they issue or underwrite or with respect to the
obligor. Similarly, Rule 17g-5(b)(9) concerns the conflict of interest related to issuing or
maintaining a rating for certain securities or instruments that was paid for by the issuer, sponsor,
or underwriter of the security or instrument. Rule 17g-5(c) lists certain conflicts of interest that
are strictly prohibited. For example, Rule 17g-5(c)(5) prohibits an NRSRO from issuing or
maintaining a rating for an obligor or security where the NRSRO made recommendations to the
issuer or obligor about its corporate or legal structure, assets, liabilities, or activities.
The Staff’s essential findings regarding the management of conflicts of interest are as follows:
1.
All three larger NRSROs and one smaller NRSRO had weaknesses concerning access to
market-share and revenue information by certain personnel who participate in ratings and criteria
development activities.
As discussed above, Rules 17g-5(b)(1), (2), and (9) require NRSROs to disclose and have
policies and procedures sufficient to manage conflicts of interest related to being paid by issuers,
underwriters, obligors, or sponsors.
The Staff’s review of one larger NRSRO’s revisions to one of its rating criteria, including
extensive review of its emails, suggests that this NRSRO’s business and market-share concerns
influenced the substance of the criteria. Some of this NRSRO’s business personnel engaged in a
concerted effort to address concerns raised by a trade association about this NRSRO’s
contemplated revisions to the criteria report, and this criteria report was changed in a manner that
addressed the business personnel’s concerns and was advantageous to the trade group. Also,
documentation to support this change was lacking. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO
enforce its policies and procedures and internal controls to separate the analytical process from
commercial influence and ensure that the analytic justification of its criteria is adequately
2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 11

recorded and maintained. The Staff also recommended that this NRSRO’s Board retain an
independent auditor, to be approved by OCR, to conduct a review of the development of the
criteria and provide a written report summarizing the review to this NRSRO’s Board and
compliance group as well as OCR.
At another larger NRSRO, the chief credit officer and certain other credit officers reviewed nonpublic information concerning the NRSRO’s revenue, financial performance, and market share
even though its policies and procedures prohibit credit officers from accessing such information.
The Staff recommended that this NRSRO ensure it adheres to its policies and procedures that
restrict specified personnel, including credit officers, from accessing certain revenue, financial,
and market-share information.
One larger NRSRO and one smaller NRSRO permitted some senior officers to access non-public
information concerning their financial performance and market share and to participate in rating
committees and other ratings activities. However, the larger NRSRO did not have sufficient
policies and procedures to manage this conflict of interest, and the smaller NRSRO did not
clearly disclose this conflict of interest on Exhibit 6 to Form NRSRO. The Staff recommended
that this larger NRSRO enhance its policies and procedures to manage this conflict of interest,
and that this smaller NRSRO enhance its disclosure concerning this conflict on Exhibit 6 to
Form NRSRO. In addition, neither of these NRSROs sufficiently disclosed on Exhibit 7 to Form
NRSRO their policies and procedures to manage this conflict of interest related to the
involvement in ratings activities of personnel with access to non-public financial and marketshare information, and the Staff recommended that both of these NRSROs enhance such
disclosures on Exhibit 7 to Form NRSRO.

2.
One larger NRSRO lacked sufficient policies and procedures related to anticompetitive
practices that are prohibited by Rule 17g-6 and some of its activities may be inconsistent with
Rule 17g-6.
Rule 17g-6(a)(4) prohibits an NRSRO from issuing or threatening to issue a lower credit rating
or refusing to issue a credit rating of certain securities issued by an asset pool or as part of an
asset-backed securities transaction unless the NRSRO rates all or a portion of the assets in the
pool or the transaction, where this conduct has an anticompetitive purpose. Rule 17g-2(b)(9)
requires an NRSRO to retain internal information and analysis used to develop a procedure or
methodology to treat another NRSRO’s ratings when issuing a rating for a security or money
market instrument issued by an asset pool or part of an asset-backed securities transaction.
Several of this larger NRSRO’s criteria notched other NRSROs’ ratings below the equivalent of
its rating and required a rated pool of securities to contain a minimum percentage of securities
that it rates. This NRSRO lacked sufficient documentation of the analytic purposes for these
criteria’s notching and minimum inclusion requirements, and also lacked sufficient policies and
procedures to ensure its treatment of other NRSROs’ ratings complied with Rules 17g-6 and
17g-2. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO enhance its internal controls and policies and
procedures to ensure that the analytic justification of its criteria is sufficient and documented and
that its criteria are not influenced by commercial considerations. The Staff also recommended
that this NRSRO retain all records related to its development of criteria.
2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 12

In addition, Rule 17g-6(a)(1) prohibits an NRSRO from conditioning the issuance of a credit
rating on the purchase by an issuer or obligor of any other services or products of the NRSRO.
Language in this larger NRSRO’s engagement letters and policies and procedures suggested that
it is mandatory or automatic for the NRSRO to issue solicited ratings of all debt of an issuer that
it rates. During the Review Period, there were numerous instances where this NRSRO rated an
issuance and charged the issuer even though the issuer did not request that this NRSRO rate the
issuance. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO review and revise its engagement letters and
policies and procedures regarding its automatic treatment of additional debt ratings as solicited
and ensure that issuers fully understand their options regarding its ratings of future debt
issuances.

3.
One larger NRSRO and six smaller NRSROs had weaknesses in their policies and
procedures and controls governing employee securities ownership.
Pursuant to Rule 17g-5(b)(6), it is a conflict of interest if an NRSRO allows its personnel to
directly own securities or money market instruments or have direct ownership interests in issuers
or obligors subject to a credit rating determined by that NRSRO. This conflict of interest is
permitted if an NRSRO discloses it in Exhibit 6 to Form NRSRO and has sufficient written
policies and procedures to manage it. Rule 17g-5(c)(2) prohibits an NRSRO from issuing or
maintaining a rating with respect to a person where the NRSRO or certain personnel that
participated in determining or approving a rating directly owns securities of or has a direct
ownership in the person that is subject to the rating.
At one smaller NRSRO, an analyst participated in determining or approving the ratings of two
issuers in which that analyst owned securities, in violation of Rule 17g-5(c)(2). Moreover, this
NRSRO did not have policies and procedures for reviewing a prior rating if a conflict is
discovered or for employee divestiture of securities. There were also weaknesses in this smaller
NRSRO’s policies and procedures regarding pre-clearance of securities trading by certain nonanalytical personnel. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO enhance its securities ownership
policies and procedures, including establishing policies and procedures for the review of a prior
rating where a conflict of interest is discovered and for securities divestiture.
At one larger NRSRO, some existing policies and procedures concerning prohibited securities
holdings and documentation of securities ownership were not sufficiently detailed. There were
also weaknesses in this NRSRO’s policies and procedures to prevent a recused analyst from
participating in the rating committee and to prevent it from publishing a rating where a recused
analyst participated in the rating committee. At the foreign credit rating affiliate of another
smaller NRSRO, several employees did not report their securities purchases through the
NRSRO’s electronic system, as required by its policies and procedures. There were weaknesses
in four other smaller NRSROs’ monitoring of employees’ securities ownership. The Staff
recommended that these six NRSROs enhance their policies and procedures and controls
concerning securities ownership, including improving monitoring of employees’ securities
holdings and handling of recusals.

2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 13

4.
All seven of the smaller NRSROs had weaknesses in policies and procedures concerning
certain conflicts of interest or did not sufficiently disclose certain conflicts of interest.
Two smaller NRSROs’ policies and procedures did not address the full scope of conduct
prohibited by Rule 17g-5. The Staff recommended that both of these smaller NRSROs establish
or revise conflicts of interest policies and procedures to sufficiently prohibit the conflicts of
interest covered by Rule 17g-5(c).
Two smaller NRSROs did not have sufficient policies and procedures concerning certain
conflicts of interest, including those addressed by Rules 17g-5(b)(1), (2), and (9). One of these
smaller NRSROs lacked sufficient policies and procedures or internal controls to screen rating
committee participants for conflicts of interest, and did not sufficiently disclose some conflicts of
interest on Exhibit 6 to Form NRSRO. At the other smaller NRSRO, an internal questionnaire
and a certification form that it used to manage conflicts of interest related to its issuer-paid
business model were insufficient and were not completed promptly and accurately on some
occasions.
Three smaller NRSROs did not have sufficient controls and procedures to identify and monitor
conflicts of interest. At one of these smaller NRSROs, one manager did not complete a required
conflicts-of-interest questionnaire and another manager did not comply with policies and
procedures concerning receipt of a gift from a person that does business with the NRSRO. Two
other smaller NRSROs did not sufficiently monitor outside business activities of its employees
or associated persons, and one of these smaller NRSROs also did not completely and accurately
disclose on Exhibit 6 to Form NRSRO certain conflicts of interest that it had identified.
The Staff recommended that these five smaller NRSROs review and enhance their policies and
procedures, as well as controls such as regular monitoring activities and certifications, to manage
conflicts of interest. The Staff also recommended that two of the smaller NRSROs review and
revise their disclosures on Exhibit 6 and Exhibit 7 to Form NRSRO.

5.
Four smaller NRSROs did not sufficiently separate analytical activity from business
activity.
Rule 17g-5(c)(6) prohibits an NRSRO from issuing a rating where the fee paid for the rating was
negotiated, discussed, or arranged by a person within the NRSRO who had responsibility for
determining ratings or for developing or approving procedures, methodologies, or models used to
determine ratings. To facilitate compliance with this Rule or as a best practice, some NRSROs
established controls to separate analytical functions from business development.
At one smaller NRSRO, an analytical supervisor appeared to have participated in sales and
marketing activity concerning certain ratings issued out of this NRSRO’s regional office while
also participating in determining these ratings. Another smaller NRSRO did not have policies
and procedures to handle inadvertent access to fee information by personnel with analytical
responsibilities. Another smaller NRSRO permitted analytical personnel to give gifts to issuers
and did not have any controls related to such gift-giving. At one office of another smaller
NRSRO, there was insufficient physical separation of analytical personnel and business
2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 14

personnel. The Staff recommended that three of these NRSROs establish or enhance and enforce
written policies and procedures to sufficiently separate analytical activity from business activity,
and recommended that the other NRSRO enhance the physical separation of analytic and
business personnel at its offices.

C.

Review Area: Implementation of Ethics Policies

Section 15E(a)(1)(B)(v) requires that an application for registration as an NRSRO include
information regarding whether or not the NRSRO has in effect a code of ethics, and if not, the
reasons it does not have a code of ethics. An NRSRO must provide a copy of its written code of
ethics or a statement of the reasons it does not have such a code in Exhibit 5 to Form NRSRO.
Each NRSRO has implemented written ethics policies and procedures. During the 2014
examinations, the Staff reviewed each NRSRO’s ethics policies and procedures, as well as a
sample of each NRSRO’s employee certifications or monitoring activities concerning their code
of ethics. Much of the content of these policies and procedures addresses other related review
areas under Section 15E(p)(3)(B). As such, to the extent that the Staff made essential findings
related to the implemented ethics policies and procedures, those findings are addressed in other
sections of this report.

D.

Review Area: Internal Supervisory Controls

Section 15E(c)(3)(A) requires that each NRSRO establish, maintain, enforce, and document an
effective internal control structure governing the implementation of and adherence to policies,
procedures, and methodologies for determining credit ratings. Rule 17g-2(a)(6) requires an
NRSRO to make and retain a record documenting its established procedures and methodologies
used to determine credit ratings. The Staff reviewed each NRSRO’s overall control structure,
including the internal control structure related to determining credit ratings.
Section 15E(g)(1) requires an NRSRO to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information by the
NRSRO or any person associated with the NRSRO. Rule 17g-4(a)(3) provides that these written
policies and procedures must include policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent the
inappropriate dissemination of pending credit rating actions within and outside the NRSRO
before issuing the rating on the Internet or through another readily accessible means.
The Staff’s essential findings regarding internal supervisory controls are as follows:
1.
There were some weaknesses in two larger NRSROs’ and five smaller NRSROs’
policies and procedures or controls concerning the determination or review of ratings.
It appears that one larger NRSRO deviated from its criteria and rating policies and procedures by
publishing ratings for a transaction using unreliable valuations data. This NRSRO subsequently
withdrew these ratings because of concerns about the data it used, and the transaction was
2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 15

removed from the market. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO establish, maintain,
enforce, and document an effective internal control structure for its rating process.
There were weaknesses in internal controls related to the rating committee process at two smaller
NRSROs and one larger NRSRO. One of these smaller NRSROs did not have sufficient internal
controls concerning analysts participating in multiple roles at rating committees and exceptions
to rating committee policies and procedures. Another smaller NRSRO did not have sufficient
controls for documenting rating committee members and rating committees’ consideration of all
ratings. The larger NRSRO did not sufficiently document that its rating committee meetings
satisfied certain requirements concerning rating committee eligibility and voting. The Staff
recommended that these three NRSROs enhance their internal controls over or documentation of
the rating committee process. This larger NRSRO also did not have clear policies and
procedures concerning the process and documentation for certain rating opinions, and the Staff
recommended that it establish sufficient written policies procedures for rating opinions.
There were multiple weaknesses in two smaller NRSROs’ documentation of or controls related
to some of their methodologies. One smaller NRSRO did not have a sufficient system to track or
update credit ratings that it determined to be dependent on the credit rating of another entity, and
one of this NRSRO’s rating methodologies did not sufficiently document its use of base case and
stress case scenario tests when determining ratings. In addition, this NRSRO established a
methodology for cured defaults during the Review Period and did not disclose or describe this
methodology in Exhibit 2 to Form NRSRO or appear to sufficiently inform analytical personnel
of this methodology. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO establish a system to track
dependent ratings, ensure that its methodologies sufficiently document the use of base case and
stress case scenario tests, and establish policies and procedures for methodology development
and disclosure. This smaller NRSRO also did not have a sufficient system to furnish requested
records to the Staff within the timeframe and in the format requested, and the Staff
recommended that this NRSRO enhance its internal controls to ensure it complies with Rule 17g2(f). At another smaller NRSRO, the methodology for an ABS asset class did not sufficiently
document committee membership, issuers’ review of pre-sale reports, and the timeframe for
surveillance. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO revise its rating methodology for this
ABS asset class to adequately reflect its actual practices.
At one smaller NRSRO, there were weaknesses in its policies and procedures concerning the
timing and documentation of its reviews of significant rating changes. In addition, this smaller
NRSRO’s policies and procedures did not require each rating release to disclose the specific
criteria that it applied to the rating. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO develop and
enhance policies and procedures for its reviews of significant rating changes, and consider
revising its policies and procedures to require each rating release to disclose the criteria that it
applied to the rating.

2.
Two larger NRSROs and two smaller NRSROs lacked sufficient policies and procedures
and controls concerning contractors’ or non-NRSRO affiliates’ access to information and
involvement in ratings activities.

2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 16

At one larger NRSRO, employees of a non-NRSRO affiliate participated in the rating process,
including presenting analysis at rating committees. There were weaknesses in this NRSRO’s
training, monitoring, and conflicts-of-interest screening of this affiliate’s employees. Also,
employees of a third-party IT vendor that provided services to this NRSRO were not subject to
sufficient controls concerning securities ownership and outside business activities. The Staff
recommended that this NRSRO ensure that it has sufficient internal controls over personnel of
non-NRSRO affiliates and third-party contractors, and that third-party vendors implement
effective internal controls to address identified weaknesses and adhere to the NRSRO’s policies
and procedures as required by applicable service agreements.
At one smaller NRSRO, certain employees of a non-NRSRO affiliate participated in determining
the NRSRO’s ratings, including voting at rating committees. Because these individuals were
employed by the non-NRSRO affiliate, they may not have been subject to the same oversight by
the DCO. Another smaller NRSRO lacked written policies and procedures concerning the use of
non-employee consultants and it is unclear whether consultants were subject to this NRSRO’s
policies and procedures. At another larger NRSRO, there were weaknesses in internal controls
over access to the NRSRO’s confidential information by a non-NRSRO affiliate and this
affiliate’s subcontractors. The Staff made various recommendations to these three NRSROs to
establish or enhance their internal controls concerning non-NRSRO personnel’s and consultants’
involvement in the ratings process and access to confidential information.

3.
One larger NRSRO and three smaller NRSROs did not sufficiently review their policies
and procedures, criteria, methodologies, or models.
One larger NRSRO lacked effective internal controls related to models that were developed by a
non-NRSRO affiliate and other third parties and used by the NRSRO in its credit rating process.
This larger NRSRO’s policies and procedures did not require it to independently verify such
models or test the third-parties’ quality controls. Errors in these third-party models resulted in
changes to a substantial number of this NRSRO’s outstanding ratings. The Staff recommended
that this NRSRO establish, document, and enforce effective internal controls for independent
verification of models provided by its non-NRSRO affiliate and for periodic testing of this nonNRSRO affiliate’s quality controls over the models. The Staff also recommended that this
NRSRO ensure that its non-NRSRO affiliate promptly and sufficiently remediates weaknesses in
its quality controls for models, and that this NRSRO present to its Board a written plan to
remediate certain model errors and address the risk of other model errors. In addition, this larger
NRSRO’s model review group did not verify whether model specifications appropriately
reflected the applicable methodology requirements. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO
establish policies and procedures to review and verify that the specifications for all models
appropriately reflect the applicable methodology requirements.
At one smaller NRSRO, there were often delays in the Board’s approval of new methodologies
and in applying new methodologies to outstanding ratings. The Staff recommended that this
NRSRO establish, maintain, enforce, and document procedures for the timely review and
implementation of methodology changes and for the disclosure of potential rating changes
resulting from a change in methodology. Another smaller NRSRO did not have a policy
concerning correction of errors in its rating model or in its ratings. At another smaller NRSRO,
2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 17

there were no written policies and procedures or insufficient documentation concerning its
annual reviews of policies and procedures and methodologies, criteria, and models. The Staff
recommended that these two NRSROs establish or enhance policies and procedures and
documentation concerning such activities.

4.
All three of the larger NRSROs and two of the smaller NRSROs did not have sufficient
policies and procedures or controls related to IT or cybersecurity.
IT and cybersecurity are increasingly significant components of an NRSRO’s internal control
structure, which is subject to the requirements of Section 15E(c)(3)(A), and facilitate an
NRSRO’s timely issuance and monitoring of ratings with integrity. IT and cybersecurity policies
and procedures and controls are also integral to an NRSRO’s compliance with Section 15E(g)
and Rule 17g-4 concerning the protection and prevention of the misuse or inappropriate
dissemination of MNPI. They also often affect an NRSRO’s capacity to publish accurate ratings
in a timely fashion and in compliance with Rule 17g-4(a)(3).
Two of the smaller NRSROs had insufficient written policies and procedures and controls
regarding IT and cybersecurity. One of these smaller NRSROs did not have written policies and
procedures concerning cybersecurity and management of access to its network, systems,
applications, and files, did not test its disaster recovery system, and did not address IT-related
risks identified in audits. At the other smaller NRSRO, there were no policies and procedures
and weak controls governing its electronic document retention system and access to this system.
Also, this smaller NRSRO did not document its IT system tests or responses to findings of these
tests. The Staff recommended that these two NRSROs establish or enhance written IT and
cybersecurity policies and procedures and internal controls, and enhance their IT testing and
responses to IT-related tests.
All three of the larger NRSROs had weaknesses in their IT policies and procedures or controls
concerning personnel’s access to information that is confidential, MNPI, or otherwise restricted.
One larger NRSRO did not have written policies and procedures concerning the use of and
access to shared drives that contained confidential information, and its controls over granting,
reviewing, and changing access to such drives were not sufficient. At another larger NRSRO,
some IT systems and applications allowed ratings personnel improperly broad access to
confidential ratings information, and the IT access rights of an employee who transferred from
an analytical group to a business group were not changed in a sufficient timeframe. At the other
larger NRSRO, there were weaknesses in controls over access to web-based applications and
some network files. The Staff recommended that all three of the larger NRSROs enhance their
internal controls governing access to IT networks, systems, applications, and file shares.

5.
There were weaknesses in one larger NRSRO’s and two smaller NRSROs’ internal
controls to protect MNPI and confidential information.
Rule 17g-4 provides that NRSROs must establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures
to prevent the misuse of MNPI. This Rule further provides that these procedures must be
reasonably designed to prevent inappropriate dissemination of MNPI, including pending rating
2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 18

actions, both within and outside the NRSRO, and to prevent a person within the NRSRO from
trading on material non-public information.
One smaller NRSRO had not established sufficient controls over its employees’ use of personal
email accounts to send, receive, and store MNPI and confidential information. This NRSRO’s
policies and procedures prohibited employees from sending MNPI or confidential information to
their personal email accounts, but the Staff’s review of emails of some of this NRSRO’s
employees revealed several instances of such conduct. This NRSRO did not have
comprehensive controls to prevent such conduct and did not discipline employees who engaged
in such conduct. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO enhance its controls to ensure that
personnel comply with its policies and procedures concerning IT and protection of MNPI, and
that it enforce such policies and procedures.
One larger NRSRO lacked sufficient written policies and procedures concerning the protection
of confidential information or MNPI in certain types of publications and restricting personnel’s
access to information that they need to know. At one smaller NRSRO, the office layout did not
sufficiently restrict personnel employed by its non-NRSRO affiliates from accessing ratingsrelated MNPI or confidential information. The Staff recommended that these NRSROs take
measures, such as establishing and enhancing written policies and procedures and controls, to
sufficiently protect MNPI and confidential information.

6.
One larger NRSRO and three smaller NRSROs did not have sufficient policies and
procedures and controls concerning the dissemination of credit ratings.
At one larger NRSRO, there were multiple instances where erroneous ratings releases were
published or the website was inoperable due to its IT weaknesses. One smaller NRSRO did not
promptly revise an erroneous rating publication, and there were other weaknesses in this
NRSRO’s ratings dissemination policies and procedures. The Staff recommended that these two
NRSROs enhance their policies and procedures and systems concerning ratings dissemination
and error prevention or correction.
Another smaller NRSRO did not have sufficient controls over or documentation of its process for
approving the publication of ratings. At another smaller NRSRO, the policies and procedures
did not require sufficient documentation of instances where publication of ratings is delayed
beyond a specified time period. The Staff recommended that these NRSROs establish or
enhance their policies and procedures and documentation concerning publication of ratings.

7.
There were weaknesses in compliance training or analytical training at four of the smaller
NRSROs.
One smaller NRSRO did not provide timely compliance training to new employees and did not
appear to provide training regarding its methodology to new analysts. Another smaller NRSRO
did not provide sufficient analytical training to personnel in one of its offices. At another smaller
NRSRO, some personnel did not complete mandatory compliance training. At another smaller
NRSRO, training concerning some compliance issues was insufficient or too infrequent. The
2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 19

Staff recommended that these four NRSROs take measures to ensure that all personnel complete
sufficient compliance training and that analytical personnel complete sufficient analytical
training.

8.
All three of the larger NRSROs and four of the smaller NRSROs made inaccurate or
incomplete public disclosures in their Form NRSRO filings or on their websites.
Section 15E(a)(1)(B) requires an application for NRSRO registration to disclose certain
information, including information concerning the rating agency’s performance measurement
statistics and its procedures and methodologies to determine ratings. Section 15E(b) requires
NRSROs to file updates and annual certifications of their Form NRSRO registrations and the
information therein. Rule 17g-1 also contains requirements concerning the initial application for
NRSRO registration and updating NRSRO registration. Section 15E(f)(2) prohibits any credit
rating agency that is not registered as an NRSRO from stating that it is registered as an NRSRO.
The Form NRSRO filings and Exhibits of one larger NRSRO and four smaller NRSROs did not
contain complete and accurate information as required by Sections 15E(a)(1) and 15E(b) and
Rule 17g-1. One smaller NRSRO’s Form NRSRO Exhibits included several methodologies that
it no longer used and incorrect descriptions of its rating process and rating definitions. The Form
NRSRO filing and Exhibits of another smaller NRSRO did not disclose several criteria that this
NRSRO used to determine ratings and appeared to contain inaccurate information concerning the
number of its outstanding ratings. Another smaller NRSRO’s Form NRSRO and Exhibit 2 did
not disclose or describe one of the rating methodologies that it applied when determining
NRSRO ratings. At one larger NRSRO and another smaller NRSRO, the transition and default
information and other Form NRSRO Exhibits were misleading or inaccurate. The Staff
acknowledges that four of these five NRSROs had already filed revised Form NRSROs and
Exhibits after they learned of the missing or inaccurate information but prior to the Staff’s
conclusion of its examinations. The Staff recommended that all five of these NRSROs
implement or enhance internal controls to ensure the accuracy and completeness of all
information they submit in Form NRSRO filings and Exhibits. The Staff also recommended that
the one NRSRO which had not updated its Form NRSRO and Exhibits file an updated Form
NRSRO and Exhibits which include required information concerning all procedures and
methodologies it uses to determine NRSRO credit ratings.
All three larger NRSROs’ websites did not clearly identify which of their offices and affiliates
are included in their Form NRSRO registration and which ones are not. One of these larger
NRSROs also made inaccurate public disclosures concerning some of its rating committee and
surveillance practices. The Staff recommended that the three larger NRSROs ensure their
websites and other public disclosures concerning its offices and affiliates and the rating process
are accurate and sufficiently clear.

E.

Review Area: Governance

Section 15E(t) requires that each NRSRO have a board of directors or governing committee
(hereinafter, collectively the “Board” or “Boards”) and establishes certain requirements
2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 20

concerning the composition and conduct of each NRSRO’s Board. Section 15E(t)(3)(A) through
(D) identifies four areas over which an NRSRO’s Board must exercise oversight. For example,
Section 15E(t)(3)(C) requires an NRSRO’s Board to oversee the effectiveness of the NRSRO’s
internal control system with respect to policies and procedures for determining credit ratings and
15E(t)(3)(D) requires an NRSRO’s Board to oversee the NRSRO’s compensation and promotion
policies and practices. Section 15E(t)(B)(ii) requires that an NRSRO’s independent director be
disqualified from any deliberation involving a specific rating in which the independent board
member has a financial interest in the outcome of the rating.
During the 2014 examinations, the Staff interviewed each NRSRO’s Board and reviewed
minutes and other documentation related to the activities of each NRSRO’s Board. The Staff’s
2014 examinations focused on the oversight function performed by the NRSRO’s Board.
The Staff’s essential findings relating to the NRSROs’ compliance with the governance
provisions of Section 15E(t) are as follows:
1.
The Board of one larger NRSRO and four smaller NRSROs were not in full compliance
with some requirements of Section 15E(t), including exercising the required oversight of certain
areas or documenting their exercise of such oversight.
At one smaller NRSRO, the rules establishing the Board and its responsibilities did not
specifically include the four duties required by Section 15E(t)(3). Also, this NRSRO’s Board did
not appear to be fulfilling all of these statutory duties, particularly oversight of compensation and
promotion as required by Section 15E(t)(3)(D), and this NRSRO did not sufficiently document
its process for disqualifying a Board member from participating in a deliberation where that
member has a financial or other interest. At one smaller NRSRO, the materials for Board
meetings were not consistently distributed to Board members sufficiently in advance of Board
meetings to provide time for the members to review them, and one independent Board member
did not exercise adequate oversight as required by Section 15E(t)(3). The Staff recommended
that these two NRSROs revise their Board rules or take other measures to ensure that their
Boards and the members thereof exercise the oversight required by Section 15E(t)(3), and also
recommended that one of these smaller NRSROs consider enhancing its documentation of its
process for disqualifying a Board member because of a financial or other interest.
At one of the larger NRSROs, the minutes of Board meetings were not sufficiently detailed to
demonstrate that Board members are actively overseeing the areas required by Section 15E(t)(3).
At two smaller NRSROs, the Boards were not sufficiently exercising oversight of the NRSROs’
compensation and promotion policies and practices as required by Section 15E(t)(3)(D). In
addition, the Board of one of these smaller NRSROs did not sufficiently document its oversight
of the NRSRO’s internal control system as required by Section 15E(t)(3)(C). The Staff
recommended that these two smaller NRSROs ensure that their Boards are sufficiently
performing the duties required by Section 15E(t)(3). The Staff also recommended that this larger
NRSRO and one of these smaller NRSROs ensure that their minutes and other records
demonstrate sufficient performance of these duties.

2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 21

F.

Review Area: DCO Activities

Section 15E(j)(1) requires each NRSRO to designate an individual responsible for administering
the policies and procedures established to prevent the misuse of MNPI and management of
conflicts of interest, and for ensuring compliance with the securities laws. Under Section
15E(j)(3), the DCO is responsible for establishing procedures for the receipt, retention, and
treatment of complaints. Under Section 15E(j)(5), the DCO must submit an annual report to the
NRSRO on the compliance of the NRSRO with the securities laws and the NRSRO’s policies
and procedures, and the NRSRO must file the report with the Commission. Rule 17g-2(b)(4)
requires an NRSRO to retain compliance reports and compliance exception reports. Rule 17g2(b)(5) requires an NRSRO to retain internal audit plans, internal audit reports, documents
relating to internal audit follow-up measures, and all records identified by the NRSRO’s internal
auditors as necessary to audit the NRSRO’s credit rating business.
Section 15E(j)(4) requires that the DCO be compensated in a manner not linked to the NRSRO’s
financial performance and must be arranged to ensure the DCO’s independence.
The DCO role is a critical element in helping to ensure an NRSRO’s compliance with securities
laws. The DCO at each NRSRO should have sufficient resources, institutional support, and
independence to effectively carry out the DCO’s statutory obligations. The Staff reviewed the
role and activities of each NRSRO’s DCO. This review included interviews with each DCO.
The Staff’s essential findings regarding DCOs are as follows:
1.
The number of compliance personnel at one larger NRSRO and one smaller NRSRO was
not sufficient.
The larger NRSRO did not have a permanent compliance presence in or exercise sufficient
compliance oversight of one of its largest offices and of a global region where it has multiple
NRSRO credit rating affiliates. At the smaller NRSRO, it appeared that the number of
compliance personnel was not sufficient to meet the requirements of Section 15E(j). During the
Review Period, this smaller NRSRO employed only a few compliance personnel while it
substantially expanded its operations and non-compliance personnel.
The Staff recommended that these NRSROs add or consider adding compliance personnel to
ensure they maintain sufficient compliance presence in all regions or offices where they operate.

2.
There were weaknesses in compliance oversight and monitoring at four of the smaller
NRSROs.
One smaller NRSRO did not have sufficient policies and procedures for, and documentation of,
the DCO’s and compliance personnel’s responsibilities such as email reviews, compliance
monitoring activities, compliance risk assessments, and periodic reviews of rating files. At
another smaller NRSRO, weaknesses concerning the DCO and compliance oversight included
insufficient scope and documentation of email and rating file reviews and insufficient responses
to personnel’s compliance violations. At another smaller NRSRO, the DCO did not document
2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 22

certain instances of non-compliance by its personnel and the DCO’s handling of employee noncompliance may not have been sufficiently independent from the NRSRO’s management. The
Staff recommended that these three NRSROs establish sufficient compliance policies and
procedures, enhance monitoring activities such as email reviews and violation tracking, and
prepare and retain sufficient documentation of compliance activities. The Staff also
recommended that one of these smaller NRSROs review its policies and procedures to ensure the
DCO is sufficiently independent from its senior management.
Also at one of these smaller NRSROs, the practices concerning DCO compensation may have
been inconsistent with Section 15E(j)(4), which requires that the DCO’s compensation is
arranged to ensure the DCO’s independence and is not linked to the NRSRO’s financial
performance. In addition, this smaller NRSRO did not exercise oversight of the DCO in the
manner required by its policies and procedures. The Staff recommended that this NRSRO
ensure that its actual practices do not link DCO compensation to its financial performance,
review activities performed by an individual who served as the DCO for a certain time period to
ensure that these activities were not influenced by its financial performance, and ensure that the
DCO’s duties are conducted consistently with its policies and procedures.
At another smaller NRSRO, continuing turnover in the identity of the individual serving as DCO
limited the DCO’s effectiveness and the continuity of compliance operations. The Staff
recommended that this NRSRO establish a compliance staffing and succession plan to ensure
that the individual serving as DCO is sufficiently capable and independent.

3.

There were weaknesses in compliance investigations at two of the larger NRSROs.

Some NRSROs conducted routine compliance reviews or audits to identify instances of noncompliance and investigations in response to particular potential compliance violations. While
this is a positive practice, there were shortcomings in some of these compliance activities at two
larger NRSROs. At both of these larger NRSROs, the personnel who had substantial
responsibility for a compliance investigation concerning particular conduct also substantially
participated in the conduct being investigated. The Staff recommended that these NRSROs
ensure that investigations regarding compliance or conflicts of interest are conducted by
personnel who are sufficiently impartial.
Also at one of these larger NRSROs, the scope of a compliance audit was too narrow and the
responses to several compliance audits were insufficient or untimely. The Staff made
recommendations to this NRSRO concerning the scope of its compliance audits and the
sufficiency and timeliness of its responses to compliance audits, and recommended that this
NRSRO conduct a risk-based review of whether certain conduct identified by one of its
compliance audits impacted its ratings.

2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 23

G.

Review Area: Complaints

Section 15E(j)(3) states that an NRSRO’s DCO must establish procedures for the receipt,
retention, and treatment of (i) complaints regarding credit ratings, models, methodologies, and
compliance with the securities laws and the NRSRO’s policies and procedures developed under
Section 15E; and (ii) confidential, anonymous complaints by employees or users of credit
ratings. Rule 17g-2(b)(8) requires an NRSRO to retain any written communications received
from persons not associated with the NRSRO that contain complaints about the performance of a
credit analyst in initiating, determining, maintaining, monitoring, changing, or withdrawing a
credit rating. Rule 17g-2(c) requires that such communications be retained for a period of three
years after the date the record is made or received. Rule 17g-2(d) concerns the manner of
retention and Rule 17g-2(e) governs the use of third party custodians for retention. The Staff
reviewed each NRSRO’s policies and procedures for complaints and tested the policies and
procedures by reviewing the files of certain complaints submitted to the NRSRO.
All the NRSROs have written policies and procedures to address complaints.
The Staff’s essential findings regarding complaints are as follows:
1.
Complaint policies and procedures at two larger NRSROs and one smaller NRSRO did
not address all of the statutory requirements concerning complaints.
The definition of complaint in one larger NRSRO’s policies and procedures did not include all
types of complaints covered by Section 15E(j)(3), and there were weaknesses concerning this
NRSRO’s determinations whether external communications constituted a complaint. At another
larger NRSRO, written complaint policies and procedures did not address complaints submitted
by employees and did not establish a prompt timeframe for logging a complaint. At one smaller
NRSRO, complaint policies and procedures did not address handling of verbal complaints and
retention of complaint-related documents. The Staff recommended that these three NRSROs
revise and enhance their complaint policies and procedures to comply with Section 15E(j) and
Rule 17g-2, and also recommended other improvements concerning complaint handling to the
two larger NRSROs.

2.
There were weaknesses in some complaint policies and procedures and treatment of
certain complaints at two smaller NRSROs.
At one smaller NRSRO, policies and procedures contained inconsistent provisions concerning
treatment of complaints. Also, in one of this NRSRO’s offices, some employees were unaware
of the complaint policies and procedures and did not report communications that may have
constituted complaints. At another smaller NRSRO, there were weaknesses in the logging and
review of external communications that may have constituted complaints, and insufficient
systems for external parties to submit complaints. The Staff recommended that these NRSROs
revise and enhance their complaint policies, procedures, and controls, and enhance their systems
for external parties to submit complaints.

2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 24

H.

Review Area: Post-Employment

Section 15E(h)(4)(A) requires an NRSRO to establish, maintain, and enforce policies and
procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it will review a former employee’s involvement in
the determination of credit ratings for a person or an issuer, underwriter, or sponsor of a security
or money market instrument if the former employee is now employed by such person or entity to
determine whether any conflicts of interest of the employee influenced the rating. Section
15E(h)(5) requires each NRSRO to report to the Commission any instance where the NRSRO
knows or can reasonably expected to know that certain specified persons who were associated
with the NRSRO within the previous five years obtain employment with any obligor, issuer,
underwriter, or sponsor of a security or money market instrument for which the organization
issued a credit rating during the twelve-month period prior to such employment.
The Staff reviewed each NRSRO’s “look-back” policies and procedures to assess whether they
satisfy the statutory requirements. The Staff also requested information from each NRSRO
concerning personnel that departed the NRSRO during the Review Period, and in some instances
tested, on a selected and randomized basis, documentation related to such personnel to assess
whether the NRSRO adhered to its lookback policies and procedures and satisfied the statutory
obligations with respect to such personnel.
The Staff’s essential findings regarding NRSRO look-back policies and procedures are as
follows:
1.

There were weaknesses in two smaller NRSROs’ lookback policies and procedures.

One smaller NRSRO did not record sufficient documentation related to its lookback review and
its policies and procedures did not specify a timeframe for completing a lookback review. The
Staff recommended that this NRSRO enhance its recordkeeping of lookback review activities
and revise its policies and procedures to state a timeframe for completing the review. Another
smaller NRSRO did not conduct periodic post-employment searches regarding one former
analyst as required by its policies and procedures to comply with Section 15E(h)(5). The Staff
recommended that this NRSRO ensure it applies its post-employment policies and procedures to
all covered former employees.
V.

CONCLUSION

The Staff has identified findings and recommendations for the NRSROs. In future examinations,
the Staff will continue to refine its risk assessment to maintain a balance between verifying
compliance with key laws and regulations and identifying and examining emerging risk areas. In
addition, the Staff will expand the scope of its future examinations to include the new and
amended SEC Rules concerning NRSROs.

2014 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 25

