__________________________________________________________________________
2013 SUMMARY REPORT OF COMMISSION STAFF’S EXAMINATIONS OF
EACH NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATION
__________________________________________________________________________

As Required by Section 15E(p)(3)(C)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

This is a report of the Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Commission has expressed no view regarding the analysis, findings, or conclusions
contained herein.
__________________________________
December 2013

TABLE OF CONTENTS

I.

REGULATORY AND NRSRO OVERVIEW.................................................................... 2
A.

Statutory Framework and Rules....................................................................................... 2

B.

Registered NRSROs......................................................................................................... 5

II. OFFICE OF CREDIT RATINGS AND EXAMINATION OVERVIEW ....................... 6
A.

Examinations under Section 15E(p)(3) ............................................................................ 6

B.

Examination Overview .................................................................................................... 6

III. SETTLEMENT OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING ............................. 7
IV. SUMMARY OF RESPONSES TO RECOMMENDATIONS FROM PREVIOUS
REPORTS AND NOTED INSTANCES OF REMEDIAL ACTION ...................................... 7
V.

SUMMARY OF ESSENTIAL FINDINGS ......................................................................... 9
A.

Review Area: Adherence to Policies, Procedures, and Methodologies .......................... 9

B.

Review Area: Management of Conflicts of Interest ..................................................... 11

C.

Review Area: Implementation of Ethics Policies ......................................................... 13

D.

Review Area: Internal Supervisory Controls ................................................................ 14

E.

Review Area: Governance ............................................................................................ 19

F.

Review Area: DCO Activities ...................................................................................... 20

G.

Review Area: Complaints ............................................................................................. 21

H.

Review Area: Post-Employment................................................................................... 22

VI. CONCLUSION ................................................................................................................... 23

I.

REGULATORY AND NRSRO OVERVIEW

This report summarizes the examinations conducted by staff from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (the “Staff”) under Section 15E(p)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (“Exchange Act”). 1 This is a report of the Staff and, as such, reflects solely the Staff’s
views. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) is making this Staff
report public as required by Section 15E(p)(3)(C) of the Exchange Act.
A.

Statutory Framework and Rules

On September 29, 2006, President George W. Bush signed into law the Credit Rating Agency
Reform Act of 2006 (the “Rating Agency Act”). 2 Section 4 of the Rating Agency Act added
Section 15E to the Exchange Act (“Section 15E”), which provided authority for the Commission
to implement registration, recordkeeping, financial reporting, and oversight rules with respect to
those credit rating agencies that register with the Commission as nationally recognized statistical
rating organizations (“NRSROs”). The Rating Agency Act also amended Section 17 of the
Exchange Act to provide the Commission with recordkeeping, reporting, and examination
authority over registered NRSROs. 3 Significantly, Section 15E(c)(2) expressly prohibits the
Commission from regulating “the substance of credit ratings or the procedures and
methodologies by which any [NRSRO] determines credit ratings.” 4
In 2007, the Commission implemented the NRSRO registration and oversight program created
by the Rating Agency Act by adopting Rules 17g-1 through 17g-6 and Form NRSRO. 5 Pursuant
to these rules, registered NRSROs must, among other things, make certain public disclosures,
make and retain certain records, furnish certain financial reports to the Commission, establish
and enforce procedures to manage the handling of material non-public information, and disclose
and manage conflicts of interest. These rules also prohibit an NRSRO from having certain
conflicts of interest and engaging in certain unfair, coercive, or abusive practices. The
Commission amended several of these rules in February 2009 and December 2009 with the goals
of further increasing the transparency of NRSRO rating methodologies; strengthening the
disclosures of rating performance; prohibiting NRSROs from engaging in certain unfair,
coercive, or abusive practices; and enhancing NRSRO record keeping. 6
1

15 U.S.C. § 78o-7(p)(3)(C). Unless otherwise noted, all Section and Rule references in this report are to
the Exchange Act and rules under the Exchange Act. See 15 U.S.C § 78o-7; 15 U.S.C. § 78q (a) & (b); 17
CFR 240.17g-1 through 17g-7.

2

Credit Rating Agency Reform Act of 2006, Pub. L. No. 109-291, 120 Stat. 1327 (2006).

3

See Sections 17(a) and 17(b) of the Exchange Act.

4

15 U.S.C. § 78o-7(c)(2).

5

See Oversight of Credit Rating Agencies Registered as Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating
Organizations, Exchange Act Release No. 55857 (Jun. 5, 2007), 72 FR 33564 (Jun. 18, 2007).

6

See Amendments to Rules for Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations, Exchange Act
Release No. 59342 (Feb. 2, 2009), 74 FR 6456 (Feb. 9, 2009) and Amendments to Rules for Nationally

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 2

On July 21, 2010, President Barack Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which, among other things, amended
Section 15E to enhance the regulation and oversight of NRSROs by imposing new reporting,
disclosure, and examination requirements. 7 The Dodd-Frank Act mandated the creation of the
Office of Credit Ratings (“OCR”), which was established in June 2012 with the appointment of
its Director, Thomas J. Butler. OCR is responsible for oversight of credit rating agencies
registered with the Commission as NRSROs.
The Dodd-Frank Act directed the Commission to adopt rules to implement a number of
provisions related to NRSROs. In January 2011, the Commission adopted new Rule 17g-7. 8
As of the date of this report, the Commission has adopted the following rules applicable to
NRSROs: 9

Exchange Act Rules Applicable to NRSROs
Rule 17g-1

Rule 17g-2
Rule 17g-3
Rule 17g-4

Rule 17g-5

Requires a credit rating agency to apply for NRSRO status and issue credit
ratings for various classes of securities by filing a Form NRSRO with the
Commission, and prescribes how an NRSRO must keep its registration up-todate and file an annual certification. Additionally, an NRSRO must make its
current Form NRSRO and information and documents submitted in Exhibits 1
through 9 to Form NRSRO publicly available.
Requires an NRSRO to make and retain certain types of business records and
publicly disclose certain ratings history data.
Requires an NRSRO to file certain audited and unaudited annual financial
reports and reports of the number of credit rating actions with the Commission.
Requires an NRSRO to establish and enforce written policies and procedures
designed to address specific areas in which material, non-public information
could be inappropriately disclosed or used.
Identifies a series of conflicts of interest arising from the business of determining
credit ratings. Some of these conflicts must be disclosed and managed, while
others are expressly prohibited.

Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations, Exchange Act Release No. 61050 (Nov. 23, 2009), 74 FR
63832 (Dec. 4, 2009).
7

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203, § 932, 124 Stat.
1376, 1872-83 (2010).

8

See Disclosure for Asset-Backed Securities Required by Section 943 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Securities Act of 1933 Release No. 9175; Exchange Act Release
No. 63741 (Jan. 20, 2011), 76 FR 4515 (Jan. 26, 2011).

9

The table includes summaries of certain provisions of the rules. For the specific and complete requirements
of the rules, see 17 CFR 240.17g-1 through 17g-7.

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 3

Rule 17g-6
Rule 17g-7

Prohibits NRSROs from engaging in certain unfair, abusive, or coercive
practices.
Requires NRSROs to include information regarding the representations,
warranties, and enforcement mechanisms available to investors in an assetbacked securities offering in any report accompanying a credit rating issued in
connection with such offering, including a preliminary credit rating, as well as
how those representations, warranties, and enforcement mechanisms differ from
those in similar offerings.

In addition, the Commission has proposed new rules to implement certain provisions of
the Dodd-Frank Act concerning the following areas:
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•

filing annual reports on internal controls; 10
addressing conflicts of interest with respect to sales and marketing concerns; 11
conducting “look-back” reviews of ratings in which former NRSRO employees
participated to determine whether employment opportunities with a rated entity,
issuer, underwriter, or sponsor influenced the rating; 12
disclosing information relating to initial credit ratings and subsequent changes to
credit ratings to track the performance of an NRSRO’s credit ratings; 13
requiring an NRSRO to have certain policies and procedures governing the way
an NRSRO determines credit ratings; 14
publishing a standard form with each credit rating disclosing, among other things,
the assumptions underlying the methodology used to determine the credit rating; 15
disclosing information concerning third-party due diligence reports for assetbacked securities; 16
establishing professional standards for training credit rating analysts; 17 and
requiring the consistent application of rating symbols and definitions. 18

10

Section 15E(c)(3)(B).

11

Section 15E(h)(3)(A).

12

Section 15E(h)(4)(A).

13

Section 15E(q)(1).

14

Section 15E(r).

15

Section 15E(s)(1).

16

Section 15E(s)(4)(C).

17

Dodd-Frank Act, § 936, 124 Stat. 1884-85.

18

Dodd-Frank Act, § 938(a), 124 Stat. 1376, 1885.

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 4

B.

Registered NRSROs

In 2007, following the adoption of its first set of NRSRO rules, the Commission began granting
registrations to credit rating agencies that applied to be registered as an NRSRO. A credit rating
agency may apply to be registered with respect to one or more of the following five classes of
credit ratings: (1) financial institutions, brokers, or dealers (“financial institutions”); (2)
insurance companies; (3) corporate issuers; (4) issuers of asset-backed securities (“asset-backed
securities”); and (5) issuers of government securities, municipal securities, or securities issued by
a foreign government (“government securities”). 19
The ten credit rating agencies registered as NRSROs, as of [the date of this report] and dates of
their initial registrations are listed below:
NRSRO 20
A.M. Best Company, Inc. (“AMB”)
DBRS, Inc. (“DBRS”)
Egan-Jones Ratings Company (“EJR”)
Fitch Ratings, Inc. (“Fitch”) 21
HR Ratings de México, S.A. de C.V. (“HR”)
Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (“JCR”)
Kroll Bond Rating Agency, Inc. (“KBRA”) 22
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”)
Morningstar Credit Ratings, LLC (“Morningstar”) 23
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”)

Date of Registration
September 24, 2007
September 24, 2007
December 21, 2007
September 24, 2007
November 5, 2012
September 24, 2007
February 11, 2008
September 24, 2007
June 23, 2008
September 24, 2007

More information on NRSRO registration applications and the state of competition,
transparency, and conflicts of interest among NRSROs is included in the Annual Report to
Congress under Section 6 of the Rating Agency Act (December 2013), available on the
Commission’s website: http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ocr.shtml.

19

See Section 3(a)(62)(A) of the Exchange Act.

20

Orders granting registration can be found at: http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ocr.shtml. Paragraph (i) of
Rule 17g-1 requires an NRSRO to make its current Form NRSRO and Exhibits 1 through 9 to Form
NRSRO publicly available on its website, or through another comparable, readily accessible means within
10 business days after the date the Commission grants an initial application for registration as an NRSRO
or registration for an additional class of credit ratings, and within 10 business days after updating its
registration, furnishing its annual certification, or withdrawing from registration.

21

Effective January 10, 2013, Fitch, Inc. changed its name to Fitch Ratings, Inc. Exhibit 4 to the 2013 Form
NRSRO for Fitch Ratings, Inc., p. 4. http://www.fitchratings.com/web_content/nrsro/nav/NRSRO_Exhibit4.pdf.

22

Formerly known as LACE Financial Corp.

23

Formerly known as Realpoint LLC.

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 5

II.

OFFICE OF CREDIT RATINGS AND EXAMINATION OVERVIEW
A.

Examinations under Section 15E(p)(3)

Generally, the purpose of NRSRO examinations is to monitor compliance with federal securities
laws and rules, identify potential violations of such laws and rules, and encourage remedial
action. Examinations also serve to inform the Commission and the Staff of NRSROs’
compliance with their regulatory obligations and noteworthy industry developments. If the
examination staff identifies potential violations of federal securities laws or rules during an
NRSRO examination, the Staff may refer the matter to the Commission’s Division of
Enforcement, which is responsible for further investigation of these potential violations.
Section 15E(p)(3)(A) requires OCR to conduct an examination of each NRSRO at least annually.
Section 15E(p)(3)(B) provides that the examination shall include a review of the following eight
topic areas (“Section 15E Review Areas”): (i) whether the NRSRO conducts business in
accordance with the policies, procedures, and rating methodologies of the NRSRO; (ii) the
management of conflicts of interest by the NRSRO; (iii) the implementation of ethics policies by
the NRSRO; (iv) the internal supervisory controls of the NRSRO; (v) the governance of the
NRSRO; (vi) the activities of the designated compliance officer (“DCO”) of the NRSRO; (vii)
the processing of complaints by the NRSRO; and (viii) the policies of the NRSRO governing the
post-employment activities of former staff of the NRSRO.
Section 15E(p)(3)(C) requires the Commission to make publicly available an annual report
summarizing: (i) the essential findings of all Section 15E examinations, as deemed appropriate
by the Commission; (ii) the NRSROs’ responses to any material regulatory deficiencies
identified by the Commission; and (iii) whether the NRSROs have appropriately addressed the
recommendations of the Commission contained in previous annual reports on examinations. 24
B.

Examination Overview

The subject of the instant report began in October 2012 (the “2013 examinations”). The 2013
examinations generally focused on NRSRO activities for the period covering October 1, 2011
through December 31, 2012 (the “Review Period”).
The 2013 examinations included a review of the Section 15E Review Areas and examined how
each NRSRO adhered to Section 15E and Rules 17g-1 through 17g-7. For the 2013
examinations, each NRSRO was subjected to an individualized risk assessment, an enhancement
from prior examination cycles. The individualized risk assessments took into account a number
of factors, including, the types of ratings and services offered by the NRSRO, findings and
observations from prior examinations, the impact of an internal control or compliance failure by
the NRSRO, recent developments affecting NRSROs generally and the rating classes in which
24

This report does not cover examinations or reviews that may be conducted outside the scope of Section
15E.

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 6

they are registered, and relevant tips, complaints, and referrals received by the Commission. As
a result of these individualized risk assessments, each 2013 examination included a review of
each of the Section 15E Review Areas, while also being tailored to the specific risk profile of
each NRSRO.
For purposes of this report only, we will refer to Fitch, Moody’s, and S&P as larger NRSROs
and the seven other NRSROs (AMB, DBRS, EJR, JCR, KBRA, HR, and Morningstar) as smaller
NRSROs.
III.

SETTLEMENT OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING

In April 2012, the Commission instituted administrative proceedings against EJR and Sean Egan,
EJR’s founder, President, owner, and primary analyst. 25 In the Order Instituting Proceedings, the
Commission alleged that EJR and Mr. Egan committed numerous violations of Sections 15E and
17(a) and the rules thereunder.
In January of 2013, EJR and Egan consented to an SEC order, without admitting or denying the
findings therein, finding, among other things, that EJR made willful and material misstatements
and omissions when registering with the SEC to become an NRSRO for asset-backed securities
and government securities. Under the settlement, EJR agreed to be barred from rating assetbacked and government securities issuers as an NRSRO, with the right to re-apply for
registration in these classes after 18 months. Egan was barred from association with any
NRSRO registered in these two classes for the same period. The settlement further required EJR
and Egan to complete a comprehensive review of EJR’s policies and to correct the issues
identified in that review as well as the issues identified in the Order and the 2012 summary
letter. The settlement also required that EJR submit a report detailing the steps it took to address
these issues. EJR has submitted the report, which describes several amendments to EJR’s
policies, procedures, and internal controls for issuing ratings, to correct the issues identified in
the settlement order and 2012 examination summary letter. The order is available on the
Commission’s website: http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2013/34-68703.pdf.
IV.
SUMMARY OF RESPONSES TO RECOMMENDATIONS FROM PREVIOUS
REPORTS AND NOTED INSTANCES OF REMEDIAL ACTION
The Staff’s determination that an NRSRO appropriately addressed a recommendation does not
constitute the Staff’s endorsement of that NRSRO or its policies, procedures, or operations. In a
future examination, the Staff may continue to review and make additional recommendations
concerning the NRSRO or its policies, procedures, and operations related to a recommendation
that was previously deemed by the Staff to be appropriately addressed, or to the general subject
matter of that recommendation. The Staff’s assessment of whether an NRSRO has appropriately

25

In the Matter of Egan-Jones Ratings Company and Sean Egan, Release No. 66854 (April 24, 2012).

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 7

addressed a recommendation reflects solely the Staff’s view and does not necessarily reflect the
views of the Commission.
The Staff’s assessment of whether an NRSRO has appropriately addressed a recommendation
depends on the specific facts and circumstances of each recommendation including the
promptness of the NRSRO’s response, the severity of the conduct at issue, and whether the
remedial action undertaken by the NRSRO is likely to fully resolve the Staff’s concerns.
Based on the Staff’s 2013 examinations, the Staff has determined that no 2012 recommendations
have not been appropriately addressed. NRSROs responded to the 2012 recommendations with
remedial measures such as adopting new or revising existing procedures, enhancing or
implementing new internal controls, implementing new software systems, and conducting
compliance and analytical training. Further, NRSROs have added, or have begun to add,
compliance resources, both in the form of experienced compliance personnel and in software
systems and information technology infrastructure. NRSROs have also improved oversight by
boards of directors or governing committees to which oversight duties have been assigned under
Section 15E(t)(4) (hereinafter, a “Board” or “Boards”).
In particular, the Staff notes five general areas of improvement among NRSROs:
(i) Enhanced documentation, disclosure, and Board oversight of criteria and methodologies.
The Staff has observed that many NRSROs have developed and publicly disclosed
ratings criteria and methodologies that better describe ratings inputs and processes. Some
NRSROs have also increased Board oversight of rating processes and methodologies.
(ii) Investment in software or computer systems. The Staff found that some NRSROs have
made investments in software and information technology infrastructure by, for example,
implementing systems for electronic recordkeeping and for monitoring employee
securities trading. One NRSRO has implemented systems that enable it to operate in a
nearly paperless environment, so as to minimize the inadvertent dissemination of
confidential information and to ensure preservation of all records required by Rule 17g-2.
(iii) Increased prominence of the role of the DCO within NRSROs. The Staff has found that
the role of the DCO has taken on more prominence within many NRSROs. The Staff has
noticed that certain DCOs have increased reporting obligations to, and more interaction
with, the NRSRO’s Board. At these NRSROs, the DCO meets with the Board to discuss
compliance matters, quarterly or more frequently.
(iv) Implementation or enhancement of internal controls. The Staff has recognized that all
NRSROs have added or improved internal controls over the rating process. More
NRSROs are using audits and other testing to verify compliance with federal securities
law, and NRSROs have generally improved employee training on compliance matters.
(v) Adherence to internal policies and procedures. The Staff has noticed a general
improvement in NRSROs’ adherence to internal rating policies and procedures, which
improvement appears to be attributable, in part, to improvements in the internal control
structure at NRSROs.
2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 8

The end result of these improvements has been a noticeable positive shift in the compliance
culture of NRSROs. Since the Section 15E examinations first began in 2010, NRSROs have
devoted more resources and attention to compliance with federal securities laws. The 2013
Examinations revealed continuing improvement in compliance with federal securities laws, as
NRSROs begin to import compliance personnel and practices from other regulated industries.
V.

SUMMARY OF ESSENTIAL FINDINGS

Section 15E(p)(3)(C)(i) requires this report to contain a summary of the essential findings of the
annual examinations, as deemed appropriate by the Commission.
For purposes of this report, “essential findings” include the Staff’s most notable observations and
concerns arising from the examinations. These essential findings are not findings of the
Commission, and the Staff’s inclusion of an issue does not necessarily mean that the Staff has
reached a definitive conclusion about that issue. Essential findings are organized by the Section
15E Review Areas.
The Commission has not determined whether any finding discussed in this report constitutes a
“material regulatory deficiency,” but may do so in the future. If the Commission determines that any
finding of a Section 15E examination does constitute a “material regulatory deficiency,” the Staff
will include the relevant NRSRO’s response to such deficiency in a future summary report.

A.

Review Area: Adherence to Policies, Procedures, and Methodologies

Section 15E and Commission rules require that NRSROs maintain and enforce various written
policies and procedures. Rule 17g-2(a)(6) requires NRSROs to make and retain a record
documenting the procedures and methodologies used by the NRSRO to determine credit ratings.
A general description of these procedures and methodologies must be included in Exhibit 2 to
Form NRSRO. Section 15E(c)(3)(A) requires NRSROs to establish, maintain, enforce, and
document an effective internal control structure governing the implementation of and adherence
to policies, procedures, and methodologies for determining credit ratings.
The Staff’s review of whether each NRSRO conducted business in accordance with its policies,
procedures, and methodologies focused on reviewing the documentation of ratings activity for a
selected number of issuers to determine whether the NRSRO had followed its procedures in each
case. In selecting rating files for review, the Staff employed a risk-based sampling process
taking into account issues such as the significance of the rated asset class to the financial
markets, the NRSRO’s activity in the rated asset class, and the likelihood of market harm if the
rating were not produced in accordance with the NRSRO’s procedures and methodologies. The
Staff’s reviews of the eight mandated review areas also involved testing whether each NRSRO
conducted business in accordance with its policies, procedures, and methodologies. The Staff’s
essential findings in those other areas are discussed in later sections of this report. Instances
where policies, procedures, and methodologies needed to be established or improved are also
discussed in later sections of this report.

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 9

The Staff’s essential findings regarding whether each NRSRO has conducted its business in
accordance with its policies, procedures and methodologies are as follows:
1.
At one larger and five smaller NRSROs, the Staff found some instances where rating
procedures and methodologies were not followed.
The Staff reviewed, for each NRSRO, the internal controls governing the rating process,
including policies and procedures. The Staff found that some NRSROs, at times, did not follow
certain aspects of their rating procedures.
The Staff found that one larger NRSRO did not adhere to its procedures requiring analysts to
seek managerial approval of certain changes to a draft press release. In this instance, the
NRSRO incorporated changes suggested by an issuer without obtaining the requisite managerial
approval. This same NRSRO, when asked by the Staff to produce the rating file related to this
press release pursuant to Rule 17g-2(f), which requires an NRSRO to promptly furnish the
Commission with the copies of the records required to be retained under Rule 17g-2, initially
declined on the grounds that the NRSRO had a practice of asking for consent of certain issuers
before producing their documents to the Commission and that this particular issuer did not
provide such consent. The NRSRO ultimately furnished the file to the Staff.
The Staff recommended that the larger NRSRO ensure that it complies with Rule 17g-2.
The Staff also found that four smaller NRSROs did not consistently conduct surveillance within
the timeframes set forth in their procedures, and one smaller NRSRO did not follow its
procedures for disclosing whether an issuer participated in an unsolicited rating.
The Staff recommended that each of the smaller NRSROs conduct surveillance reviews within
the timeframe required by their procedures or improve public disclosures on Form NRSRO.
2.
One larger NRSRO did not follow its rating criteria development policies and procedures
in some instances.
Procedures for which a record must be made pursuant to Rule 17g-2(a)(6) include procedures
related to the development of substantive ratings criteria and methodologies. The Staff reviewed
NRSROs’ criteria development policies and procedures and tested those procedures to ensure
that rating criteria and methodologies were being developed in a manner consistent with their
procedures. This review revealed weaknesses with regard to adhering to established procedures
regarding development of criteria.
The Staff found that one larger NRSRO did not consistently follow certain policies and
procedures when it revised significant structured finance criteria. Some of the required
documentation was not maintained in a manner specified in the procedures, and some meetings
of the criteria committee were not held with the frequency required by the procedures.
The Staff recommended that the NRSRO enhance its internal controls to ensure compliance with
its criteria development policies and procedures.
2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 10

3.
All of the larger NRSROs and six of the smaller NRSROs had certain weaknesses in
following their procedures for maintaining records related to rating actions.
The Staff requested rating files from each NRSRO to evaluate compliance with its recordkeeping
procedures and with Rule 17g-2. The Staff observed weaknesses in NRSROs’ record retention
and recordation of rating actions and committee procedures.
The Staff’s review revealed instances at all larger NRSROs where documents required by Rule
17g-2 or by the NRSRO’s recordkeeping procedures to be kept were not being consistently
retained. Though mostly clerical in nature, the recordkeeping issues identified included
inconsistent recording of voting and non-voting attendees of rating committees, inconsistent
retention of communications that relate to the issuance of a credit rating letter, and one instance
where a voting record was not retained in the rating file.
At six of the smaller NRSROs, the Staff observed similar instances of not adhering to
recordkeeping procedures. For example, the Staff observed an instance where a smaller NRSRO
rated certain bonds, yet a review of the relevant rating records revealed that there had been no
mention of two tranches of these bonds in the rating committee records. Among the other
recordkeeping issues identified with the smaller NRSROs were not maintaining complete records
of rating committee files, not maintaining vote counts or participants in the rating committees,
and not retaining records of all communications that related to the determination of credit
ratings.
The Staff recommended that these NRSROs retain all records required by Rule 17g-2 and their
record retention policies and procedures. Further, the Staff recommended that the smaller
NRSROs enhance oversight of the rating process and document retention.
B.

Review Area: Management of Conflicts of Interest

Section 15E(h)(1) requires an NRSRO to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to address and manage conflicts of interest. The types of
conflicts of interest relating to the issuance of credit ratings and material to the NRSRO must be
disclosed in Exhibit 6 to Form NRSRO, and the written policies and procedures to address and
manage these conflicts must be disclosed in Exhibit 7 to Form NRSRO. Rule 17g-5(b) lists
certain conflicts of interest that are prohibited for an NRSRO unless, under Rule 17g-5(a), the
type of conflict is disclosed in Exhibit 6 to Form NRSRO and the NRSRO establishes, maintains,
and enforces written policies and procedures to address and manage the conflict, and Rule 17g5(c) lists certain other conflicts of interest that are strictly prohibited.
The Staff’s essential findings regarding the management of conflicts of interest are as follows:
1.
Four smaller NRSROs did not have sufficient procedures and controls for separating
business and analytical functions or for preventing rating analysts from being involved in fee
discussions and from having access to rating fee information.
Rule 17g-5(c)(6) prohibits an NRSRO from issuing a rating where the fee paid for the rating was
“negotiated, discussed, or arranged” by a person within the NRSRO who had “responsibility for
2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 11

participating in determining credit ratings….” To ensure compliance with this Rule, many
NRSROs establish controls to separate business development and analytical functions.
The Staff found that at one smaller NRSRO, the separation of business and analytical functions
needed improvement. A review of rating files and related communications revealed that rating
analysts, at the instance of management, had a significant role in the business development and
marketing efforts of the NRSRO. Moreover, it was discovered that at this NRSRO, two analysts
had preliminary fee discussions with underwriters. It was also found that an analyst at this
NRSRO discussed rating expenses with an underwriter in contravention of the NRSRO’s
procedures.
Similarly, at another smaller NRSRO, the Staff noted instances where third parties inadvertently
emailed rating analysts fee information regarding ratings to which the analysts were assigned.
The NRSRO identified the conduct at issue and took corrective action, including initiating
development of new communication protocols to prevent further inadvertent fee disclosures to
analysts.
The Staff also found weaknesses in the separation of business and analytical functions at two
other smaller NRSROs.
The Staff recommended a number of corrective actions, including revising procedures,
modifying the office floor plan, improving controls, and hiring additional staff.
2.
One larger NRSRO did not disclose the largest users of its credit rating services in
accordance with the instructions for Exhibit 10 of Form NRSRO.
Rule 17g-5(c)(1) prohibits an NRSRO from issuing or maintaining a credit rating for an entity
that contributed 10% or more of an NRSRO’s net revenue in the most recently ended fiscal year.
The Staff monitors compliance with this provision, in part, by reviewing the NRSRO’s annual
financial report under Rule 17g-3, which, under Rule 17g-3(a)(5), must include the 20 largest
issuers and subscribers that used credit rating services provided by the NRSRO and any obligor
or underwriter if the net revenue attributable to the obligor or underwriter equaled or exceeded
the net revenue attributable to the 20th largest issuer or subscriber. The net revenue amount must
be included for each person on the list.
The Staff found that one of the larger NRSROs did not provide fully accurate disclosure under
Rule 17g-3(a)(5). The NRSRO attributed this disclosure issue to a shortcoming in its accounting
system. While the Staff does not have reason to believe that any issuer or subscriber accounts
for more than 10% of the net revenue of this NRSRO, the Staff has reiterated its
recommendation that prompt action be taken to ensure that the NRSRO provides the requisite
disclosures.
3.
One larger NRSRO and five smaller NRSROs had weaknesses in procedures and controls
governing certain prohibited acts and conflicts of interest, including employee securities
ownership.

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 12

One conflict of interest that an NRSRO may not have is set forth in Rule 17g-5(c)(2), which
prohibits an NRSRO from issuing or maintaining a rating with respect to a person where the
NRSRO, a credit analyst that participated in determining a rating, or a person responsible for
approving a rating, directly owns securities of, or has any other direct ownership in, the person
that is subject to the credit rating.
NRSROs are also prohibited from engaging in certain unfair, coercive, or abusive practices set
forth in Rule 17g-6. The Staff reviewed and tested NRSROs’ procedures and controls governing
conflicts of interest and prohibited practices and found certain weaknesses.
The Staff found that one larger NRSRO and five smaller NRSROs needed to improve
management of the conflict of interest associated with employee securities ownership. At the
larger NRSRO, the Staff found that there were no formal written procedures requiring preclearance of certain securities trading. At this NRSRO, the Staff also found that three analysts
were not in compliance with the NRSRO’s securities trading policy and that two employees
submitted inaccurate certifications of securities holdings. One of these smaller NRSROs had no
pre-clearance process for securities ownership, no periodic securities disclosure requirement, and
had insufficient procedures and controls for preventing employees and their family members
from owning interests in issuers or obligors subject to a rating. Another smaller NRSRO
exempts independent directors from its securities ownership policies. At a third smaller
NRSRO, new employees were not required to report securities holdings when they begin
employment, and at a fourth smaller NRSRO employees are required to submit brokerage
statements to compliance each quarter only if they have traded during that quarter. Another
smaller NRSRO was found to have a weakness in its controls for adding securities to the list of
securities employees are prohibited from owning.
The Staff also found that three smaller NRSROs did not have procedures to manage other
conflicts of interest of the NRSRO and its employees and that two smaller NRSROs did not
disclose certain conflicts of interest on their Forms NRSRO. The Staff further found that a
smaller NRSRO’s procedures did not address all prohibited acts and practices set forth in Rule
17g-6.
The Staff has recommended corrective action for these NRSROs, including recommendations to
strengthen policies, procedures, and controls for monitoring employee securities trading and
ownership; to enhance disclosure of conflicts on Form NRSRO; and to review the NRSRO’s
conflicts of interest to determine whether any additional conflicts of interest should be disclosed
on Form NRSRO.
C.

Review Area: Implementation of Ethics Policies

Section 15E(a)(1)(B)(v) requires that an application for registration as an NRSRO include
information regarding whether or not the NRSRO has in effect a code of ethics, and if not, the
reasons it does not. An NRSRO must provide a copy of the written code of ethics it has in effect
or a statement of the reasons it does not have such a code in Exhibit 5 to Form NRSRO. Each
NRSRO has implemented written ethics policies and procedures, and the Staff reviewed those
policies and procedures and their implementation as part of the 2013 examinations. Much of the
content of these policies and procedures addresses other related mandatory review areas under
2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 13

Section 15E(p)(3)(B). As such, to the extent that the Staff made essential findings related to
ethics policies, those findings are addressed in other sections of this report.
With regard to ethics policies, the Staff identified an essential finding at one smaller NRSRO. At
this NRSRO, Board members are required to certify the Code of Conduct every six months, but a
Staff review determined that the certifications had not been made as required.
The Staff recommended that the NRSRO ensure that Board members certify the Code of
Conduct.
D.

Review Area: Internal Supervisory Controls

Section 15E(c)(3)(A) requires that each NRSRO establish, maintain, enforce, and document an
effective internal control structure governing the implementation of and adherence to policies,
procedures, and methodologies for determining credit ratings. The Staff reviewed each
NRSRO’s overall control structure, including the internal control structure related to determining
credit ratings. Rule 17g-2(a)(6) further provides that NRSROs must make and retain a record
documenting the procedures and methodologies used to determine credit ratings.
Section 15E(g)(1) requires an NRSRO to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information by the
NRSRO or any person associated with the NRSRO. Rule 17g-4(a)(3) provides that these written
policies and procedures must include policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent the
inappropriate dissemination of pending credit rating actions within and outside the NRSRO
before issuing the rating on the Internet or through another readily accessible means.
The Staff’s essential findings regarding internal supervisory controls are as follows:
1.
The Staff identified weaknesses in some of the procedures and supervisory controls
governing the rating process at two larger NRSROs.
The Staff found that a larger NRSRO did not maintain written procedures for certain key aspects
of the rating process as required by Rule 17g-2(a)(6). The NRSRO did not maintain written
procedures governing ratings placed under review and did not have adequate controls for timely
updating certain ratings after an initial surveillance review. With regard to ratings placed under
review, the NRSRO informally tracked ratings, but the Staff found that the NRSRO did not have
documented policies and procedures governing timely review of these ratings. Consequently, in
one instance, a rating was under review for approximately ten months and market participants
did not receive guidance as to the timing of an expected resolution. Similarly, this larger
NRSRO lacked procedures governing timely updating of ratings following an initial surveillance
review. The Staff found that in one instance, this larger NRSRO identified a rating as requiring
revision, but no rating action was taken for three months. When this rating was ultimately
revised, a rating committee downgraded the rating five notches, from investment grade to below
investment grade. The Staff also found that at this NRSRO, numerous dependent transactions
were not immediately downgraded upon the downgrade of the entity providing credit support.
This NRSRO did not have documented procedures as to the timing of rating changes for
dependent ratings.
2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 14

At another larger NRSRO, the Staff noted that incorrect ratings for eight bond offerings by a
major financial institution were posted on the NRSRO’s website until the error was detected by
an investor. According to the NRSRO, the bonds were entered into their system under an
incorrect payment priority level and resulted in the ratings being incorrectly published as one
notch higher than the NRSRO’s methodology would have dictated.
The Staff recommended that these NRSROs improve controls to ensure that the rating process is
conducted consistent with NRSRO procedures and federal securities law.
2.
The Staff identified weaknesses in criteria development and disclosure at two larger and
four smaller NRSROs.
At one smaller NRSRO, a senior executive was found to have tried to influence the analytical
staff to violate policies for ratings and criteria development. The Staff did not uncover evidence
that the senior executive was successful in the attempts to influence the criteria, although certain
public communications were influenced. In particular, this executive caused the NRSRO to
announce that certain ratings services were being provided when in fact they were not. The Staff
notes that this NRSRO took corrective action, and the senior executive’s employment at the
NRSRO has ended.
At another smaller NRSRO, the Staff found that there was no prohibition on allowing business
interests to influence criteria development. The Staff determined that without policies limiting
the influence of commercial interests on criteria development, the registrant may not be
adequately managing the issuer-pay conflict.
The Staff also identified some instances where the public disclosures of established criteria at
two larger NRSROs could have been more fulsome. At one larger NRSRO, a rating was
assigned to an international development bank without reference to a published methodology.
This NRSRO’s policies require that credit ratings are assigned with reference to published
methodologies unless the issuer is sufficiently unique that no outstanding methodology would
apply. The Staff learned, however, that this NRSRO routinely rates a number of similar entities
and, therefore, this type of entity could not be deemed to be new or unique. The Staff also noted
inconsistencies between this NRSRO’s internal documentation and its published commentary
regarding how methodologies were used for this rating. Similarly, the Staff noted that another
larger NRSRO issued ratings of a certain type of asset-backed security for which it had no
specific, publicly-disclosed criteria. When rating these securities, this larger NRSRO applied
criteria for similar asset-backed securities but nearly none of the press releases of these assetbacked security ratings made reference to the criteria being used.
Two smaller NRSROs also had weaknesses in public disclosures of established criteria. The
Staff found that for two of the smaller NRSROs, the general description of rating methodology
found in their Forms NRSRO was not sufficiently detailed to provide users of credit ratings with
an understanding of the rating process. At one of these NRSROs, it was also determined that
there was no internal rating methodology to provide analysts with adequate instructions on how

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 15

to rate a security. Furthermore, the Staff found that at this NRSRO, changes to the rating model
were not consistently documented.
The Staff found other instances where NRSROs could have improved criteria disclosures,
criteria development procedures and adherence thereto, model development, and documentation.
The Staff made a number of recommendations to these NRSROs, including a recommendation to
improve public disclosures about the rating process and to improve supervisory controls
governing the development and use of rating methodology and criteria.
3.
One larger NRSRO and four smaller NRSROs had weaknesses in certain rating
procedures or in certain public disclosures of those policies and procedures.
NRSROs are required to maintain records documenting internal procedures they use to determine
credit ratings, pursuant to Rule 17g-2(a)(6), and are also required to publicly disclose a general
description of the ratings process, pursuant to the instructions to Exhibit 2 of Form NRSRO. 26
The Staff made observations with respect to the internal rating policies and procedures of one
larger NRSRO and three smaller NRSROs and with the public disclosure of the ratings process
for four smaller NRSROs.
The Staff found that certain aspects of the rating procedures for one larger NRSRO and three
smaller NRSROs needed to be strengthened. A larger NRSRO lacked policies and procedures
for the committees it uses to pre-screen certain structured finance transactions. One smaller
NRSRO’s internal policies and procedures governing the rating process and the monitoring of
ratings and model use were not sufficiently detailed. A second smaller NRSRO did not
document the guidelines for composing an industry group for rating purposes, and the policies
and procedures of this smaller NRSRO did not include a requirement to document the point at
which rating decisions are considered to be finalized for dissemination. A third smaller NRSRO
was found to have insufficient policies and procedures regarding certain ratings definitions,
processes, and procedures.
The Staff also found weaknesses in public disclosures of the rating process at another smaller
NRSRO, and at three smaller NRSROs, the Staff found there was a lack of sufficient detail as to
certain aspects of the procedures governing the rating process or as to certain terms to describe
rating actions.
Among the additional weaknesses observed at one larger and two smaller NRSROs were the
need for better documentation of changes to rating processes, the need for better communication
of those changes to employees, and the need for a review of the effectiveness of the rating
committee process.
26

Rule 17g-2(a)(6) provides that an NRSRO must document the “established procedures and methodologies
used by the [NRSRO] to determine credit ratings.” The instructions to Exhibit 2 of Form NRSRO provide
that an NRSRO must publicly disclose a general description of its rating procedures and methodologies.
This description “must be sufficiently detailed to provide users of credit ratings with an understanding of
the processes employed by the [NRSRO] in determining credit ratings.”

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 16

The Staff made a number of recommendations to these NRSROs, including recommendations to
improve public disclosures about the rating process and to improve controls governing the
development of rating methodology and criteria.
4.
One larger and one smaller NRSRO did not have adequate disclosures distinguishing
NRSRO from non-NRSRO ratings.
The Staff found that a larger NRSRO routinely displayed NRSRO ratings and non-NRSRO
ratings side-by-side on its website and did not provide sufficient disclosure that certain ratings
were non-NRSRO ratings.
The Staff also observed that a smaller NRSRO issued non-NRSRO ratings in an asset class for
which it was not registered to issue NRSRO ratings. Certain advertising materials for this
NRSRO, however, did not disclose that it is not registered to issue NRSRO ratings for this asset
class.
The Staff recommended that these NRSROs improve disclosures to better distinguish NRSRO
ratings from non-NRSRO ratings.
5.
The Staff observed weaknesses in one larger and four smaller NRSROs’ internal controls
over the handling of material non-public information, including pending rating actions.
Rule 17g-4 provides that NRSROs must establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures
to prevent the misuse of material non-public information. This rule further provides that these
procedures must be reasonably designed to prevent inappropriate dissemination of material nonpublic information, including pending rating actions, both within and outside the NRSRO and to
prevent a person within the NRSRO from trading on material non-public information. The Staff
observed weaknesses in these procedures and controls at one larger and four smaller NRSROs.
At a larger NRSRO, the Staff observed weaknesses in the information technology systems
designed for the dissemination of ratings, causing instances of ratings being released to
subscribers before the public. The Staff also found that procedures and controls at this NRSRO
did not prevent analysts from accessing material non-public information on issuers whose
securities analysts were permitted to trade.
At one smaller NRSRO, the Staff found a need for better documentation of its practices and
improvement of its policies and procedures for communicating ratings to issuers and for the
release of ratings. The Staff further found that at this same NRSRO, many practices concerning
publication of ratings were not accurately codified in procedures; for example, the procedures
did not accurately describe the NRSRO’s process for posting ratings to its website and
distributing ratings to media organizations.
The Staff found that a second smaller NRSRO maintained policies and procedures for handling
confidential information that were not reasonably designed to limit independent directors’ access

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 17

to material non-public information and that procedures prohibiting the use of personal email for
the transmission of material non-public information were not consistently followed.

The Staff recommended that these NRSROs improve their procedures and controls for handling
confidential information.
6.
The Staff found that certain improvements were needed in the internal audit or testing
programs at one larger and five smaller NRSROs.
Section 15E(c)(3)(A) provides that each NRSRO must “establish, maintain, enforce, and
document an effective internal control structure governing the implementation of and adherence
to policies, procedures, and methodologies for determining credit ratings….” The Staff noted
that many NRSROs relied on a testing or internal audit program as an internal supervisory
control.
At two smaller and one larger NRSRO, the Staff found weaknesses with respect to the testing
program for rating criteria and models. The audit department and compliance department were
not adequately monitoring the larger NRSRO’s criteria function to ensure its independence from
business and market share considerations. The Staff also noted weaknesses with this larger
NRSRO’s model quality review process, including lack of communication between criteria and
model quality review functions and inadequate follow-up on model quality review
recommendations. Similarly, at two smaller NRSROs, the Staff found insufficient procedures for
rating model validation and testing.
The Staff identified a number of weaknesses in the compliance testing or internal audit regimes
at four smaller NRSROs. At one smaller NRSRO, there was a lack of coordination between the
compliance function and the internal audit function such that the compliance department was not
always provided with copies of internal audit reports with direct impact on the compliance
program. At this same NRSRO it was found that there was insufficient testing of employee
access to confidential information available on the NRSRO’s network. At three other smaller
NRSROs, the Staff found that processes for internal compliance reviews should be better
documented, including the development of a plan and a review schedule.
The Staff recommended that these NRSROs improve and better document their testing and audit
programs.
7.
Four smaller NRSROs require improvements to their programs for training employees on
compliance policies and procedures.
Section 15E(c)(3)(A) provides that each NRSRO must “establish, maintain, enforce, and
document an effective internal control structure governing the implementation of and adherence
to policies, procedures, and methodologies for determining credit ratings….” The Staff noted
that many NRSROs relied on a compliance or analytical training program as an internal
supervisory control.

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 18

The Staff found that four smaller NRSROs had training programs that needed improvement.
Among the issues observed by the Staff were a lack of mandatory compliance training, little
analytical staff training, no formal employee training on securities trading policies, and low
effectiveness of past training sessions.
The Staff made a number of recommendations, including recommendations to host regular
mandatory compliance or analytical training.
E.

Review Area: Governance

The Staff’s 2013 examinations involved an analysis of the NRSROs’ compliance with Section
15E(t), with particular focus on the oversight function performed by NRSRO Boards.
The Staff’s essential findings relating to the NRSROs’ compliance with the governance
provisions of Section 15E(t) are as follows:
1.
Documentation of Board meetings at three smaller NRSROs does not sufficiently
evidence that the Board is discharging its obligations under Section 15E(t).
Section 15E(t)(3) provides that in addition to the overall responsibilities of the Board, the Board
must oversee: the establishment, maintenance, and enforcement of policies and procedures for
determining credit ratings and to address, manage, and disclose any conflicts of interest; the
effectiveness of internal controls for determining ratings; and compensation and promotion
policies and practices. As part of the assessment of compliance with this Section, the Staff
reviewed the minutes of meetings of the Board of each NRSRO and interviewed members of the
Board.
Based on this review, the Staff concluded that at three of the smaller NRSROs, Board execution
of its Section 15E(t)(3) duties was not sufficiently evidenced.
The Staff advised each of these NRSROs to improve documentation of Board meetings to
evidence sufficient Board oversight.
2.
The Staff found that Board composition or oversight was in need of improvement at one
larger NRSRO and four smaller NRSROs.
The Staff interviewed members of the Boards of each NRSRO and reviewed the charter or
governing documents for each Board. The Staff found that many Boards did not meet certain
requirements with respect to composition or needed improvement in the execution of their
Section 15E(t) duties.
At one larger NRSRO, Board meetings may need additional safeguards to ensure Board
independence. Consistent with Section 15E(t)(2)(A), at least half of this larger NRSRO’s Board
was composed of independent directors, and a portion of the independent directors must include
users of ratings from the NRSRO. However, this NRSRO allowed the attendance of nonindependent, non-voting shareholder representatives at Board meetings. The Staff found issues
2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 19

with Board composition at a smaller NRSRO, where the Board did not record having a “user” of
credit ratings as required by Section 15E(t)(2)(A).
The Staff made further findings with respect to the conduct of Board meetings, noting that the
Boards of three smaller NRSROs demonstrated insufficient engagement in executing their
Section 15E(t) duties. These findings included a lack of preparedness to discharge duties at
Board meetings and a lack of command of the details of key compliance issues facing the
NRSRO. Additionally, the Staff noted that the Board of another smaller NRSRO was not
required by its governing charter to oversee compensation and promotion practices as required
by Section 15E(t)(3)(D).
The Staff made a variety of recommendations to these NRSROs, including recommendations to
amend Board governing documents and to ensure that the structure of their Boards are consistent
with Section 15E(t).
F.

Review Area: DCO Activities

Section 15E(j)(1) requires each NRSRO to designate an individual responsible for administering
the policies and procedures established to prevent the misuse of material non-public information
and address and manage conflicts of interest and for ensuring compliance with the securities
laws. Under Section 15E(j)(2), the DCO is prohibited from engaging in certain activities,
including performing credit ratings or participating in the development of ratings methodologies
or models, performing marketing or sales functions, or participate in establishing compensation
levels, other than for individuals working for the DCO. Under Section 15E(j)(3), the DCO is
responsible for establishing procedures for the receipt, retention, and treatment of complaints.
Section 15E(j)(4) requires that the DCO be compensated in a manner not linked to the financial
performance of the NRSRO and must be arranged to ensure the DCO’s independence. Under
Section 15E(j)(5), the DCO must submit an annual report to the NRSRO on the compliance of
the NRSRO with the securities laws and the NRSRO’s policies and procedures, and the NRSRO
must file the report with the Commission.
The Staff considers the DCO role to be a critical element in helping to ensure an NRSRO’s
compliance with securities laws. The Staff expects the DCO at each NRSRO to have sufficient
resources, institutional support, and independence to effectively carry out the DCO’s statutory
obligations. The Staff reviewed the role and activities of each NRSRO’s DCO. This review
included interviews with each DCO.
The Staff’s essential findings regarding DCOs are as follows:
1.
The Staff found that at one larger NRSRO and two smaller NRSROs, the duties of the
compliance staff could be more clearly defined and the role of compliance within the
organization could be strengthened.
The Staff found that at one larger NRSRO, compliance in regional offices needs to be
strengthened with additional compliance personnel in certain regions and additional resources to
ensure visibility, credibility, and effectiveness of the compliance function globally.
2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 20

At a smaller NRSRO, the Staff observed that a complaint regarding analytical integrity and
model development was not timely handled due to a lack of communication between the
compliance staff of the NRSRO and the NRSRO’s parent company. Also at this NRSRO, the
DCO does not have the ability to conduct email searches relating to complaints or otherwise
without involvement of the DCO’s supervisor. At a second smaller NRSRO, the procedures
governing the role of the DCO did not reflect the duties under Section 15E(j).
The Staff recommended a number of remedial measures including revising procedures and
adding compliance resources.
G.

Review Area: Complaints

Section 15E(j)(3) states that an NRSRO’s DCO must establish procedures for the receipt,
retention, and treatment of (i) complaints regarding credit ratings, models, methodologies, and
compliance with the securities laws and the NRSRO’s policies and procedures developed under
Section 15E; and (ii) confidential, anonymous complaints by employees or users of credit
ratings. Rule 17g-2(b)(8) requires an NRSRO to retain any written complaints received from
persons not associated with the NRSRO about the performance of a credit analyst in initiating,
determining, maintaining, monitoring, changing, or withdrawing a credit rating. Rule 17g-2(c)
requires that such communications be retained for a period of three years after the date the record
is made or received. Rule 17g-2(d) concerns the manner of retention and Rule 17g-2(e) governs
the use of third party custodians for retention. The Staff reviewed each NRSRO’s policies and
procedures for complaints and tested the policies and procedures.
The Staff found that all the NRSROs have written policies and procedures generally to address
these requirements, but some specific requirements were not covered. The Staff made
recommendations to the NRSROs regarding the identified weaknesses.
The Staff’s essential findings regarding complaints are as follows:
1.
One larger and three smaller NRSROs were found to have weaknesses in either their
complaints procedures or in the handling of complaints.
The Staff found that the procedures of one larger and one smaller NRSRO did not fully address
the handling of complaints as required by Section 15E(j)(3). The larger NRSRO was determined
to have insufficient written policies and procedures for handling both complaints by employees
and confidential and anonymous complaints. This larger NRSRO also did not adhere to its
procedures in the handling of third-party complaints. The Staff found that a smaller NRSRO had
procedures that were confusing, difficult to apply, and that compliance personnel conceded were
in need of improvement.
At two smaller NRSROs, the Staff noted weaknesses in the policies and procedures governing
complaints. For instance, the procedures did not address all categories of complaints enumerated
in Section 15E(j)(3) and in particular did not address complaints by employees or users of credit
ratings. Another smaller NRSRO did not have an established process for the submission of
2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 21

complaints, anonymous or otherwise, and the complaint log did not contain adequate information
regarding the nature of the complaints. In addition, this NRSRO lacked procedures governing
the investigation and resolution of complaints.
The Staff reviewed a sample of complaint files from each NRSRO and found that one larger and
one smaller NRSRO did not consistently follow their procedures for handling complaints.
The Staff recommended that these NRSROs improve procedures and controls governing
complaints.
H.

Review Area: Post-Employment

Section 15E(h)(4)(A) requires an NRSRO to establish, maintain, and enforce policies and
procedures reasonably designed to ensure that the firm will review a former employee’s
involvement in the determination of credit ratings for a person or an issuer, underwriter, or
sponsor of a security or money market instrument if the former employee is now employed by
such person or entity to determine whether any conflicts of interest of the employee influenced
the rating. The Staff reviewed each NRSRO’s “look-back” policies and procedures and tested
those procedures.
The Staff found that all of the NRSROs had established written policies and procedures to
address the look-back requirement.
The Staff’s essential findings regarding NRSRO look-back policies and procedures are as
follows:
1.
Two larger and six smaller NRSROs did not consistently conduct adequate look-back
searches or did not have adequate procedures governing the searches.
At one larger and one smaller NRSRO, look-back reviews were not being conducted in a manner
reasonably designed to determine the employer of departed employees. The larger NRSROs’
practice of ascertaining the current employment of former employees was determined to consist
only of rating committee chairs asking the committee if analysts are aware of any former
employees of the NRSRO being employed by the issuer. The Staff also found that a smaller
NRSRO did not have a record of the senior officers and supervisors who worked on particular
ratings, thus, look-back reviews conducted for these employees would not show which ratings
they had worked on. At this smaller NRSRO, it was also noted that there were no specific
requirements for documenting look-back reviews and no person who was made responsible for
reporting departed employees to the Commission.
The Staff also found that one larger and five smaller NRSROs required improvement in their
look-back procedures. Two smaller NRSROs required only minimal information gathering
measures and do not require the NRSRO to take any action to independently verify the current or
former employer of the employee. The look-back procedures of another NRSRO did not include
some of the actions routinely taken by the DCO to research the employment of former analysts.
The procedures for a smaller NRSRO did not specify the timeframe within which look-back

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 22

reviews must be conducted. The look-back procedures of another smaller NRSRO lacked
sufficient detail about the look-back review process.
At a larger NRSRO, look-back procedures (i) did not address employees who voluntarily
terminate employment and who do not notify the NRSRO of their next employer or do not have
a new employer upon leaving and (ii) were not followed in certain instances.
The Staff made recommendations to the NRSROs regarding these weaknesses.
VI.

CONCLUSION

The Staff has identified findings and recommendations for the NRSROs. The Staff
acknowledges that NRSROs have implemented compliance improvements and have taken steps
toward improving compliance since Section 15E exams began in 2010. For future examinations,
the Staff will continue to refine its risk assessment to ensure a balance between verifying
compliance with key laws and regulations and identifying and examining emerging risk areas.

2013 Section 15E Examinations Summary Report

Page 23

