By the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations (“OCIE”) 1
In this Alert:

Volume IV, Issue 8

September 15, 2015

Topic: Cybersecurity
Examination Initiative

OCIE’s 2015 Cybersecurity Examination Initiative

Key Takeaways: OCIE staff
will continue its focus on
cybersecurity by conducting
examinations of registered
broker-dealers and investment
advisers. The examinations
will focus on key topics
including governance and risk
assessment, access rights and
controls, data loss prevention,
vendor management, training,
and incident response. To
assist firms in assessing their
cybersecurity preparedness,
OCIE has included a sample
document request in the
Appendix to this Risk Alert.

I.

Introduction

In March 2014, the SEC sponsored a Cybersecurity Roundtable where
SEC Commissioners and staff, along with industry representatives,
underscored the importance of cybersecurity to the integrity of the
market system and customer data protection. 2 In April 2014, OCIE
published a Risk Alert announcing a series of examinations to identify
cybersecurity risks and assess cybersecurity preparedness in the
securities industry. 3 In February 2015, OCIE published summary
observations of the findings from these examinations, which discussed
some of the legal, regulatory, and compliance issues associated with
cybersecurity. 4 Given the continued importance of cybersecurity and
the positive response from broker-dealers and advisers on OCIE’s
efforts, OCIE announced a focus on cybersecurity compliance and
controls as part of its 2015 Examination Priorities. 5 OCIE is issuing this
Risk Alert to provide additional information on the areas of focus for
OCIE’s second round of cybersecurity examinations, which will involve
more testing to assess implementation of firm procedures and controls.
II.

Examinations

In light of recent cybersecurity breaches and continuing cybersecurity threats against financial
services firms, the Cybersecurity Examination Initiative is designed to build on OCIE’s previous
examinations in this area and further assess cybersecurity preparedness in the securities industry,
including firms’ ability to protect broker-dealer customer and investment adviser client
1

The views expressed herein are those of the staff of OCIE, in coordination with other staff of the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC or Commission”), including the Division of Trading and Markets and the
Division of Investment Management. The Commission has expressed no view on the contents of this Risk
Alert. This document was prepared by the SEC staff and is not legal advice.

2

SEC, Cybersecurity Roundtable (March 26, 2014).

3

OCIE, NEP Risk Alert, OCIE Cybersecurity Initiative (April 15, 2014).

4

OCIE, NEP Risk Alert, Cybersecurity Examination Sweep Summary (February 3, 2015).

5

OCIE, Examination Priorities for 2015 (January 13, 2015).

1

(hereinafter referred to as “customer”) information. 6 In addition, public reports have identified
cybersecurity breaches related to weaknesses in basic controls. 7 As a result, examiners will
gather information on cybersecurity-related controls and will also test to assess implementation
of certain firm controls. In order to promote better compliance practices and inform the
Commission’s understanding of cybersecurity preparedness, this Initiative will focus on the
following areas:
•

Governance and Risk Assessment: Examiners may assess whether registrants have
cybersecurity governance and risk assessment processes relative to the key areas of focus
discussed below. Examiners also may assess whether firms are periodically evaluating
cybersecurity risks and whether their controls and risk assessment processes are tailored
to their business. Examiners also may review the level of communication to, and
involvement of, senior management and boards of directors.

•

Access Rights and Controls: Firms may be particularly at risk of a data breach from a
failure to implement basic controls to prevent unauthorized access to systems or
information, such as multifactor authentication or updating access rights based on
personnel or system changes. Examiners may review how firms control access to various
systems and data via management of user credentials, authentication, and authorization
methods. This may include a review of controls associated with remote access, customer
logins, passwords, firm protocols to address customer login problems, network
segmentation, and tiered access.

•

Data Loss Prevention: Some data breaches may have resulted from the absence of
robust controls in the areas of patch management and system configuration. Examiners
may assess how firms monitor the volume of content transferred outside of the firm by its
employees or through third parties, such as by email attachments or uploads. Examiners
also may assess how firms monitor for potentially unauthorized data transfers and may
review how firms verify the authenticity of a customer request to transfer funds.

•

Vendor Management: Some of the largest data breaches over the last few years may
have resulted from the hacking of third party vendor platforms. As a result, examiners
may focus on firm practices and controls related to vendor management, such as due
diligence with regard to vendor selection, monitoring and oversight of vendors, and
contract terms. Examiners may assess how vendor relationships are considered as part of
the firm’s ongoing risk assessment process as well as how the firm determines the
appropriate level of due diligence to conduct on a vendor.

•

Training: Without proper training, employees and vendors may put a firm’s data at risk.
Some data breaches may result from unintentional employee actions such as a misplaced
laptop, accessing a client account through an unsecured internet connection, or opening

6

Among other requirements, Regulation S-P requires financial institutions, including broker-dealers, investment
companies, and investment advisers, registered with the Commission to adopt written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to insure the security and confidentiality of customer information and records.

7

See, e.g., Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Report on Cybersecurity Practices, page 38 (February 2015).

2

messages or downloading attachments from an unknown source. With proper training,
however, employees and vendors can be the firm’s first line of defense, such as by
alerting firm IT professionals to suspicious activity and understanding and following firm
protocols with respect to technology. Examiners may focus on how training is tailored to
specific job functions and how training is designed to encourage responsible employee
and vendor behavior. Examiners also may review how procedures for responding to
cyber incidents under an incident response plan are integrated into regular personnel and
vendor training.
•

Incident Response: Firms generally acknowledge the increased risks related to
cybersecurity attacks and potential future breaches. Examiners may assess whether firms
have established policies, assigned roles, assessed system vulnerabilities, and developed
plans to address possible future events. This includes determining which firm data,
assets, and services warrant the most protection to help prevent attacks from causing
significant harm.

While these are the primary focus areas for the Cybersecurity Examination Initiative, examiners
may select additional areas based on risks identified during the course of the examinations. As
part of OCIE’s efforts to promote compliance and to share with the industry where it sees
cybersecurity-related risks, OCIE is including, as the Appendix to this Risk Alert, a sample
request for information and documents to be used in this Initiative.
III.

Conclusion

In sharing the key focus areas for the Cybersecurity Examination Initiative and the attached
document request, the NEP hopes to encourage registered broker-dealers and investment advisers
to reflect upon their own practices, policies, and procedures with respect to cybersecurity.

This Risk Alert is intended to highlight for firms risks and issues that the staff has identified. In addition, this Risk
Alert describes factors that firms may consider to (i) assess their supervisory, compliance and/or other risk
management systems related to these risks, and (ii) make any changes, as may be appropriate, to address or
strengthen such systems. These factors are not exhaustive, nor will they constitute a safe harbor. Other factors
besides those described in this Risk Alert may be appropriate to consider, and some of the factors may not be
applicable to a particular firm’s business. While some of the factors discussed in this Risk Alert reflect existing
regulatory requirements, they are not intended to alter such requirements. Moreover, future changes in laws or
regulations may supersede some of the factors or issues raised here. The adequacy of supervisory, compliance
and other risk management systems can be determined only with reference to the profile of each specific firm
and other facts and circumstances.

3

APPENDIX
This document 1 provides a sample list of information that the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations (“OCIE”) may review in
conducting examinations of registered entities regarding cybersecurity matters. Some of the
questions track information outlined in the “Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure
Cybersecurity,” 2 released on February 12, 2014 by the National Institute of Standards and
Technology. OCIE has published this document as a resource for registered entities. This
document should not be considered all inclusive of the information that OCIE may review or the
validation and testing we may perform of firm policies and procedures. Accordingly, OCIE will
alter its requests for information it reviews, as well as whether it asks for production of
information in advance of an examination or reviews certain information on site, as it considers
the specific circumstances presented by each firm’s business model, systems, and information
technology environment.
Governance and Risk Assessment
•

Firm policies and procedures related to the following:
o Protection of broker-dealer customer and/or investment adviser client (hereinafter
“customer”) records and information, including those designed to secure customer
documents and information, protect against anticipated threats to customer
information, and protect against unauthorized access to customer accounts or
information; and
o Patch management practices, including those regarding the prompt installation of
critical patches and the documentation evidencing such actions.

•

Board minutes and briefing materials, if applicable, regarding: cyber-related risks;
cybersecurity incident response planning; actual cybersecurity incidents; and
cybersecurity-related matters involving vendors.

•

Information regarding the firm’s Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”) or
equivalent position, and other employees responsible for cybersecurity matters.

•

Information regarding the firm’s organizational structure, particularly information
regarding the positions and departments responsible for cybersecurity-related matters and
where they fit within the firm’s organization or hierarchy.

1

The statements and views expressed herein are those of the staff of OCIE. This guidance is not a rule, regulation, or
statement of the Commission. The Commission has expressed no view on its contents. This document was
prepared by the SEC staff and is not legal advice.

2

National Institute of Standards and Technology, Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity
(February 12, 2014).

•

Information regarding the firm’s periodic risk assessments to identify cybersecurity
threats, vulnerabilities, and potential business and compliance consequences, if
applicable, and any related findings and responsive remediation efforts taken.

•

Information regarding the firm’s policies related to penetration testing, whether
conducted by or on behalf of the firm, and any related findings and responsive
remediation efforts taken.

•

Information regarding the firm’s vulnerability scans and any related findings and
responsive remediation efforts taken.
Access Rights and Controls

•

Firm policies and procedures regarding access by unauthorized persons to firm network
resources and devices and user access restrictions (e.g., access control policy, acceptable
use policy, administrative management of systems, and corporate information security
policy), including those addressing the following:
o Establishing employee access rights, including the employee’s role or group
membership;
o Updating or terminating access rights based on personnel or system changes; and
o Any management approval required for changes to access rights or controls.

•

Information demonstrating the implementation of firm policies and procedures related to
employee access rights and controls, such as the following:
o Documentation evidencing the tracking of employee access rights, changes to
those access rights, and any manager approvals for those changes;
o Information related to former employees’ last date of employment and the date
their access to the firm’s systems was terminated; and
o Information related to current employees who have been reassigned by the firm to
a new group or function, including their date of reassignment and the date their
access to the firm’s systems was modified.

•

Information related to the systems or applications for which the firm uses multi-factor
authentication for employee and customer access as well as documentation evidencing
implementation of any related policies and procedures and information on systems or
applications for which the firm does not use multi-factor authentication.

•

Firm policies and procedures related to log-in attempts, log-in failures, lockouts, and
unlocks or resets for perimeter-facing systems and information regarding the process the
firm uses to enforce these policies and procedures and to review perimeter-facing systems

2

for failed log-in attempts, deactivation of access, dormant user accounts, and
unauthorized log-in attempts.
•

Information related to instances in which system users, including employees, customers,
and vendors, received entitlements or access to firm data, systems, or reports in
contravention of the firm’s policies or practices or without required authorization as well
as information related to any remediation efforts undertaken in response.

•

Firm policies and procedures regarding system notifications to users, including
employees and customers, of appropriate usage obligations when logging into the firm’s
system (e.g., log-on banners, warning messages, or acceptable use notifications) and
sample documentation evidencing implementation of these policies and procedures.

•

Firm policies and procedures regarding devices used to access the firm’s system
externally (i.e., firm-issued and personal devices), including those addressing the
encryption of such devices and the firm’s ability to remotely monitor, track, and
deactivate remote devices.

•

Information related to customer complaints received by the firm related to customer
access, including a description of the resolution of the complaints and any remediation
efforts undertaken in response.

•

Firm policies and procedures related to verification of the authenticity of customer
requests to transfer funds.

•

Information related to any reviews of employee access rights and restrictions with respect
to job-specific resources within the network and any related documentation.

•

Information related to any internal audit conducted by the firm that covered access rights
and controls.
Data Loss Prevention

•

Firm policies and procedures related to enterprise data loss prevention and information
related to the following:
o Data mapping, with particular emphasis on understanding information ownership
and how the firm documents or evidences personally identifiable information
(“PII”); and
o The systems, utilities, and tools used to prevent, detect, and monitor data loss as it
relates to PII and access to customer accounts, including a description of the
functions and source of these resources.

•

Firm policies related to data classification, including: information regarding the types of
data classification; the risk level (e.g., low, medium, or high) associated with each data

3

classification; the factors considered when classifying data; and how the factors and risks
are considered when the firm makes data classification determinations.
•

Firm policies and procedures related to monitoring exfiltration and unauthorized
distribution of sensitive information outside of the firm through various distribution
channels (e.g., email, physical media, hard copy, or web-based file transfer programs)
and any documentation evidencing this monitoring.
Vendor Management

•

Firm policies and procedures related to third-party vendors, such as those addressing the
following:
o Due diligence with regard to vendor selection;
o Contracts, agreements, and the related approval process;
o Supervision, monitoring, tracking, and access control; and
o Any risk assessments, risk management, and performance measurements and
reports required of vendors.

•

Information regarding third-party vendors with access to the firm’s network or data,
including the services provided and contractual terms related to accessing firm networks
or data.

•

Information regarding third-party vendors that facilitate the mitigation of cybersecurity
risks by means related to access controls, data loss prevention, and management of PII,
including a description of the services each vendor provides to the firm and contractual
terms included in vendor contracts involving cybersecurity-related services.

•

Information regarding written contingency plans the firm has with its vendors
concerning, for instance, conflicts of interest, bankruptcy, or other issues that might put
the vendor out of business or in financial difficulty.

•

Sample documents or notices required of third-party vendors, such as those required prior
to any significant changes to the third-party vendors’ systems, components, or services
that could potentially have security impacts to the firm and the firm’s data containing PII.
Training

•

Information with respect to training provided by the firm to its employees regarding
information security and risks, including the training method (e.g., in person, computerbased learning, or email alerts); dates, topics, and groups of participating employees; and
any written guidance or materials provided.

4

•

Information regarding training provided by the firm to third-party vendors or business
partners related to information security.
Incident Response

•

Firm policies and procedures or the firm’s business continuity of operations plan that
address mitigation of the effects of a cybersecurity incident and/or recovery from such an
incident, including policies regarding cybersecurity incident response and responsibility
for losses associated with attacks or intrusions impacting clients.

•

Information regarding the firm’s process for conducting tests or exercises of its incident
response plan, including the frequency of, and reports from, such testing and any
responsive remediation efforts taken, if applicable.

•

Information regarding system-generated alerts related to data loss of sensitive
information or confidential customer records and information, including any related
findings and any responsive remediation efforts taken.

•

Information regarding incidents of unauthorized internal or external distributions of PII,
including the date of the incidents, discovery process, escalation, and any responsive
remediation efforts taken.

•

Information regarding successful unauthorized internal or external incidents related to
access, including the date of the incidents, discovery process, escalation, and any
responsive remediation efforts taken.

•

Information regarding the amount of actual customer losses associated with cyber
incidents, as well as information on the following:
o The amount of customer losses reimbursed by the firm;
o Whether the firm had cybersecurity insurance coverage, including the types of
incidents the insurance covered;
o Whether any insurance claims related to cyber events were filed; and
o The amount of cyber-related losses recovered pursuant to the firm’s cybersecurity
insurance coverage.

5

