3.0
HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.1(1)
3.1

GENERAL - HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES

3.1.1 Definition of Employee Groups
3.1.1.1. Employee Groups
The University has the following five groups of employees as defined below.
Group I.

Faculty. This group comprises those who hold positions of formal academic
rank and other related positions that may be designated by the president. Its
members are normally employed on an academic year basis, and their duties
consist principally of teaching, advising, and counseling students, engaging in
research and scholarly pursuits, and participating in the normal operations and
functions of the academic community. They are eligible for all fringe benefits.

Group II.

Administrative Staff. This group includes the vice presidents, administrative
and academic deans, and directors. They are normally employed on a twelvemonth basis, and their duties consist principally of planning, managing, and
directing the execution, application, and conduct of the various objective
functions and activities of the University. They are eligible for all fringe
benefits.

Group III. Professional and Supervisory Staff. This group includes associates, assistants,
supervisors, coordinators, managers, and administrative assistants, etc. They are
normally hired on a twelve-month basis, and their duties consist principally of
providing specialized assistance to the administrative staff and/or performing
responsible supervisory and managerial functions in the operation of a
department or section. They are eligible for all fringe benefits.
Group IV. General Staff. This group includes those employees who implement and carry
out the operating functions of a department or section as determined and
assigned by the administrative and supervisory staff. These employees are
secretaries, clerks, cashiers, technicians, operating and maintenance personnel.
They are hired at an hourly rate of compensation based upon job classification
and wage scale. Eligibility for fringe benefits is defined in Section 3.4.1.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.1(2)
Group V.

Temporary Appointees. This group includes part time instructors, visiting
faculty, temporary faculty, research associates, and all other temporary
appointees. It also includes those appointees whose appointments at Clarkson
are other than their primary occupation, and all appointees who are employed
only for a specific period of time to perform specific assignments. Appointees of
this group are generally eligible only for fringe benefits required by federal and
state law. For exceptions regarding fringe benefits see Sections 3.4.1.4 for staff,
Section 8.2.2 for faculty, and Section 8.2.3 for research associates.

3.1.1.2. Research Appointments
Employees who are supported by external funds (usually research grants and contracts) may
be appointed to any of the employee groups listed in Section 3.1.1.1. The external funds must
fully pay the cost of the fringe benefits to which employees with such research appointments
are entitled by their employee groups. The policies listed in the Operations Manual apply to
such research appointments. In addition to these general policies, Section 5.8 states
definitions and policies for Research Faculty and Research Associates.
As part of the appointment process for research employees, the Division of Research shall
certify the availability of sufficient funds.

August 1973
Editorial Revision February 1976, July 1977, December 1986, July 1987, January 2004
Revised January 2007

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.2(1)
3.1.2 Exempt and Non-Exempt Employee Categories
The Fair Labor Standards Act Amendments of 1966 and further amendments of 2004
extended the coverage of the act generally to employees of institutions of higher education.
This is interpreted to mean that the minimum wage, overtime, and equal pay provisions of the
act would apply to all workers categorized as non-exempt employees, but not to those
workers defined as exempt employees.
I.

Exempt Employees
A.

Bona fide executive, administrative, and professional employees may be
exempt from the minimum wage and overtime requirements if they meet
certain tests.

B.

These tests generally relate to the individual's duties, responsibilities, and
salary, but the principal requirement for exemption is the exercise of
discretion and independent judgment.

C.

Exempt employees at Clarkson University are compensated on a salary basis.
Salaries are paid on a bi-weekly basis over 26 pay periods, including any
fiscal year that has 53 weeks. Their salaries take into consideration the
possibility of extra hours that the employees may need to work to fulfill
requirements of the position. No extra compensation over normal salary is
payable to exempt employees for such additional hours worked in fulfillment
of their job description.
The following positions are considered exempt in light of the tests that were
briefly outlined in item (B) above:
Faculty Members
Department Heads
Deans
Associate Deans
Assistant Deans
Directors
Supervisors

II.

Associate Directors
Assistant Directors

Non-Exempt Employees
A.

These employees have an unusual variation in the degree of education, skill,
and experience needed to perform their job, but their work is generally of a
set, routine nature not requiring sufficient exercise of discretion and judgment
to warrant exemption.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.2(2)
B.

A non-exempt employee at Clarkson University is compensated on an hourly
basis paid biweekly over 26 pay periods, including any fiscal year that has 53
weeks.
The following are examples of non-exempt positions at Clarkson University
under the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act:
Secretaries
Custodians
Grounds
Technicians

Maintenance Mechanics
Payroll Assistant
Accounting Assistant

Campus Safety Officer
Students
Cashiers

Human Resources will determine the category (exempt or non-exempt) of a
position. Classification will be based on the review of a definitive job
description prepared by the department head or administrator concerned, and a
study of how the assigned responsibilities relate to the definitions of
executive, administrative and professional of the Fair Labor Standards Act.

July 1987
Revised July 1989
Revised July 1996
Revised May 2004
Revised April 2008

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.3(1)
3.1.3 Affirmative Action and Equal Employment Opportunity Statement
Policy Purpose
To express the University’s continuing practice of nondiscrimination in employment.
This policy adheres to the requirements of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the New
York Human Rights Law, Title IX, the Education Amendments of 1972, Federal Executive Order
11246, as amended, Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, the Vietnam Era
Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, as amended and American with Disabilities Act
of 1990 as well as all other applicable Federal and State equal employment laws regulations.
Policy Summary
The following statement reaffirms the position of the Board of Trustees that Clarkson University
is a nondiscriminatory and adopts the Equal Employment Opportunity Policy as recommended by
the Faculty Senate and the Administrative Council and endorsed by the President.
Policy Statement
Clarkson University provides equal employment opportunities to all employees, applicants, and
job seekers. No person shall be discriminated against in employment because of race, color,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender, expression, national orientation, gender identity, gender
expression, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, veteran status, genetic information, marital
status, parental status, ancestry, source of income, or other classes protected by law. This policy
includes the commitment to maintaining a work environment free from unlawful harassment.
An employee, who in good faith, reports concerns that they have been discriminated against or
has knowledge of discrimination in violation of this policy or cooperates in an investigation shall
not be subject to reprisal or retaliation for making a report or participating in an investigation.
Employees should immediately bring to the attention of the Affirmative Action Officer and /or
the Title IX Coordinator related to any complaint or retaliation.
For further information on reporting or filing a grievance please refer to Operations Manual
Sections 3.1.13 and 3.1.14.
Procedures
To ensure compliance to the policy:
Guidelines:
1. This policy applies to all terms, conditions, and privileges of employment including:
recruitment, hiring, probationary period, training and development opportunities, job
assignment, supervision, promotion or transfer, compensation, benefits, layoff and
recall, termination, and retirement.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.3(2)
2. The Executive Director Human Resources is responsible for ensuring that University
policies (i.e., EEO policy among others) regarding the fair and equitable treatment of
employees are implemented and adhered to.
3. The Affirmative Action Officer coordinates the University's compliance requirements
and procedures with and interpretation of this Policy and advises both staff and faculty
employees, supervisors, and managers about the policy as needed.
4. Department heads, managers, and supervisors have primary responsibility for ensuring
that employment decisions and the work environment are in compliance with this
policy.
Employees must complete University approved training in the following areas:
Harassment, Affirmative Action, and Non- Discrimination and must be retrained every
three (3) years.
5. Employees who believe they have been discriminated against, harassed, or have
knowledge of such conduct should discuss their concerns or bring any work-related
concerns to their supervisor. However, an employee may alternatively elect to contact
Human Resources at 315.268.6497, the Affirmative Action Officer at 315.268.6497 or
the Title IX Coordinator at 315.268.4208. Every effort will be made to conduct a
prompt investigation and to treat complaints impartially and confidentially with a view
to arriving at fair resolutions. If an investigation leads to a determination that this
Policy was violated, corrective action up to and including termination of employment
will be taken. Please refer to Section 3.1.11 of the Operations Manual the policy on
filing a complaint.
6. The University provides, upon request by a job seeker or an applicant, reasonable
accommodations for a disability, to complete the application process.
7. In accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the University provides, upon
request from an employee with a disability, reasonable accommodations for the
employee to successfully perform the essential duties of the job. Employees should
contact the Human Resource Office to initiate the disability accommodation process.
To carry out these guidelines, refer to Section 3.1.16 of the Operations Manual for the policy on
Recruitment and Selection.
July 1987
January 2007
Revised April 2008
Revised May 2014

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.4(1)
3.1.4 Employment of Family Members at Clarkson
Policy Purpose
The University recognizes the advantage of employing members of family of current employees.
Employment includes regular, temporary, and seasonal employees.
Policy Summary
The basic criteria for appointment and promotion of all University faculty and staff will be
appropriate qualifications and performance. Relationship by family, marriage, or partnership will
constitute neither an advantage nor a deterrent to appointment in the University provided the
individual meets and fulfills the appropriate appointment standards. The intent of this policy is to
reemphasize the concept that the selection of personnel will be on the basis of job-related
qualifications.
Definition of Terms
Eligible employees: Faculty and Staff (exempt and non-exempt) who are employed by the
University.
Employment Benefits: All benefits provided by the University to employees including group
life insurance, health insurance, annual and sick leave, educational benefits, and retirement
contributions.
Family Members: Parents, children, spouses, brothers, sisters, brothers- and sisters- in law,
mothers- and fathers- in law, uncles, aunts, nieces, nephews, sons- and daughters-in law and halfor step-relatives in the same relationships.
Policy Statement
Close relatives of employees may be hired by the University, but not in a position which involves
a direct supervisory relationship with a family member. No employee may work in a position in
which he or she has the authority to influences, directly or indirectly, any term of condition of
employment of the family member. Sole concern, in such employment situations, is that the
faculty or staff members are the best candidates with respect to the requisite academic of
administrative qualifications for employment.
To guard against such conflicts, the following practices should be followed:
Students enrolled in an accredited institution of higher education may be hired for seasonal work.
Student assignments are subject to the same Hiring Practices, Restrictions and Exceptions as all
other family member employment.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.4(2)
An employment requisition must be completed by the Hiring Manager in PeopleAdmin.
Applications will be reviewed by the Department and Human Resources.
Hiring Practices
Faculty and staff are welcome to refer relatives who are interested in working at Clarkson to
Human Resources.
Restrictions
Faculty and staff members are not permitted to participate or influence in any way the hiring,
promotion, termination, salary determination, performance evaluations or vital decisions
concerning the employment of a member of his/her family.
Any individual who makes an unauthorized offer of employment or a significant change in
conditions of employment involving family members assumes responsibilities for any penalties,
liabilities and expenses which may arise out of this action.
Union Employees
Clarkson employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement should refer to the contract for
clarification.
Exceptions
A person under consideration for employment, who has a relative employed by Clarkson in the
same department, or in a department for which the relative has direct or indirect administrative
responsibility, may be employed if there is a compelling reason. A written request for exception
may be submitted for review to a committee of the Dean of the School or Department Head and
Human Resources.
While general responsibility for assuring adherence to this policy must rest with those responsible for
the appointment of assignment, a particular responsibility for sensitivity to the potential conflicts of
interest falls on the family member.

July 1987
Editorial Revision July 1989, 1998
Revised January 2007
Revised May 2014

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(1)
3.1.5 Harassment Policy and Sexual Misconduct Policy
Contact Offices
Title IX Coordinator, Affirmative Action Officer, Human Resources, Dean of Students
All university and non-university members can contact the listed contacts, but we suggest you
contact the Dean of Students or the Title IX Coordinator if you are a student. If you are not a
student, we suggest you contact the Title IX Coordinator, Affirmative Action Officer or
Human Resources. Contact Campus Safety & Security for immediate assistance. Please see
our Non-Discrimination Website for additional resources, contacts and information.
I. Policy Statement
This Policy shall apply to persons who are employees and students of Clarkson University,
vendors, contractors, guests, patrons, and other third parties participating in any Clarksonsponsored event or program, whether on or off campus, and to such persons in other situations
in which the respondent is acting as a member or participating with a member of the Clarkson
community
Clarkson University strives to provide an educational and working environment that is free
from harassment for employees and students. Clarkson is committed to providing an
environment that values diversity and emphasizes the dignity and worth of every individual in
an environment in which every individual is treated with respect. Harassment in any form is
contrary to these goals and fundamentally at odds with the core values of Clarkson University.
Harassment is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. Incidents of harassment will be met
with appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including separation or dismissal from the
University. Any action taken as a result of a violation of this policy will be in accordance with
the relevant collective bargaining agreement or University policies.
Clarkson University is committed to the principles of equal opportunity in education and
employment. We take seriously our responsibility to provide leadership in ensuring that equal
opportunity is the norm rather than an aspiration.
This policy is designed to prevent and sanction incidents of discriminatory harassment within
the University community. Harassment on basis of race, color, religion, ethnic or national
origin, gender, genetic information, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender
expression, military or veteran’s status, marital status or any other characteristic protected by
applicable law, by any member of the faculty, staff, administration, student body, a vendor, a
contractor, guest or patron on campus, is prohibited at Clarkson. The following behaviors are
prohibited forms of conduct and are violations of this policy:
Harassment
It is the policy of Clarkson University that all employees and students work and study in an
environment that is free from harassment based on sex, race, color, sexual orientation, gender

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(2)
identity and gender expression, religion, age, marital status, national origin, disability, or
veteran status.
The University defines harassment as verbal or physical conduct that denigrates or shows
hostility toward an individual because of their sex, race, color, sexual orientation, gender
identity and gender expression, religion, age, marital status, national origin, disability, or
veteran status, and that:
• has the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive
environment;
• has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work,
study, or participation in University activities; or
• otherwise adversely affects an individual’s opportunities.
Harassing conduct includes, but is not limited to:
• epithets; slurs; negative stereotyping; or threatening, intimidating, or hostile acts
that relate to sex, race, color, sexual orientation, gender identity and gender
expression, religion, age, marital status, national origin, disability, or veteran
status;
• written or graphic material that denigrates or shows hostility or aversion toward an
individual or group because of sex, race, color, sexual orientation, gender identity
and gender expression, religion, age, marital status, national origin, disability, or
veteran status and that is displayed on walls, bulletin boards, or other public
locations.
Sexual Harassment
It is the policy of Clarkson University that all employees and students work and study in an
environment that is free from sexual harassment. The University will not tolerate sexual
harassment of any member of the campus community. This policy specifically addresses acts
of sexual misconduct. Sexual misconduct is a particularly grievous form of harassing behavior
and is intolerable to Clarkson University. The University will investigate all allegations of
sexual harassment. Where sexual harassment is found, steps will be taken to end it
immediately. In those instances where it is determined that an individual has sexually
harassed another, that individual will be subject to appropriate discipline in accordance with
relevant collective bargaining agreements and University policies. The level of discipline will
depend on the severity of the harassment. If the investigation reveals a pattern of harassing
behavior, or the conduct is aggravated, probation or termination may be appropriate.
Pursuant to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Title IX of the Educational
Amendments of 1972, "sexual harassment" is defined as:
Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical
conduct of a sexual nature, when:
• submission to such conduct is made either implicitly or explicitly a term of an
individual's employment or status in a course, program, or activity;

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(3)
•
•

submission or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for
employment or education decisions affecting such individual; or
such conduct has the purpose or effect of interfering with the individual's work or
educational performance; or of creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive
working and/or learning environment; or of interfering with one's ability to
participate in or benefit from an educational program or activity.

Sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, and sexual assault committed by faculty,
administration, staff, and students, whether on or off campus, is prohibited and will not be
tolerated. This applies, but is not limited to, prohibited conduct which occurs in academic,
educational, extra-curricular, athletic, residential, and/or other University programs.
Sexual Harassment conduct includes, but is not limited to –
Examples of behavior and conduct that constitute sexual harassment may include, but are
not limited to, the following:
• physical assault that occurs because of sex or gender;
• direct or implied threats that submission to sexual advances will be a condition of
employment, work status, compensation, promotion, grades, or letters of
recommendation;
• sexual advances, physical or implied, or direct propositions of a sexual nature.
This activity may include inappropriate/unnecessary touching or rubbing against
another, sexually suggestive or degrading jokes or comments, remarks of a sexual
nature about one's clothing and/or body, preferential treatment in exchange for
sexual activity, and the inappropriate display of sexually explicit pictures, text,
printed materials, or objects that do not serve an academic purpose;
• a pattern of conduct, which can be subtle in nature, that has sexual or gender
overtones and is intended to create, or has the effect of creating, discomfort and/or
humiliation of another; or
• remarks speculating about a person's sexual activities or sexual history, or remarks
about sexual activities that do not serve a medical or academic purpose.
Clarkson University encourages victims to report sexual assault and harassment incidents to
appropriate University authorities. Perpetrators of sexual assault or harassment will be subject
to strict disciplinary action by the University, up to and including suspension, expulsion,
discipline, or termination of employment.
Violations of this policy include retaliation against a person who has made a report or filed a
complaint alleging harassment, or participated as a witness in a harassment investigation; or
disregarding, failing to investigate adequately, or delaying investigation of allegations of
harassment, when responsibility for reporting and/or investigating harassment charges
comprises part of one's supervisory duties.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(4)
To make deliberate false accusations of harassment violates this policy. In such instances, the
complainant will be subject to disciplinary action. However, failure to prove a claim of
harassment does not constitute proof of a false and/or malicious accusation.
Non-University visitors, guests, patrons, independent contractors, or clients who violate this
policy will be subject to action in accordance with contractual agreements.
II. Policy Purpose
This policy specifically addresses acts of sexual misconduct. Sexual misconduct is a
particularly grievous form of harassing behavior and is intolerable to Clarkson University.
This policy is designed to do the following:
• reaffirm the University's commitment to providing a positive, humane environment
for study and work for all regardless of gender identity or sexual orientation free
from sex discrimination, harassment and sexual misconduct;
• inform complainants and respondents of their options and rights;
• inform all members of the University community about the procedures available
for addressing, investigating, and resolving harassment complaints, including
sexual harassment and misconduct complaints; and
• protect the rights, confidentiality and privacy of all parties to complaints to the
extent possible.
III. Policy Summary
Discriminatory harassment is prohibited by Clarkson. This policy prohibits harassment, sexual
misconduct generally and sexual harassment, non-consensual sexual contact (or attempts to
commit the same), non-consensual sexual intercourse (or attempts to commit same), and
sexual exploitation specifically.
Clarkson seeks to deter the occurrence of such incidents. The University will investigate any
complaints, provide both interim and long-term measures to remediate its effects, prohibit its
re-occurrence, prohibit retaliation, and train its community in recognizing and handling sexual
misconduct. The University will perform these responsibilities regardless of whether a
criminal case is filed. The University will not interfere with an individual’s right to pursue a
criminal case and will collaborate with law enforcement when needed.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(5)
IV. Policy Interpretations
Consensual Relationships: It is in the interest of the University to provide clear direction and
educational opportunities to the University community regarding the professional risks
associated with consensual romantic and/or sexual relationships where a definite power
differential exists between the parties. The University strongly discourages such relationships.
These relationships are of concern for two primary reasons:
Conflict of Interest: Conflicts of interest may arise in connection with consensual romantic
and/or sexual relationships between faculty or other instructional staff and students, or
between supervisors and subordinates. Consensual romantic and/or sexual relationships
require, at a minimum, that appropriate arrangements be made for objective decisionmaking with regard to the student, subordinate, or prospective employee.
Abuse of Power Differential: Although conflict of interest issues can be resolved, in a
consensual romantic and/or sexual relationship involving power differential, the potential
for serious consequences remains. Individuals entering into such relationships must
recognize that:
• reasons for entering such a relationship may be a function of the power
differential;
• the individual with the power in the relationship will bear the burden of
accountability; and
• such a relationship, whether in a class or work situation, may affect the educational
or employment environment for others by creating an appearance of improper,
unprofessional, or discriminatory conduct.
Breach of Professional Obligation: A sexual relationship that does not constitute sexual
harassment may lead to a breach of professional obligations. A breach of professional
obligations, such as basing a decision that affects the evaluation, employment conditions,
instruction, and/or academic status of another individual on illegitimate criteria, may result in
discipline or sanctioning in accordance with the relevant collective bargaining agreement or
University policies.
Supervisory Relationships: No individual who is in a position of authority over another, either
in the employment or educational context, has the authority to harass others by virtue of his or
her supervisory role. The University does not, in any way, expressly or by implication,
condone harassment of a student or employee by a supervisor, administrator, or faculty
member.
Good-Faith Reporting: This policy prohibits retaliation against a person who has made a
good-faith report or participated in good-faith in any investigation of this policy. Good-faith
means to provide information which is truthful to the best of the individual’s knowledge and
recollection. To make deliberate false accusations violates this policy. In such instances, the
Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(6)
complainant will be subject to disciplinary action. However, the mere fact alone that a
violation of this policy is not ultimately established does not constitute proof of a false and/or
malicious accusation.
Academic Freedom: Academic freedom is essential to teaching and learning, and freedom of
expression is central to the fundamental principles of a university education. Nothing in this
policy shall be construed to penalize a member of the University community for expressing an
opinion, theory, or idea in the process of responsible teaching and learning. Similarly, this
policy is not designed to prohibit controversial speakers from being invited to campus.
Student-to-Student Supervisory Relationships: In situations where one of the students is an
employee of the University and where the allegations involve a supervisory relationship
between students, the Student Affairs and Human Resources will consult with respect to the
handling of the complaint.
Confidentiality: Clarkson University will protect the confidentiality of complaints to the
extent it reasonably can under the circumstances. However, in order to conduct an
investigation, it is generally necessary to discuss the allegations with the accused and other
potential witnesses. Records of complaints will be maintained confidentially and disclosed
only to those with a legitimate, legal right to know.
If a complainant asks that a case not be investigated or adjudicated, the University will
consider this request. However, the University may or may not discontinue its proceedings in
any particular case. The University reserves the right to investigate, adjudicate, discipline and
otherwise respond to any incident that comes to its attention. There need not be a victim
complainant in order for the University to take responsive action, including disciplinary
action.
Anonymous Reports: The University will accept anonymous reports. However, due to the
nature of anonymous reports, the University’s ability to take responsive action may be
limited. Please follow this link to file an anonymous report. Contact Us
V. Definition of Terms
The following definitions are provided for educational and illustrative purposes. The
University reserves the right to respond to, and discipline, incidents that do not rise to the
level of legally actionable discrimination or harassment but which are inconsistent with the
University’s equal opportunity values. Further, the University encourages individuals to report
incidents that concern them even if the incidents are not particularly egregious, as early
reporting often allows situations to be resolved more easily and before more serious harm
occurs. The University expects only that individuals will make truthful reports in good faith;

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(7)
an individual is welcome to make a report even if the individual is uncertain whether the
behavior violates this policy. If the situation does not invoke this policy but may invoke
another policy or process, the person making the report will be directed to the more
appropriate policy or process. In the event of a conflict or overlap between policies or
processes, the University reserves the right to determine which policy or process will be
applied.
Allegation. A statement by a complainant that an act in violation of this policy has occurred.
Coercion. Coercion is unreasonable pressure for sexual activity. Coercive behavior differs
from seductive behavior based on the type of pressure someone uses to get consent from
another. When a person makes clear that the person does not want sexual advances or activity,
wants to stop previously consensual activity, or that going past a certain point of sexual
interaction is unwanted, continued pressure beyond that point can be coercive.
Complainant. The person making an allegation or complaint of a violation of this policy.
Complaint. A formal notification, either orally or in writing, of the belief that a violation of
this Policy has occurred.
Consent. Consent is clear, unambiguous, and voluntary agreement between participants to
engage in specific sexual activity. Consent is active, not passive, and is given by clear actions
or words. Consent can only be given by a person who acts freely with knowledge of the nature
of the act involved. Consent may not be inferred from silence, passivity, or lack of active
resistance alone. A current or previous dating or sexual relationship is not sufficient to
constitute consent, and consent to one form of sexual activity does not imply consent to other
forms of sexual activity. Being intoxicated does not diminish one’s responsibility to obtain
consent. In some situations, an individual may be deemed incapable of consenting to sexual
activity because of circumstances or the behavior of another, or due to their age. Examples of
such situations include, but are not limited to, incompetence, impairment from alcohol and/or
other drugs, fear, unconsciousness, intimidation, coercion, confinement, isolation, or mental
or physical impairment. A person less than 17 years of age is incapable of consenting to any
sexual activity.
Force. The use of physical violence and/or imposing on someone physically to gain sexual
access. Force also includes threats, intimidation (implied threats) and coercion that overcomes
resistance or produces compliance. There is no requirement that a person has to resist the
sexual advance or request, but resistance is a clear demonstration of non-consent. Sexual
activity that is forced is by definition non-consensual, but non-consensual sexual activity is
not by definition forced.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(8)
Harassment. The University defines harassment as verbal or physical conduct that denigrates
or shows hostility toward an individual on the basis of race, color, religion, ethnic or national
origin, gender, genetic information, age, disability, sexual orientation, and gender identity,
gender expression, military or veteran’s status, marital status or any other characteristic
protected by applicable law. Harassment that occurs on any of these legally protected bases is
discriminatory in nature, and hence the equivalent term “discriminatory harassment”. Whether
harassment has occurred in violation of this policy depends on a consideration of all the
circumstances, including the severity of the incident(s), whether the conduct was repeated,
whether it was threatening or merely annoying, and the context in which the incident or
interaction occurred.
Harassing conduct includes, but is not limited to:
• epithets; slurs; negative stereotyping;
• threatening, intimidating, or hostile acts that relate to race, color, religion, ethnic or
national origin, gender, genetic information, age, disability, sexual orientation,
gender identity, gender expression, military or veteran’s status, marital status or
any other characteristic protected by applicable law ;
• written or graphic material that denigrates or shows hostility or aversion toward an
individual or group because of race, color, religion, ethnic or national origin,
gender, genetic information, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity,
gender expression, military or veteran’s status, marital status or any other
characteristic protected by applicable law.
Hostile Environment. Includes any situation in which there is harassing conduct that is
sufficiently severe, pervasive/persistent and patently/objectively offensive that it alters the
conditions of education or employment, from both a subjective (the alleged victim’s) and an
objective (reasonable person’s) viewpoint.
Incapacitation. Incapacity can result from mental disability, sleep, involuntary physical
restraint, or from intentional or unintentional taking of alcohol and or other drugs. An
incapacitated person does not have the ability to give knowing consent. Sexual activity with a
person who one should know to be – or based on the circumstances should reasonably have
known to be – mentally or physically incapacitated, constitutes a violation of this policy. The
perspective of a reasonable person will be the basis for determining whether one should have
known about the other’s incapacity to give consent.
Intimate Partner Violence (IPV). Physical, sexual, or psychological harm by a current or
former partner or spouse. Regardless of gender or sexual orientation, this type of violence can
occur within a relationship, whether cohabitating or not, and does not require sexual intimacy.
IPV can vary in frequency and severity, can occur on a continuum, and can include acts of
physical violence, sexual violence, threats of physical or sexual violence, or psychological or
emotional violence. Psychological or emotional violence is a broad term that results in trauma
to a victim caused by acts, threats of acts, or coercive tactics, and can include acts of

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(9)
humiliation, intimidation, isolation, stalking, and harassment. This form of misconduct can
fall under one or several of the prohibited categories of behavior in the policy statement.
The University considers this definition to cover dating violence and domestic violence. The
term “dating violence” means violence committed by a person who is or has been in a social
relationship of a romantic or intimate nature with the victim; and where the existence of such
a relationship shall be determined based on a consideration of the following factors:
• the length of the relationship.
• the type of relationship.
• the frequency of interaction between the persons involved in the relationship.
Intimidation. Implied threats or acts that cause an unreasonable fear of harm in another.
Non-Consensual Sexual Acts/Sexual Assault. Any intentional sexual touching by a person
upon a person, that is without consent and/or by force. This includes, but is not limited to,
intentional contact for sexual or arousal reasons with the breasts, buttocks, groin, or genitals,
or touching another with any of these body parts, or making another touch oneself or
themselves with or on any of these body parts; any intentional bodily contact in a sexual
manner, though not involving contact with/of/by breasts, buttocks, groin, genitals, mouth or
other orifice, with any object.
Non-Consensual Sexual Intercourse. Any sexual intercourse, however slight, by a person
upon a person, that is without consent and/or by force. Intercourse includes, but is not limited
to, vaginal penetration by a penis, object, tongue or finger; anal penetration by a penis, object,
tongue, or finger; and oral copulation (mouth to genital contact or genital to mouth contact),
no matter how slight the penetration or contact.
Respondent refers to the person against whom the allegation or complaint of discrimination
or harassment is made. Under this policy, respondents include employees and students of
Clarkson University, vendors, contractors, guests, patrons, and other third parties participating
in any Clarkson-sponsored event or program, whether on or off campus, and to such persons
in other situations in which a person is acting as a member of the Clarkson community.
Sexual Exploitation occurs when a person takes non-consensual or abusive sexual advantage
of another for his/her own advantage or benefit, or to benefit or advantage anyone other than
the one being exploited. Examples of sexual exploitation include, but are not limited to the
following:
• invasion of sexual privacy;
• prostituting another person;
• non-consensual video or audio-taping of sexual activity;
• going beyond the boundaries of consent;
• observing unsuspecting individuals who are partly undressed, naked, or engaged in
sexual acts;

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(10)
	  
•
•

knowingly transmitting a sexually transmitted infection or HIV to another person;
exposing one’s breasts, buttocks, groin, or genitals, in non-consensual
circumstances; coercing another to expose their breasts, buttocks, groin, or genitals

Sexual Harassment is a specific form of harassment. The term refers to unwelcome conduct,
based on sex or on gender stereotypes that a reasonable person would find intimidating,
hostile or offensive. Sexual harassment may include, for example, exposing a person to
unwanted sexually graphic conversation; an attempt to coerce an unwilling person into a
sexual relationship; to repeatedly subject a person to unwelcome sexual attention or advances;
to punish a refusal to comply with a sexual based request; to condition a benefit on submitting
to sexual advances; sexual violence or sexual assault; intimate partner violence; sexual
interest-based stalking, or gender-based bullying.
There are three types of Sexual Harassment:
• QUID PRO QUO: Benefits offered or withheld as a means of coercing sexual
favors.
• HOSTILE ENVIRONMENT: Conduct that unreasonably interferes with the
victim’s work/academic performance or repeatedly creates an intimidating, hostile
or offensive environment.
• RETALIATORY: retaliation against an individual or individuals for bringing a
complaint or participating in a complaint.
Sexual Misconduct refers generically to the categories of sex-related behaviors prohibited by
this policy, including sexual harassment, non-consensual sexual contact (or attempts to
commit same), non-consensual sexual intercourse (or attempts to commit same), and sexual
exploitation. Sexual misconduct can occur between strangers or acquaintances, including
people involved in an intimate or sexual relationship. Sexual misconduct can be committed by
persons of any gender or sex, and it can occur between people of the same or different sex.
Stalking is a course of conduct directed at a specific person that would cause a reasonable
person to fear for her, his, or others' safety, or to suffer substantial emotional distress. Stalking
may involve following or placing another under surveillance, or repeatedly contacting another
person for the purpose of harassing and intimidating the other person. The term “contact”
means to make or attempt to make any communication, including, but not limited to,
communication in person, by telephone, by mail, by broadcast, by computer or computer
network, or by any other electronic device It does not require that an overt threat of death or
bodily injury be made.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(11)
VI. Policy Procedures
VI.A Support Services and Complainants’ and Respondents’ Rights
Non-Confidential Resources
On-Campus Non-Confidential Resources
•

Campus Safety 315-268-6666

Responsible Administrator
The following offices and individuals have been trained to receive and respond to
allegations of violations of this policy.
Responsible Administrators include:
• The Title IX coordinator- Jennifer Ball, 315-268-4208
• The Dean of Students-Stephen Newkofsky, 315-268-6620
• Human Resources-Amy McGaheran, 315-268-3788
• VP for University Outreach and Student Affairs- Kathryn Johnson, 315268-3943
• Deputy Title IX coordinator
If a complaint is made to anyone other than the Responsible Administrators listed above,
the complainant risks the possibility that it will not come to the attention of the proper
University officials and may, therefore, not be acted upon.
Off-Campus Non-Confidential Resources
•

Potsdam Police 911

Law Enforcement: Any person may call Campus Safety 268-6666 or call 911 for
assistance. If you or someone else needs help, call for immediate assistance. Campus
Safety can also assist the individual in making a report of a crime to local law enforcement
and/or contacting a Responsible Administrator to initiate the University’s internal
response mechanisms.
A victim of a crime is encouraged to, but is not required to, report the incident to local law
enforcement and pursue criminal charges. The criminal process and the University’s
disciplinary processes are not mutually exclusive or dependent on each other, meaning
that a person may pursue either a criminal complaint or University complaint or both.
In criminal cases, the preservation of evidence is critical and must be done properly and
promptly. For example, in cases of rape or other forms of sexual assault, it is important
not
Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(12)
to shower, change clothes and even brush your hair, as physical evidence may be lost. In
cases of violence or physical abuse, it is important to document injuries, including by
taking photographs. The police department number is 315 265-2121 or 911[emergency],
and they can assist in filing a criminal complaint and in securing appropriate examination,
including by a Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner. Additionally, orders of protection and
other forms of legal protection may be available to individuals who have experienced or
are threatened with violence by a Clarkson community member or other person. In
appropriate circumstances, an order of protection may be available that restricts the
offender’s right to enter Clarkson’s property, and Clarkson will abide by a lawfully issued
order of protection.
A victim is encouraged to seek support for his/her emotional and physical needs. A person
seeking confidential emotional or medical care may contact the following resources.
Confidential Resources
On-Campus Confidential Resources
•
•

Counseling Services- 315-268-2327
Student Health Services- 315-268-6633

Individuals may wish to seek confidential counseling or support from the above resources.
If you are unsure as to where to go or what to do first, contact the Counseling Services on
campus at 315-268-2327. Access to University Counselors may be obtained through
Campus Safety & Security or Resident Assistants after hours. Students may also contact
the Student Health Services 315-268-6633. All other Clarkson University employees are
not confidential resources. Please see our confidentiality policy for further explanation.
Off-campus confidential resources are:
•
•

Canton Potsdam Hospital; 315-265-3300
Reach Out; 315-265-2422

A contact with a confidential resource does not result in the filing of a report with the
University for investigation, discipline, or any other remedial action.
Health Care Options (Confidential)
The University can assist you in obtaining healthcare or you may choose to contact the
healthcare provider on your own.
• Student Health Services 315-268-6633
• Canton Potsdam Hospital; 315-265-3300

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(13)
A report to a Confidential Resource is not a report to the University and will not result in
remedial action or an investigation or disciplinary action. Any person who desires
remedial action (such as a change in housing, academic or work assignments) or wishes to
seek disciplinary action against the respondent must make a report to one of the
Responsible Administrators, listed above.
Confidentiality Requests by Complainants
A report to a Responsible Administrator often does, but need not necessarily, lead to an
investigation or disciplinary action. The decision about what action(s) to take depends on
many factors, including the complainant’s wishes, particularly in cases of sexual
misconduct. A complainant may make a report to a Responsible Administrator and request
that the University take no investigatory or disciplinary action. Clarkson endeavors to
comply with complainants’ wishes with respect to whether responsive action is taken.
However, that is not always possible.
If a complainant requests that no action be taken against the accused (i.e., no investigation
or disciplinary action), the Responsible Administrator will consult with the Title IX
Coordinator and the other appropriate administrators (i.e., Dean of Students (students), or
Human Resources. The University’s decision as to responsive action will depend on the
seriousness of the offense, whether there was a single accused or multiple, whether there
is reason to believe that the accused has engaged in this or similar conduct previously,
whether the circumstances suggest an ongoing or future risk to the campus community or
the complainant, and similar considerations. A decision will be made and shared with the
complainant.
Similarly, a complainant may desire to have investigatory and/or disciplinary action taken,
but may wish to have his/her identity as the complainant kept confidential. Depending on
the circumstances, this may or may not be possible. For instance, if any number of people
could have reported the incident, however, it may be possible for the complainant’s
identity to remain confidential and not shared with the respondent. However, in other
cases, it may not be possible to proceed with investigatory or disciplinary action without
revealing the identity of the complainant. If a complainant requests that his/her name be
kept confidential (or if the complainant makes an anonymous complaint), the University’s
ability to respond to the complaint may be limited. The appropriate administrators will
discuss the situation and the complainant’s request for confidentiality and a decision will
be made and shared with the complainant.
Ultimately, the University retains the right to act upon any information that comes to its
attention.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(14)
Interim measures may be available. Interim actions may be taken by the University to
immediately respond to a situation. Interim actions may include but are not limited to nocontact orders directing the accused to have no contact with the complainant, changes in class
assignments, residence hall assignments, transportation arrangements, or work assignments to
assist the complainant in not having to interact with the accused, or other measures to enhance
the complainant’s safety, such as escorts or increased monitoring of an area. The University
may impose a suspension from the campus or parts of the campus, pending the outcome of an
investigation and disciplinary proceeding. The University will review the facts and
circumstances of each case, as well the complainant’s wishes, in deciding whether and what
steps are reasonable and appropriate.
VI.B Complaint and Investigation Process
This policy applies campus-wide and sets forth behavioral expectations for all. Any person
may make a complaint that this policy has been violated. However, the applicable procedure
for investigating and remedying a complaint depends on whether the accused is a student, an
employee, or a non-community member. For instance, a complaint brought by a staff member
against a student would be processed pursuant to the student policy; a complaint by a student
against a staff member would be processed pursuant to the staff policy; a complaint by a
student against another student would be processed pursuant to the student policy; and so on.
Making a complaint
A Responsible Administrator will discuss with the complainant available avenues and options.
A complainant may be able to take advantage of multiple options simultaneously. Options
include contacting local law enforcement (if the incident involves a crime) and/or pursuing
disciplinary action against the accused and/or mediation. In situations where the
complainant’s well-being requires, other options may include immediate remedial action, such
as no-contact orders directing the respondent to have no contact with the complainant,
changes in class assignments, residence hall assignments, transportation arrangements, or
work assignments to assist the complainant in avoiding contact with the respondent, or other
measures to enhance the complainant’s safety, such as escorts or increased monitoring of an
area.
A Responsible Administrator is not a confidential resource. A Responsible Administrator will
share all information reported to him/her with the Title IX Coordinator and/or, if appropriate,
the Dean of Students (for cases involving students), the office of Human Resources (for cases
involving staff and faculty). Non-Community member complaint investigations will be
overseen by the Dean of Students.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(15)
Investigation of Complaints
Complaints will be investigated promptly. In general, investigations will be done by a
designee from the Dean of Students' office if the respondent is a student, and by a
representative of Human Resources, if the respondent is a faculty member or staff member.
The University through its designees reserves the right to implement interim measures as
necessary for the well-being of an individual or the community prior to the conclusion of an
investigation or disciplinary hearing. The University reserves the right to not proceed with a
complaint if it becomes apparent that the complaint lacks merit, or if the allegations even if
established would not constitute a violation of this policy. For students, examples of interim
measures are listed under Disciplinary Measures VI-C Sanctions and VI-B Status of Student.
Pending action on the charges, the status of a student should not be altered, or his or her right
to be present on the campus and to attend classes suspended, except for reasons relating to his
or her physical or emotional safety and well-being, or for reasons relating to the safety and
well-being of students, faculty or University property.
For staff, examples of interim measures are listed are listed on the Non-Discrimination
website. Clarkson.edu/nondiscrimination
The University endeavors to complete the investigation of a complaint within 45 days. This
timeframe may be extended for compelling reasons.
In the event of a complaint against a student, the procedures set forth in the Student Code of
Conduct will be followed. Complaints against an individual accepted to the University for
study but not yet matriculated will be handled according to these procedures as well.
Clarkson University realizes that a victim or witness may be reluctant to make a report if
he/she was engaged in a rule violation at the time of the incident. In an effort to encourage the
reporting of serious violations of this policy, the University will not discipline individuals
who disclose their own lesser acts of misconduct (such as drinking or minor property damage)
when reporting to the University a sexual offense, an act of physical violence or a threat of
violence, stalking, or domestic or dating violence pursuant to this policy. This is the
University’s general rule; however, the University reserves the right to make determinations
as to discipline on a case-by-case basis.
In the event of a complaint against an employee of the University, the procedures set forth in
Operations Manual will be followed.
If a complaint is against someone other than a member of the University community, it will be
handled by the Dean of Students Office with possible referral to the Potsdam Police
Department. The University reserves the right to ban from campus any non-community
member.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(16)
A violation need not be established by proof “beyond a reasonable doubt”, as would apply in
a criminal proceedings. Instead, the University applies a “preponderance of the evidence”
standard, meaning that it is more likely than not that a violation occurred. A complaint will
result in one of two findings:
• a determination that the policy has been violated and imposition of appropriate
disciplinary and/or other remedial action; or
• a determination that there was no violation of the policy or that a violation cannot
be determined and dismissal of the complaint.
The University endeavors to complete the formal disciplinary stage of a complaint within 30
days. This timeframe may be extended for compelling reasons.
Disciplinary and Responsive Action
In all cases where there is a finding of a violation of policy, the University will take prompt
and appropriate responsive action to remedy the violation and prevent further incidents.
Complainants and respondents will be notified as to the outcome of the complaint.
In the case of a finding of a violation by a student, disciplinary action may include, for
example, suspension, expulsion, warning, reassignment to another residence hall, restriction
from residence halls, and/or no contact with the complainant.
In the case of a staff member or a faculty member, the action(s) may include, but not be
limited to, counseling, a warning, suspension, reassignment, demotion, or termination of
employment.
In the case of a non-community member, the action(s) may include, but not be limited to, a
ban from University property.
In some cases, additional steps beyond disciplinary action may be warranted, including but
not limited to changes in housing or course assignments, or changes in working locations or
conditions. A student seeking changes in living or learning conditions should contact Student
Affairs. An employee seeking changes in working assignment or conditions should contact
Human Resources.
VII. Policy Compliance
The Affirmative Action Officer and the Title IX Officer are the individuals designated by the
President to be primarily responsible for providing education and training concerning
discrimination, harassment and sexual misconduct issues.
Deans, Directors, Chairs and all supervisory personnel are responsible for ensuring
compliance with this policy.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.5(17)
Prohibition against Retaliation. It is a violation of this policy for students or employees who in
good faith report what they believe to be harassment, or who cooperates in any investigation,
to be subjected to retaliation. Any student or employee who believes they have been the
victim of retaliation for reporting harassment or cooperating in an investigation should
immediately contact the Title IX Coordinator at (315-268-4202), the Dean of Students (315268-6620), or the Human Resources Office (315-268-6497).
Reporting University Non-Compliance with Federal Legislation
Any person with a concern about the University’s handling of a particular matter should
contact the University’s Title IX Coordinator or Human Resources/Affirmative Action Office.
In addition, if an individual feels that the university is failing to comply with federal
regulation they may contact the federal government directly. The U.S. Department of
Education, Office for Civil Rights(OCR) is a federal agency responsible for ensuring
compliance with Title IX. OCR may be contacted at 400 Maryland Avenue, SW, Washington,
DC 20202-1100, (800) 421-3481.
VIII. Related Information
Please see our Nondiscrimination website for information on University prevention, education
and training related to sexual misconduct.
http://www.clarkson.edu/nondiscrimination/

July 1987
Revised November 1995 and Approved by the Board of Trustees May 1996
Revised January 2006
Revised February 2010
Revised May 2014
Revised December 2014

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.6(1)
3.1.6 Employment of Minors
Policy Purpose
Clarkson University intends to maintain a safe environment for all members of its community,
including its students, faculty, staff, guests, volunteers and participants in all of its programs.
Policy Summary
Employment of persons age 16 to 18 is governed by New York State and Federal Labor Law.
University policy prohibits anyone less than 16 years of age.
Policy Statement
New York State Labor Law concerning the employment of minors has certain restrictions and
regulations that the University must follow. The Human Resources Office will process the necessary
forms and keep the required records.
Procedures
Clarkson University shall adhere to the rules and regulations set for by New York State and the
Federal Government Child Labor Laws.
The New York State Labor Law concerning the employment of minors has certain restrictions and
regulations that the University must follow. As a guideline, some of the provisions and rules
governing this subject are outlined below. The Human Resources Office will process the necessary
forms and keep the required records. The employing department should refer the individual to the
Human Resources Office for this purpose.
1.
Each minor between the ages of sixteen and eighteen must present a Student
General Employment Certificate, Form AT-19, to his or her prospective
employers.
2.
The minor should be required to identify him or herself by signing the certificate,
entering his or her name, address, and date employment is to begin.
3.
The employer must return to the issuing office the Statement of Employer that is
attached to the bottom of the Student General Employment Certificate Form.
4.
The Student General Employment Certificate Form must be kept on file in the
Human Resources Office.
5.
Upon termination of the minor's employment, the employer should enter the
termination date and return the employment certificate to the minor or mail it to the
issuing officer.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.6(2)
Other regulations and restrictions pertaining to working hours and types of employment include the
following:
Children sixteen years and seventeen years of age enrolled in a day school (other than a parttime or continuation school) may be employed as follows:
1. When school is in session: not more than six days in any week, four hours on any
school day, eight hours on non-school days for a maximum of twenty-eight hours
in any week;
2. When school is not in session and during vacation periods: not more than eight
hours a day, or six days a week for a maximum of forty-eight hours in any week.
Minors sixteen and seventeen years of age enrolled in a day school may not be employed:
1. May not work between midnight and 6 a.m. when school is not in session
(vacation). They may work after 10 p.m. up to midnight during the school year
only with the written consent of a parent and a certificate of good academic
standing from their school. Parental Consent Forms may be obtained from the
Division of Labor Standards Office. The school the minor attends issues the
Certificate of Satisfactory Academic Standing.
2. Generally: more than six days in any week, eight hours on any day for a
maximum of forty-eight hours per week.
Minors sixteen and seventeen years of age may not be employed in certain hazardous
occupations such as construction work, the operation of various kinds of power-driven
machinery, including motor vehicles, and others as listed in Section 133 of the Labor Law.
The attention of all employing department heads and supervisors is called to the fact that there are
penalties and fines if convicted for violating this law.
POSTING PROVISIONS
The employer must make a schedule for all minors and post it where workers can see it. The
schedule shows the hours minors start and end work and time allotted for meals.
The employer can change the hours of work, as long as they post the changes on the schedule.
Minors may work only on the days and at the times posted on the schedule. If minors are present
at other times or if there is no posted schedule, it is a violation of the child labor law.
July 1987
Revised April 2008
Revised May 2014

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.7
3.1.7 Drug Abuse in the Workplace
The Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 requires recipients of federally funded grants to advise
employees of penalties or employment sanctions that may be imposed on employees
convicted of drug-related violations in the workplace.
Employment Sanctions Relating to Drug Abuse in the Workplace
The use, consumption, possession, distribution, or sale of controlled substances (illegal drugs)
and/or unauthorized alcohol in University workplaces is prohibited. Use of alcohol or illegal
drugs prior to reporting for work that results in unsafe work performance or erratic conduct in
the workplace is also prohibited.
Employees convicted of drug related criminal statute violations in Clarkson workplaces are
subject to employment sanctions that may range from reprimand to dismissal as
recommended by the departmental supervisor to the Human Resources Office.
Employees convicted of drug related criminal statute violations in Clarkson workplaces may,
as an alternative to or in conjunction with employment sanctions, be requested to participate
in a drug/alcohol rehabilitation program as deemed appropriate under the circumstances. This
option will usually be reserved for first-time offenders only. Refusal to participate in a
drug/alcohol rehabilitation program will necessitate the immediate imposition of the
appropriate employment sanction.
Testing
In compliance with The Department of Transportation (DOT) alcohol testing rules, Clarkson
University requires employees who hold safety sensitive positions to be tested for drugs and
alcohol upon hiring (all offers of employment are conditional on passing a drug or alcohol
test). Employees holding safety sensitive positions will be randomly tested quarterly. Any
positive drug or alcohol test is a violation of the University's drug and alcohol policy.

July 1989
Revised July 1996

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.8
3.1.8 Orientation
The Human Resources Office will conduct an orientation session with each new employee
employed on an active full-time or active part-time basis. The department head or supervisor
shall allow the new employee time off to attend this session.
The following topics will be covered:
1.

The organization of the University and its administrative officers and department
heads;

2.

Personnel policies and practices;

3.

The benefits offered by the University and other social, athletic, and cultural
opportunities;

4.

General University operating procedures;

5.

Safety regulations and awareness, to include Employee Hazard Communication/Rightto-Know Information and Drugs in the Workplace;

6.

Fringe Benefit Forms; and

7.

Other information of value and interest.

Continued orientation and job training on a day-to-day basis is the responsibility of the
department head or supervisor concerned.

July 1987
Revised July 1989

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.9
3.1.9 Change in Status
Policy Purpose
To ensure that employee personal records are accurate, any change in an employee’s employment
status will be reported to Human Resources as soon as possible. In addition, if there is a change
to the employee’s personal information, the employee is responsible for ensuring their
information is up to date.
Policy Summary
Through Clarkson University database system, PeopleSoft, department heads
managers/supervisors and employees, are responsible for ensuring that job data and personal
information is accurate and up to date. Any changes to an employee’s position status, change in
position etc., will be reported to Human Resources prior to the change so that employees can be
informed about possible benefit changes or obligations on their part in a timely manner.
Definition of Terms
Staff Member: Includes all exempt and non- exempt employees
Policy
The purpose of this policy is to outline the process in which a staff member may have a change to
their employment and/or compensation status. Changes in employment and/or compensation
status include but are not limited to layoffs or changes in work hours, work schedules, job
content, pay, benefits, and full-time equivalency.
Procedure
The department head or supervisor will initiate an electronic Payroll Authorization through
PeopleSoft when the following information has changed for an employee:
• Change in rate of pay;
• Change in scheduled hours of work;
• Change from temporary to regular employment;
• Transfer or promotion;
• Interruptions in service(leaves with pay or without pay); and
• Layoffs.

July 1987
Editorial Revision July 1989
Revised January 2004
Revised May 2014

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.10(1)
3.1.10 Smoking Policy
Purpose. Clarkson University is committed to providing its students, faculty, staff, visitors
and the general public with a smoke-free environment to protect the health, welfare and
comfort for those desiring such an environment to the maximum extent possible and in full
compliance with the New York Clean Air Act, Article 13E of the New York Public Health
Law.
1.

Smoking is prohibited in all indoor locations including but not limited to:
• Classrooms, lecture halls, auditoriums and libraries;
• Laboratories, shops, computer rooms and studios;
• Offices, meeting rooms, board rooms, and dining halls
• Lobbies, foyers and waiting rooms;
• Hallways, stairwells and elevators;
• Maintenance areas, mechanical and storage rooms;
• Arenas, gyms and recreation centers;
• Lounges, lodges;
• Reception and supply areas and central locations for records, files or copying.

2.

Smoking is prohibited in all enclosed areas including but not limited to:
• Building entrances and covered walkways;
• Loading docks, courtyards and patios.

3.

Smoking is prohibited in the following outdoor locations:
• Any outdoor event with seating;
• Any area where combustible fumes can collect such as in garage and storage
areas. Areas where chemicals are used and other designated areas where an
occupational safety or health hazard may exist.

4.

Smoking is prohibited in all University vehicles including buses, (leased or university
owned) vans, cars and trucks.

5.

Smoking is prohibited in University Housing as stipulated in 1 – 3 of this policy and
in all common areas including:
• Laundry rooms, cooking areas and bathrooms;
• Recreation, study and lounge areas.

6.

Smoking is prohibited no closer than 30 feet of any building entrance or ventilation
system.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.10(2)
DEFINITIONS:
Smoke-Free: The establishment of any environment that is free of smoke through the prohibition of
smoking.
Smoking: The burning of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or any other tobacco product.
ENFORCEMENT:
It is the responsibility of all administrators, faculty, staff and students to enforce this smoking policy.
Employees or students who repeatedly violate the requirements of this policy may be disciplined.
Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of this policy may be in violation of Article
13E of the New York State Public Health Law. Violations may be subject to the imposition of a civil
fine in addition to University disciplinary action.

July 1989
Revised January 1990, 2003
Revised September 2004

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.11
3.1.11 Nondiscrimination Policy
Clarkson University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, gender expression, national or ethnic origin, age, disability,
veteran status, predisposing genetic characteristics, domestic violence victim status, marital
status, parental status, ancestry, source of income, or other classes protected by law in
provision of educational opportunity or employment opportunities.
Clarkson University does not discriminate on the basis of sex or disability in its educational
programs and activities, pursuant to the requirements of Title IX of the Educational
Amendments of 1972, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and the American
Disabilities Act of 1990 respectively. This policy extends to employment by and admission
to the University. Inquiries concerning Section 504 and the American with Disabilities Act
of 1990 should be directed to, 504/ADA Coordinator, Price Hall, Clarkson University, P.O.
Box 5635, Potsdam, New York 13699-5635; or telephone (315) 268-7105. Inquiries
concerning Title IX, the Age Discrimination Act, or other discrimination concerns should be
directed to the Executive Director of Human Resources/Affirmative Action at (315)268.6497
and/or the Title IX Coordinator, Room 124 Snell Hall, Clarkson University, P.O. Box 5542,
Potsdam, New York, 13699-5542; or telephone (315) 268-2362. Information on the
procession of grievances and charges relating to the above policies can be obtained from the
Human Resources/Affirmative Action Office.
Clarkson University is making a special effort to identify for employment opportunities
and participation in its educational programs a broad spectrum of candidates including
women, minorities, and people with disabilities.

November 1995
Revised and Approved by the Board of Trustees May 1996
Revised and Approved by the Board of Trustees October 2014

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.12(1)
3.1.12 Cultural Diversity Policy
Policy Purpose
To create an environment that promotes inclusion across the Community.
Policy Summary
Clarkson University commits itself to inviting, supporting and affirming cultural diversity on the
campus. All university programs and practices, academic and co-curricular, shall be designed to
create a learning environment in which cultural differences are valued.
Definition of Terms
Diversity: Equality and inclusion for all people — men and women of diverse races,
ethnicities, religions, national origins, sexual orientation, abilities and skills, knowledge and
ideas, socio-economic levels, life experiences and perspectives that interact with the global
community
Policy Statement
The University declares its commitment to maintaining an inclusive community that recognizes
and values the inherent worth and dignity of every person; fosters tolerance, sensitivity,
understanding and mutual respect among its members; and encourages each individual to strive to
reach his or her own potential.
All educational services and programs of the University are to be available and open to all
academically qualified individuals without any discrimination on the basis of race, religion, color,
sex, age, national origin or ancestry, marital status, parental status, sexual orientation, disability or
status as a veteran.
Procedures
To ensure the achievement of these policy goals, Clarkson University is committed to:
•

Encouraging all organizations to have as part of their constitution and by-laws, a
cultural diversity policy that states explicitly the organization’s commitment to
fostering cultural diversity on campus;

•

Encouraging inclusiveness in all organizations while respecting the different needs of
organizations composed of groups that have been or currently are denied equal
opportunity;

•

Developing and maintaining academic/co-curricular programs and university climate
that promises a responsible, civil and open exchange of ideas;

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.12(2)
•

Educating all members of the campus community about diversity and forms of
discrimination, such as racism, sexism, and homophobia;

•

Maintaining a respectful environment free from all forms of harassment, hostility and
violence;

•

Recruiting and working to retain students, staff and faculty who are members of
historically or otherwise under-represented groups; and

•

Providing the necessary financial and academic support to recruit and retain diverse
students, faculty and staff.

November 1995
Revised & Approved by Board of Trustees May 1996
Revised & Approved by Board of Trustees October 2014

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.13(1)
3.1.13 General Grievance Procedures
I.

Preamble
The objective of these grievance procedures is to provide employees with a fair and
expeditious means of resolving complaints they have regarding their working relationships or
employment conditions. This objective is pursued through the use of both informal discourse
and, if necessary, a formal hearing process.
This grievance procedure is available to all regular employees. No employee shall be
penalized because he/she has recourse to these grievance procedures.

II.

Definition of a Grievance
A grievance exists when there is:
$ a claimed violation, misinterpretation or inequitable application of existing rules,
procedures or regulations,
$ a claimed failure to apply existing rules, procedures, or regulations, or
$ a claimed treatment that was transparently unfair, arbitrary or capricious and such
action adversely impacts the employment relationship.

III.

Procedures
A.

Any employee with a grievance may meet with a member of the Office of Human
Resources for advice and counsel. If such a meeting transpires, the Office of Human
Resources shall hold both the fact of the meeting and its substance in strict
confidence.

B.

An employee with a grievance should promptly consult with the person by whom he
or she feels aggrieved in an effort to resolve the matter informally. If the employee
feels unable to undertake such a consultation alone, a representative of the Office of
Human Resources may accompany the employee. An employee may also choose to
pursue mediation with the person by whom he or she feels aggrieved. The University
Mediation Service can assist in determining whether both parties are willing to
participate, and if so, will assign a mediator. The mediation will be handled in
confidence.

C.

If informal consultations or mediation fail to resolve the problem and the employee
still wishes to pursue the grievance, or if the employee with the grievance elects not to
seek an informal resolution, then the employee must prepare a written statement of the
grievance. This statement should clearly delineate the grievance and the facts in
support thereof; it may also contain a suggested remedy. This statement should.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.13(2)
be prepared within ten workdays of the last effort at finding an informal resolution, or
if no informal consultations were attempted, within ten workdays of the incident that
occasioned the grievance. Signed copies of this written statement should be submitted
to the Office of Human Resources, to the person with whom the grievance is lodged,
and to the immediate supervisor of the individual against whom the employee has a
grievance (henceforth, simply the immediate supervisor or the supervisor).
D.

On receipt of the written and signed statement of the grievance, the immediate
supervisor shall review this document to determine what, if any, remedial action is
appropriate. The immediate supervisor shall prepare a memorandum describing his/her
decision regarding the grievance. This memorandum shall be prepared within ten
workdays of receipt of the written statement of the grievance. Copies of the
memorandum shall be delivered to the Office of Human Resources and to the
individual against whom the grievance was filed; the original of the memorandum shall
be delivered to the grievant.

E.

If the employee filing the grievance thinks the supervisor's decision constitutes an
insufficient response to his/her complaint, the employee may request that a formal
hearing be scheduled to address the grievance. This written request must be submitted
to the Office of Human Resources within five workdays of receipt of the immediate
supervisor's decision memorandum. Upon review of that complaint, the Director or
designee may either dismiss the complaint (either on its merits, because it does not
properly fall within the scope of the procedure, or for timeliness) or may recommend it
appropriate that the University take remedial action.

F.

The hearing of the grievance shall take place before a Formal Hearing Committee of
six individuals drawn from the membership of the Employee Relations Grievance
Committee, and shall be governed by the following:
1.

The Employee Relations Grievance Committee (ERGC) shall consist of
employees appointed to staggered terms by the president. The appointees to
the ERGC should reflect the composition of the University's faculty, staff, and
administration.

2.

The Formal Hearing Committee (FHC) shall consist of six persons selected
from among the available members of the ERGC. The Director of Human
Resources and the employee filing the grievance shall each select three
members from the ERGC for service on the FHC. The members of the FHC
shall elect a chair to direct the hearing.

3.

The hearing shall be held within ten workdays of receipt of the request for a
hearing. The hearing will consist of four parts: (a) opening

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.13(3)
comments, (b) the presentation of any documentary evidence including,
specifically, the grievant's written statement of the grievance and the
supervisor's decision memorandum, (c) the hearing of any witnesses and (d)
closing remarks. Both the grievant and the individual against whom the
grievance has been filed will have an opportunity to be heard in each part of the
hearing. Both will also have the opportunity to call and question witnesses.
During the hearing, the grievant may be accompanied by any other employee of
the university he/she selects for assistance. That said, it should be recognized
that this hearing is an intramural device intended to secure a resolution of
complaints; it is not a trial designed to apportion blame. As such, the technical
rules of evidence and procedure that govern judicial proceedings shall not apply
to FHC proceedings. FHC should be expressly empowered to deal with all
procedural and other issues which may arise, provided not inconsistent with
explicit provisions of the policy.

G.

4.

The decision of the FHC shall be reached within five working days of the close
of the hearing. This decision shall be communicated, in writing by the FHC, to
the grievant, to the individual against whom the grievance was filed, to the
immediate supervisor, to the Director of Human Resources, and, for appropriate
action, to the president.

5.

A stenographic or audio recording of the hearing shall be made. This recording
along with copies of all documentary evidence presented at the hearing shall be
retained in the confidential files of the Office of Human Resources for not less
than two years: these items shall be available only to the grievant, to the
individual against whom the grievance was filed, and to such other individuals
as the president may designate.

6.

As far as practicable, the hearings and deliberations of the FHC shall be treated
as confidential.

Certain stipulations apply to the grievance process described herein.
1.

The time limits specified are designed to ensure a timely response to the
grievance. However, flexibility for the sake of securing a resolution should be
allowed. For example, if the employee has failed to seek a review within ten
days, the Director of Human Resources may, at his/her discretion, extend the
time limit. Saturdays, Sundays, and university holidays shall not be counted in
the tabulation of time limits, nor shall the normal days off of the employee filing
the grievance or of the immediate supervisor charged with responding to it. If a
delay in the process occurs, the employee filing the grievance should be given a
written explanation for the delay and an indication of when the process will
resume.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.13(4)

IV.

2.

If at any point in the process, the employee feels that his/her grievance had been
resolved, or submits a written and signed statement to the effect that he/she
wished to pursue the matter no further, the grievance review or formal hearing
shall be terminated.

3.

An employee shall not lose pay for any time not on the job if their presence is
required at any hearings or meetings provided by this procedure. However, an
employee shall not be paid for any time present at a hearing or meeting that falls
outside the employee's normal work hours. That said, meetings and hearings
should be arranged so as to accommodate the schedules of all involved,
especially those of the employee filing the grievance and the individual against
whom the grievance has been lodged.

Restrictions
A.

The university has a separate discrimination grievance process that applies to
allegations of discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex,
sexual orientation, age or handicap. If any employee in any status feels that they have
experienced such discrimination, they should file their grievance with the Office of
Affirmative Action. In such a case, the Discrimination Grievance Process shall be
invoked, and it totally supplants the grievance procedures described here.

B.

Grievances bearing on the issue of academic tenure are not handled by these grievance
procedures, but are dealt with exclusively by the tenure appeals processes set forth in
the Operations Manual.

C.

New employees of the university in non-faculty positions do not have access to these
procedures during their initial three-month, probationary period; however, they do enjoy
full access to the Discrimination Grievance Procedures referenced in IV-A, above.

D.

Terminations do not constitute grounds for a grievance under the present procedures.
However, grievances alleging discriminatory treatment may be filed under the
Discrimination Grievance Procedures referenced in IV-A, above.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.13(5)
E.

The present grievance procedures are designed for the intramural resolution of
differences. Use of these grievance procedures does not constitute a waiver of the
employee's right to seek a resolution through external agencies, including courts of law.
However, the employee should be aware that the filing of an internal grievance might
not postpone the deadlines for filing complaints imposed by outside agencies or courts.

F.

Complaints regarding salary or the annual performance appraisal may not be addressed
through these grievance procedures, but they can be handled through normal
administrative channels.

June 1996
Revised January 2007

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.14(1)
3.1.14 Discrimination Grievance Procedure (Including Cases of Sexual Misconduct)
I.

Purpose
To systematically and appropriately examine complaints by faculty and staff (University
Community) who contend that discrimination has occurred on the basis of race, sexual
orientation, gender, including specifically claims of sexual misconduct (see Section 3.1.5),
creed, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, veteran or marital status and to
recommend to the President corrective measures if the evidence so indicates.

II.

Procedures for Informal Intervention
When any member of the University Community feels unfairly treated because of race, sexual
orientation, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, sexual preference, veteran or
marital status that person has a right to seek to correct the perceived offense. The following
informal procedures are available:
A.

Persons having complaints often find it helpful to have someone with whom to
discuss the issue prior to pursuing any further action. There are many persons
available for such consultation, the Director of Campus Safety, Vice President
for University Outreach and Student Affairs, Associate Vice President of
Institutional Diversity Initiatives, Director of Human Resources, the Director of
International Students and the Chair of the Gender Issues Committee are
available to assist in such instances. These staff members can help in clarifying
issues, making referrals, and advising about appropriate channels and
procedures. However in all instances each of the above persons must report the
matter to the Director of Affirmative Action.

B.

When situations cannot be resolved on the basis of direct discussion among the
parties the next step is for the complainant to report the matter to the offending
party=s immediate supervisor or to the Vice President for Outreach and Student
Affairs. The supervisor or Vice President for Outreach and Student Affairs
should investigate and take appropriate action to resolve the conflict and report
back to the complainant within ten (10) days (work/class). The supervisor and
Vice President for Outreach and Student Affairs must report the matter to the
Director of Affirmative Action.

C.

Alternatively, the complainant may request that the Director of Affirmative
Action discuss the allegations informally with both the complainant and accused
in an attempt to end the alleged discrimination or harassment and resolve the
issue; or the complainant may request mediation. If mediation is requested,
within ten (10) days (work/class) a third party mediator (from the campus panel
of trained mediators and coordinated by the Director of

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.14(2)
Affirmative Action) shall be named to help resolve a complaint on an informal
basis. Such mediation activities shall continue for a period of no more than
thirty (30) days (work/class) or until resolution is achieved, whichever, is
shorter. This period may be extended if the participants and the mediator agree
it would be useful to do so.
D.

III.

In the event one or more of the above informal procedures is pursued and it is
unsuccessful the complainant may initiate the formal grievance process
described below. Alternatively, a complainant may bypass these informal
procedures and may start by initiating the formal grievance process. While that
choice is the complainant=s careful consideration should be given to first
utilizing one or more informal processes since these often prove very successful
in resolving conflicts.

Procedure for Formal Hearing
Step 1: Filing of a formal Written Complaint
An individual (student or employee) who chooses to file a formal written complaint
under these procedures must do so with the Director of Affirmative Action. Such a
complaint may be filed immediately after an alleged act of discrimination has taken
place or after any efforts that may have been undertaken to reach an informal settlement
have proven unsuccessful.
A complainant will have 90 days following the alleged discrimination or harassment to
file, a formal written complaint unless he or she has good reason (as determined by the
Director of Affirmative Action) for having this period extended. Good reason may
include active pursuit of the informal procedures outlined above.
A formal complaint must be filed on a standard form obtained from the Department of
Human Resources and it must be filled out in full, detailing specific charges (including
the specific acts forming the basis thereof). Where a pattern of discrimination is alleged
to exist, the complainant shall provide incidents to support the charge. The charges
shall be signed by the charging party and presented in sufficient detail to set forth
clearly the charges that must be defended. Written notice (form) must be filed with the
Director of Affirmative Action. If the charges are insufficiently explicit, it will be
returned for clarification, thus delaying the process. The complainant may also indicate
any remedy desired.
Step 2: Investigation
Once a written complaint is filed, the initial investigation (which can include notifying
and providing the respondent with a copy of the complaint) and determination with

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.14(3)
respect to that complaint shall be made by the Director of Affirmative Action or his/her
designee. Upon review of that complaint, the Director or designee may either dismiss
the complaint (either on its merits, because it does not properly fall within the scope of
the procedure, or for timeliness) or may recommend appropriate the University take
remedial action. The Director will conduct an investigation and make a determination
within twenty (20) days (work/class) of the filing of a written complaint. The Director
at his/her discretion may extend this time period when circumstances warrant.
In the event either the complainant or the accused is not satisfied with the Director or
designee=s recommendation, she or he may pursue their grievance before a Review
Panel by notifying the Director or designee of her or his desire to do so in writing within
five (5) work/class days of the Director/designee=s recommendation.
Step 3: Review Panel
Upon receipt of a timely notice to pursue a grievance, within five (5) work/class days
the Director or designee shall ask the President to convene a Review Panel to conduct a
formal review. The review panel that conducts the review will be selected from the
Grievance Committee.
Within five (5) work/class days of receiving a written request, the President/designee,
on the recommendation of the Chair of the Grievance Committee, will name five
members from the committee to constitute the Review Panel. The panel will consist of
one faculty member, one student (or one other panel member), one administrator, and
one member drawn from the complainant=s and the respondent=s respective
constituencies (faculty, student, support, plant, supervisory). The Chair of the Grievance
Committee will designate one member to serve as presiding officer. Within five (5)
work/class days after the panel is appointed, each party will have the right to object to
the appointment of any panel member on the grounds that the member=s participation
would jeopardize the party=s right to a fair review. The panel members not challenged
will decide upon the merits of a challenge within five (5) work/class days, and their
decision will not be subject to appeal. When a challenge is granted/approved, the
President/designee, on recommendation of the Chair of the Grievance Committee, will
appoint a replacement from the same category as the original member. Replacements
are not subject to challenge.
The Review Panel:
a.

shall meet within ten (10) working days after being appointed;

b.

once convened, shall act as a body and will not act as representatives or as advocates for
either party. The function of the panel is to review the evidence, make findings of fact,
and determine what corrective action, if any, should be taken to resolve the problem;

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.14(4)
c.

will have the discretion to determine the most appropriate methods for considering the
case: examination of written evidence, the hearing of oral testimony (which will be
private and open only to the parties involved) or further investigation of relevant
evidence;

d.

The panel will have fifteen (15) working days after convening to render
recommendations.
Tape recordings of evidentiary proceedings will be taken and retained for two years in
the Office of Affirmative Action.

Step 4: Final Decision
Within five (5) working days after the panel makes its findings and recommendations, the chair
of the review panel will report the findings and recommendations directly to the
President/designee with copies to the respondent, the complainant, and the Director of
Affirmative Action. The respondent and complainant will have five (5) days after receiving the
report to submit to the President a written response to the panel=s report. This response is
limited to five (5) typed pages.
Within five (5) work/class days after receiving the Review Panel=s finding and
recommendations, the President/designee may accept, reject, or modify the recommendations of
the Review Panel, or may remand the complaint for further consideration or clarification. Upon
recommendation from the Review Panel, the President/designee will send a written decision, an
explanation of the decision, and determination of any penalty and relief, including dates by
which each is to be implemented, to the complainant, the respondent, the Review Panel and the
Director of Affirmative Action. The President/designee will notify the appropriate VP of the
decision and recommendation subject to the normal procedures for probation, demotion,
suspension, or dismissal. Within five (5) days, the Vice President in turn will notify the
President/designee of action taken.
Any retaliatory action of any kind taken by a member of the Clarkson University
community against the complainant or any other party as a result of efforts to secure
redress under this procedure, or to cooperate in any inquiry, or to participate in any
activity governed by this procedure, is prohibited and shall be regarded as a separate and
distinct grievance.
If, however, at the conclusion of its proceedings, the Review Panel determines that a
complainant, respondent, or witness has knowingly given false or misleading information,
the University may take appropriate action against that person.
April 1996
Editorial Revision January 2004
Revision February 2010
Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.3.15(1)
3.1.15 Anti-Bullying Policy
Scope of Application
This policy applies to all of the University’s managers, supervisors, employees, students,
vendors, applicants and independent contractors. This policy applies to all Clarkson locations;
Clarkson sponsored social or other events; as well as activities at which individuals mentioned
above are present.
Table of Contents
1. Purpose
2. Summary
3. Definitions
4. Procedure
Policy Purpose
Clarkson is committed to providing a working, learning and social environment that is safe and
healthy and reflects the highest level of ethical and respectful conduct. This policy prohibits
conduct often referred to as bullying that is intimidating, hostile, verbally, or physically abusive and
not covered in the University’s Harassment Policy, OM Section 3.1.5.
Definition of Terms
Bullying ‒ Repeated oppression, usually psychological, generally of a less powerful person by a
more powerful person, or group of persons.
Types of Bullying ‒ Bullying can take many forms. Examples of bullying include, but are not
limited to:
• Verbal: name calling, teasing;
• Social: spreading rumors, leaving people out on purpose, breaking up friendships;
• Physical: hitting, punching, shoving; and
• Cyber bullying: using the internet, mobile phones or ther digital technologies to harm
others.
Policy Statement
Clarkson defines bullying as repeated, deliberate abusive behavior, either direct or indirect,
whether verbal, physical or psychological, conducted by one or more persons against another (or
others) that impacts the person or the person’s ability to do their job.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.15(2)
Clarkson considers the following types of behaviors examples of bullying:
• Verbal: slandering, ridiculing, or maligning a person or their family; persistent name
calling which is hurtful, insulting or humiliating; using a person as butt of jokes;
abusive and offensive remarks or language, insults, teasing, spreading rumors,
unreasonable criticism or trivializing work or achievements and sabotaging efforts
• Physical: pushing; shoving; kicking; poking; tripping; assault, or threat of physical
assault; damage or deliberately interfering or tampering with a worker’s personal effects
or work equipment including phone, computer, email, internet, software;
• Psychological: isolating people from normal work interaction, excessive demands,
setting unrealistic goals and deadlines, deliberately setting someone up for failure,
excessive and unnecessary supervision, practical jokes, public ridicule and ostracism
• Non-Verbal: non-verbal threatening gestures, glances which can convey threatening
messages
• Exclusion: socially or physically excluding or disregarding a person in work-related
activities
• Cyber Bullying: bullying that takes place using electronic technology. Electronic
technology includes devices and equipment such as cell phones, computers, and
tablets as well as communication tools including social media sites, text messages,
chat, and websites.
Context is important when considering whether conduct rises to the level of bullying.
Bullying may be intentional or unintentional and has the effect of demeaning, intimidating or
humiliating individuals or as a group. Demeaning conduct is quite different than friendly banter
or playful teasing. Bullying behavior is often part of a pattern, but can also occur as a single
incident. The key consideration is how the conduct is received and perceived by the recipient.
Procedures
Responsibilities of All Employees, Students and Vendors:
Staff/Student has a responsibility to ensure that their actions do not negatively affect
another staff/student member's career/academics, health or well-being and are consistent with
the Clarkson University Code of Business Conduct and the Code of Student Conduct. This
includes not condoning bullying by failing to do anything about it, such as raising the matter
with the bully or with a supervisor or Dean.
A staff or student found to have bullied another staff or student or to have condoned
workplace bullying may be subject to a formal investigation that could lead to disciplinary
action.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.15(3)
Ideally, staff should attempt to resolve issues of workplace bullying at the local level by
following the below steps:
1. Raising the issue directly with the person they believe is responsible for bullying. Often,
an informal approach can quickly resolve an instance of workplace bullying; or
2. Seek the assistance of the University's Employee Assistance Program (EAP),
information on which can be found at www.smartben.com
3. Involving his or her supervisor.
If the issue is not resolved in this way, an employee may take the follow steps:
1. Raise the matter with another relevant manager;
2. Lodge a formal complaint in accordance with the University's Grievance Procedure. The
policy is available in the Operations Manual Section 3.1.13.
3. Seek advice from Human Resources;
4. Seek the assistance of the University's Employee Assistance Program (EAP),
information on which can be found at www.smartben.com
5. Seek advice from their union if he/she is a union member.
Students who feel that they are or may have been bullied may take the following steps:
1. Raising the issue directly with the person they believe is responsible for bullying. Often,
an informal approach can quickly resolve an instance of bullying;
2. Meet with the Dean of Students to discuss the situation and potentially request a Dean’s
Inquiry- http://www.clarkson.edu/studentaffairs/regulations/vi.html
3. File a Grievance-http://www.clarkson.edu/studentaffairs/regulations/viii.html
Responsibilities of Supervisors
Supervisors have a responsibility to provide a safe work environment that enables staff to
carry out their work responsibilities free from bullying. If a supervisor believes that an
employee or member of the community is being bullied they should consult with their
supervisor and/or Human Resources. The supervisor should document all actions taken to
address the situation. The University will investigate complaints of bullying expeditiously,
thoroughly and in accordance with due process. Supervisors should be fully aware of the
adverse consequences of not dealing with instances of bullying as outlined above.
Supervisors should be alert to the possibility of workplace bullying and should monitor key
indicators such as workplace high absenteeism and high staff turnover. Examples of bullying
include but are not limited to:
• Persistent singling out of one person
• Shouting, raising voice at an individual in public and/or in private
• Public humiliation or reprimands in any form
• Constant criticism on matters unrelated or minimally related to the person’s job
performance or description
Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.15(4)
•
•
•
•

Ignoring/interrupting an individual at meetings
Repeatedly accusing someone of errors that cannot be documented
Encouraging others to disregard a supervisor’s instructions
Manipulating the ability of someone to do his or her work (e.g., overloading,
withholding information, setting meaningless tasks, setting deadlines that cannot be met,
giving deliberately ambiguous instructions or supplying incorrect information)
• Assigning menial tasks not in keeping with the normal responsibilities of the job
• Consistently taking credit for another person’s ideas
• Refusing reasonable requests for leave without legitimate work-related justification.
Supervisor may request training from Human Resources.
Complaint Process
We encourage any employee, manager or executive who believes that they are ,have been
or are being subjected to bullying to immediately report the incident promptly to either the
Privacy Officer or Human Resources at 268-6497. Where appropriate, an investigation will be
conducted. All employees, managers and executives have an obligation to cooperate with any
investigation. Please review the employee grievance process in the Operations Manual under
Section 3.1.13.
Students who believe that they are, have been or are being subject to bullying, should
immediately report the incident promptly to the Dean Of Students
Consequences
Any employee, manager or executive found to violate this policy will be subject to
disciplinary action, up to and including, termination of employment. Any manager or supervisor
who is aware of any possible violation of this policy and fails to take corrective action or notify
Human Resources will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.
If the student is who may be in violation of this policy or in violation of the code of student
conduct, (http://www.clarkson.edu/studentaffairs/regulations/v.html) may be subject to
disciplinary action according to Disciplinary Procedureshttp://www.clarkson.edu/studentaffairs/regulations/vi.html
Retaliation
The Company will not tolerate any retaliation against any employee who reports known or
suspected violations of this policy or who participates in any investigation of the complaint. The
Company recognizes that false accusations can have serious effects on innocent individuals. We
trust all of our employees will act responsibly to establish and maintain a pleasant and
productive working environment.
Approved by Faculty Senate and Administrative Council, November 2014
Approved by President, December 2014
Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.16
3.1.15 Clarkson University Exit Policy
The supervisor of an employee leaving the university permanently is responsible for completing the exit
checklist. Academic deans are responsible for insuring compliance by faculty with university exit
procedures and will notify the Human Resource Department when departing faculty have fulfilled the
exit requirements.
A faculty member leaving the university under Policy 5.10.1 Sabbatical Fellowship or 5.10.2 Leave of
Absence shall consult with their department chair and academic dean to insure that appropriate
arrangements have been made regarding financial obligations and the use of university equipment and
facilities. Recognizing that the purpose of the leave is to facilitate faculty development, the university
will endeavor to support that development. Thus, it is anticipated that generally the faculty member
will continue to have access to computer and telephone accounts, library materials, and that laboratory
and office space will be maintained. Specific arrangements are at the discretion of the individual
academic unit.

Approved Faculty Senate 1995
Approved Administrative Council 1996
Editorial Revision November 1997
Revised April 2008

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.17(1)
3.1.16 Recruitment and Selection Process
Policy Purpose
To define the recruitment and selection process for Clarkson University regarding all potential
vacancies or positions needed to be filled, including positions needed on a temporary basis. This
policy will outline the process for posting positions, recruiting, selecting, hiring, promoting and
transferring employees. This policy will also explain required training in the recruitment and
selection process.
Definition of Terms
•
•
•
•

•
•

•

•
•
•

•
•
•
•

Affirmative Action: An active effort to improve the employment or educational
opportunities of members of minority groups and women.
Human Resources (HR): Department responsible for the administration and management
of the recruitment and selection processes.
Department: The area that will be responsible for the recruitment and selection of the
position.
Position Description: Describes the essential duties, purpose of the position and required
education, experience, knowledge, skill and abilities to fulfill the requirements of the
position.
Hiring Manager: Member of the Clarkson community that is responsible for the
management of the position.
Recruitment:
o Internal: Only current active employee.
o External: Open to current employee and the general public.
Selection:
o Internal: Only current Clarkson employees.
o External: Open to current Clarkson employee and the general public.
Unsolicited Resumes: resumes that do not come in through the online recruitment system.
Search Chair: Member of the Clarkson community that is responsible for the management
of the selection process.
Job Posting: Description of an open position that informs potential applicants of the job
duties, required education, experience, knowledge, skills and abilities to fulfill the
requirements the job successfully.
Compliance: Ensuring that the University is following all state and federal regulations
around recruitment, selection and employment.
PeopleAdmin: Clarkson University’s online recruitment and application tool.
Search Committee: Members of the Clarkson community who are selected by the Hiring
Manager to review applications for a posted position.
Education: Minimum educational requirements needed to successfully fulfill the
requirements the job. Please note that 3 years of directly related professional experience
equates to 1 year of college.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

•
•
•

3.1.17(2)

Experience: Minimum experience required to successfully complete the job.
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: Minimum knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to
successfully fulfill the requirements the job.

Procedures
General Procedures
The following procedures are to be adhered to:
1. All recruitment and selection efforts must be coordinated through HR. HR provides
guidance and assistance throughout the process.
2. HR and the Hiring Manager will collaborate to ensure the development of a
comprehensive position description and that a job posting has been completed
through Clarkson University’s online recruitment tool, PeopleAdmin. The Hiring
Manager has primary responsibility for ensuring employment decisions are in
compliance with University and department policies and procedures. HR will review
the selection process and employment decisions for compliance with University
policy and applicable laws including but not limited Affirmative Action.
3. HR will provide the Search Committee members training regarding selection and
recruitment, nondiscrimination, affirmative action/equal employment opportunity.
This will need to be done once every 3 years.
Recruitment
1. HR and the Hiring Manager collaborate in developing and documenting objective
nondiscriminatory criteria for a job posting. The criteria used to screen applicants
include education, experience, essential skills, abilities, and competencies. Final posting
approval will be HR.
2. To post and fill a position, the Hiring Manager must draft the position posting online
that identifies the job classification, duties, specific qualifications, working conditions,
and physical and mental requirements through the online employment site
PeopleAdmin. Final approval on the above is within HR.
	  
3. Each position must be posted for at least seven (7) calendar days before review of
applicants can begin. Any position posted for six (6) months must be reevaluated.
4. If at any time the Hiring Manager would like to change the minimum qualifications of
the job, the position will have to be reposted and re advertised for 7 days.
HR notifies departments whether additional Affirmative Action (AA) efforts may be
needed to recruit for posted jobs or job groups. Prior to commencing recruitment efforts,
Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.17(3)
the Hiring Manager must submit specific plans for expanded outreach efforts to the HR
Recruitment Specialist kfoster@clarkson.edu. The HR Recruitment Specialist will assist
Hiring Managers, in expanding outreach efforts and recruiting applicants in meeting the
additional efforts.
5. A job opening must first be posted on the PeopleAdmin site before advertising through
other avenues, including print ads or other Web sites. To ensure compliance with
regulations, all recruitment advertising must be approved by HR. See below regarding
the use of search firms.
a. Word of mouth referrals are allowable in the recruitment process however, this
should not be done until the position is posted on PeopleAdmin.
6. Advertising and other notifications of a vacancy or new position must be
nondiscriminatory and must include reference to the University’s commitment to
affirmative action through equal opportunity using the following tagline: “Clarkson
University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer.” Published
advertisements must be drafted and approved on PeopleAdmin prior to being used.
7. Any inquires by applicants to submit a resume or CV should direct the applicant to
complete the online application process. To be considered, an applicant (including any
University staff employee) must complete the online application process. Computers are
available in Human Resources for applicants who may not have access to a computer.
8. Unsolicited resumes should not be considered. Unsolicited resumes should be directed to
the HR Recruitment Specialist, which will direct individuals to the online application
process in PeopleAdmin.
	  
9. HR will provide reasonable accommodations to complete the application process upon
request by any applicant with a disability.
10. To comply with Affirmative Action requirements, certain data is requested as part of the
online application and new hire process. Providing this information is voluntary and
provided at the individual’s discretion.
Search Firms
1. A department considering the use of a search firm or employment agency must consult
with HR before making any arrangements with an outside firm or agency. Any search
conducted by an outside agency or search firm must meet the same federal, state, local,
and University guidelines as searches conducted directly through HR. The use of the
search firm must be approved by the President, Provost or HR prior to starting the
search.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.17(4)
2. The search firm works on behalf of the University and is responsible for the same
applicant tracking HR would otherwise do, including keeping records of Affirmative
Action outreach efforts, and the recruitment and selection process. The department that
contracts with a firm or agency is responsible for ensuring that any firm or agency is
fully informed regard.
3. The search firm must submit a copy of all search records to the hiring department before
the University processes payment of the final invoice or expense reimbursement.
	  
Internal Applicants
1. The University encourages the consideration of current employees of the University for
open positions through promotions and transfers.
2. A University employee in good standing who has successfully completed his/her
probationary period may apply for a posted position by completing the online process.
The probationary period lasts three (3) months for hourly staff employees. The job
performance of staff employees who apply and are hired into new positions will be
closely reviewed (similar to a probationary period) three (3) months for staff employees
paid hourly.
3. A University staff employee who has progressed beyond the verbal counseling or verbal
warning corrective action step within the previous six months may not apply for a posted
position, unless permission is obtained from HR in consultation with the current
department.
4. Pursuing a job opportunity within the University should not in any way jeopardize a
staff employee’s present position. The Hiring Manager should regard an application as
confidential until the employee is a finalist and references are to be checked.
5. The University also encourages the consideration of individuals associated with the
University (e.g.: alumni, spouses/partners of faculty, staff, and students) when
appropriate and consistent with University policy and applicable law.
6. After accepting a position, a University staff employee is responsible for giving
sufficient notice to his/her former department; notification is as follows:
a. At least two (2) weeks advance notice for hourly employees and four (4) weeks for
exempt employees. Upon beginning a new position in another department, a current
employee will maintain accrued but unused sick, vacation, and special personal time,
which will be transferred to the new department.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.17(5)
Selection
1. Once the position has been posted for 7 days, HR or the Hiring Manager may consider
applications upon recipient of all requested materials, including reviewing resumes for
basic qualifications. A job applicant who does not meet all the required qualifications as
provided in the job posting is not a qualified applicant and should not be considered.
2. Selection must be based on job-related qualifications including, but not limited to:
required and preferred education; experience; knowledge, skills, and abilities as
identified in the job description; and references. Qualifications including mental and
physical demands must be bona fide occupational qualifications.
	  
3. The applicant pool should be sufficient to enable selection of qualified applicants for
interviews. If not, the Hiring Manager should contact HR to discuss further recruitment
efforts. If there are no well qualified candidates for a position and qualifications are
modified to increase the applicant pool, the position must be re-posted for at least seven
(7) calendar days, and all applicants for the re-posted position must be considered if they
meet minimum qualifications.
	  
4. HR, Search Chair and the Hiring Manager must ensure consistent administration of the
interview process. Consistent administration includes equal treatment of applicants,
avoidance of discriminatory questions, and uniform interview content.
	  
5. Upon request by an applicant with a disability, HR and the Hiring Manager must
provide reasonable accommodations, as determined by HR and the department during
the interview processes.
6. An applicant may be tested for job-­‐related competencies using a properly validated test
or other selection procedure. Prior to administering a test or other selection procedure, it
must be disclosed to HR by the hiring department.
	  
7. When used, approved tests and selection procedures must be given to applicants under
equivalent conditions, must be scored, evaluated, and used as a selection factor equally
for applicants, and must be maintained with application and selection materials. Such
information must be retained with the search files for three (3) years following the date
of the last action on the position (e.g., start date, date candidates were notified of the
position being filled).
8. Search Chair and Hiring Manger are responsible for moving applicants within the
PeopleAdmin database during each phase of the interview process.
	  
9. Search Chair and Hiring Manager are responsible for sharing all written communication
with the HR department that pertains to applicants.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.17(6)
10. Reference and background checks must be administered to all applicants that are offered
a position at Clarkson University. For guidance regarding reference and background
checks, please contact HR.
Post Selection
1. Prior to making a verbal or written offer of employment, the Hiring Manager must
consult with HR Recruitment Specialist regarding the starting compensation of a new
hire, to ensure nondiscrimination and equity. HR will collaborate with the Hiring
Manager to identify whether there are similar employees in the department, to evaluate
pay equity, and to determine the starting salary based on a benchmark review and
compliance with State and Federal guidelines.
2. An employee may not be offered or start in a position until the required seven-day
posting period is complete ensuring a proper search has been conducted. In addition, HR
verifies that a proposed hire is eligible for University employment (e.g., meets the basic
qualifications, completion of the job profile in the PeopleAdmin system, completion of
the testing, if applicable, completion and passage of background check, if applicable,
completion of the probationary period if a Clarkson employee, is not on corrective
action if a Clarkson employee and not been terminated for cause if previously employed
by the University.)
3. The Hiring Manager should use the standard offer letter template approved by HR.
4. Once the offer is made the Hiring Manager or Search Chair must notify unsuccessful
applicants who were interviewed by indicating the applicant’s status in PeopleAdmin
and to call unsuccessful applicants that were phone interviewed and campus
interviewed. The Hiring Manager and /or Search Chair must update the status of
applicants in PeopleAdmin, review the list of not hired reasons and identify the reasons
why each applicant was not selected. Items such as “did not have preferred
qualifications” or “less effective phone screen or interview than applicant hired” may be
reasons.
5. The new hire must complete documents listed on the new hire checklist in order to be
entered into the payroll system.
	  
Document Retention
1. Recruitment and selection records must be maintained with the search files for three (3)
years following the date of last action on the position (e.g., employee’s start date, or the
date candidates were notified of the position being filled). These include all materials
sent to and received from individuals who qualify as applicants as well as all job seekers

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.17(7)
who request to be considered for the position. These records are listed below, along with
the assumed location where they are stored.
a. Search firm contracts (Risk Management)
b. Search firm records (HR)
c. Affirmative Action outreach efforts ( HR)
d. Selection tests or other skills assessment activities (HR)
e. Reference checks and notes (Department)
f. Verification of degrees, licensure, other credentials (Department and HR)
g. Background checks (HR)
h. Resume (PeopleAdmin and HR)
i. Cover letter (PeopleAdmin and HR)
j. Profile (PeopleAdmin and HR)
k. Reasons why one candidate was selected over another candidate (Department
and PeopleAdmin)
2. The following recruitment and selection information and documentation must also be
maintained by the department/unit that handled the recruitment process for a minimum
of 3 years:
a. any search plan for the position;
b. copies of any external ads or position announcements (both print and electronic);
c. a copy of the Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) report used to review the
applicant pool;
d. a list of any affirmative action and outreach efforts such as job fairs and postings;
e. documentation of any screening or other criteria used to narrow the applicant
pool;
f. a list of applicants phone screened for the position;
g. a list of questions, notes, and results of the phone screens;
h. a list of applicants interviewed in person;
i. a list of interview questions, notes, and results of the interviews;
j. a list of any tests administered to applicants and what these tests evaluated;
k. reference check questions;
l. the names of references contacted and their responses;
m. copy of the offer letter sent to the new hire.
Audit
1. Any Recruitment and Selection process is subject to audit by the Human Resources
Department.
Approved May 2014

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.18(1)
3.1.17 Termination/Resignation Policy
Policy Applies To: Exempt and non-exempt employees.
Purpose
This policy serves as comprehensive guide for departments to manage terminations equitably and
fairly.
Summary
This policy provides guidelines for termination of employment from Clarkson University and is
intended to ensure that the University fulfills its responsibilities in relation to all terminations.
Definition of Terms
Voluntary Termination. Termination of the employment relationship resulting from the
voluntary decision of the Staff Member to resign from the employment of the University, and
includes but is not limited to resignation, inability or failure to return from an authorized leave
of absence or job abandonment.
Involuntary Termination. Termination of the employment relationship between the University
and a Staff Member resulting from the decision of the University.
Retirement: Resignation from the University for any reason at age 55 with 15 years of service,
age 60 with 10 years of service or older.
Policy Statement
To ensure timely and accurate communication between the university and the employee who is
terminating employment with the University. Individuals who leave employment with the
University are expected to return University property, and satisfy outstanding financial or other
obligations before the last work day. Separation from employment, whether voluntary or
involuntary, must be handled in a responsible manner confidential and professional manner by all
individuals involved. The University will pay employees for unused, accumulated vacation
according to this policy.
Procedures
Departments will follow the below procedures for the type of termination:
•

Involuntary Termination
Departments must contact the Executive Director of Human Resources or the Associate
Director of Human Resources before any disciplinary termination. Departments must
contact the Executive Director of Human Resources before terminating any employee who
is on disability leave or receiving workers' compensation benefits.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.18(2)
•

Voluntary Termination--Notice of Separation
Employees who leave the University are expected to provide written advance notice.
Minimum requested notice is four weeks for exempt and two weeks for non- exempt
individuals. The notice period is to be used to transition the work. Employees are expected
to work their notice period.

•

Retirement
Employees who retire from the University are expected to give written advanced notice.
Minimum requested notice is four weeks for exempt and two weeks for non- exempt
individuals.

Notice to Human Resources
Departments will forward the resignation letter and submit a payroll authorization to Human
Resources upon receiving notice from the employee. For exempt employees who terminate, the
department will indicate on the payroll authorization the number of remaining vacation days the
employee has left for that fiscal year.
Employees who are retiring will meet with Human Resources prior to their retirement date to
review benefits they may be eligible for after retirement.
Human Resources will conduct an exit interview for all terminating employees. An exit interview
will be held with a representative from Human Resource. Benefit and other relevant matters will be
discussed with the employee. If the employee is not available for a face-to -face meeting, relevant
information will be mailed to the employee.
Status of Benefit Plans
COBRA
• The Federal Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986 (COBRA)
provides eligible employees and their qualified dependents the opportunity to continue
coverage under the University's health and dental insurance plans when a "qualifying
event" would normally result in loss of benefits. Some common qualifying events
include termination of employment (except termination for gross misconduct), death of
an employee, a reduction in an employee's hours, a leave of absence, an employee's
divorce or legal separation, and a dependent child who no longer meets eligibility
requirements.
• Employees, who are eligible for continuation of their health care coverage and other
benefits, as stipulated in COBRA, will receive written information concerning this
benefit from POMCO. Under COBRA, the employee and his or her dependent(s) will
pay the full cost for coverage at the University's group rate plus an administration fee.
The written materials provided by POMCO will clearly outline how long the employee
and his or her dependent(s) will be eligible for the COBRA coverage.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.18(3)
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
• The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA-1996) requires that a
certificate of insurance be given to all terminated employees who have been provided
health insurance through the University's group plans. This certificate provides evidence
of coverage so that, potentially, the terms of pre-existing conditions may be waived with
a new health insurance provider.
• Continuous health insurance coverage with the University will count towards the time
period required by the new insurance provider. POMCO will mail COBRA information
to you within 30 days. If the certificate is not received within thirty (30) days, then
please call the Human Resource at (315) 268-6497.
Life Insurance
• Life insurance ends on the employee's termination date and may be converted within 31
days after the employment termination date. Information is provided by Human
Resources.
Long-Term Disability Insurance
• Group total disability income insurance (long-term disability) ends on the employee's
termination date and cannot be converted.
Retirement
• Status of retirement funds should be reviewed with TIAACREF. Contact information is
800-732-8353.
Return of University Property and Satisfying Financial Obligations
Individuals who terminate employment must return all University property to the designated
department and satisfy all financial obligations on or before the last work day. Examples include,
but are not limited to:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Identification cards, keys to buildings, and equipment
Cellular telephones, and other communications equipment
Policy manuals and other confidential material
Books and other materials owned by the University, computers, software, documentation,
supplies, and other computer- related materials
Tools issued by the University
Credit, telephone, and other cards
Tuition grants, outstanding advances, library and parking fines

Supervisors and managers are responsible for ensuring that all University property is obtained from
terminating employees and financial obligations are satisfied.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.1.18(4)
Access to Computerized Information Systems
Upon termination, Human Resources will notify the Service Center to discontinue an employee's
password and/or access to all University information systems. This may include but is not limited to
financial, employee, departmental local area networks and student information systems.
Payment of Leave
Employees will be paid for unused, accumulated vacation when terminating employment with the
University. Vacation time cannot be used in lieu of giving proper advanced notice as stated in this
policy or to continue or extend the period of time to receive employee benefits Special Personal
day(s) that have not been taken prior to termination will not be paid. No payment will be made for
time accrued as sick leave.
Employees who have been employed for less than six months will not be paid for any accrued
vacation. Upon termination, employees who have been continuously employed by the University
for six months or longer will be paid for unused vacation time. Any monies owed the University
will be deducted from the employee's final paycheck per University policy.
Reference Checks
All inquiries, including written requests, regarding a current or former employee of the University
must be referred to Human Resources at 268.6794.

Approved May 2014

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.2.1
3.2

HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY - FACULTY

3.2.1 Retirement Benefits
The University's retirement policy is in compliance with the Age Discrimination in Employment
Act of 1967 as amended and revised. Definitions of certain sections of this act as they apply to
Clarkson's policy follow New York State law.
1. The normal retirement date is the employee's 65th birthday.
2. The retirement date for an employee who remains in active service beyond the normal
retirement date shall be at the employee's option subject to the terms of any existing
contracts.
3. An employee who elects to retire as early as their 60th birthday may remain with the
Clarkson Group Comprehensive Medical/Dental plan if hired prior to 1990.
	  
4. Employees hired after January 1, 1990, must also have completed ten years of
continuous service immediately prior to retirement to remain in the Clarkson Group
Comprehensive Medical/Dental Plan. Employees reaching their 55th birthday who have
completed fifteen years of continuous permanent service immediately prior to their
retirement may retire and remain in the Clarkson Group Comprehensive Medical/Dental
Plan.
For employees hired on or after July 1, 2006, who retire on or after their 65th birthday,
all coverage will terminate on their retirement date. Coverage under COBRA will be
offered. Survivor dependents of eligible employees hired on or after July 1, 2006 will
remain eligible for coverage up to but not including their 65th birthday.

December 1978
Approved by Board of Trustees for enactment January 1979
Revised July 1987, July 1989, September 1993, August 1994
Revised July 2006
Revised May 2014

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.3.1
3.3

HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES - ADMINISTRATIVE, SUPERVISORY, AND
GENERAL STAFF

3.3.1

Job Posting
It is the policy of the University to promote internally, whenever appropriate, when job
vacancies occur. To ensure that all employees are aware of job openings at the University, an
announcement of each vacancy will be circulated to employee groups giving a brief description
of the job, its location, salary level and the skills and/or experience an applicant should possess
to qualify for the job.
The posting of jobs provides employees the opportunity to consider vacancies in the light of
their present assignments and decide whether or not they wish to apply for the positions.

July 1987
Revised July 1989
Revised April 2008

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.3.2
3.3.2

Position Classification Procedures - Administrative, Supervisory, and General Staff
Position Classification Procedures are under the direction of the Director of Human Resources.
Procedures includes:
1.

Classify job descriptions of all newly authorized positions and assign a salary grade
level and title to each new position;

2.

Evaluate jobs by objective criteria based on the duties and responsibilities assigned to
the positions, and not on the incumbent's personal qualifications or ability.

July 1987
Revised July 1989
Revised July 1996
Revised January 2004
Revised April 2008

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.3.3(1)
3.3.3

Disciplinary Procedure - Administrative, Supervisory, and General Staff
Supervisors in exercising their responsibility for the effective performance of the employees in
their departments may have need to apply certain disciplinary measures from time to time. This
policy does not apply to serious offenses that may require immediate suspension or discharge.
The formal procedure to follow to ensure fair and uniform treatment to each employee is:
I.

II.

Pre-disciplinary Corrective Procedures. Supervisors should always take the time to
help employees improve their performance by: providing the employee with feedback,
providing on-the-job training, permitting employees to attend relevant workshops, or
simply providing closer supervision than normal.
A.

Informal Counseling Session. When a supervisor identifies an apparent
performance problem with respect to an employee's behavior, the supervisor
must conduct an informal counseling session. Although the supervisor may
note on his or her calendar that such a meeting took place, no record is to be
made in the employee's personnel file.

B.

Counseling Memorandum. If the problem persists, the supervisor shall conduct
an additional counseling session following which the supervisor will write a
counseling memorandum to the employee. The memorandum will be placed in
the individual's personnel file.

Disciplinary Penalties. When steps IA and IB do not correct the problem, supervisors
will impose the following penalties.
A.

Written Reprimand. If the problem persists, the supervisor will give the
employee a formal warning, informing the employee that the problem is serious
and that written notation of the warning will be entered in the employee's
personnel file. The written notation will be forwarded to the Human Resources
Office, with a copy to the employee.

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.3.3(2)
B.

Probation. If the problem still persists, the supervisor will have a second formal
meeting at which the employee is placed on probation, and the supervisor will
give the employee a written summary of the actual facts to let the employee
know that the situation is serious and that the employee's actions will determine
whether employment at the University will continue. A copy of the statement
given to the employee, together with a written summary of the meeting will be
provided for inclusion in the employee's personnel file.

C.

Discharge. If, after an employee has been placed on probation and performance
continues to be unsatisfactory, the employee's discharge will be recommended.
Both the Human Resources Office and the dean or director concerned are to be
consulted before an employee is advised of discharge.

July 1987
Revised July 1989
Revised April 2008

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.3.4
3.3.4

Termination of Employment - Administrative, Supervisory, and General Staff
The following outlines the types of termination and procedure by which employment at
Clarkson University may be terminated.
1.

Voluntary Termination. Employees who intend to resign their positions will
be expected to give adequate notice to their department heads or supervisors. In
order to terminate in good standing, employees are required to give notice,
normally one pay period (two weeks), in advance of the date they contemplate
leaving the University.

2.

Involuntary Termination. If an employee= performance of duty or personal
conduct is unsatisfactory because of failure, neglect, or unwillingness to
perform their assigned duties, appropriate action with regard to discipline or
possible involuntary termination from the University will be taken (See
Disciplinary Procedure Section 3.3.3). In cases of involuntary termination, the
reasons for termination should be discussed between the department head and
the director of Human Resources.

The department head involved and forwarded to the Human Resources Office should complete
a Payroll Authorization Form designating a termination.

July 1987
Editorial Revision July 1989
Editorial Revision July 2003

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.3.5
3.3.5

Retirement Policy - Administrative and Supervisory Staff and General Staff
The University's retirement policy for administrative and supervisory staff and general staff is in
compliance with the Federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 as amended and
revised and New York State law. Definitions of certain sections of these laws as they apply to
Clarkson's Policy follow:
1.

The normal retirement date is the employee's 65th birthday.

2.

The retirement date for an employee who remains in active service beyond the normal
retirement date shall be at the employee's option subject to the terms of any existing
contract or letter of appointment.

3.

Employees who elect to retire as early as their 60th birthday may remain in the Clarkson
Group Comprehensive Medical/Dental plan. Employees hired after January 1, 1990,
must also have completed ten years of continuous service immediately prior to
retirement to remain on the Clarkson Group Comprehensive Medical/Dental plan.
Employees reaching their 55th birthday who have completed fifteen years of continuous
permanent service immediately prior to their retirement may retire and remain in the
Clarkson Group Comprehensive Medical/Dental Plan.
For employees hired on or after July 1, 2006.who retire on or after their 65th birthday all
coverage will terminate on their retirement date. Coverage under COBRA will be
offered. Survivor dependents of eligible employees hired on or after July 1, 2006 will
remain eligible for coverage up to but not including their 65th birthday.

Revised September 1986, July 1989, September 1993
August 1994
Editorial Revision, September 2001
Revised July 2006

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.4.1
3.4 HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES - EMPLOYMENT AND WORKING CONDITIONS GENERAL STAFF
3.4.1

The Four Types of Appointments
1.

Active Full-Time Employees. These employees are appointed on a full-time, twelvemonth service basis, engaged at a definite hourly rate, paid biweekly for the normal
work week hours of thirty-seven and a half (secretarial, clerical and service), or forty
(maintenance, campus safety, and service). Employees in this category are eligible for
all fringe benefits.

2.

Active Part-Time Employees. These employees are appointed on a part-time, twelvemonth service basis, engaged at a definite hourly rate, paid biweekly. Part-time
employees shall be hired on the basis of half- time (average of seventeen and a half to
twenty hours per week), or three-quarter time (average of twenty-eight to thirty hours
per week). Employees in this category are eligible for all fringe benefits except group
long-term total-disability coverage. The following fringe benefits will be prorated based
on half time or three-quarter-time status: vacations and sick leave.

3.

Seasonal Employees. These employees are normally appointed for periods of ten
months or less, either on a full-time or part-time basis, and are engaged at a definite
hourly rate paid biweekly. Full-time seasonal employees are eligible for all fringe
benefits. Part-time seasonal employees are eligible for all fringe benefits except group
long-term total-disability coverage. All part-time seasonal employees shall be hired on
the basis of one-half time or three -quarter time. The following fringe benefits will be
prorated for all seasonal employees based on the one-half time or three-quarter time
status: vacations and sick leave.

4.

Temporary Employees. Any employee hired on the basis of working less than
seventeen and a half hours per week is classified as temporary. Additionally, an
employee hired to work for a specified time period of less than one academic year is also
classified as a temporary employee. All temporary employees are eligible for statutory
benefits as defined by state and federal law. Temporary employees who work on the
average of at least seventeen and a half hours per week and are initially hired for a
minimum of three months will be eligible for medical and dental benefits and group life
insurance. No other fringe benefits shall apply to temporary employees.
July 1987
Revised July 1989, 1991, September 1993
Editorial Revision January 2004

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.4.2
3.4.2

Employment - Appointment of General Staff Personnel
Applicants for employment must apply to the Human Resources Office and complete official
application forms to provide the University with the necessary information about their
education, training, experience, and references.
No discrimination in recruiting or during employment will be made on the basis of race, color,
creed, sex, sexual orientation, disability, religion, national origin, ancestry, or because of age.
When a position opening exists or a vacancy is anticipated a Request-to-Fill Position form must
be submitted to the Human Resources Office.
A preliminary screening and testing (where practical) of applicants will be conducted by the
Human Resources Office, and candidates meeting the minimum qualifications applications will
be forwarded to the department.
An interview will be conducted by the department head or supervisor to determine which
applicant is best suited to fill the position. At this time the applicant should be given a thorough
understanding of the responsibilities of the position and the conditions of employment.
Final selection of the referred applicants is the responsibility of the department head or the
search committee.
After candidate is selected, an Affirmative Action Report and Affirmative Action Log must be
completed and forwarded to the Office of Affirmative Action for review and approval. Upon
approval by that office, the offer can be made and if accepted by candidate, an Appointment
Form, (Payroll Authorization) must be completed by the department head and forwarded to the
Human Resources Office marked "confidential."
The accepted new employee must be referred to the Human Resources Office by the department
head to complete forms for the University fringe benefit plans. New employees should also fill
out appropriate forms at the Payroll Office.
Physical plant applicants for positions such as custodians, grounds workers, maintenance
mechanics, etc., and applicants for positions such as technicians in the various laboratories and
campus safety positions, may be required to pass a pre-employment physical examination and
must pass a drug test and must have an approved drivers license. The University will pay the
cost of the exam and test.
July 1987
Revised July 1989
Editorial Revision September 2001
Editorial Revision January 2004

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.4.3
3.4.3

Probationary Period - General Staff (Non-Bargaining)
A trial employment period of three months duration shall be required of all general staff (nonbargaining) personnel new to the University. It is the department head's or supervisor's
responsibility to observe the new employee's work during this period and to assist them in every
way possible to adjust quickly and efficiently to the work situation, and to correct any
unsatisfactory areas of performance.
In the case of unsatisfactory performance the employee may be terminated.
It is recommended that at the successful end of the three-month probationary period, the
department head take the opportunity to discuss with the employee, in a personal interview, their
work progress and give any warranted commendations for work well done.
A general staff member (non-bargaining) serving the three-month probationary period is
prohibited from bidding on other openings in the University.

July 1987
Editorial Revision July 1989
Revised November 1991
Revised September 2001

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.4.4
3.4.4

Working Hours - General Staff
The working hours at the University for full-time active employees fall into two groups.
I.

II.

Secretarial and Clerical
A.

The normal workweek for secretarial and clerical employees is
thirty-seven and a half hours per week.

B.

The normal workday is seven and a half hours, from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
with one hour off daily for lunch.

C.

Summer hours, which typically go into place the day after Commencement,
run from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. with one hour off daily for lunch. Morning
and afternoon breaks are eliminated.

Technicians and Campus Safety Employees
A.

The normal workweek for technicians and campus safety employees is forty
hours per week.

B.

The normal workday is eight hours not including lunch period.

Some units of the University vary the basic schedule to provide the necessary service demanded
by their special function. This applies particularly to library positions and technicians. Their
scheduling requires that beginning times or days of work must be staggered, rotated, or assigned
to provide the required service. However, in the above cases the normal workweek of thirtyseven and a half or forty hours will be observed.
For payroll purposes the University's normal work week is the calendar week starting 12:01 a.m.
Sunday through 12:00 midnight the following Saturday.

Revised March 1986
Editorial Revision July 1989

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.4.5
3.4.5

Rest Periods - General Staff

Policy Purpose
This policy clarifies the time allotments and requirements for scheduling breaks for non-except
employees under the Fair Labor and Standards Act.
Policy Summary
Break periods are intended to give an employee a chance to renew attention and energy after
working for an extensive period so that he or she can remain productive and efficient in performing
assigned tasks.
Policy Statement
Breaks are considered time worked. Most jobs do not require or lend themselves to scheduled
breaks, since employees are allowed to take a break when the need arises as work permits. Breaks
may be scheduled, if necessary, due to the nature of a particular job which does not permit the
opportunity for employee discretion or flexibility. Break time, whether scheduled or flexible, should
not exceed 15 minutes. Employees should take one fifteen-minute break in the morning and one
fifteen-minute break in the afternoon. Breaks cannot be accumulated or saved. The intended purpose
of a break would not be fulfilled if they were not taken at the appropriate intervals; therefore, breaks
may not be used to compensate for absences such as arriving late or leaving work early, or to extend
meal periods.
Occasionally, due to operating requirements, supervisors may need to temporarily modify break and
meal periods.
Procedures
Non-exempt employees may not skip rest periods in order to shorten the work day, or to earn extra
paid leave. Rest periods may not be saved for later use, accumulated, or used to compute additional
pay.
Generally, rest periods should be taken, but they may be omitted occasionally if required by the
work load. Extra compensation is not provided if rest periods are missed.
Scheduling
Department heads will schedule rest periods to avoid disrupting normal operations.
Rest period practices may be set by individual departments, within the framework of this policy, and
must be communicated to affected employees.
Members of the Collecting Bargaining Unit please refer to section 18.3 of your agreement on break
procedure.
July 1987
Revised May 2014

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

3.4.6
3.4.6

Promotions and Transfers - General Staff
It is the policy of the University to attempt to fill openings, when appropriate, by promotions
from within the organizational unit or by promoting qualified general staff members from other
departments.
1.

Promotion. A promotion is normally a reward for proven industry and capability. This
practice of internal promotions is intended to provide motivation and incentive to
employees. A promotion will be accompanied by a salary increase commensurate with
the University pay scale.

2.

Transfer. A transfer is a change from one department to another, to a position of the
same level/salary grade or to a position of a lower salary level/ grade.

Promotion or transfer of an employee from one department to another also requires the transfer
to the new department of accumulated vacation and sick leave allowances earned in the previous
department.

July 1987
Revised April 2008

Ops Manual – release date 1/15

