DRAFT #5

Corporation’s Logo

Public Broadcasting Corporation of Jamaica

Human Resource Policies Manual
(GRAPHIC)

MISSION STATEMENT

To provide quality broadcasting services to the
widest cross section of the population and the
Diaspora, facilitating the articulation of contending
views through private and public sectors by allowing
free expression for the Arts, Culture, Education and
Current Affairs.

Corporation’s Logo

TABLE OF CONTENT

2

Page
INTRODUCTION
EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
Qualification
Preference for Existing Staff
Advertising of Vacancies
Responsibility
Procedure
Age and Nationality
Offer of Employment
Orientation
Probation Period
Promotions
Transfers
Employment of Relatives
Re-employment of Former Employees
HOURS OF WORK
Hours of Work
Lunch Break
Overtime work
Attendance Register
LEAVE OF ABSENCES
Vacation Leave
Departmental Leave
Sick Leave
Maternity Leave
Study Leave
Compassionate Leave
Special Leave
Absence without Leave
Leave of Absence without pay
Limitation to Leave of Absence
COMPENSATION, ALLOWANCES AND BENEFITS
Staff Loans
Salary Advances
Payment of Salary
Payroll Deductions
Duty Allowance
Overtime Pay
Acting/Acting Pay
Honorarium
Travel Allowance
Life Insurance

3

Health Insurance
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF CONDUCT/GENERAL WORK RULES
The Framework
Standard of Behaviour
Absence from Duty
Telephone/Internet Use
Dress Code
General Communication
Sexual Harassment
Service Standards
Environmental Awareness
Political Activity
Substance Abuse
Conflict of Interest/Engagement in Private Work/Directorship
Soliciting
Receiving Gifts/Compensation
Exercise of Managerial Authority
External Communication
Confidentiality
Legal Advice
Attendance
Use of the Corporation’s Property
Information Technology
Weapons
COPYRIGHT POLICY
Ownership
Use
Royalties
SAFETY AND WELFARE
DISCIPLINARY CODE AND PROCEDURE
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
TERMINATION
Retirement
Resignation
Redundancy
Dismissal
Dismissal Procedure
Abandonment of Post

4

Exit Interview
EXAMPLES OF DISCIPLINARY OFFENCES

5

INTRODUCTION
Background
This HR Manual has been produced in order to provide a framework for human resources
management within the Public Broadcasting Corporation of Jamaica (PBCJ). As the staff of the
Corporation are also public officers, wherever this Manual is silent on a particular point of human
resources management policy or procedure, then the provisions of the Staff Orders, the Public
Service Regulations, and the Public Bodies Management and Accountability Act will continue to
apply.
This HR Manual will continue in force and will be amended by the Board of Directors from time
to time, in keeping with Regulations governing the conduct of Public Service Broadcasting, as
well as other relevant legislation, which may come into force from time to time.
Structure of this HR Manual
This HR Manual sets out the human resources policies and procedures under which the staff of
the PBCJ will be managed. As far as possible these are set out in the order of the employment
cycle, from hiring to termination.

6

EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
STATEMENT
It is the policy of the PBCJ to ensure that all appointments to positions within the Corporation are
based on a fair and open assessment of individuals’ capability and in accordance with standards
of best practice.
OBJECTIVE
The Corporation’s objective is to use every appropriate means, as efficiently and expeditiously as
possible, to recruit, transfer or promote the most suitable individuals for positions that have to be
filled using the following guidelines.
QUALIFICATION
Vacancies will be filled by persons who, in the sole judgment of the Corporation are the most
suitable, based on experience and qualification, character, attitude and compatibility.
PREFERENCE FOR EXISTING STAFF
Preference will be given, other considerations being equal, to persons within the Corporation,
subject to the right of the Corporation at its sole discretion to recruit from outside. Employees
who seek promotion or transfer may apply for vacancies through his/her immediate supervisor.
An employee who is promoted may be required to serve a probationary period at the discretion of
the Corporation.
ADVERTISING OF VACANCIES
Vacancies will normally be advertised internally, unless, in the judgement of management, there
is:
• a natural successor within the organization who may be specially trained to fill the vacancy
• no suitable candidate within the organization based on the requirement of the post.
Vacancies may be advertised externally as well as internally at the same time.
RESPONSIBILITY
The responsibility for recruiting, screening and hiring of applicants for employment rests solely
with the Human Resource Department. For certain critical positions, the ratification of the Board
of Directors is necessary. Whenever a vacancy is to be filled, it is the responsibility of the HR
Manager to ensure that the hiring process is conducted according to this policy.

7

PROCEDURE
Staff Requisition Form
Heads of Departments who need additional or replacement staff will inform the HRD Manager in
writing. Where the requisition will result in an increase in the number of approved positions, a
memorandum of justification must accompany the request.
Advertising
The Human Resource Department will either draw from applications already held by the
Corporation or will advertise the post internally and externally, if deemed necessary. It is the
responsibility of the HRD Manager/Officer to ensure that suitable advertisements are prepared for
publication in the media. Should it become necessary, Recruiting Agencies may also be
contacted in order to identify a suitable candidate.
Screening of Applicants
All external applicants must complete an Employment Application Form.
Internal applicants should submit an application in the form of a resume and state the reason for
their application. It is the responsibility of the HR Department to:
• verify the information contained in the applications;
• in consultation with the appropriate manager, determine which applicants are to be interviewed;
• notify the applicants whether they are required for interview
Interviewing Panel
Job Interviews shall be conducted by a panel comprising of: • The Head of the Department in which the vacancy exists (or his/her nominee)
• The HR Manager/Officer
• An officer of the Corporation with competence in the skill being sought
• The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or any other member assigned by the CEO
In some instances, as deemed necessary, a second interview may be conducted, where one or two
new officers will be invited to join the interview panel. Pre-employment tests may also be
necessary for some applicants.
Selection of a suitably qualified candidate will be made at the end of the interview session.
Reference Checks
Prior to a final selection and job offer being made however, the two [three] references provided
by the candidate must be checked. The Corporation will contact the referees named by the
applicant with a view to obtaining professional and/or personal information about the candidate.
The Corporation should obtain a character reference and a performance assessment from a past
employer(s) for the selected applicant.

8

Comment [U1]: May want to develop
a form for this.

Medical Examination
All candidates who have been selected will be required to undertake a medical examination.
Offers of employment are subject to selected candidates passing the medical examination. The
Corporation may (if there is a medical concern,)/ the CEO may decide to employ the individual
on a contractual basis instead of appointing the individual to a permanent post.
AGE AND NATIONALITY
Applicants for permanent employment must be at least eighteen (18) years of age and a citizen of
Jamaica or a national of any Caricom Member State. If extensive recruitment activities do not
yield a suitably qualified candidate of Jamaican/Caricom nationality then others may be
considered.
OFFER OF EMPLOYMENT
The offer of employment will be made in the name of the Corporation and signed by the CEO.
When an offer of employment is given, the selected applicant will be sent an offer letter
indicating the terms of employment. The original and the duplicate of the offer shall be sent to the
candidate, with a request that he/she sign and return the duplicate indicating acceptance of the
offer. If the candidate was previously employed he/she shall be requested to provide a P45 form
duly completed by his/her last employer.
At the start of employment the HR Manager will submit to the Accounts Department a ‘Human
Resource/Payroll Form’ which will have information on the new employee’s NIS and TRN
numbers, address, bank information and the employment classification among other vital
information.

ORIENTATION
The objective of the orientation process is to facilitate the integration of a new employee
into the Corporation, thus laying the foundation for a harmonious relationship and for
new employees to get acquainted with the operation and objectives of the Corporation.
1
All new employees shall on the first day of employment be given an orientation to the
Corporation. The HR Manager/Officer will discuss and communicate a short Orientation
Programme, which would have been agreed and drawn up with the new employee’s
manager/supervisor.
PROBATION PERIOD
New Employees
Persons employed to fill permanent positions will be required to work for a probationary period
of at least three (3) months. During the probationary period, the employee will be closely
supervised and examined in the areas of performance, ability, aptitude and attitude.
He/she will have regular feedback from his/her supervisor regarding performance and what is
expected from him/her. During this probationary period, either party may terminate the
employment without prior notice, and without stating the reason for doing so.

9

Comment [U2]: Need to create a form

At the end of the probationary period, the supervisor must complete and submit to the HR
Manager/Officer a performance appraisal of the employee. This appraisal must be discussed with
the employee prior to being submitted. If for any particular reason, the 3-month probationary
period proves to be insufficient for proper appraisal, an additional period, not exceeding 3
months, may be used as an extension of the probation period. There should be no further
extensions of the probation period, unless there are extenuating circumstances that make it
necessary to do so and this is subject to the approval of the CEO.
The Corporation may, when it is deemed appropriate, affix the initial probation for periods in
excess of three (3) months. Where the probationary engagement is extended beyond 90 days
however, and the probationer is subsequently terminated, the probationer will be entitled to be
given or paid for the appropriate notice of termination.
Employees, who have successfully completed the probationary period, will be issued a letter of
formal appointment, which will include details of eligibility to various benefit schemes and other
changes in terms of employment.
Promoted Employees
Employees, who are promoted from within the PBCJ may be required to serve a three (3) month
probationary period. Whether or not probation is to be served will depend on the employee’s
familiarity with the new portfolio and the extent to which he/she has demonstrated competence in
executing duties at a higher level in the past.
At the end of the probationary period, a performance evaluation will be done to determine
suitability for the new position. If the employee did not perform satisfactorily he/she may be
reassigned to his/her former post or an equivalent post in keeping with his/her competence. As
with the case of new employees, the probationary period may be extended if it is decided that
potential to meet the requirements of the job exists.
PROMOTIONS
Promotion to Vacant Position
The policy of the Corporation is to promote from within the organization, wherever it is practical
to do so. Its promotion policy offers opportunities for members of staff, who are suitably
qualified, and have demonstrated the competence to perform at the new level.
The Corporation reserves the right to recruit externally if there are no suitable internal candidates.
Upon selection to the post, the newly promoted employee may be placed on probation.
Promotion to Upgraded Position
If a position in a Department is upgraded and the incumbent is suitable to fill the post, that
employee may be promoted to the upgraded position without undergoing an interview. If,
however, there is no suitable candidate within the Department, the post will be advertised
externally and the selection process outlined in above, undertaken.
1

10

TRANSFERS
The Corporation reserves the right to transfer any employee from one location to another as the
need arises. Transfers may become necessary within or outside of divisions/departments. Where
the Corporation deems that a transfer is necessary, it will examine the possibility of minimizing
dislocation, as far as is practical.
The affected employee(s) will be given adequate notice of the transfer and will be advised, in
writing, of any changes in the terms and conditions of employment resulting from the transfer. No
less than four (4) weeks notice will be given in writing.
Employees requesting a transfer from one location to another must do so in writing.
Consideration will be given subject to the availability of an existing vacancy and, the employee’s
performance record and suitability for the new post.
EMPLOYMENT OF RELATIVES
The permanent employment of relatives is not encouraged. However, where the employment of
persons from the same family occurs, the person ought not to be employed by or placed under the
supervision of a relative, in the same department or where there exists a potential conflict of
interest. Persons who marry while both are employed to the PBCJ, and to whom any of the
foregoing situations apply, shall be separated by the transfer of one party to another department,
if this is available and practical. A relative is defined as: • brother
• sister
• parent
• child
• husband
• wife
• in-law (brother, sister, parent)
RE-EMPLOYMENT OF FORMER EMPLOYEES
The Corporation does not re-employ former employees whose services were terminated for cause.
Former employees who resigned voluntarily or were made redundant and who have a good record
of service within the Corporation will be considered for re-employment on the same basis as
other job applicants. The rehired employee will be required to undergo a new medical
examination unless this is waived by the CEO.
1

11

HOURS OF WORK
Hours of work
Office staff
The normal hours of work for office staff are as follows:
•
•
•

Monday to Thursday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 pm.
Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
A lunch-break of one hour each day

Lunch break
Lunch break may be had between either 12:00 noon and 1:00 p.m. or 1:00 p.m. and 2:00 p.m.
Supervisors should schedule individual lunch breaks to minimize disruption to the flow of work
among other things. Where a work station must be manned at all times, for example,
Receptionist and Security posts), employees are not allowed to proceed on their lunch break
without a relief being in place. Therefore, employees must be considerate of each other and not
overstay their lunch hour to the inconvenience of their co-workers. Employees found guilty of
this, make themselves liable for disciplinary action.

Overtime work
It is acknowledged that from time to time the exigencies of the job may require the hours of an
employee to be extended significantly beyond his/her normal working hours in order to complete
duties or assignments. In such instances, employees below the supervisory category may be
entitled to overtime pay for such work. The Heads of Departments however, must authorize all
overtime before it is undertaken.
Attendance Register
All members of staff are required to sign in and out of the Attendance Register, indicating the
times they do so. The Register will be used to monitor attendance, lateness, among other
movements of staff. Falsification of entries in the attendance register will lead to disciplinary
action as outlined in the disciplinary procedure.

12

LEAVE OF ABSENCES
VACATION LEAVE
Vacation Leave is a period of scheduled absence on full salary for the purpose of recreation
and/or rejuvenation.
 All permanent full time employees of the Corporation, with at least one year’s
continuous service, are entitled to vacation leave at the rate of fourteen (14) working
days per year. Thereafter for every five (5) years that an employee works with the
Corporation, he or she will be granted an additional five (5) working days vacation
leave up to a maximum of thirty (30) working days.
 With regard to new employees, the qualifying conditions of earning vacation leave
will be in accordance with the provision of the Holiday with Pay Order, 1973, that is,
after having worked for 110 days. Although earning paid vacation leave after 110
days with the Corporation, new employees should not be granted vacation leave
before he/she has completed twelve (12) consecutive months of service from the date
of first appointment, except on the ground of urgent private affairs or ill-health.
 The vacation year for the purposes of calculating leave entitlement will start on the
anniversary of each employee’s starting date.
 The granting of such leave is at the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer subject
to the exigencies of the Corporation.
 The CEO may direct an employee to take vacation leave at any time.
 Employees wishing to take vacation leave must complete the prescribed form for that
purpose, at least one (1) month before the date on which the leave is to begin.
 The period of leave begins on the first working day following that on which an
employee has handed over his/her duties, until the working day immediately
preceding that on which he/she resumes duties.
 An employee on vacation leave who wishes to have his/her leave extended, must
apply in sufficient time for a reply to be received before the current period of leave
expires.
 Extension of vacation leave must be recommended by the Supervisor before
approval can be given by the CEO.
 Employees may accumulate leave to a maximum not exceeding the leave entitlement
for two (2) years, only with the permission of the CEO, and due to the exigencies of
the Corporation.
 Vacation Leave will not normally follow Departmental Leave.
 Employees are required to report in writing their resumption of duty to the Human
Resources Unit following the expiration of vacation leave.

13

 Employees who leave the Corporation during the vacation year will be paid in lieu of
any unused vacation entitlement, calculated pro rata for the vacation year. In the
event of death, the amount will be paid to the beneficiary so appointed by the
employee or in the absence, to his/her estate; this after the settlement of any
indebtedness to the Corporation.
DEPARTMENTAL LEAVE
Departmental Leave is a provision whereby employees may be granted short periods of absence
to attend to personal or family matters. Departmental Leave is not intended to be used for
vacation purposes or in lieu of vacation leave.
 All permanent full time employees of the Corporation are entitled to Departmental
Leave at the rate of ten (10) days per year. Temporary employees will be granted
Departmental Leave on a prorated basis relative to the length of their employment.
 The granting of Departmental Leave is at the discretion of the Head of Department
/CEO subject to the exigencies of the Corporation.
 Departmental Leave will not normally be granted to run consecutively with vacation
leave, or vice versa.
 Employees wishing to take departmental leave must make application on the
prescribed form at least forty-eight (48) hours before the leave is to begin.
 Permanent employees may carry forward any Departmental Leave not taken in one
year into subsequent years up to a maximum accumulation of the departmental leave
entitlement/eligibility for two (2) years.
 Any Departmental Leave accumulated may be applied during periods of prolonged
illnesses, on the basis of a medical certificate from a duly registered medical
practitioner.
SICK LEAVE
Sick leave is any period of absence from duty on the grounds of ill health.
 All employees of the Corporation are entitled to sick leave at the rate of ten (10)
working days per year.
 A new employee, having worked 110 days continuously, becomes eligible for paid
Sick Leave, calculated on the basis of 1 day earned for every 22 days worked. This
calculation is applied throughout the first year of the new employee’s service.
 Permanent employees may carry forward any sick leave not taken in one year into
subsequent years up to a maximum accumulation of the sick leave
entitlement/eligibility to two (2) years. While the Corporation allows for the
accumulation of Sick Leave, employees are not entitled to payment for unused leave
upon separation from the Corporation.
 Any sick leave accumulated may be applied during periods of prolonged illness on
the basis of a medical certificate from a duly registered medical practitioner, once the

14

Comment [U3]: Draft a Form which
the employee will sign.

sick/departmental leave entitlement/eligibility for the current year has been
exhausted.
 Sick leave may be taken in short periods or for more extended periods, depending on
the nature of the illness.
 Employees needing to be absent from duty on the ground of ill health must ensure
that his/her Supervisor and the HR Unit are notified within the first 2 ½ hours of the
scheduled working day.
 A medical certificate signed by a duly registered medical practitioner must be
submitted for sick leave taken in excess of three (3) consecutive working days by the
end of day six (6).
Special Sick Leave
Where an employee has exhausted his/her sick and departmental leave entitlement for the current
year plus all accumulated sick and departmental leave, however due to the nature of the illness
he/she requires additional leave, the Corporation will at its discretion, on application, allow
him/her special sick leave with pay not exceeding a maximum of twenty (20) working days.
This benefit does not apply in cases of pregnancy or complication due to pregnancy.
MATERNITY LEAVE
 Female employees who have completed not less than twelve (12) months of
continuous service may be granted leave for maternity purposes on the presentation
of appropriate medical certification.
 Application for maternity leave shall be in writing, to the relevant Head of
Department/CEO and must be submitted two (2) monthsin advance. Each
application must indicate the date on which the leave shall begin, the duration of the
leave and the employee’s intention to resume duties at the expiration of the leave.
 Employees are required to produce on request to the Corporation, medical certificates
attesting to the necessity of leave due to pregnancy and indicating the expected date
of confinement.
 The grant of maternity leave shall be based on the following schedule:
a) maternity leave on full salary for a period not exceeding forty (40) working days.
b) all the vacation leave for which she may be entitled.
c) leave without pay for an additional period not exceeding 14 weeks..
 The CEO may authorize the grant of leave, without pay, for maternity purposes for
periods in excess of 14 weeks, in cases of illness arising from the pregnancy or
confinement or state of health of the child of the pregnancy

15

 Sick leave may be granted to run consecutively with leave granted for maternity
purposes, on presentation of satisfactory medical evidence that the illness does not result
directly, indirectly or specifically from the pregnancy.
 An employee shall not be entitled to maternity leave with pay, if the Corporation has
already granted her maternity leave with pay in respect of three (3) previous pregnancies.
 An employee unless she serves on her employer or, where appropriate, his successor, at
least three weeks before the day on which she proposes to return to work, a notice that
she proposes to return to work on that day (hereafter in this Act referred to as the
“notified day of return”).
STUDY LEAVE
Study Leave is a period of absence granted to employees to pursue courses of study which may
fall into any of the following categories:
1)
2)
3)
4)

Government Mandated
Job related
Future advancement
Personal Interest

The amount of study leave given will be dependent on the nature of the course being pursued.
Request for leave should be sent through the Head of Department/to the HR Manager. If the time
required for a course or examination conflicts with the performance of duties or work of the
Corporation, a request for study leave may not be granted.
Employees who are granted Study Leave may be eligible for financial support depending on the
category within which the course of study falls.
Employees who are granted study leave and receive support from the Corporation may be
required to execute a loan agreement.
The selection of persons for the grant of Study Leave should be made taking into account the
needs of the Unit/Department. However, where the study may be of relevance to the Corporation
overall, consideration may be given.
Study Leave is normally granted to employees with three (3) years’ permanent service.
Employees with a minimum of one (1) year’s continuous employment may be granted Day
Release to pursue courses locally. Day Release is approved prior to entry into the course, and is
renewable every year based on a Progress Report and need. (See S.O. s 7.8.4)
Employees applying for full-time study leave in respect of a first Degree, at any local universities
should have successfully completed the first year of the programme, on a part-time basis, or
expect to do so prior to the commencement of the study leave period..
The employee is required to advise his/her supervisor and the Human Resources Unit (in writing)
of changes in the days to attend class. When there is to be a change from Day Release to Study
Leave, an application for Study Leave must be submitted along with the necessary supporting
documents, such as Change of Status Letter, Progress Report and Time Table.

16

On completion of a course of study, where study leave on a full-time basis was granted, an
employee may be granted Recreational Leave not exceeding fifteen (15) days. Recreation Leave
must be taken immediately following the completion of the course of study and cannot be
accumulated.
COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
Compassionate leave (maximum three (3) days) will normally be granted to allow employees to
attend to emergencies involving death or serious injury of immediate family (parents,
grandparents, brothers, sisters, children and spouse). Compassionate will only be considered after
an employee has exhausted all leave entitlements. This type of leave may also be granted to
allow:
• Male employees to take paternity leave on the birth of their child for up to three (3)
occasions during their employment with the PBCJ.
• Employees to deal with serious personal emergencies such as house burglary, fire, flood
among other natural disasters.
The written approval of the CEO must be obtained prior to proceeding on compassionate leave.
All requests for compassionate leave must be authenticated.
SPECIAL LEAVE
On presentation of the relevant documentary evidence, special leave on full salary shall be
granted by the CEO in the following circumstances:
•

Military Service
Employees who are members of the Jamaica National Reserve or the Jamaica
Combined Cadet Force will be granted time off with pay so that they may attend
to national emergencies and/or attend annual training as may be required of them
by the authorities.

•

National Representation
Leave with pay may be granted to enable an employee who is selected:
 by the proper authorities to represent Jamaica or the West Indies in
national/international events;
 by the civic authority to which he/she belongs to represent the organization at
a national or international event.

•

Court Duties
Employees who have been officially notified that they are required to participate
in Jury Duty or summoned to act as a legal witness, shall be allowed time off
with full pay, for the full duration of the duty. Employees, upon official
notification, are required to notify their Supervisor and the HRD Department and
supply the supporting document to the HRD Department as soon as the
notification is received from the courts.

17

•

Voting
Pursuant to the Representation of People Act 1944, employees who are eligible
to vote in local and general elections are entitled to time-off to do so. Employees
who wish to vote on an election day are allowed up to three (3) hours off in
addition to their normal one (1) hour lunch break, where employees commence
work before 10:00 a.m. and conclude after 2:00 p.m. Employees are required to
advise their Supervisors of the period of time that s/he will be away from work.

ABSENCE WITHOUT LEAVE
Absence without leave is defined as absence from duty without prior permission (except in the
case of sick leave or death in the immediate family). An employee guilty of absence without
leave will be subject to disciplinary action, unless he/she communicates with his/her Supervisor
or the HR Department within eight (8) hours of absence and offers an acceptable explanation.
Should the employee fail to communicate within five (5) working days of his/her being absent, he
/she will be deemed to have abandoned his/her job.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
It is acknowledged that in special circumstances it may be necessary for an employee to be away
from work, on leave, for an extended period, although she/he will not be eligible for paid leave.
Leave of absence without pay may be granted for the following purposes:
(a) to facilitate an employee’s exceptional need.
(b) to cover prolonged illness (es) to a maximum of three (3) months, only after all vacation, sick
special sick and departmental leaves have been exhausted.
(c) to enable attendance at educational institutions at the initiative of the employee to participate
in a course of study related to the employee’s current job portfolio and which is intended to
improve his/her qualification and competence.
LIMITATION TO LEAVE OF ABSENCE

The Corporation reserves the right, if exigency of the business requires it, to recall an
employee from leave before his/her scheduled return. Such “Recalled Leave” may be later
taken at the employee’s convenience, subject to the exigencies of the business or it may be
included in any leave to which the employee may be entitled at termination of service. Recalled
Leave shall not be counted in the calculation of the maximum leave the employee may
accumulate.

18

COMPENSATION, ALLOWANCES AND BENEFITS
Qualification and Experience of Employee
The compensation for each post is determined by the specific job requirements, the qualification
of the employee, the responsibility of the position, past experiences and the salary as approved by
the MOFPS.
An employee’s starting salary is determined primarily by the grade of the post; however factors
such as the employee’s employment history, the availability of the required skills and the salary
of other employees in related posts etc. may also affect compensation.
Salary Increases
Salary increases shall be Performance Based and shall be paid within government guidelines
Staff Loans
Staff Loans will normally only be considered for employees with a minimum period of one (1)
year of service. Loans are granted to assist in meeting financial commitments associated with
certain types of personal emergencies (e.g., medical, funeral or educational expenses.) at the rate
of 8% per annum.
All applications for staff loans must be authorized by the CEO/Board of Directors, subject to the
availability of funds. Staff Loans will not be granted in excess of one month’s gross salary,
repayable over a period not exceeding one (1) year. In the event of dismissal or resignation during
the period of the advance, any outstanding balance will be deducted from the proceeds of any
payment due to the employee upon departure.
Salary Advances
Salary advances are recoverable in full, on the payday immediately following the grant of the
advance. The PBCJ will not grant advances in excess of one (1) month’s gross salary. No advance
will be approved within four (4) months of the completion of a previous advance. Advances will
normally only be considered for employees with a minimum of one (1) year of service. Salary
advances will not be granted to satisfy personal routine obligations (rent, utilities, credit card
bills).
Payment of Salary
Payday will normally be the 25th day of each month. Where this falls on a weekend or a Public
Holiday, salaries will be paid on the working weekday immediately preceding the 25th.
The cut-off period for submission of all items that impact on the payroll is the 15th of each month.
Where the 25th falls on a week-end or a public holiday, the cut off date may be brought forward to
an earlier date so as to facilitate the smooth preparation of the payroll.
Staff in the operations category (security officers, office attendants, janitors, caretakers and
drivers) will be paid twice each month.

19

Payroll deductions
Statutory deductions, including income tax, national housing trust, education tax, national
insurance contributions and any other statutory deductions that may be in effect from time to
time, will be made from all employees’ gross salaries before payments are issued.
All other deductions authorised by employees for payment to other organization will be deducted
from employees’ salaries before salaries are issued. Such deductions will be effected on the
presentation of a salary deduction authorization, and can only be discontinued on the written
instructions of the organization that issued the deduction authorization.
Employee should sign an agreement for all non-statutory payments to be deducted. The
Corporation reserves the right to deduct a one-time fee of J$500.00 or such other amount for such
a facility. The Corporation also reserves the right to deduct any amount owed by an employee to
the Corporation from salary, for example, loan, salary advance and cost of personal telephone
calls made.
Duty Allowance
A Duty Allowance may be paid to staff at the management/supervisory level and staff in the
technical/production categories for work consistently and satisfactorily performed, outside of
normal working hours, subject to prior approval from the Ministry of Finance and the Public
Service. Staff below these levels may be entitled to overtime pay for such work. “Consistently”
means performance of duties exceeding an average of four times for the work week. The
Corporation reserves the right withhold payment of this allowance where the duties are not
consistently performed.
Overtime Pay
Overtime pay will only be disbursed for time worked by employees with the prior approval of the
Head of Department/Manager.
Authorized overtime worked must be recorded and forwarded to the designated manager for
approval for payment. Overtime pay will be calculated on the basis of the employee’s basic
hourly rate of pay.
Employees will receive:
 One and half times their basic hourly rate of pay for each complete hour worked in excess
of forty-one and a half (41 ½ ) hours per week on Saturdays.
 Twice the employee’s basic hourly rate of pay for any time worked on Sundays and
public holidays.
Employees in receipt of a Duty allowance are not eligible for overtime payment.

20

Acting/Acting Pay
An employee may act in a capacity higher than his/her substantive grade in two instances, that is,
for a temporary period when the incumbent is expected to return, or to fill a clear vacancy.
Acting allowance is to be calculated from the date of the working day on which the acting duties
are assumed to the last working day preceding the date on which the employee resumes his/her
normal duties.
The policies in the two circumstances are as follows:
i) Temporary Increase in Responsibilities
An employee who temporarily undertakes the full responsibility of a higher grade for a
continuous period in excess of twenty (20) working days is entitled to be paid an acting allowance
equivalent to the difference between such employee’s own basic salary and the higher position.
ii) Filling a Vacancy
An employee who fills a vacancy in a higher position on an acting basis and carries out the duties
and responsibilities thereof, shall be paid an allowance the minimum basic wages of the higher
position. In such cases the employee shall not normally act for more than three (3) months. If the
employee’s performance while acting in the position is favourably assessed by Management, he
or she becomes eligible for confirmation, if not, the vacant position shall be advertised and filled.
Honorarium
Honorarium may be paid to an officer who is assigned special duties which are extraneous to
his/her normal duties and which necessitate the performance of official duties beyond normal
working hours, for a period of not less than one (1) month.
Travel Allowance
This allowance may be given to employees whose functions require them to travel in the
performance of their duties. The amount to be paid to is dependent on his/her job responsibility
and grade and in keeping with Government guidelines.
Life Insurance
There is a non-contributory Life Insurance scheme in effect for all permanent employees
commencing after successful completion of the employee’s probation period. The Office
Manager has details of this scheme.
Health Insurance
There is a group health insurance in place for all employees. An employee qualifies for health insurance
after successful completion of the probation period. The scheme requires contributions from both
employees and the Corporation. Employees who join the scheme will be given a health insurance card to
produce as proof of coverage. The Corporation reserves the right to change the health care provider or
modify the plan at anytime. Membership of the scheme and cover cease one (1) month subsequent

to the employee leaving the Corporation or if for any reason the employee ceases to be eligible
for coverage.

21

TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
The Training and Development of the Corporation’s staff is of prime importance. Every possible
effort will be made to expose employees to all relevant training both locally and internationally.
Employees are also encouraged to take responsibility for their continued professional
development.
All staff must be exposed to a minimum of six (6) hours of training each financial year. This
training can either be on-site or off the premises.
All formal training and development activities, which are planned in/for the Corporation, must be
coordinated through the Human Resources Department.
Employees are eligible to participate in short courses, which are relevant to their positions. Time
will be given to attend these programmes, and the employee will be considered to be on the job.
They therefore will be expected to observe all comparable codes of dress and conduct. Employees
are usually required to submit a report on the programme in which they participated. They may
also be required to share the newly acquired knowledge with relevant persons within the
Corporation.
Any training programme longer than three (3) months, whether full time or Day Release, requires
that an application for Study Leave/Day Release be made on the relevant form and submitted
through the individual’s Manager to the Human Resources Department for further processing.
TRAINING BUDGET
The HR Department in consultation with Department Managers will determine the training needs
of the Corporation for each budget year. The HR Department will compile a budget to meet those
needs and will recommend allocation of funds for specific training courses.
GENERAL TRAINING
In determining the method of training, consideration will be given to the most effective,
appropriate and available means of training delivery to ensure effectiveness and efficiency.
Where large numbers of employees are required to be trained all at once, customized/in-housing
programmes will be undertaken.
Managers will be required to consider training as part of the appraisal interview. They will
identify the needs for training of employees and will make their recommendations to the HRD
Manager who will ensure that training is budgeted annually. Final Approval will be given by the
CEO based on availability of funds and the competing needs within the corporation as a whole.
It is the responsibility of the HRD Department to:
(a) Provide assistance to all departments in planning and administering on-the-job training.
(b) Advise Managers/Supervisor on the availability and relevance of external training and
educational courses
(d) Prepare the Corporation’s annual training budget.

22

SUCCESSION PLANNING
To ensure the continuity of operations, the HR Manager, in conjunction with
Managers/Supervisors shall develop Succession Plans for positions in the Corporation based on
the identification of potential employees from performance reviews and development activities.
A Succession Plan will be implemented, whereby; a system will be developed to facilitate the
training and preparation of employees with the potential and interest to be promoted to more
senior positions. The CEO and Heads of Departments shall be consulted to identify potential
candidates for filling senior posts.
SECONDMENT
Planned secondments external to the PBCJ may be used to further develop employees in their
jobs. Request for secondments is to be made in writing to the CEO.
Internal secondments shall be approved by the CEO. With regard to external secondments the
CEO shall present these to the Board of Directors for consideration and approval where it is
deemed necessary.

CODE OF CONDUCT
THE FRAMEWORK
The PBCJ is governed by the Public Broadcasting Corporation of Jamaica Act and Regulations,
the Public Bodies Management and Accountability Act and other Policies and Procedures as
issued by the Government from time to time. These are translated into a list of behaviour
expectations, deemed to be acceptable, which may be considered as a Code of Conduct for all
employees, including those in managerial positions.
Taken together, the combined list of expectations establishes the framework for equity and
fairness within the Corporation, outlines the rights, privileges and obligations of individuals, and
becomes the standard or benchmark, against which the conduct of both managers and employees
will be assessed.
Violation of any of the behaviour expectations could lead to disciplinary measures being taken.
Standard of Behaviour
All employees are expected to demonstrate the highest level of professional conduct and personal
integrity in the performance of their duties and in serving the public. The following are some
examples of unacceptable behaviour:
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
g)
h)
i)

Excessive noise which disturbs other colleagues/clients/customers;
Illegal possession and/or use of firearm/weapons/explosives;
Fighting or other forms of physical disturbance;
Any act of sabotage;
Careless abuse or theft of the Corporation’s property;
Larceny or theft from others – colleagues, clients, customers;
Use of obscene or threatening language.
Insubordination (failure to obey a reasonable order from a supervisor;)

23

Absence from Duty
Absence from duty due to illness or other emergencies must be communicated to one’s immediate
supervisor/HR Unit as soon as possible, within the first 2 ½ hours of the scheduled working
day.
Absence from duty for other reasons should be pre-arranged and authorized by a Supervisor or
appropriate authority within the Corporation.
It is the responsibility of all employees, in as far as possible, to conduct their personal business
during their own time. Where personal time off is required, employees must inform their
supervisors as to when , and for how long, they will be away from office.
Telephone/Internet Use
The telephone and the Internet network are the Corporation’s resources. It is therefore expected
that employees will use both for the Corporation’s business. The excessive or improper use of
both facilities for personal services may result in disciplinary action being taken. Employees are
required to switch off their personal cellular telephones in areas where they may interfere with the
operation of the Corporation’s electronic equipment.
Dress Code
Employees should be appropriately dressed for work at all times and in a manner which
demonstrates professionalism, decency and respect for colleagues, clients and members of the
general public. Employees must appear neat and tidy at all times. In certain circumstances,
specific attire, (official uniform) is required. It is expected that where uniforms have been
provided, employees will be properly dressed in Full uniforms at all times, Monday through
Thursday. Uniforms must be kept clean and in good repair. Although the Corporation does not
specify the wearing of uniforms for its managerial staff, it is expected that managerial personnel
will dress in a manner that is consistent with the Corporation’s image.
The Corporation allows for a relaxed dress code on Fridays, whereby employees are not required
to wear uniform. However, employees must still dress in a manner that is in keeping with the
Corporation’s image. Jeans though allowed, should not be overly revealing or embellished in any
outlandish fashion. Dresses that are generally considered to be inappropriate for the office
environment and should not be worn by employees are as follows:
Clothing: Low-ride jeans, jeans with embedded jewels, embroidery or other patterns, jeans with
splits and other openings or shredded at the hems, corduroy pants, jumpsuits, knickers/capri,
gaucho pants, shorts, mini skirts, transparent blouses, plunging necklines, halter tops, sun dresses,
tank tops, sequined dresses, tight fitting clothes which unduly expose or emphasize body parts,
obscene or suggestive printed designs on clothing, T-shirts.
Shoes: Clogs, sneakers, beach sandals, tennis shoes, flat backless slippers and men sandals.
Consequently, casual wear such as and are not appropriate for the Office.
An employee may be allowed to wear flat-heeled slippers or male sandals in special
circumstances, for example, where there is injury or a condition affecting the lower extremities.

24

In such cases, the affected employee should advise his/her supervisor as to the nature of the
injury/disability and the likely duration of the time in which flat-heeled slippers or sandals will be
worn during office hours.
General Communication
All employees are expected to speak to each other in a friendly, courteous manner, and develop a
pleasant attitude, which makes for easier working relations. Employees are reminded that gossip
and general bad mouthing of other employees are harmful and discourteous, and should be
avoided. In addition to this, employees are reminded that boisterous behaviour is not in keeping
with the image of the Corporation, and will not be tolerated.
Sexual Harassment
Sexual Harassment is regarded as any form of unwelcome sexual conduct, verbal or physical, that
seeks to interfere with an individual’s work performance, and create a hostile work environment.
PBCJ will not tolerate sexual harassment, and will take all necessary measures to correct this
should a situation of such a nature arise.
Service Standards
 Requests for services must be dealt with in a manner which is timely, accurate and
complete.
 Employees are expected to treat everyone, clients, other public officers, members of the
general public with courtesy, fairness, respect and objectivity.
 In the exercise of his/her duties, no employee shall confer any special benefit and/or give
preferential treatment to anyone on the basis of any special relationship.
Environmental Awareness
It is essential that in our daily operations, all employees manage their business in such a manner
that always they adhere to all relevant environmental laws, standards and regulations.
The PBCJ does not permit the smoking of cigarettes in the Office. Employees, who do smoke,
must do so outside of the office building, and in areas where it may not be offensive to nonsmokers who have to access the building.
Political Activity
 Employees are expressly forbidden to engage in any type of partisan political activity in
any elections at any level.
 In the exercise of official duties, no service or benefit should be denied or provided to
anyone on the basis of partisan political affiliation.
 Employees are not permitted to give broadcast talks or engage in public discussions of a
political nature without the prior written approval of the CEO.

25

Substance Abuse
 The use of alcohol, intoxicants or any illegal substance is prohibited at the work place.
 Arriving at work under the influence of any of the substances noted above is also
prohibited.
Conflict of Interest/Engagement in Private Work/Directorship

As far as is possible, employees should avoid situations where there may be conflicts of
interest between job requirements and private activities. Should such an instance arise,
the employee should discuss the situation with his/her supervisor and decide on a course
of action to be followed. The CEO and/or Chairman should be made aware of instances
where there are potential or actual conflicts of interest.
Employees may engage in private work, only under specified conditions and with prior
permission from the appropriate authority, based upon an assessment of potential conflict of
interest.
In instances where an employee wishes to serve as a director, trustee, officer, owner or partner of
any other business organization, regardless of whether compensation in any form is received, that
employee must first obtain approval prior to accepting any form of outside employment. Where
an employee is desirous of serving as a volunteer, in the form of director, trustee, officer etc. of a
non profit organization, no approval is required if there is no actual or potential conflict. (See
Staff Orders – 4.2.9. for examples of circumstances under which a conflict of interest may be
deemed to exist.
Soliciting
The practice of soliciting funds especially during the working hours, is prohibited.
Receiving Gifts\Compensation
Employees, in their official capacity, are prohibited from soliciting or accepting gifts, gratuities,
compensation from any individual or entity for the performance or the neglect of their duties.
While gifts of minimal value (not including money) may be accepted, they must only be accepted
if, in the employee’s opinion they are not intended to influence judgment and are merely given as
a token of appreciation. Where the refusal of a gift may offend international or cultural
sensitivities, the matter should be brought to the attention of the employee’s supervisor, with a
view to have the gift transferred to the Corporation.
Exercise of Managerial Authority
 Managers are expected to exercise their authority fairly and even-handedly.
 The exercise of authority must be to achieve the goals of the organization (results,
outputs) consistent with the committed resources.
 The exercise of authority should be consistent with sound human resource management
practices.
 Managers who are found to be abusive or vindictive in the exercise of authority shall be
subject to disciplinary measures.

26

External Communication
 Any material, statement, documentation or other forms of communication for publication
in any media must be approved by the CEO or other authorized personnel.
 When an employee is called upon to respond to the media or participate in interviews on
the Corporation’s Policy, approval must be sought from the CEO and care must be taken
to provide only factual information for explanation and clarification.
 Subject to the provision of the Access to Information Act, employees must obtain written
approval and clearance from the CEO, prior to making public any information which may
come into the employee’s possession in an official or unofficial capacity.
Confidentiality
 Information and documents of a confidential nature must never be discussed with
persons outside of the Corporation. Within the Corporation disclosure of information
and documents of a confidential nature must be restricted to those employees who
need to know.
 All employees shall adhere to the provisions of the relevant legislation pertaining to
the utilization and dissemination of public information.
 The advice of the Attorney General should be obtained prior to any such disclosure.
Legal Advice
The advice of the Attorney General shall be sought where:
1)

in the execution of official duties and responsibilities, an employee is in doubt of
the legal implications of any matter; or

2)

the interests of the Corporation may be compromised or jeopardized; or there are
indications that legal proceedings may need to be instituted against anyone; or
other legal services are not readily available to the Corporation.

Use of the Corporation’s Property
The Corporation’s stationery, supplies or other property may not be used for any purpose other
than official company business and duly issued and signed by designated authorized personnel.
Corporate stationery, rubber stamps and seals are to be locked away when not in use. The
unauthorized use of company property shall attract disciplinary action as stated in the Code of
Conduct.
Weapons
Employees are not permitted to carry weapons or explosives on the Corporation premises, unless
they have the appropriate license to do so. In addition, the employee must receive, in writing,
authorization from the Corporation to carry the weapon(s).

27

COPYRIGHT POLICY
Ownership
1)

The right of ownership is vested in the Corporation for any work, reports, where:
a) the work is produced within the scope of employment, using facilities,
personnel, resources of the Corporation; or
b) the work results from a contractual arrangement between the Corporation
and a contractor, in which the owner is not specified.

2)

The right of ownership is vested in employees for any work created on their own
initiative, outside the scope of employment, not using facilities, personnel or
other resources of the Corporation.

Use
Employees are required to take the following steps in the use of works of others in whom
copyright is vested:
 Seek permission where necessary.
 Credit source with appropriate reference.
Royalties
 The use of works, which are subject to copyright, may require the payment of
royalties to the author or to the authority in which the copyright is vested.
 Where there is any doubt as to whether copyright exists in a work, or as to who is
entitled to it, the advice of the Attorney General should be sought.
SAFETY/SECURITY
All visitors are required to report to the security officer/s/receptionist and log their presence.
Visitors will be accompanied by a member of staff in areas beyond public access. Personal
visitors should be accommodated in the Reception area.

28

DISCIPLINARY CODE AND PROCEDURE
PBCJ employees, found to be in breach of their Employment Contract or any of the Code of
Conduct, whether included in the Code or not, will be subject to disciplinary action.
The Management of the PBCJ reserves the right to add, change and/or modify the Rules of the
Code of Conduct as deemed fit.
OBJECTIVE:
The objective of the Disciplinary Code and Procedure is to regulate discipline in the workplace
with the key principle that the employer and the employees should treat each other with mutual
respect.
1) Employment justice and the efficient operation of the organization are of paramount
importance.
2) While this procedure protects the employees from arbitrary action, the employer is
entitled to satisfactory conduct and work performance from its employees.
3) Although discipline in general will be applied according to the provisions of the
Code, departure from these norms may be justified in proper circumstances.
PRINCIPLES
1. Primarily, the purpose of disciplinary action is to correct behaviour rather than to terminate
services.
2. Disciplinary action should be appropriate to the gravity of the offence, fair and

undertaken in cases where good reason and clear evidence exist.
3. The Corporation reserves the right to implement rules or to establish standards of
performance and behaviour and the measurement thereof.
4. Disciplinary action taken by the Corporation will at all times be in keeping with the best
Industrial Relations Practices.
5. No offence will be considered in isolation and the total impact of the offence in a disciplinary
action shall be considered.
6. In the event of a disciplinary matter, a Disciplinary Committee comprising of the Human
Resource Manager/Officer, a Staff Representative and a third manager will deal with the
incident in a manner that has been agreed upon by the three parties.

29

PROCEDURES
1.

Where a breach of discipline, whether included in the disciplinary code or not, is observed
by or reported to the Supervisor/Manager, he/she shall act promptly in implementing the
disciplinary procedures.

2.

Procedures do not have to be followed every time a breach occurs. The most acceptable,
effective way for the organization to deal with minor violations of work discipline is
through informal advice and correction.

3.

Repeated misconduct will warrant warnings. More serious infringements or repeated
misconduct may call for final warning, or action short of dismissal. Dismissal would be
reserved for cases of serious misconduct or repeated offences.

4.

The seriousness of the offence will determine the action to be taken and not necessarily, the
number of occasions the transgressions were committed:

Verbal warnings
A verbal warning will be given to the employee in the first instances of minor offences and will
not apply in cases of serious misconduct.
This constitutes the first formal action against an employee for failure to meet performance
requirements, breach of the terms of employment, or other work rules.
These warnings are usually issued by the employee’s immediate supervisor/manager. Warnings
of this kind must be given as soon as possible after the offence becomes known.
Written warnings

A written warning will be given to the employee in the first instance of more serious
offence, or after repeated instances of minor offences and verbal warning(s) fail(s) to
produce the required results, or where stronger action than a verbal warning is required.

The written warning is to be given by the employee’s immediate supervisor or manager
and should be effected as soon as possible after the incident comes to management’s attention.
The following procedure should be utilized:
a.

c.

The supervisor records, in writing, the incident that gave rise to the issuing of such
written warning;
A copy of the warning is handed to the employee for which the employee is required
to sign acknowledgement of receipt. If the employee refuses to sign, a witness should
sign in the presence of the employee, confirming that the warning was issued.
A copy of the warning will be placed on the employee’s Personnel file/record.

d.

Written warnings will remain valid for a period of one (1) year.

b.

The employee will have the right to appeal to higher management if he/she thinks the
warning is unjustified.

30

Final Written Warnings
These may be used where previous verbal and written warnings fail to produce desired results
and/or where stronger action is required. Steps a – d above should be applied.

Dismissal
This step may be used where previous written warnings failed to produce the desired results, or
where stronger action than either First or Final warnings are necessary due to the seriousness of
the offence.
Further Disciplinary Action
If despite previous warnings, an employee still fails to reach the required standards of
performance or conduct in a reasonable period of time, it may become necessary to consider
further disciplinary action. In such an event the Manager/Supervisor should report the matter to
the HR Manager.
The HR Manager shall convene a meeting to enquire into the alleged offence. This meeting shall
be conducted by the HR Manager and attended by representatives of the Disciplinary Committee.
Members of the Disciplinary Committee shall not be directly involved in the circumstances
leading to the charges against the employee.
At the conclusion of the hearing, the HR Manager shall adjourn the proceedings to allow for
deliberation and determination of the issues. The employee shall be informed of the decision
within fifteen (15) working days after the enquiry has been concluded or as soon as practicable
thereafter. Where dismissal of an employee is proposed, the dismissal must be confirmed by the
CEO or the Board in advance of the employee being notified of same.

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
The PBCJ undertakes equal employment irrespective of race, religion, colour, gender, age or
political affiliation.

31

GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Individual grievances
The Corporation will treat all employees who wish to raise an individual work-related grievance
or complaint fairly and without prejudice.
Any employee who believes he/she may have been the subject of unfair or unlawful
discrimination, racist or sexist abuse or harassment, should raise his/her concern using the
prescribed Grievance Procedure. Grievances of this nature that may involve or implicate an
employee’s manager should be reported directly to the Human Resources Manager.
Any employee or group of employees has the right to discuss their grievances with management
at any time. Grievances should be discussed with the immediate Supervisor; the Head of the
Department/Unit where applicable and the Human Resources Officer/Manager
A complaint or report from an employee or group of employees must be made within five (5)
working days of the occurrence of the cause of the complaint or knowledge of its existence,
failing which the grievance shall be deemed to have been abandoned. A complainant must
either be directly affected by or concerned with the subject matter of the complaint. The term
complainant may refer to one or more than one employee.

In dealing with complaints the following steps must be pursued:
Stage 1
An employee with a complaint raises it, first with his/her immediate supervisor, who shall
investigate the complaint by way of an oral enquiry. In attempting to resolve the problem, the
immediate supervisor shall consult the appropriate parties so as to secure a satisfactory solution.
An answer must be given to the complainant within five (5) working days of the complaint being
received.
An employee may also raise a matter on behalf of a group of employees from his/her department

with the supervisor.
Alternatively, a group of employees may raise the matter which affects them. In this case a small
delegation from the group may raise the matter and proceed throughout the stages of this
procedure in the same way as an employee acting alone.
Stage ll
If the matter is not disposed of by the immediate supervisor to the satisfaction of the complainant
or if an acceptable solution cannot be found within five (5) working days, unless extended by
mutual agreement, the complainant may present his /her case, which must be put in writing to his
immediate supervisor’s supervisor or Head of Department/Unit, whichever is applicable, as well
as the Staff Representative who should participate in all subsequent stages of the protest. In the
event that the immediate supervisor referred to in Step 1 above is the Head of Department, the
complaint should be dealt with in accordance with stage 3.

32

At this stage, the grievance shall be disposed of within five (5) working days from the date of
receipt of the complaint and failing disposal thereof the complainant may re-present his/her
grievance at the third stage within the following five (5) working days following this failure to
dispose
Stage lll
If no solution has been reached at the second stage, the complainant may, within five (5)
working days of the response from the Head of Department, present his/her case, which must be
put in writing, to the Human Resources Manager. At this stage the grievance shall be disposed of
within ten (10) working days from the date of receipt of the complaint.
Stage lV
If no solution has been reached at the third stage, the written grievance shall be referred by the
complainant to the CEO along with the written complaint and all other written evidence
emanating from all the other stages. The CEO shall dispose of the matter within ten (10) working
days from the date of receipt of the complaint. At this stage all concerned shall use their best
efforts to arrive at a mutually satisfactory solution.
Stage V
If a solution has not been reached at the fourth stage, the written grievance shall be referred to by
either the CEO or the Complaint party to the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Stage VI
If a solution has not been reached at the fifth stage, the complainant may present his/her case in
writing to the Industrial Disputes Tribunal or any other Tribunal set up for such a purpose. The
findings of such a Tribunal are normally binding and can only be reversed on a point of Law.

Annotations
In dealing with the foregoing procedure the following additional rules shall apply:
1) Any grievance which is not presented and/or carried forward by the complainant to
the next step of this Grievance procedure within the specified time limit, shall be
considered as abandoned.
2) At all stages of the procedure, there should be due regard paid to established “best
practices” guidelines set out in the Staff Orders for the Public Service where
available, as well as in the relevant legislation governing the practice of Industrial
Relations.
3) Throughout the stages of the procedure, notes must be recorded and witnesses called
as appropriate.

33

Collective grievances
This procedure is designed to operate when a group of employees wishes to raise a common
grievance with the Corporation, whether or not a recognized staff association or trade union
represents the employees.

TERMINATION
Retirement
The normal age of retirement for all employees is 60 years for female and 65 for male.
On reaching retirement age, an employee will normally retire on the last day of the birthday
month. The Corporation shall advise the employee in writing of the imminent retirement date at
least one (1) year in advance.
A retiring employee will be paid full salary to the effective date of retirement, and any additional
payments due including pay for any unused portion of vacation leave entitlement, subject to the
settlement of any indebtedness to the Corporation.
Late Retirement
There may be instances where the Corporation may consider granting extension of employment
after the retirement age is reached, on account of an employee’s demonstrated competence level
and physical capacity. On such occasions, at the request of the employer and on agreement by
the Board of Directors, the Corporation may approve requests for late retirement.
A retiring employee will be paid their full salary to the effective date of their retirement and any
additional payments due including pay for any unused portion of their vacation leave entitlement,
subject to the settlement of any indebtedness to the Corporation.
Resignations
Resignation letters shall be addressed to the HR Manager and copied to the employee's supervisor
or Head of Department, indicating the effective date of resignation.
All employees are required to give a written notice in accordance with the terms of their contract
to allow the Corporation adequate time to process all necessary paperwork and payments due to
the employee and to allow sufficient time to reorganize staffing arrangements.
The Corporation reserves the right to effect immediate cessation of employment, with pay for the
period that the notice is due, prior to the effective date of resignation. However, where an
employee resigns and requests waiver of the notice requirement to the company, no notice pay
will be made.

34

Exit Interview
When an employee is leaving the Corporation an exit interviews shall be conducted, whenever
possible, in order to:
• Determine the factors or reasons that influenced the employee decision to resign.
• Determine the employee's attitude towards the job, his/her supervisor/manager, and the
Corporation as a whole.
• Ascertain if there are Corporation policies or practices that the employee thinks need to be
improved.
• Discuss the employee’s future plans, and offer any available help or advice from Corporation.
• Obtain any other information that will help the Corporation to improve its operation and perhaps
contribute to better relationships with employees.
REDUNDANCY
Periodic reorganization and the re-engineering of processes and functions may result in
outplacement of functions, once performed by the Corporation, or reduction in the number of
persons required to work in a particular area.
In such instances, certain positions may become redundant. The redundancy will result in the
severance of the services of the incumbent(s). Where positions are declared redundant, efforts
will first be made to redeploy the affected employee(s) to existing vacant position(s) at the
Corporation or within the Group, for which his/her attitude, job performance and academic
qualification makes him/her suitable. If the Corporation is not able to redeploy the individual(s),
his/her employment will be severed.
Where employment has to be severed for reasons of redundancy, the Corporation will ensure that
this is conducted in accordance with The Employment (Termination and Redundancy Payment)
Act, and all regulations and orders made under this Act will be satisfied. (A copy of this Act can
be reviewed in the HR Department).
In certain circumstances, the CEO may decide to request volunteers from groups of employees
who may be affected by the redundancy. The Corporation will reserve the right to accept such
volunteers or not.
All redundancies must be approved by the Board on the recommendation from the CEO.
The HRD Manager shall offer to employees who are being made redundant, any possible
assistance to seek jobs elsewhere, in an attempt to make the redundancy exercise a smooth and
painless one.
Dismissal
An employee of the Corporation will be dismissed only for justifiable reasons and after
investigations have been conducted into the specific situation and Disciplinary procedures
followed. At this point, if it has been decided that the individual’s employment should not be
continued, the HR Manger will send a letter to the CEO recommending the employee’s dismissal.
If an employee is being dismissed for cause s/he shall not be entitled to notice or payment in lieu
of notice.

35

The decision to dismiss an employee in the Senior Management category for reason other than
cause should be approved by the Chairman of the Board of Directors before being implemented.
Dismissal Procedure
If the decision is taken to dismiss an employee, implementation should take place only after there
has been an exhaustion of the appeal process. In some instances the employee may be given the
opportunity to resign instead of being dismissed. In other situations the CEO and the HR Manager
should make the employee aware of the decision.
If an employee resigns or is dismissed from his/her position at the Corporation, his/her final
pay shall be computed as follows:
Termination Pay and Refunds
(a) Pay for work done inclusive of allowances and gratuities
(b) Pay in lieu of vacation earned but not taken
(c) Payment in lieu of Notice of Termination – if dismissal is not for cause.
Funds due to the employee as outlined in items (a – c) will be paid less any indebtedness to the
Corporation.
ABANDONMENT OF POST
An employee who is absent from work for five (5) consecutive working days without contacting
his/her Department Head or the HR Manager shall be deemed to have abandoned his/her job. If
management determines that an employee has abandoned his/her job, then the procedure for
Termination as is outlined under Dismissal shall be followed.
DEATH
Upon the death of an employee, the HR Manager should be notified immediately. After this
notification the Corporation will advise the employee’s nominated beneficiaries on the financial
benefits such as Group Life Insurance due to named beneficiaries. The Corporation will notify the
relevant providers after which the beneficiary will make direct contact with the provider
regarding requirements/arrangements for payout. If there is no named beneficiary, payments will
be made to the deceased employee’s estate. Outstanding monies owed by the Corporation to the
employee as outlined under Termination Pay/Refund, items (a – c) and (i), will be paid to the
beneficiaries after deductions have been made if the deceased owed money to the Corporation.
Where no such person(s) has been nominated payment will be made to the deceased’s estate.
Responsibility
The HRD Manager is responsible for ensuring:
1. That the Accounts Department is provided with the requisite information to determine all funds
owing to the employee less any indebtedness to the Corporation. The Accounts Department is
required to prepare a Statement of Pay, which is to be provided to the employee on his/her last
day of employment.

36

2. That a termination of employment letter is prepared, which is to be co-signed by the CEO, or
letter of acknowledgement pertaining to resignation, which will be sent to the Head of the
resigning employees department and the Accounts Department.
3. That an exit interview is conducted where possible.
4. The cancellation of Health and Life Insurance policies that were taken out on the employee’s
behalf.
5. That the employee returns keys, identification cards and any other property belonging to the
Corporation (As per Employee Separation Check List at Appendix….)
6. That the separation is as cordial and non-disruptive as possible.
7. That a P45 Income Tax Form is prepared by the Accounts Department for the employee if such
a request is made.

37

EXAMPLES OF DISCIPLINARY OFFENCES
GROUP A OFFENCES

INCIDENT
Poor
performance

2nd Offence
1st Offence
work Recorded verbal Written warning
warning

Insubordination
Willful
verbal
refusal of lawful
instruction,
disregard
for
authority, walking
away,
addressing
the senior manager
or supervisor in a
disrespectful
manner
Repeated
unauthorized
absenteeism (e.g.
less than 3 working
days on duty)
Absence without
leave or permission
for
five
(5)
consecutive
working days or
more
Repeated
unauthorized late
arrival or early
quitting
without
leave or permission

Written warning

Written warning

3rd Offence
4th Offence
Final
written Termination of
warning
service
with
notice
3 - 5 Days Termination of
Suspension
service
with
notice

3
Days Termination of
suspension
service
with
notice

Dismissal

Recorded verbal Written warning
warning

3
Days Termination of
suspension
service
with
notice

Consumption
of Written warning 3
Days
food
in
suspension
unauthorized areas
Failure to keep Recorded verbal Written warning
equipment or work warning
area for which
employee
is
responsible
in
proper condition

Termination of
service
with
notice
Final
written Termination of
warning
service
with
notice

(This means 5 times in a
20 day period)

38

GROUP B OFFENCES

INCIDENT
Engaging in
horseplay, or other
similar conduct likely
to cause injury to
persons or damage to
property.
Threatening,
intimidating, coercing
or interfering with
fellow employees
Disrespectful
behaviour
Deliberately
restricting output or
intentional
slowing
down of work.

1st Offence
Written
Warning

2nd Offence
5 Days
Suspension

3rd Offence
Dismissal

Written
Warning

5 Days
Suspension

Dismissal

Written warning

Final written warning

Termination
of
service with notice

5 Days
Suspension

Dismissal

Using
insulting
language to clients
and colleagues
Carelessness
and
failure to observe
safety regulations and
hygiene rules
Wilful disregard of
rules relating to use of
the
Corporation’s
vehicles
Failure to comply
with procedures as
prescribed in the
conditions of service
and
letter
of
employment
Playing cards during
official working time
or
gambling
on
Corporation’s
premises
Loafing or sleeping on
duty
Sexual misconduct on
the
Corporation’s
premises

Written warning

Final written warning

Termination
of
service with notice

Written warning

Final written warning

Termination
of
service with notice

Final written warning

Termination
of
service with notice

Final written warning

Termination
of
service with notice

5 Days suspension

Termination of
Service with notice

5 Days suspension

Termination
of
service with notice

3 Days suspension

5 Days
Suspension

Dismissal

39

GROUP C OFFENCES
INCIDENT
IF AN EMPLOYEE COMMITS ANY OF THE FOLLOWING OFFENCES, HE/SHE MAY BE
SUMMARILY DISMISSED, (WITHOUT NOTICE) IF SO DECIDED FOLLOWING A
PROPER HEARING.
Unauthorized consumption on the premises of intoxicating liquor and/or habit forming drugs or
being under the influence of such substances whilst on duty or offering to any other person, or
having in his possession intoxicating substances whilst on the premises.
Entering or remaining on the Corporation’s premises whilst in a state of intoxication.
Smoking in areas where “No smoking” signs are exhibited.
Refusing to execute any reasonable and lawful order given by a supervisor or inciting other
employees to refuse.(Remove to “Written warning, Suspension 7 days, Dismissal” )
Fighting or assaulting others whilst on the premises or attempting to injure in any other way or
intimidate an employee.
Being in possession of a fire-arm or other dangerous weapon on the premises without authority
granted by management.
Signing in or out on behalf of another employee or making unauthorized alterations to the
attendance records.
Falsification of Company’s records.
Proven theft or fraud or wilful deceit or being an accessory thereto or making an attempt thereat
Being in possession of Company property without permission.
Committing violence or inciting other employees to violence
willful neglect of or destruction of the Corporation’s property, machinery, equipment etc.
Arranging unauthorized meeting
Gross insubordination (threatening or using indecent language to a director, manager or
supervisor, abusive language, wilfully knocking anything from the hands of a manager/supervisor
etc.)
Revealing of secret or confidential information to unauthorized persons relating to the operations
of the Corporation.
Using confidential information for own purposes (Unauthorized use or disclosure of information
obtained as a result of job placement. (5 Days suspension, Dismissal)
Undertaking without permission any private agency work in direct competition with the
Corporation.
An employee who prior to his confirmation of employment had previously been guilty of a
criminal offence, and had failed to disclose this information.
Adversely portrays the image and business of the Corporation through comments, statements, and
allegations to clients, customers and suppliers.
Soliciting or accepting bribes from customers or any other person.
It is obviously not practical to specify all offences, and the above schedule has therefore been
confined to those that are more or less, common to the Corporation’s operations.
The schedule will be generally followed, but the Corporation reserves the right to treat any
offence against its rules and regulations, on the merit of the case.
As the Schedules show, disciplinary measures will be more severe if previous offences are
recorded on the employee’s file

40

Policy Administrator
Public Broadcasting Corporation of Jamaica.

March 11, 2011.

41

