White Paper on Human Resource
Management in the Public Service
Contents

Contents

Executive Summary

Chapter 1: Introducation
1.1 Purpose of the White Paper
1.2 Context and background
1.3 The need for change
1.4 Scope and structure of the White Paper
1.5 Terminology
Chapter 2: Vision, Mission and Values
2.1 Vision
2.2. Mission
2.3 Values
Chapter 3: A New Framework for Human
Resource Management Resource Culture
3.1 Managing human resoures in the Public
Service
3.2 Valuing diversity
3.3 The case for diversity
Chapter 4: A New Framework for Human
Management Resource
4.1 Introducation
4.2 Human resource planning
4.3 Employment contracts
4.4 Flexible working patterns
4.5 A career Public Service
4.6 Increased competition
4.7 Selection on merit

Chapter 5: Human Resource Management
in Practice
5.1 Recruitment
5.2 Entry requirments
5.3 Placement
5.4 Probation
5.5 Promotion
5.6 Lateral transfers
5.7 Secondments, loans and exchanges
5.8 Re-employment
5.9 Performance management
5.10 Career management
5.11 Managing conduct
5.12 Managing grievances
Chapter 6: Termination of Service
6.1
6.2
6.3
6.4

Introducation
Termination initated by the employee
Termination by mutual agreement
Termination initiated by the employer

Chapter 7: Implentation
7.1 The challenge
7.2 Communications
7.3 Institutional mechanisms
7.4 From personnel administration to
human resource management
7.5 Capacity building
7.6 Transforming human resource
management - the key steps
7.7 Conclusion

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Introducation
1. The post-1994 Public Service faces enormous challenges, both in terms of its own
transformation, and in terms of the transformation of the services which it provides to

the people of South Africa. These challenges are being tackled through a
comprehensive programme of policy initiatives underpinned by progressive
legislative changes. The initiatives will achieve a fundamental managerial shift from a
centrally controlled, process-driven Public Service to a service which - is
representative of all the people of South Africa; treats all public servants as a valuable
resource;
•

is focused on service delivery outcomes;

•

assigns managerial responsibility for results, and for the resources consumed in producing
them, to the lowest practicable level;

•

holds public servants accountable for their actions; and

•

conducts its business professionally, transparently and ethically.

2. This shift can be summarised as a shift from personnel administration to human
resource management The White Paper strongly promotes the development of
departmental/provincial policies within the parameters defined by national policies.
This, strongly effects the notion of managerial autonomy.
3. National departments and provincial administrations employ approximately 1,2
million people, who account for more than 50% of all public expenditure. People are
therefore the Public Service's most valuable asset, and managing human resources
effectively and strategically must be the cornerstone of the wider transformation of
the Public Service. Managing people in the South African Public Service has
traditionally been seen as an administrative task undertaken by a specialist group of
personnel functionaries applying centrally-devised egulations and prescripts. The
White Paper on Human Resource Management sets out a policy framework which
will accomplish the shift from personnel administration to human resource
management.
4. The White Paper sets out the future goals for managing people in the Public
Service. These goals cannot be achieved overnight. A number of existing human
resource practices will need to be revised and, in certain instances, agreements will
need to be re-negotiated with representatives of organised labour.

Vision, mission and values
5. Vision
Human resource management in the Public Service will result in diverse competent and well-managed
workforce; capable of and committed to delivering high quality services to the people of South Africa.

6. Mission
Human resource management in the Public Service should become a model of excellence, in which
service to society stems from individual commitment instead of compulsion. The management of
people should be regarded as a significant task for those who have been charged with the responsibility
and should be conducted in professional manner.

7. The following values which are derived from the Constitution, will underpin human
resource management in the Public Service:
Fairness; Equity; Accessibility; Transperancy; Accountability; Participation and Professionalism.

Changing the human resource management culture
8. Human resource management within the Public Service will need to undergo
fundamental change in order to actualise the following management principles:
•

Increased delegation of managerial responsibility and authority to national departments and
provincial administrations and, within departments, the delegation of day-to-day management
decisions to line managers.

•

The development of a service delivery-oriented, multi-skilled and multi-cultural workforce.

•

The continuing drive for efficiency and effectiveness.

•

Creating a flexible environment that takes into account both the operational needs of the
organisation and the needs of the employees.

9. In future, national departments and provincial administrations unil be responsible;
within nationally defined parameters, for planning and managing their human
resources to meet their own strategic andoperational objectives. Within departments,
the prime responsibility for day-to-day management of human resources will rest with
line managers. Personnel administration components will be developed into fullyfledged human resource management units, providing policy advice and professional
human resource services.
10. A major human resource management objective will be the development of a
genuine culture of diversity which builds positively on employees differing cultural
backgrounds. The Public Service needs to be affirming people even beyond race,
gender and disability, for example people with a rural background, single parents, etc.
The aim is, that the Public Service will represent all sections of society and that
productivity will be increased by maximising the contribution of all employees.
11. The Public Service values those who have dedicated themselves to career of
service to the public, and will reward public servants who perform well. The Public
Service will continue to strive for good employee relations and to work participatively
with organised labour.

New human resource management policies for a new Public Service
The objective of introducing these policies is to ensure that service delivery is
enhanced within an environment characterised by employment justice, cultural
diversity and transparency.

Human resource Planning
12.National departments and provincial administrations will be required to develop
human resource strategies which are integrated with their strategic and operational
plans, in order to ensure that their future staffing needs are met. These strategies will
include specific employment equity objectives and targets for achieving a
representative workforce.

Employment contracts
13. Most employees will be employed on continuous contracts. However, there will
be increasing use of fixed-term contracts, in order to access scarce skills, and to

develop greater interchange between the Public Service, public sector and private
sector. Temporary employment will be used only to meet ad hoc, short-term work
requirements of not more than 12 months duration. All employees will have a written
employment contract. In introducing written contracts, existing rights of employees
will be protected, as the process will be subjected to consultation and negotiation.

Flexible working patterns
14. The use of part-time work, job-sharing and more flexible working hours will be
encouraged as a means of managing peaks and troughs of work more efficiently and
effectively, and of providing working conditions which are more responsive to the
employers' and employees' needs.

A career public service
15. The Public Service will be a career service and will offer opportunities for
development and advancement through improved performance and career
management, the removal of unnecessary barriers between occupational groups, and.
increased opportunities to compete for positions at higher levels.

Increased competition
16. Positions in the Public Service will be filled by either open, targeted or internal
competition.
The aim will be to •

identify the most suitable person for the job from the widest possible pool of talent

•

make the Public Service more accessible to all sections of society;

•

achieve employment equity, and

•

provide equal opportunities for advancement for people at all levels within the Public Service.

Selection on merit
17. Selection criteria will be based only on the inherent requirements of the position
to be filled, and will be based on competencies rather than undue over-emphasis on
academic qualifications. Merit must be defined within the context of employment
equity.

Recruitment
18. Cost effectivee recruitment strategies will be designed to reach and attract
candidates from all sections of the population; and to maximise recruitment among
people from historically disadvantaged groups.

Entry requirments
19. Employment in the Public Service will normally be restricted to South African
citizens aged, between, 16 and 60. Legislation in this regard Will be introduced
shortly, but due regard will be given to protected existing rights of employees. Preentry health checks will not be required, except where they are essentially an inherent

requirement of the job, or where employees who have retired on medical grounds,
seek re-employment.

Placement
20. In instances where there is a need to fill critical positions which are key to the
organisation's effectiveness, placement strategies, which must always be in line with
the overall human resource plan, can be instituted. However,placement should not
undermine the essence of the recruitment policy.

Probation:
21. Probationary periods should be limited to a minimum of 3 months and shall
normally not exceed 6 months, and probationers will be assessed in accordance with
clearly defined criteria.

Promotion
2 2. Promotion, is the movement from one position to a higher position and will
always be on the basis of competition. It will be open to applicants at all levels,
provided they demonstrate that they have the necessary competence and/or potential
to fulfill the requirements of the job. Seniority,will not be a factor in assessing
suitability for promotion.

Lateral transfers
23. Periodically, in the interest of organisational effectiveness and employee
development, transfers may be effected both within the organisation and the wider
Public Service.

Secondments. loans and exchanges
24. In order to encourage greater mobility within the Public Service, as well as
amongst the Public Service, other sectors and external organisations, secondments,
loans and exchanges can be effected. This should always be in the interest of the
State.

Re-employment
25. Former employees who have resigned, retired early or prematurely may be reemployed if they successfully apply for a post through competition, other than
employees whose services were terminated subject to restrictions on their further
employment in the Public Service.

Performance management
26. Every employee's performance will be assessed at least once annually against
mutually agreed objectives. The assessment process will be aimed at identifying
strengths and weaknesses, in order to recognise and reward good performance, and
manage poor performance.

Career management

27. Individual employees will be primarily responsible for seeking opportunities for
development and promotion in line with their own career aspirations. Managers will
also have a responsibility for supporting and encouraging their staff to take advantage
of such opportunities, and managers' performance will be assessed, among other
things, on whether they have fulfilled this responsibility.

Managing conduct and grievances
28. The Code of Conduct for Public Servants issued by the Public Service
Commission requires departments/administrations to develop supplemantary codes of
conduct to suit their own circumstances. Managers will have a particular duty to be
exemplary to their staff. Procedures to deal with breaches of conduct will be
streamlined and speeded up. National departments and provincial administrations will
be required to develop procedures that are aimed at settling grievances promptly,
amicably, fairly and objectively and, as far as possible, at the point of origin.

Termination of services
29. An employee's services will be terminated in one of the following three ways:
•

Employee initiated: Resignation, early retirement between the ages of 55 and 60 and
abscondment.

•

Mutually agreed: Premature retirement below the age of 55 and voluntary severance.

•

Employer initiated: On achieving the compulsory retirement age of 60 years, (all current
compulsory retirement ages for existing employees will be protected) completion of fixedterm contract, compulsory severance, ill-health, incapacity, or dismissal for misconduct.

Implementation
30. Implementing the policies in the White Paper will pose challenges both for
national departments and provincial administrations and for the Department of Public
Service and Administration. The White Paper sets out the key steps which national
departments and provincial administrations will need to take. The Department of
Public Service and Administration will develop, in conjunction with key players such
as the South African Management Development Institute, a communication and
capacity-building programme to support the Department's implementation
programme. A capacity assessment tool has been developed which will inform the
implementation strategy.
31. Changes which involve amendments to existing agreements with organised labour
will be negotiated and/or consulted with their representatives and, where necessary,
transitional arrangements will be agreed upon.

Conclusion
32. Significant progress in implementing policies contained in this Paper, is expected
within 2 years.
33. The Public Service Commission will, as part of its normal duties, monitor national
departments' and provincial administrations' progress in implementing the policies in
the White Paper. The Department of Public Service and Administration will report to

Parliament on the overall success of the policies 12 months after the official launch of
the White Paper.

CHAPTER 1
INTRODUCTION
1.1 Purpose of the White Paper
1.1.1 A professional and impartial Public Service which is representative of all
sections of society is essential for efficient and effective government, and the
achievement of South Africa's democratic, economic and social goals. Transforming
the Public Service into an instrument capable of fulfilling its role in bringing about the
new South Africa depends on many things but, above all, it depends on the
commitment and effectiveness of its employees, which in turn depend on the way in
which those employees are managed.
1.1.2 South Africa's first democratically elected Government inherited a Public
Service whose role in bringing about economic and social equity is pivotal, but whose
capacity to do so is severely limited by outmoded and inappropriate human resource
management practices. Transforming the way human resources are managed is,
therefore, the catalyst for the transformation of the Public Service itself.
1.1.3 The purpose of this White Paper is to provide a policy framework that will
facilitate the development of human resource management practices which support an
effective and efficient Public Service, geared for economic and social transformation.
Human resource management is therefore, regarded as one of the strategic instruments
of the transformation agenda for the Public Service.

1.2 Context and background
1.2.1 The Constitution sets out nine principles which should govern the Public
Service. These are:
•

A high standard of professional ethics should be promoted and maintained.

•

Efficient, economic and effective use of resources should be promoted.

•

Public administration should be development oriented.

•

Services should be provided impartially, fairly, equitably and without bias.

•

Peoples' needs should be responded to, and the public should be encouraged to participate in
policy-making.

•

Public administration should be accountable.

•

Transparency should be fostered by providing the public with timely, accessible and accurate
information.Good human resource management and career-development practices, to
maximise human potential, should be cultivated

•

Public Administration should be broadly representative of the South African people, with
employment and personnel practices based on ability, objectivity, fairness, and the need to
redress the imbalances of the past to achieve broad representation.

1.2.2 The White Paper on the Transformation of the Public Service sets out a
comprehensive framework for change, in line with these constitutional principles. The
transformation agenda is being informed by nine priority areas as identified in the
aforementioned White Paper and is being taken forward on all fronts through a series
of policy initiatives. One such key area is human resource management and training.
1.2.3 This White Paper addresses itself to human resource management, namely
personnel provisioning, utilisation and termination of services, certain aspects of
human resource development and human resource management culture. Other
initiatives in place are the White Paper on Education and Training in the Public
Service, the White Paper on Service Delivery, the development of a White Paper on
Affirmative Action, the project on a new Code for Remuneration (CORE) which is
meant to replace the existing Personnel Administration Standards (PAS), and a project
on a new job evaluation system. These developments have been underpinned by a
programme of Public Service legislation which has clarified the roles and
responsibilities of the Minister for Public Service and Administration, the Public
Service Commission (PSC), the South African Management Development Institute
(SAMDI) and national departments and provincial administrations. The aim is to
delegate and, where appropriate, devolve responsibility and accountability for human
resource management to national departments and provincial administrations. The
transfer of responsibility to national departments and provincial administrations will
be undertaken within a framework of national norms and standards to ensure that the
Public Service remains unified.
1.2.4 Since the issuing in May 1997 of the Green Paper on a New Employment Policy
for a New Public Service, a series of extensive consultations were undertaken
involving the following stakeholders:
•

National departments and provincial administrations.

•

Public Service unions admitted to the Public Service Bargaining Chamber at central level.

•

NEDLAC.

•

The Standing Committee on Public Service and Administration.

1.2.5 The document was also widely distributed to external stakeholders such as
universities, municipalities, human resource specialists in the private sector, research
institutions, parastatals and international bodies and experts. Constructive inputs were
received from the above-mentioned stakeholders which have culminated in this White
Paper.

1.3 The need for chance
1.3.1 The Department of Public Service and Administration knows, from its own
involvement in administering the existing personnel management practices, that these
practices are ineffective, discriminatory and inefficient. For example•

it takes around 3 months, and in extreme cases up to 12 months to recruit a new entrant;

•

some 79% of employees are black, however, only 38% of staff at Director level and above are
black; and

•

the Public Service Staff Code and Public Service Regulations comprise a total of
approximately 1700 pages and the Personnel Administration Standards around a further 3600
pages.

1.3.2 The responses to the Green Paper made it clear that national departments and
provincial administrations are overwhelmingly dissatisfied with human resource
management in the Public Service, which is over-centralised, excessively bureaucratic
and rule-bound. It is focused on form rather than substance and results. Human
resource planning is weak, post-filling and promotion criteria over emphasise
educational qualifications and seniority, and little or no emphasis is placed on the
requirements of the job to be done. Performance management is also underdeveloped.
1.3.3 Moreover, while the formal barriers to advancement for previously
disadvantaged groups have been removed, many levels of the Public Service are still
effectively closed to external applicants, and there is still a long way to go in creating
a genuine culture of diversity within the Public Service.
1.3.4 In short, the Public Service's capacity to predict and meet its human resource
requirements, and to manage its human resources effectively and efficiently, is wholly
inadequate. The Public Service is facing the immense challenges of transformation
with human resource management practices designed in a different era for different
purposes. The transformation of these tools is an essential prerequisite to enable the
Public Service to fulfill its role of service delivery to all.

1.4 Scope and structure of the White Paper
1.4.1 The scope of this White Paper is confined to personnel provisioning and
utilisation, human resource management culture and some aspects of human resource
development and termination of services. The Paper does not cover other aspects of
labour relations, remuneration, general conditions of service and training.
1.4.2 The policies set out in this White Paper will apply only to national departments,
provincial administrations and to other organisations covered by the Public Service
Act, 1994. However, the values underpinned in these policies and their application
should be a model for emulation by other sectors. The mandatory aspects of the
policies set out in this White Paper will be incorporated into the new Public Service
Regulations which will replace the existing Public Service Staff Code and, where this
is necessary, will be incorporated in further Public Service legislation. New
management guidelines will be developed following publication of the new Public
Service Regulations.
1.4.3 Chapter 2 of the White Paper sets out the vision, mission and values which will
underpin human resource management in the Public Service. Chapter 3 describes the
need for a fundamental change in the human resource management culture within the
Public Service. Chapter 4 provides the framework within which national departments
and provincial administrations should develop their human resource policies and
procedures, while Chapters 5 and 6 give guidance on how this framework will operate
in practice. Finally, Chapter 7 describes how the policies in this White Paper will be
implemented.

1.5 Terminology

A number of terms are used throughout this White Paper which are defined as
follows:
•

Employee: An employee is any person employed in terms of the Public Service Act, 1994,
irrespective of rank or position.

•

Employer: The word employer is used to cover both the individual person who may be the
employer in legal terms, as well as the organisation which is responsible for implementing
Public Service human resource management policies.

•

Manager: A manager is anyone whose duties in the main involve responsibility for the work
of others. Thus, the term includes not only those who are usually referred to as managers
because they are members of the so-called "management echelon", but also all first-line
supervisors.

CHAPTER 2
VISION, MISSION AND VALUES
2.1 Vision
The vision is that human resource management in the Public Service will result in a
diverse, competent and well-managed workforce, capable of and committed to
delivering high quality services to the people of South Africa.

2.2 Mission
The mission of human resource management in the Public Service is to become a
model of excellence in which service to society stems from commitment instead of
compulsion. The management of people should be regarded as a significant task for
those who have been charged with that responsibility and should be conducted in a
professional manner.

2.3 Values
The following values which are derived from the Constitution, will underpin human
resource management in the Public Service.
•

Fairness

Actions and decisions must be objective, consistent, equitable and without
prejudice.
•

Equity

Where there has been unfairness, corrective measures must be implemented so
as to ensure that human resource practices are free from discrimination,
invisible barriers and unjustness which will impede equal employment
oppportunities.
•

Accessibility

Accessibility in relation to employment, management and information must

permeate all human resource practices subject to the application of the
Constitution and any other relevant legislation.
•

Transperancy

All human resource management practices in the Public Service must be open,
democratic and subject to public scrutiny within reasonable limits, which must
allow public institutions to operate unrestrained, subject to the application of
the Constitution and any other relevant legislation.
•

Accountability

Responsibilities for human resource management within the Public Service
will be clearly defined, and individual employees will be held accountable for
discharging their responsibilities conscientiously and with probity and
integrity.
•

Participation

Human resources will be managed consistently with the Labour Relations Act,
1995, on the basis of a co-operative relationship with organised labour.
Individual employees will be consulted on all matters affecting their careers
and working environment.
•

Professionalism

Human resource management will be conducted competently, and depict the
highest moral and ethical standards, exemplary behaviour towards the public,
juniors, peers and seniors and human resource practices should manifest this.

CHAPTER 3
CHANGING THE HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT CULTURE
3.1 Managing human resources in the new Public Service
3.1.1 Turning into reality the vision of a diverse, competent and well-managed
workforce, capable of and committed to delivering high quality services to the people
of South Africa, will require something close to a managerial revolution within the
Public Service. Central to this revolution will be a shift from administering personnel
to managing people.
3.1.2 This shift from administration to management underlies the entire Public
Service transformation programme. Actions will furthermore have to be affordable,
attainable and practical with due regard to local conditions. Human resources will, to
the greatest extent possible, be managed by those closest to the point of delivery.
Where appropriate, functions will be devolved from the centre and become wholly the
responsibility of departments and administrations. Where Revolution is inappropriate,

the centre will delegate maximum authority and responsibility for management of
human resources. Hence this Paper advocates the following management principles:
•

Decentralisation

Human resource management should be managed in a decentralised manner.
This can mean:
- Devolution:
The shift of final responsibility and accountability
from the centre to the
periphery, namely from the
centre to the executing authority.
- Delegation:
lower level.
•

Assigning of functions, powers and authority to a

Efficiency

Human resource management must aim to minimise waste and maximise
value.
•

Effectiveness

Human resource management must be outcomes-based.
•

Flexibility

Human resource management will be flexible and creative, taking into account
both the operational needs of the organisation and the needs of the employees.
•

Diversity

Whilst observing the primary objective of human resource management,
employees will be managed in an enviroment that accommodates and values
their culture.
•

Service standards

Human resource management units will set standards for the level of service
they will provide to their customers.
3.1.3 The implication of these principles when applied to the management of human
resources, is significant. It will mean that organisational structures will need to be far
more closely aligned to the strategic service delivery goals of the organisation, and
will have to be flexible enough to adjust, as these goals change in line with the
changing needs and priorities of the public and of government policy. Flowing from
this, employees will have to become mulliskilled, and their skills will need to be
continuously updated to keep pace with new policy demands, and economical and
efficient working processes such as those offered by information technology should
be promoted. Multi-skilling and continuous development should provide for greater
job-enrichment for many employees.
3.1.4 Delegating responsibility for results and resources will require all Public Service
managers, at every level, to develop skills which have hitherto been required only of a
few, such as objective setting and measurement, and financial management. Above
all, since human resources comprise the major component of their resources, Public

Service managers, irrespective of position, will have to be skilled in managing people.
Human resource management will therefore no longer be the sole responsibility of
personnel practitioners, but rather wilt become a core competency for all Public
Service managers. The shift of responsibility for human resource management to line
managers has important implications for human resource practitioners, who will have
a vital role to play in providing line managers with professional advice and guidance,
and for ensuring that human resource systems and procedures are focused on the
organisation's strategic objectives.
3.1.5 Roles and responsibilities
In essence, the policies set out in this White Paper will bring about a fundamental
shift in roles and responsibilities for human resource management. within the Public
Service. In future, it will be for national departments and provincial administrations to
determine, within nationally defined parameters, their human resource management
policies and practices, in order to meet their own particular strategic and operational
objectives and organisational needs, within the financial resources which have been
allocated to them. Ultimate responsibility for the economical, efficient and effective
management of departments and their human resources, rests with elected politicians
as the legally appointed executing authorities. However, for all practical purposes,
these responsibilities will be carried out by the head of the department, who is
accountable to the executing authority for putting policies into practice. Heads of
national departments and provincial administrations will therefore need to ensure that
there are adequate institutional and managerial mechanisms in place, and that the
departments'/administrations' policies and practices are communicated, understood
and observed.
3.1.6 Within departments and administrations, day-to-day responsibility for managing
human resources, will become primarily the responsibility of individual line
managers. As delegated management becomes the norm, line managers will have
increasing freedom, within the limits of their budgets, to determine the number of
staff and the levels and skills they need to deliver the required results. They will,
however, also have greater responsibility for the performance management, conduct
and career development of their staff.
3.1.7 Human resource practitioners will develop a more professional role, providing
advice and guidance to management on such matters as employment legislation,
Public Service-wide policies and norms, labour market trends, and employee
development issues. They will also continue to administer many of the day-to-day
personnel management activities, such as organising recruitment competitions, and
administering entry and termination of services. However, these activities will be
undertaken as services to managers, and performed on the basis of agreed standards
which meet line managers' needs. For example, standards will be set for the length of
time it should take to recruit new entrants, or to process claims.
3.1.8 Notwithstanding the major changes outlined above, a managerial revolution will
not materialise unless the Public Service genuinely reflects the cultural diversity of
the people whom it employs.

3.2 Valuing diversity

3.2.1 South Africa is a country of rich cultural diversity. In choosing to ignore that
cultural diversity, the pre-1994 Public Service deprived itself of experience and talent
which is sorely needed to achieve the social and economic goals of the new,
democratic South Africa.
3.2.2 At first sight, the Public Service would appear to be making good progress
towards representation of the main previously disadvantaged groups. Black people
account for 79 percent of the Public Service. Women account for 49 per cent. Fifty six
per cent of managers at Chief Director level and above are black. Closer scrutiny,
however, reveals that there is some way to go to achieve meaningful representation.
For example, only 38 per cent of managers at Director level and above are black, and
only 11 per cent are women. There are only 4 women Directors-General and there are
very few disabled people in the Public Service.
3.2.3 Improved human resource management practices, combined with effective
affirmative action, should redress these imbalances within a relatively short period of
time. However, achieving numerical balance will not, alone, be enough to create a
multi-cultural workforce,not least because cultural diversity goes wider than race,
gender and disability. Other cultural differences also need to be taken into account,
for example, the differences between people of different age groups, between those
who are married and those who are single, between those who have children and those
who do not between those who live in rural areas and small towns, and those who are
city-dwellers. Maximizing the positive benefits of these differences is also important
for the development of a diverse corporate culture.
3.2.4 All organisations have a corporate culture, reflecting attitudes to the way work is
done and to the way the people within the organisation are expected to behave. A
corporate culture is important to ensure that all employees work together to achieve
organisational goals. However, for the most part, the Public Service still reflects the
culture developed in the years before 1994. Some of these characteristics are:
•

An emphasis on regulation and adherence to centrally-determined processes.

•

The rigid classification of tasks and lack of workforce mobility.

•

A strong sense of hierarchy and a reluctance to question those in higher authority.

•

Formality in inter-personal working relationships.

•

The valuing of formal qualifications and seniority over other skills and experience.

•

Lack of workforce and 'customer' participation.

•

A tendency to exclude and discount the views and values of those outside the dominant group.

3.2.5 Despite the genuine attempts currently being made by many employees brought
up in the pre-1994 regime, these characteristics are still prominent in the present-day
Public Service culture. Anyone entering the post-1994 Public Service from outside the
previously dominant group are therefore likely to find themselves in a culture which
is unresponsive to and unsupportive of their skills and talents. Cultural diversity is,
therefore, not a matter of encouraging people from different cultural backgrounds to
become assimilated into the prevailing corporate culture, rather it requires the existing
corporate culture to change in response to the differing cultures of those who are
employed within the organisation. Unless positive steps are taken to create a

genuinely diverse management culture, many of the people whom the Public Service
most needs, tend to leave after a short time, while others, whose skills and talents
would be invaluable to the Public Service, tend to be deterred from joining.

3.3 The case for diversity
3.3.1 The need to develop a culture of diversity goes well beyond simply maintaining
a representative workforce. A strong business argument in favour of developing a
more diverse culture within the Public Service has already been established through
the Constitution. First and foremost is the contribution it can make to improved
service delivery. As set out in the Batho Pele White Paper on Transforming Service
Delivery, developing a more responsive, customer-focused approach to the recipients
of public services will require employees to be able to relate closely to every section
of South Africa's diverse society, employees who are familiar with citizens' needs, can
communicate in their languages, and can respond to their concerns.
3.3.2 Secondly, the Public Service faces immense challenges as it attempts to increase
efficiency and effectiveness, and reduce costs, at the same time as improving the
quality and extending the benefits of public services to all. These challenges are not
short-term, they will remain at the top of the agenda in South Africa for the
foreseeable future, as for all other countries world-wide. Meeting the challenges will
require fresh thinking and innovative approaches which are outside the experience of
the traditional Public Service culture. Encouraging a diversity of culture can help to
generate new ideas and get them adopted. Moreover, an environment in which
differing cultures are valued is likely to improve employee morale and contribute to
increased job satisfaction and thus to increased productivity.
3.3.3 Developing a culture of diversity is therefore not only necessary to legitimise
the Public Service, but is also an essential and powerful tool to develop an efficient,
effective and stable Public Service. National departments and provincial
administrations should therefore learn to manage diversity just as systematically and
effectively as they seek to manage all other aspects of their human resource
responsibilities.

3.4 Managing,diversity
3.4.1 Managing diversity amounts to more than paying lip-service to cultural and
gender differences. It requires active steps to identify and maximise the positive
advantages of having a multi-cultural workforce as well as to be aware of and respond
sensitively to some of the challenges involved. A diversity management strategy will
therefore be needed, of which the main aims will be to:
•

Identify and raise awareness of cultural differences within the workforce

•

Analyse the existing corporate culture and identify practices and behaviour which (a) support
and (b) undermine cultural diversity.

•

Develop processes and behavioral norms to manage diversity which strengthen the positive
and redress the negative aspects of the existing culture.

•

Institutionalise diversity management by integrating it with the organisation's management
practices.

3.4.2 Developing a diversity management strategy is a collective, consensual exercise
with employees. Likewise, implementation of the strategy will depend on the active
support and participation of everyone throughout the organisation. Critical to success
will be the support and leadership of those at the top, and openness and continuous
communication with employees at every level. Introducing diversity management is
not a once-for-all activity, but a continuous process aimed at progressive
improvement.
3.4.3 While diversity management programmed will vary, depending on individual
circumstances, they should be developed in line with the following principles:
•

Ultimate responsibility for providing leadership in developing a diversity management culture
should rest with the head of department, but the overall application and implementation is a
collective responsibility.

•

.Before embarking on a programme of change, a "diversity audit" should be carried out to
identify and acknowledge the feelings and perceptions of the workforce about the ways in
which they believe that the organisation (a) supports or (b) undermines their cultural values,
needs and aspirations. The audit should address not only issues of race, gender and disability,
but also factors such as age, and it should probe both organisational and behavioral issues.

•

The findings of the diversity audit should be measured against the organisation's existing
management practices, working culture and behavioral norms, in order to identify "gaps"
which need to be filled,

•

Ideas for filling the "gap" between the existing organisational culture and employees' needs
and aspirations as revealed by the diversity audit should be developed participatively,
involving the entire workforce.

•

A diversity management programme should be drawn up and launched to give practical effect
to the ideas which have been developed, with the aim of recognising valuing and building
positively on cultural differences.

•

The objectives and desired outcomes of the programme, and management's commitment to
them, should be energetically and clearly communicated throughout the organisation, as well
as the role that individuals at every level will be expected to play in ensuring its success.

•

The diversity management programme should be regularly evaluated and improved in the
light of experience.

CHAPTER 4
A NEW FRAMEWORK FOR HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
4.1 Introduction
4.1.1 The Public Service, like all other employers, is bound by the Labour Relations
Act, 1995. This Act establishes the principle of employment justice, which protects
employees (and applicants for employment) from any unfairness in their relationship
with their employer, The policies set out in the following Chapters are based on
compliance with this Act. The Public Service will also comply with all other
employment statutes, such as the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1995, the

Employment Equity Bill, 1997, the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1997, and
the Skills Development Strategy.
4.1.2 Implementation of the policies set out in the paragraphs below will have a
profound impact on the management of people within the Public Service and on the
careers of individual employees. The Public Service will continue to be staffed mainly
by career employees who will be provided with opportunities for professional
advancement and personal development. However, open competition and more
innovative recruitment practices will open the Public Service up to a far wider pool of
talent and ensure the inclusion of all sections of society. Fresh skills will be more
easily absorbed, and operational requirements more efficiently and effectively
managed through the use of fixedterm contracts, and the increased use of part-time
employment and more flexible working patterns.
4.1.3 Competition will also increase the opportunities for those from previously
disadvantaged groups both to join and to advance within the Public Service. This will
be underpinned by transparent human resource strategies based on sound planning,
which includes targets for the achievement of employment equity goals.
4.1.4 In future, promotion will be achieved only by those who can demonstrate,
through competition with others, that they are the most suitable candidate for the
position in question. On the other hand, employees will have more control over their
own career development, and there will be no barriers to applying for jobs at higher
levels, or in other occupational groups. Multi-skilling will enrich the jobs of many
employees. Improved career and performance management will mean that good
performance is recognised and rewarded, and that poor performance is identified and
dealt with.
4.1.5 Greater transparency and more competent and accountable management of
human resources will mean that it will no longer be possible to manipulate
employment criteria such as qualifications, health requirements, probation, temporary
employment, and ill-health retirements, to restrict the careers of those from
disadvantaged groups, and to avoid dealing with poor performers.

4.2 Human resource Planning
4.2.1 Human resource planning is essential in order to ensure that an organisation's
human resources are capable of meeting its operational objectives. Human resource
planning ensures that an organisation:
•

Obtains the quality and quantity of staff it requires.

•

Makes the optimum use of its human resources.

•

Is able to anticipate and manage surpluses and shortages of staff,

•

Develops a multi-skilled, representative and flexible workforce, which enables the
organisation to adapt rapidly to a changing operational environment.

4.2.2 Human resource planning consists of three main steps:
•

An assessment of the human resources which will be required to deliver the operational
objectives in the organisation's strategic plan.

•

An assessment of the organisation's existing human resource capacity.

•

A plan for how the gap between existing human resource capacity and the future human
resource requirement will be filled, within the financial resources available.

4.2.3 Assessing human resource requirements
The assessment of human resource requirements will be based on national
departments' and provincial administrations' short-, medium- and long-term
operational objectives as set out in their respective strategic plans. This will identify
not only the number of staff and skills required, but also targets within these for
meeting the goals of broad representation in relation to race, gender and disability.
The assessment should also take account of a department's/administration's future
organisational and management structure, and other factors such as geographical
disposition.
4.2.4 Assessing existing human resource capacity
The human resource capacity assessment will identify the numbers and skills of staff
currently employed, and their potential for meeting future requirements through, for
example, development and training, It will also identify the gaps in numbers and skills
and employment equity targets which need to be filled. On the basis of this
information, together with information about likely future
retirements, staff turn-over etc., the departnnent/provincial administration will be able
to identify the extent to which existing human resource capacity matches the
requirement.
4.2.5 Succession planning for key positions
Particular attention should be paid to the need to plan for the filling of positions
which, by virtue of their specialist nature, or their importance within the organisation,
are key to the organisation's effectiveness. These positions should be identified
separately, and measures should be taken to ascertain likely future vacancy patterns
and potential sources of labour supply, both within and outside the Public Service,
which can be tapped quickly when the need arises.
4.2.6 Drawing up a human resource strategy
Having identified the "gap" between future requirements and existing capacity, a
strategy will then be devised to enable the organisation to meet its human resource
needs. A critical factor in devising the strategy will be the financial resources
available. Strategies will therefore be developed within the overall budgeting process
which are likely to be wide-ranging, including, for example, organisational redesign,
process re-engineering and outsourcing, as well as standard human resource
management instruments such as recruitment, training, promotion, redeployment,
career management and, where necessary, staff reductions. The strategy will also have
to take account of prevailing labour market conditions.
4.2.7 Once drawn up, the human resource strategy will drive all human resource
management activities. Its effectiveness will depend, however, on its continuing
relevance in the light of experience, and it will therefore need to be supported by
human resource management information systems which provide accurate and timely
information on how the strategy is operating in practice.

4.3 Employment contracts
4.3.1 The human resource strategy will determine not only the numbers and types of
positions which are to be filled, but also the contractual capacity in which staff are to
be employed. The Public Service operates in an increasingly fast-movinc operational
environment, in which the demands placed upon it can vary greatly in nature and
volume over short periods of time. Although some operational trends can be predicted
in advance, others may arise quite suddenly. The Public Service therefore requires
flexible contractual options which enable numbers and skills to be adjusted as
requirements change. To meet this need, employees will in future be employed on one
of three types of employment contracts namely continuous, fixed-term, and
temporary.
Continuous employment contract
A continuous contract is one in which the employee is engaged for an unspecified
period for as long as the Public Service has need for his or her services. Continuous
contracts will most often be used for staffing core activities of an on-going nature.
Most employees on continuous contracts can expect to remain in the Public Service
until retirement age, however, continued employment will depend not only on the
employee's performance, but also on the extent to which his or her skills and potential
match the organisation's operational requirements.
Fixed-term employment contract
Fixed-term contracts are the primary means of engaging employees for work of
limited duration, and are thus an important method of managing fluctuating or rapidly
changing operational requirements. The head of department should at all times
provide clear institutional guidelines on what constitutes work of a temporary nature.
Fixed-term contracts can also be used for:
•

Supporting the achievement of racial, gender and disability balance.

•

Obtaining particular and urgently-needed skills that are temporarily or more permanently
unavailable from within the Public Service.

•

Ensuring the regular rotation of employees in positions where the injection of fresh experience
is essential.

•

Activities whose long-term nature is uncertain.

Fixed-term contracts will normally be for periods of 1-3 years, and may not be longer
than 5 years, The terms of such contracts will be individually negotiated, but may not
be used either to deny the employee a fair level of remuneration or to award an
excessive remuneration package.
Temporary employment contract
Temporary contracts are the means of meeting very short-term ad hoc work
requirements, for example, seasonal employment. Temporary contracts may not
extend beyond 12 months.
4.3.2 Written contracts

All employees should have a written contract, which sets out the period of
employment, and the terms and conditions on which he or she is employed. Where the
terms and conditions are laid down in regulations, codes, collective agreements etc., it
will be sufficient to make reference to these, and not to spell them out in full, but the
contract should inform the employee where and how these documents can be
accessed. The contract should also specify the period of notice required on either side
to terminate the contract. This will normally be one month, although a longer period,
up to 3 months, may be specified where exceptional operational circumstances make
this necessary. All employees, whether on continuous, fixed-term or temporary
contracts, are employees, although their conditions of service may vary, depending on
the terms of their contract. The introduction of written contracts will entail transitional
arrangements to include the protection of existing rights and the re-negotiation of
others.

4.4 Flexible working patterns
4.4.1 Employees may be engaged on a full-or part-time basis, whether employed on
continuous, fixed-term or temporary contracts. The use of part-time work and more
flexible working patterns, such as job-sharing and annual hourly contracts are to be
encouraged in order to organise and manage work more efficiently and effectively, as
well as to provide increased employment opportunities, for example to enable parents
with young children to combine a career with their family responsibilities more easily.
Flexible working patterns shall be subject to the employer's operational needs.
4.4.2 Part-time workers and others who may wish to combine work in the Public
Service with other employment should nevertheless abide by the following principles:
•

Permission to engage in work outside the Public Service should be sought from the
employee's head of department.

•

Employment outside the Public Service should not detrimentally affect the normal duties and
responsibilities of employees, nor should privileged information obtained in the course of
public duty be used for financial gain during such outside employment. This type of work can
only be undertaken after the employee's normal working hours. Such work can only be
undertaken outside the Public Service.

4.5 A career Public Service
4.5.1 The Public Service will continue to be a career service, and most positions will
continue to be filled by career employees. However, it is essential to make the Public
Service more accessible to external applicants, in order to include all sections of
society and to inject fresh ideas and skills to assist the Public Service to achieve its
transformation goals. The aim in filling posts is therefore to achieve a balance
between the need to increase accessibility for external applicants and to maintain a
worthwhile career structure for serving employees.
4.5.2 In the past, the closed career system, together with restrictive position
requirements, preferential promotion arrangements and a sub-optimal reporting
system, have combined to restrict not only the opportunities of outside candidates, but
also opportunities for employees within the Public Service. In order to redress these
failings, the principle of competition will be introduced for the filling of positions
within the Public Service. Competition will help to:

•

Identify the most suitable person for the job from the widest possible pool of talent from
within and outside the Public Service.

•

Make the Public Service more accessible to all sections of society.

•

Achieve employment equity.

•

Provide equal opportunities for advancement for people within the Public Service.

4.6 Increased competition
4.6.1 For practical purposes, competition may be divided into three categories:
Open:
Positions advertised nationally and open both to employees and
external applicants.
Targeted:
Positions advertised within a defined target area ( e.g. a specific
geographical area such as
the Gauteng Province) or within a defined
group (e.g. the mining sector), and open to both
employees and
external applicants. Advertisements must be clear when this type of
competition is resorted to and must not be abused to undermine the
recruitment policy.
Internal:
Positions, advertised within a department/administration where
experts is only available within
the Public Service, or positions
between levels 1 and 3, where the advancement of existing
employees is important to increase representivity and employment
mobility.
4.6.2 Whatever method of competition, it must be consistent with the principles of
accessibility and the values in this White Paper and should not in any way undermine
the recruitment policy.
4.6.3 National departments' and provincial administrations' human resource
management policy should define clearly which positions will be filled by open,
targeted and internal competition, and the rationale for this, expressed in terms of the
aims set out in paragraph 4.5.2

4.7 Selection on merit
4.7.1 Selection on merit is fundamental to ensuring that the Public Service recruits
and promotes people of the highest calibre. The aim is to ensure that the person
selected is, of the available applicants, the person best suited for the position, on the
basis of his or her skills, experience, abilities, personal attributes, future potential as
well as the need to achieve a representative and a diverse workforce in the Public
Service. Unfortunately, the principle of selection on merit has been eroded and
misused in the past by drawing up narrow, exclusive position requirements which
discriminated both against external candidates and against certain groups of internal
candidates, to the detriment of the quality of human resource capacity within the
Public Service. Against the aforementioned backdrop, the time has come to restore to
the word merit its true meaning, and to ensure that the principle of selection on merit
underpins the filling of all posts within the Public Service.

4.7.2 In drawing up their selection procedures, whether for recruitment or for
promotion, national departments and provincial administrations should apply the
following basic principles:
Job-related selection criteria
The criteria on which selection is made should relate only to the inherent
requirements of the duties to be undertaken. They should, however, take account of
the wide variety of ways in which suitability can be assessed including, for example,
competency acquired through previous experience or training, and demonstrable
interpersonal skills, decision-making capacity and learning potential are all equally
important. Educational qualifications should not, alone, predetermine suitability. The
criteria should not be used to undermine the goal of achieving representation and
advancement of previously disadvantaged groups.
Fairness
The process of selection should not discriminate against external and/or internal
applicants, nor against any applicant on the grounds of race, colour; gender, disability,
age, religion, belief, culture, marital status, sexual orientation, pregnancy, domestic
circumstances or any arbitrary criteria.
Equity
All candidates should be measured against the same objective criteria with due regard
to the need for diversity and the representativeness of the Public Service. Such criteria
should be drawn up in writing in advance of the selection process. A minimum of
three people should undertake the selection, including a chairperson who is
responsible for ensuring fairness and objectivity. All applicants for a particular post
should be assessed by the same selection panel and on the same criteria. The normal
selection procedure should comprise of an interview, on the basis of a written
application. If the number of applicants is so great as to require pre-interview short
listing, written criteria should be drawn up in advance.
Transparency
Written records, which should be easily accessible, must be kept of the criteria used in
selecting interviewers, the selection criteria applied, and of the assessment markings
of individual candidates, as well as the basis for the decision, in order to be able to
demonstrate that the process was fair and open.

CHAPTER 5
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN
PRACTICE
5.1 Recruitment
5.1.1 Recruitment is not only one of the most important ways in which the Public
Service meets its human resource capacity requirements, it is also the prime
instrument for achieving employment equity, by opening up the Public Service to all

sections of society. In drawing up their recruitment policies and procedures, targets
should therefore be set for achieving specified employment equity objectives, and in
particular for achieving race, gender and disability balance, as well as for achieving
the skills necessary to meet the department's operational needs.
5.1.2 Identifying and attracting suitable applicants depends on the effectiveness of
departmental advertising, both in terms of the substance of the advertisement and the
extent to which it reaches the target audience. In drawing up advertisements, the
following principles should be applied:
•

The advertisement should include an accurate description of the duties to be undertaken, and
the criteria which will be applied in selection.

•

Qualifications should not be defined primarily or solely in terms of educational attainment,
but should, for example, include skills and relevant experience. If educational requirements
are essential, these should be set at such levels which balance the need for competence with
the goal of accessibility. However, qualifications which are prescribed should be stated in the
advertisement, for example in the case of medical practitioners.

•

The advertisement should make it clear that the Public Service is committed to employment
equity, and that applications from Blacks, women and the disabled will be encouraged.

•

The language and style of the advertisement should be clear and simple, and be such as to
attract candidates from all sections of the target group, particularly those whom the Public
Service wishes to attract in order to achieve employment equity.

•

Advertising should be designed to reach the widest possible number of people within all the
target groups in the most cost-effective manner. New and innovative methods of advertising
should be explored to reach those unlikely to respond to traditional methods such as
newspaper advertisements.

•

The effectiveness of advertising campaigns should be reviewed from time to time in order to
improve future recruitment efforts.

•

The requirement for additional health or security clearances, where these are justified by the
inherent nature of the work, should be clearly stated in the advertisement.

•

Advertisements for targeted competition must provide reasons which are consistent with the
purpose of this White Paper.

5.1.3 Skills search or "head-hunting," may be used to identify candidates, for
example, for senior posts or where skills are scarce, provided it can be demonstrated
that the special requirements of the position in question are likely to render more
traditional advertising methods ineffective. Once candidates have been identified,
however, the principles of selection on merit should be applied as for any other
method of recruitment.
5.1.4 Psychometric and similar tests as a means of recruitment should be carefully
designed in order to ensure that they are free from overt or unintended bias,
particularly in relation to disadvantaged groups.

5.2 Entry requirements
In addition to suitability for the job, there are certain minimum requirements for
employment in the Public Service. These are:
Citizenship

Employment in the Public Service will normally be for South African citizens,
including those who have legally acquired citizenship. Non-South African citizens
may be employed on fixed-term contracts for up to a maximum of five years.
Extensions of contract beyond 5 years may be agreed upon with the prior approval of
the head of department.
Age
Employment in the Public Service is open to anyone between the ages of sixteen and
sixty.
Health
Health requirements should relate solely to the inherent nature of the duties to be
undertaken. No pre-employment health checks will be undertaken unless the inherent
requirements of the job call for particular physical attributes. However, employees
should take responsibility for providing information in the interest of good
management and their welfare. Particular care should be exercised, however, to
ensure that disabled applicants are not discriminated against simply because the
organisation lacks facilities and reasonable steps should be taken to accommodate
them. Where particular health or physical requirements are essential for performance
of the job, these should be clearly stated in the advertisement. Employees whose
services were terminated due to ill-health will have to undergo a medical examination,
irrespective of the nature of the job, as a pre-condition to re-appointment in the Public
Service.
Good character
Applicants for employment should be of good character, law abiding and prepared to
conform with the high standards of conduct required by the Code of Conduct for
Public Servants. This is essential to protect the public interest. Potential employees
may therefore be required to provide information about past convictions or
misdemeanours which could have a bearing on their suitability for employment in the
Public Service. However, such incidents will not necessarily be a bar to employment,
if it can be demonstrated that the nature of the incident poses no threat to the public
interest, or the incident was sufficiently long ago, and the person's subsequent
behaviour indicates that he or she is now rehabilitated.
Security clearance
Candidates for certain positions which deal with sensitive information which needs to
be protected in the interests of the security of the state may be subjected to security
clearance. Where security clearance is a requirement of the position, this should be
clearly stated in the advertisement.

5.3 Placement
Particular attention should be paid to the need to plan for the filling of positions
which, by virtue of their critical nature, or their importance within the organisation,
are key to the organisation's effectiveness. There will normally be a limited number of
such, posts, but because of their importance, placement strategies should be devised in
order to ensure that there is a ready supply of staff to fill these positions. Placement
strategies should be devised in line with the overall strategic plan as well as the

human resource plan to align organisational needs with the needs and aspirations of
employees. The placement strategies should in the main be informed by the needs of
line managers. Placement should not undermine the essence of the recruitment policy.

5.4 Probation
5.4.1 All new employees on continuous contracts maybe required to undergo a period
of probation which will be determined by the nature of the position and the time
required to determine the employee's suitability for continued employment. The
probationary period may vary from position to position but should not be less than
three; nor more than six months (legislation in this regard will be forthcoming
shortly). The exceptions are positions, such as student nurses and cadet technicians,
whose contracts require completion of an extended probationary training period
before confirmation of appointment. During probation the employee should undergo
an orientation programme which should provide the basic information that he or she
will need in order to be able to function in the organisation. On-the-job and induction
training should also be provided to enable the employee to become productive as
rapidly as possible. The employee should receive counseling and evaluation
throughout the probationary period to deal with any problems which may arise.
5.4.2 Clear criteria should be laid down on how the employee should be assessed
during the probationary period. They should be disclosed to the employee in writing
on commencement of the probationary period and should include arrangements for
the possible extension of probation, and for the discharge of an employee who fails to
complete his or her probationary period satisfactorily. A decision to discharge an
employee will take account of:
Whether the employee was given appropriate training, instruction, orientation,
guidance, evaluation and counseling.
Whether the employee was given a reasonable period of time in which to improve his
or her performance.

5.5 Promotion
Promotion is defined as the progression from one position to another position at a
higher level, and not to incremental advancement within the current grade. In line
with the principle of competition, an employee will be promoted only if he or she
applies successfully for a vacant position at a higher level in competition with others.
Seniority shall no longer be a factor in promotion. Performance reports will be
relevant only in so far as they demonstrate whether or not the employee may be
capable of doing the job for which he or she has applied. Promotion must not be
confused with incremental advancement within a grade, which can be earned on the
basis of increased skills and experience.

5.6 Lateral transfers
It is in the interest of good management, in terms of both the organisation's
operational effectiveness and the employee's development, that employees should,
from time to time, be rotated between different jobs within their departments and
within the wider Public Service. Transfers of employees at the same level may

therefore be instigated by both the employer and the employee. However, in
transferring employees, the following principles should be applied:
•

The operational requirements of the organisation should be paramount.

•

Whilst transfers may be used positively for performance management it should, however, not
be used to avoid dealing with staff whose performance or conduct is unsatisfactory, neither
may they be used to move staff on the basis of personal prejudice.

•

Transfers may not be used as a mechanism to block the filling of a vacant post through
competition.

•

Employees should be consulted and their personal circumstances taken into account.

5 .7 Secondments, Ioans and exchanges
It is in the public interest to encourage greater mobility within the Public Service, as
well as amongst the Public Service, other sectors and external organisations.
Secondments, loans or exchanges may therefore be instigated either by the employer
or the employee, provided that there is a clear and specific State interest in the
additional experience to be gained, besides the individual's personal development, and
subject to the following principles:
•

The employee remains subject to Public Service Regulations and to the Code of Conduct.

•

The employee's existing financial position will be maintained.

•

The terms of the loan, exchange or secondment should be set out in a written agreement
between the parent and recipient organisation.

•

Due to the value derived by the organisation through exchanges, it is an arrangement which
should be maximised in the cross fertilisation of skills and expertise to improve service
delivery. It is a means for government to recharge itself as well as to discourage stagnation.

5.8 Re-employment
Former employees who have resigned, retired early or prematurely may be
reemployed if they successfully apply for a post through competition, other than
employees whose services were terminated subject to restrictions on their further
employment in the Public Service. Previous service will be taken into account in
selection only in as far as it demonstrates their suitability to undertake the duties of
the post for which they are applying. Since former employees are no longer
employees, they may not compete for posts which are restricted to serving employees,
even if they are currently working within the Public Service as external contractors.

5 .9 Performance management
5.9.1 The success of the Public Service in delivering its operational and
developmental goals depends primarily on the efficiency and effectiveness with which
employees carry out their duties. Managing performance is therefore a key human
resource management tool to ensure that:
•

Employees know what is expected of them.

•

Managers know whether the employee's performance is delivering the required objectives.

•

Poor performance is identified and improved.

•

Good performance is recognised and rewarded.

5.9.2 Performance management is therefore an integral part of an effective human
resource management and development strategy. It is an ongoing process, in which
the employee and employer, together, strive constantly to improve the employee's
individual performance and his or her contribution to the organisation's wider
objectives. Since the.performance of every employee contributes to the overall
delivery of the organisation's objectives, it follows that the performance of every
employee should be managed. The performance management procedures may vary
from one group or level of employees to another, depending on the nature of their
work. For example, the procedures may include group assessments and peer reviews,
as well as the more traditional annual written report. Whatever the chosen methods,
however, the following principles should be applied:
Results orientation
The employee's performance should be assessed on the basis of a work plan covering
a specified period, setting out clearly his or her responsibilities and the objectives to
be achieved. These objectives should be expressed in terms of outputs to be delivered
within a given timescale, and should include personal development as well as
operational objectives. The work plan should be mutually agreed between the
employee and his or her manager. The assessment process should include both a
written assessment completed at no less than yearly intervals, and regular discussions
during this period to monitor progress and take remedial action where necessary.
Training and development
The performance assessment process will help to identify strengths and weaknesses,
and the interventions which are needed to deal with these, including the employee's
future training and needs, and other developmental interventions such as career
counseling, coaching and mentoring.
Rewarding good performance
It is important to recognise and reward employees who perform exceptionally well,
and whose skills are particularly valued, in order to encourage them to maintain the
high standard they have achieved, and to encourage others to strive for improved
performance. The most obvious way of achieving this is by awarding incremental
increases in pay. The development of new remuneration systems within the Public
Service will include provision for systematic pay increments based on performance.
Managing poor performance
Where performance has not matched the requirements in the work plan, the
assessment, both written and verbal, should be focused on identifying the reasons for
this, and on reaching mutual agreement on the steps which need to be taken to effect
improvement. Such steps may include interventions such as career counselling,
coaching, rnentoring retraining, developmental opportunities and re-deployment. If
the desired improvement could not be effected, dismissals on grounds of inefficiency
can be considered.
Openness, fairness and objectivity

The employee should be given a copy of the written assessment, and be given the
opportunity to comment on it. The employee has the right to appeal against an
assessment that he or she believes to be unfair. The reporting manager's written
assessment should be reviewed by his or her own immediate manager in order to
ensure that reporting standards are objective and uniform.

5.10 Career management
5.10.1 The Public Service values employees who are willing to devote themselves to a
career in the service of the public, and there will be opportunities to develop their
individual skills and abilities, provided these are in line with the Public Service's
operational requirements. Career management is the process by which the career
aspirations of the individual employee are reconciled with the operational objectives
of the organisation. Effective career management:
•

Enables employees to maximise their career potential by availing themselves of job
opportunities, training and development.

•

Enables employers to develop the organisation's human resource capacity while supporting, as
far as possible, employees' career aspirations.

5.10.2 Primary responsibility for career management rests with the employee. It is for
individuals to determine, in the light of their personal aspirations, the direction in
which they wish their careers to advance, whether within or outside the Public
Service. Departments/administrations also have a responsibility for career
management, given its importance in developing the organisation's human resource
capacity to meet its operational and organisational objectives. Provincial
administrations and national departments should therefore develop career
management procedures, linked to their performance management system, which
comply with the following principles:
•

The individual employee is responsible for his or her own career management. Employees
have a duty to avail themselves of job training and development opportunities as they occur.

•

The employee's immediate manager is responsible for familiarising himself or herself at
regular intervals about the employee's career aspirations, and for reaching an understanding
with him or her about how these can best be met within the organisation's future operational
objectives.

•

The manager should keep up to date with job, training and development opportunities which
are likely to assist in meeting both the employee's career aspirations and the organisation's
operational objectives, and to inform the employee of these and support his or her efforts to
avail himself or herself of them.

•

Managers have a particular duty in respect of employees whose careers have been or are still
hampered through no fault of their own, such as employees who have been educationally
disadvantaged, or women who are trying to combine a career with child-rearing
responsibilities, or employees who are disabled.

•

The manager's own performance assessment should include an assessment of the extent to
which they have carried out their career management responsibilities.

5.11 Managing conduct
5.11.1 All employees are required to comply with the law, and to abide by the Code
of Conduct for Public Servants. Failure to do so constitutes a breach of discipline for

which an employee can be penalised. It is therefore the duty of national departments
and provincial administrations to ensure that every employee is aware of the
legislation which impacts on their area of work, and is provided with a personal copy
of the Code of Conduct for Public Servants when they take up their duties.
5.11.2 The Code of Conduct sets general norms for the behaviour required of
employees in respect of the public, the legislature, and their professional colleagues.
However, national departments and provincial administrations should also draw up
their own codes to guide employees in relation to their particular tasks, for example,
staff who deal directly with the public should be given clear guidance about the
standards of courtesy and behaviour which is expected. These departmental/
provincial administration codes should be agreed with the appropriate employee
representative bodies and promulgated in writing to every employee.
5.11.3 The key to ensuring good conduct on the part of employees is to create an
environment where a high standard of professional behaviour is the norm. While
every employee is responsible for his or her own conduct, most employees will take
their cue from their seniors. Managers therefore have a particular duty to set and
maintain high standards of honesty, ensure responsible use of resources, courtesy,
punctuality, and conscientious performance of their duties. This applies, above all, to
managers who are ultimately accountable for their employees' conduct.
5.11.4 When cases of misconduct occur, they should be identified and dealt with
swiftly. It is the duty of every employee to report to their manager any incident which
they suspect to be a breach of conduct, whether or not the incident is related to their
own area of work. Unlawful or criminal activity should be referred to the South
African Police Service immediately to be dealt with under due legal process.
5.11.5 Breaches of conduct falling short of illegal activity should be dealt with by
departmental measures which are appropriate to the seriousness of the offence and
which are focused on correcting the employee's conduct while also protecting the
public interest. Departments'/provincial administrations' disciplinary procedures
should therefore contain a range of measures which can be applied flexibly to meet
the circumstances of each case. Minor infringements should be dealt with on the spot
by means of a verbal warning from the employee's immediate manager. More serious
infringements, or repeated minor infringements may be dealt with by means of a
written warning or formal reprimand, or a more substantial measure such as demotion.
Serious cases of misconduct may result in dismissal, which may be instantly imposed
in the most serious circumstances.
5.11.6 Whatever the nature of breach of conduct, procedures for dealing with them
should be swift, fair, equitable and effective. The following principles should be
observed:
•

The breach of conduct should be objectively substantiated.

•

The employee should be informed of the charges against him or her, and be given adequate
opportunity to respond.

•

Action as a result of misconduct should be appropriate and implemented swiftly.

5.12 Managing grievances

5.12.1 From time to time, an employee may feel that he or she has been treated
unfairly as a result of management's actions. Good managers will normally resolve
such problems in the course of their day-to-day interaction with their staff. Where the
situation is more serious, however, for example if an employee believes that his or her
conditions of service have been infringed, or that management has acted in a
discriminatory manner, the employee is entitled to raise a grievance and to have it
dealt with by means of prompt, fair and objective procedures.
Grievance systems should be focused on promoting the amicable settlement of
problems, rather than on legalistic, confrontational procedures. In developing
grievance procedures the following principles should be observed:
Fairness and objectivity: The facts of the case should be objectively determined, and
the resolution of the problem should take account of all the circumstances in a fair and
impartial manner.
Transparency: The aggrieved employee and his or her relevant manager should be
fully informed of the procedures, and kept informed as the case progresses.
Indecendence: There should be an independent avenue through which the grievance
can be lodged, outside the aggrieved employee's direct line management.
Timeousness: A grievance should be dealt with swiftly, in order to avoid disrupting
the good management of the department and spreading discontent more widely in the
organisation.
Participation and representation: The aggrieved employee should be given full
opportunity to participate in the presentation of his or her own case, and to be assisted
in doing so by a representative of his or her own choice.
Statutory rights: The grievance procedure may not undermine any statutory
provisions that are in force.

CHAPTER 6
TERMINATION OF SERVICE
6.1 Introduction
6.1.1 Employees who have served loyally and well should be treated with
consideration when they leave. Equally, employees for whom there is no further
operational requirement, or who can no longer serve competently and effectively,
should be properly managed out of the Public Service. Disciplinary action will be
instituted in cases where an employee's conduct falls below the high standards
required of employees.
6.1.2 An employee's service can be terminated in one of three ways:
•

Termination initiated by the employee.

•

Termination by mutual agreement.

•

Termination initiated by the employer.

6.2 Termination initiated bv the employee
Resignation
An employee may resign from the Public Service of his or her free will at any time by
giving the employer notice in writing as stipulated in his or her contract of
employment. The two exceptions to this are:
•

An employee should resign from the Public Service if he or she accepts nomination as a
member of parliament at national or provincial level, or accepts full-time employment
elsewhere in the public sector, for example in a parastatal organisation. An employee who
fails to offer his or her resignation in these circumstances will be deemed to have resigned.

•

An employee may not resign in order to avoid the consequences of disciplinary action. The
resignation of an employee who has been suspended or who has been accused of misconduct
may not be accepted until disciplinary procedures have been completed and a decision
reached.

Retirement at own request
An employee has the right to retire from the Public Service between the age of 55 to
60 years.
Abscondment
•

An employee who absents himself or herself from duty for a period of 21 days or more
without prior authority will be deemed to have absconded. Procedures to implement
termination in cases of absoondment should comply with the following principles:

•

Reasonable attempts to contact the employee should be exhausted prior to implementation.

•

Adequate opportunity should be provided for the emp loyee to present his or her case why
termination of service should not be proceeded with.

•

The case should be speedily and objectively considered.

•

The return to work and remuneration of employees who are, after a period of absence, deemed
not to have absconded, should be dealt with in a fair and dignified manner.

6.3 Termination by mutual agreement
Premature retirement
In exceptional cases, due to circumstances beyond his or her control, an employee
who is below 55 years of age, can approach the highest administrative authority to be
prematurely retired. An employer may approve such a request if it is in the interest of
the State. The employer may subject this retirement to limitation on re-employment
prospects.
Voluntary severance
Periodically, voluntary severance may be offered to employees. In devising voluntary
severance schemes, the following principles should be applied:
•

All eligible employees (i.e. employees within the specified target group) wishing to take
voluntary severance should be given an equal opportunity to apply.

•

Objective selection criteria should be drawn up which set out clearly for the benefit of
employees the basis on which applications will be considered. These criteria should be
focused firmly on operational requirements and be consistent with the principles of
employment equity.

•

The final decision to accept an application will rest with the employer.

6.4 Termination initiated by the employer
Age retirement
The normal retirement age for all employees will be 60 years, and the retirement date
will be the end of the month of their 60th birthday. Legislation in this regard will be
introduced shortly but due regard will be given to protected existing rights of
employees. All contracts of employment should make clear that employment will
automatically cease on this date. Wherever possible, employees should be assisted to
make the transition from employment to retirement, for example by means of a preretirement preparation programme.
Employment beyond the age of 60 will only be permitted in exceptional
circumstances where the employer can clearly demonstrate that the employee in
question is the only person who can carry out the duties in question, and the employee
is willing to extend his or her service. Extensions of service beyond the age of 60
should be on the basis of a fixed-term contract for a specified period of not more than
12 months at a time, and for a maximum of 2 years.
Completion of fixed-term contract
The service of employees on fixed-term contracts will automatically cease at the end
of the contract period. Extensions to fixed-term contracts may be instigated by the
employer in line with the following principles:
•

The extension is required because of additional operational requirements in relation to the
original contract, and does not constitute a completely new requirement.

•

The extension is not required because the employee has failed, through his or her own
shortcomings, to deliver the required outcomes in the original timescale.

•

There are clear operational grounds for extending the contract rather than creating a new
contract filling the position through competition.

•

The employee's performance during the period of the original contract has been wholly
satisfactory.

•

The period of extension does not exceed 2 years.

Compulsory severance
Periodically the Public Service may find it necessary to dispense with the services of
employees or groups of employees for whom there is no further operational
requirement. In these circumstances, the services of the employees concerned will be
terminated in accordance with a compulsory severance scheme negotiated with the
relevant recognised employee organisation. Such schemes should be drawn up in
accordance with the following principles:

•

Selection criteria should be objective, consistent with the principles of employment equity,
and focused firmly on operational requirements. Wherever possible, preference in selection
should be given to those who wish to volunteer over those who wish to remain.

•

The employer should take active steps to redeploy employees to other positions within the
Public Service before implementing severance.

•

The financial compensation package should provide fair compensation for the loss of
employment, taking account of the employee's age, length of service, and future employment
prospects.

•

Adequate notice of severance should be given to employees.

•

Severance arrangements should include measures to assist employees to make a successful
transition from the Public Service.

Termination due to ill-health
Most employees suffer occasional bouts of ill-health which prevent their attendance at
work, or diminish the performance of their duties. These are covered by the normal
sick leave provisions. Where, however, an employee's health deteriorates so seriously
as to render him or her permanently unfit for duty for the foreseeable future, his or her
services may be terminated on grounds of ill-health. In terminating service on illhealth grounds the following p r i n c i p I e s should be applied:
•

The degree of incapacity and confirmation that there is no early prospect of recovery should
be established. A professional medical authority acting independently of the interests of either
the employee or employer should evaluate the degree of incapacity.

•

The employer should demonstrate that there is no other suitable job which the employee can
perform elsewhere in the organisation, even given his or her current state of health.

An employee who has been retired on grounds of ill-health, may be considered for reemployment, subject to independent medical evidence of his or her medical fitness.
Termination due to incapacity
Periodically, most employees go through a "bad patch", during which the standard of
their work drops, perhaps because of domestic or health reasons, or because of the
nature of their duties or the working environment. Such lapses are usually temporary,
and should be dealt with through normal performance management practices.
Sometimes, however, an employee's performance deteriorates so seriously and
permanently, that the Public Service can no longer justify employing him or her. In
such circumstances, an employee's service may be terminated. Procedures for
terminating service in these circumstances should comply with the following
principles:
•

The employer can demonstrate that the employee has consistently failed to perform to the
required standard, notwithstanding the application of all possible remedial measures,
including opportunities for improvement provided by performance management.

•

The employer can demonstrate that the employee is incapable of improving or unwilling to
improve his or her performance.

•

There is no other job within the organisation which the employee is capable of filling within
his or her capacity and willingness to perform to a satisfactory standard.

Dismissal for misconduct

Employees are required to uphold the highest standards of professional and personal
behaviour, as laid down in the Code of Conduct for Public Servants. An employee
who is guilty of misconduct so serious as to render him or her unsuitable for
employment in the Public Service is, in effect, in breach of his or her contract and
may therefore be dismissed. Procedures for dismissing and employee on grounds of
misconduct should comply with the following principles:
•

There should be proven evidence of the alleged misconduct.

•

Disciplinary action short of dismissal should be considered before a decision to dismiss is
taken.

•

The employee should be given a written notice of the intention to dismiss him or, her, and
adequate opportunity to make representations, with the assistance of a personal representative
of his or her choice.

Dismissal due to industrial action
Dismissal of employees as a result of industrial action will be governed, as for all
employees, by the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, 1995, whose key
provisions in this area areas follows. Industrial action, including "protected", namely
legally constituted strikes, are deemed to be "functional" to the collective. bargaining
process. Participation in a protected strike, or for any conduct in contemplation or
furtherance of such a strike, is therefore not regarded as a breach of contract, and does
not constitute grounds for dismissal. However, if in the course of a protected strike, an
employee is guilty of misconduct, for example by carrying out, acts of violence or
intimidation, this may provide grounds for dismissal.
Employees who participate in an unprotected strike may be dismissed, but may" also
have recourse to redress if, for example, it is proved that the employer caused the
strike through its own actions. Procedures for dismissing employees as a result of
unprotected strike action, should comply with the following:
•

The intended action should be discussed with the relevant trade union or unions.

•

Employees should be given a clear ultimatum advising them to return to work and informing
them of the intention to dismiss them if they fail to do so.

•

Employees should be given a reasonable period of time within which to consider and respond
to the ultimatum.

The employee is given an opportunity to make representations against the decision to
terminate his or her services, with the assistance of a personal representative of his or
her choice.

CHAPTER 7
IMPLEMENTATION
7.1 The challenge
7.1.1 Implementing the White Paper poses a number of challenges, both for national
departments and provincial administrations, and for the Department of Public Service

and Administration. Training on its own cannot be seen as the only solution to close
the "gap" on capacity to implement. It needs to be strongly backed by planning that
provides for a optimal fit of trainees into areas where they will immediately see
themselves practising the content of their training coupled with a strong rnentoring on
their jobs. In this regard departments/administrations should ensure that their capacity
building programmed go hand in hand with the exercise of redesigning their
institutional frameworks to achieve organisational goals.
7.1.2 Labour relations will be seen as an area that is going to be highly engaged with
the introduction of decentralisation. As the departments and provincial
administrations become employers in their own right, strong attention should be given
to strengthening the labour relations components through skilling.
7.1.3 National departments and provincial administrations
National departments and provincial administration will, among other things, need to:
•

Transform the management culture of their organisations to adopt new approaches to human
resource management.

•

Create or develop infrastructure and systems to support new human resource management
practices.

•

Transform their personnel administration components into human resource management units.

•

Ensure that the management of people becomes the responsibility of all line managers, and
that they have the requisite skills to fulfill this responsibility, for example in human resource
planning, diversity management, the drawing up of job-related recruitment criteria, and
objectives-based performance management.

•

Consult and, where necessary, negotiate new human resource management practices with
local representatives of organised labour.

7.1.4 Department of Public Service and Administration
The Department of Public Service and Administration will, among other things:
•

Ensure that the new human resource policies are supported by key stakeholders.

•

Consult and, where necessary, agreement on human resource policy with representatives of
organised labour at national level.

•

Ensure that the statutory framework supports the practical application of new human resource
management policies.

•

Ensure that human resource management policies are aligned with other transformation
initiatives.

•

Seek to ensure that centrally-controlled systems , such as PERSAL are developed to support
national departments' and provincial administrations' implementation of the new human
resource management policies.

•

Assist national departments and provincial administrations to implement the new human
resource management policies by providing guidance and, in conjunction with training
suppliers, help to develop capacity.

7.1.5 Public Service Commission

The implementation of this policy will be monitored and evaluated by the Public

Service Commission, in terms of section 196 of the Constitution, 1996.

7.2 Communication
The successful implementation of the policies contained in this White Paper will
depend, first and foremost on making sure that their purpose and objectives are
understood and accepted by employees at all levels within the Public Service. This
will require a well-managed communication campaign in which employees at all
levels are able to participate and have their questions answered and their concerns
taken into account. The Department of Public Service and Administration, in
conjunction with national departments and provincial administrations, will develop
and help to deliver a communications campaign which will serve this purpose. The
Department of Public Service and Administration will also work with national
departnents and provincial administrations to develop user-friendly guidelines for
implementation, and will provide policy guidance to national departments and
provincial administrations during the initial stages of implementation.

7.3 Institutional mechanisms
The new Public Service Regulations will provide a minimum of mandatory norms
with which all national departments and provincial administrations will be expected to
comply, and will also contain national agreements with organised labour on matters of
mutual interest. National departments and provincial administrations will then need to
develop their own human resource management practices within the parameters of
these national norms and agreements.

7.4 From personnel administration to human resource management
7.4.1 Managing people in the Public Service has traditionally been seen as the task of
personnel administration components whose main task has been to ensure compliance
with centrally-determined regulations and prescripts. These activities have sometimes,
perhaps unfairly, been perceived as controlling and inhibiting the effective
management of human resources. Managing people in future will require the
transformation of personnel administration components into fully-fledged human
resource management units whose role will be to provide professional support and
guidance to management.
7.4.2 The difference between the old and new approaches can be illustrated as
follows:

Old-style personnel
administration

New-style human resource
management

Uniformly applied central rules and
prescripts

Locally developed management practices within Public
Service-wide principles

Personnel adminisstrators ensusre
compliance with central rules

Local human resource management units provide
professional advice and guidance on application of
locally developed practices

Line managers have no
responsibility for human resource
management

Line managers are primarily responsible for the
management and development of their human
resources

resources
7 4.3 The transformation of personnel administration components into fully-fledged .
human resource management units will require, among other things, the re-training
and re-orientation of employees/managers to undertake their new roles. The
abolishment of narrow distinctions, between previous personnel administration,
functional specialisation and their replacement with a single human resource
management professional group will be introduced.

7.5 Capacity building
7.5.1 Many national departments and provincial administrations lack developed
human resource management skills, as well as the capacity to develop policy and
devise practices for their implementation. Negotiations and reaching agreements on
human resource management issues with representatives of organised labour will be
critical. Building capacity will therefore be a priority, both for national departments
and provincial administrations. The Department of Public Service and Administration
will, in conjunction with key players such as the South African Management
Development Institute (SAMDI) and other institutions, assist
departments/administrations to develop capacity- building programmes.
7.5.2 As a first step, the Department of Public Service and Administration will assist
national departments and provincial administrations to cany out capacity assessment
exercises which will determine, among other things •

the existing level of human resource management skills and capacity;

•

whether sound human resource management systems exist; and

•

the institutional capacity to exercise decentralised powers and responsibilities.

7.6 Transforrning human resource management - the key steps
The policies set out in this White Paper cannot be implemented overnight. Achieving
fundamental, enduring changes of the kind which are needed will require concerted
efforts by many people over a protracted period. Nevertheless, implementation will be
achieved more quickly and effectively if it is approached in a systematic manner. The
key steps to implementation include:
Driving the policy
The head of department should issue a clear human resources policy statement on
behalf of the executive authority (who is ultimately responsible for the efficiency and
effectiveness of the organisation), and provide strong leadership to ensure that the
policy is put into practice.
Cfatifying roles and responsibilities
All line managers and human resource practitioners should be fully informed of their
respective human resource management responsibilities, and of how their,
performance will be assessed in relation to these. Employees at every level should be
informed about how the new approach to human, resource management will affect
them, and the roles they are expected to play.

Establishing the baseline
A comprehermive human resources audit should be undertaken to identify the gap
between current human resource management policies and practices and those which
will be introduced by this White Paper. The audit should cover, among other things:
•

Human resource planning and information systems.

•

Human resource management organisation and structures.

•

Human resource management skills.

Developing a human resource management strategy
A comprehensive strategy should be drawn up to close the gap between existing
policies, practices and capacity as against those articulated in this White Paper with
regard to the future needs of national departments and provincial administrations. The
strategy should include:
•

Clearly articulated objectives, aligned to the organisation's strategic and operational goals.

•

Time-bound targets for the transformation of individual human resource management
practices.

•

Assignment of responsibilities and resources for implementation.

Monitoring and evaluation
Implementation of the strategy should be continuously monitored and evaluated, in
order to ensure that targets are met and that policies and practices are improved in the
light of experience.

Conclusion
7.1 The need to reform human resource management is critical because of its central
role in the transformation of the Public Service. The aim is to make significant
progress in implementing the policies set out in this White Paper within 2 years from
the date it comes into effect. National departments /provincial administrations should
not therefore, wait for the transforming their human resource management practices,
but should begin with their implementation programmes as soon as possible within
their current capacity.
7.2 National departments' and provincial administrations' progress in implementing
the White Paper will be monitored by the Public Service Commission, as part of their
regular monitoring activities. The Department of Public Service and Administration
will evaluate the policies in the White Paper and submit a report to Parliament on
overall progress 12 months after the official launch of the White Paper.

