Answers
Money

Facts on Saving and Investing Campaign
www.investoreducation.org

To Test Your

$ marts

1. If you buy a company’s stock,
A. you own a part of the company.
When you own stock, you own a part of
the company. There are no guarantees of profits,
or even that you will get your original investment
back, but you might make money in two ways.
First, the price of the stock can rise if the
company does well and other investors want to
buy the stock. If a stock’s price rises from $10 to
$12, the $2 increase is called a capital gain or
appreciation. Second, a company sometimes pays
out a part of its profits to stockholders—that’s
called a dividend. If the company doesn’t do
well, or falls out of favor with investors, your
stock can fall in price, and the company can stop
paying dividends, or make them smaller.

2. If you buy a company’s bond,
B. you have lent money to the
company.
When you buy a bond, you are lending
money to the company. The company promises
to pay you interest and to return your money on
a date in the future. This promise generally
makes bonds safer than stocks, but bonds can be
risky. To assess how risky a bond is you can
check the bond’s credit rating. Unlike
stockholders, bond holders know how much
money they will make, unless the company goes
out of business. If the company goes out of
business, bondholders may lose money, but if
there is any money left in the company, they will
get it before stockholders.

3. Over the past 70 years, the type of
investment that has earned the most
money, or the highest rate of return, for
investors has been
A. stocks.
If you had invested $1 in the stocks of
large companies in 1925 and you reinvested all

dividends, your dollar would be worth $2,350 at
the end of 1998. If the same dollar had been
invested in corporate bonds, it would be worth
$61, and if it had been invested in U. S. Treasury
bills, it would be worth $15. (This information
came from Ibbotson Associates, Inc.)

4. If you buy the stock of a new company,
B. you can lose all of the money you
used to buy the stock.
One of the riskiest investments is buying
stock in a new company. New companies go out
of business more often than companies that have
been in business for a long time. If you buy
stock in small, new companies, you could lose it
all. Or the company could turn out to be a
success. You’ll have to do your homework and
learn as much as you can about small companies
before you invest. If you decide to buy stock in
a new or small company, only invest money that
you can afford to lose.

5. Monique owns a wide variety of stocks,
bonds, and mutual funds to lessen her
risk of losing money. This is called
C. diversifying
One of the most important ways to lessen
the risk of losing money when you invest is to
diversify your investments. It’s common sense
— don’t put all your eggs in one basket. If you
buy a mixture of different types of stocks, bonds,
or mutual funds, your entire savings will not be
wiped out if one of your investments fails. Since
no one can accurately predict how our economy
or one company will do, diversification helps you
to protect your savings.

Get the facts.
It’s your money.
It’s your future.

6. Carlos has saved some cash and faces
these choices. What would be the best
thing for him to do?
D. pay off the balance on his credit
card that charges 18% interest.
Most advisers suggest that before you start
to invest, you should save cash for emergencies
and pay down any debt you have. If Carlos has
money in a savings account or buys a U.S. savings
bond, he’ll earn 3 to 5% on his savings. Mutual
funds are not guaranteed, and they may earn or
lose money. But if Carlos pays off his credit card,
it’s like earning 18% because that’s how much
he’s paying now to maintain the balance. If you
owe money on your credit cards, you save money
if you pay off the balance in full or as quickly as
possible.

7. Maria wants to have $100,000 in 20
years. The sooner she starts to save, the
less she’ll have to save because
C. interest on her savings will start
compounding.
When you leave the interest in your
account or reinvest the money you earn on your
investments, the money you earn starts to earn
money too. Over time, the magic of
compounding works, allowing your money to
grow with dramatic results. The more time you
have to save, the less money you need to save
because of compounding. And the longer you
wait to start saving, the more you have to spend
to reach your goal. For example, let’s assume
that Maria’s savings grow by 5% a year. If she
starts to save $243 a month now, it will cost her
$58,320 to have $100,000 in twenty years. If
she waits 10 years to start saving, she will have to
save $644 a month for 10 years, and it will cost
her $77,280 to reach $100,000 in twenty years.

8. Jennifer wants to take some of her
savings and invest in a mutual fund
because mutual funds are
C. managed by experts at picking
investments.
A diversified mutual fund invests in a wide
variety of stocks, bonds, or other securities. The
manager of the fund makes decisions about which

stocks or bonds to buy, based on the objective of
the fund. When you buy shares of a mutual
fund, you share in the profits and losses of the
portfolio, and pay your share of the expenses.

9. Bob is 22 years old and wants to start
saving now for his retirement in 43 years.
Of these choices, where should Bob put
most of his money now for this long-term
goal?
C. a mutual fund that invests in
stocks.
As you read in the answer to question
three, over the long term, stocks have earned
more money than any other investment. Since
Bob doesn’t need his money for a long time, he
can afford to take on the risk of investing in
stocks. Even if the stocks in his fund go up and
down in value, chances are his savings will grow
in value over the long term. He lessens the risk
of losing money by choosing a diversified mutual
fund rather than the stock of one company.

10. Federal and state laws protect
investors by requiring companies to
B. give investors important
information.
Most businesses that raise money from the
public must register with the SEC or the states
and publicly report important information about
their businesses on a regular basis. Federal and
state laws protect you by requiring that
the people who seek your investment
dollars must tell you the truth about their
businesses, and
the people who sell securities must be
licensed and treat you fairly and honestly,
putting your interests first.

Get the facts.
It’s your money.
It’s your future.

