U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Equity Market Structure Advisory Committee
Recommendation for an Access Fee Pilot
July 8, 2016
RECOMMENDATION
The Equity Market Structure Advisory Committee (“Committee”) recommends that the
Commission propose a pilot program to adjust the access fee cap under Rule 610. The suggested
framework for the pilot is described below, as well as a background discussion and areas
suggested for public comment.
The Regulation NMS Subcommittee (“Subcommittee”) generated this recommendation after:
• Multiple meetings of the Subcommittee, the minutes of which have all been posted to the
SEC’s website.
• The participation of additional outside experts in these meetings in order to broaden the
composition of constituents involved in the discussion. The Subcommittee itself included
an Exchange executive, buy-side participants, sell-side representatives, an individual
investor representative and an academic. The additional outside participants included:
o A representative from an online retail firm;
o An additional academic;
o An executive from a proprietary trading firm;
o Brief participation from an individual involved with listed companies. It is also
worth noting that several of the Subcommittee members are employees of and/or
interact with listed companies in their current functions, while other
Subcommittee members have dealt with listed companies in former positions. It
is also worth noting that NYSE and Nasdaq were requested to participate in our
discussions in order to share their views as listing exchanges, but declined
multiple invitations.
• Incorporating the full EMSAC Committee and panel deliberations during the public
EMSAC meetings, most notably the April 26, 2016 meeting, including the participation
of NYSE and Nasdaq.
The intent of the proposed pilot is to better understand, within the context of our current market
structure, the effect of access fees on liquidity provision, liquidity taking and order routing with
the ultimate goal of improving market quality. The Committee does not believe that there are
any certain or predetermined outcomes from the pilot, and the net effect of many
counterbalancing factors are not believed to be significantly beneficial or detrimental to any
single group. Ultimately, the findings from the pilot are purely intended to inform the broader
debate on how to improve market quality for issuers, investors and market participants.

1

PILOT FRAMEWORK
1. Access fee caps for all quotations covered under SEC Rule 610(c) for a select number of
symbols, divided into the following buckets:
a. Bucket 1 - Control bucket
b. Bucket 2 - $.0020 access fee cap
c. Bucket 3 - $.0010 access fee cap
d. Bucket 4 - $.0002 access fee cap*
2. Random sample of 100 (total) common stocks and ETFs within each bucket
a. Each issue with an individual market capitalization >$3 billion.
b. Stratified random sampling for both the common stock and ETF selections based
on market capitalization, share price, and trading volume.
c. We further suggest that the pilot should begin with a more limited set of 10 stocks
for an initial three-month measurement period and then expand to the full set of
pilot stocks.
3. Two-year pilot program.
4. Consistent with the current structure of Rule 610, applied to protected quotations and not
depth of book quotations.
5. Consistent with the current structure of Rule 610, does not cover inverted venues.*
6. Consistent with the current structure of Rule 610, no direct application to ATSs.*
* see Items Suggested for Public Comment below
MEASUREMENT CRITERIA
• General intent is to attempt to:
o Measure the impact of lower access fees on liquidly provisioning - bid/ask
spreads, market depth, order routing behaviors, ratio of hidden liquidity vs.
displayed liquidity on the exchanges, quoting behavior;
o Measure the impact of lower access fees on liquidity taking - ratio of on vs. off
exchange trading, order routing behaviors, price impact, slippage/realized spread,
trade volume.
• Suggested measurement criteria:
• Quoted Spreads
• Effective Spreads
• Realized Spreads
• Displayed liquidity – changes at the inside, depth at 3, 5, 10 cents beyond the NBBO
• Volatility – stock-level changes; number of price changes at the NBBO
• Hidden liquidity – off-exchange market share; mid-point exchange executions and
exchange dark liquidity
• Changes in trading volume
• Behavioral routing changes as evidenced by:
o Market share shifts among trading venues
o On- vs. off-exchange trading levels
o ATS vs. broker internalization levels
• Changes in the levels of Price improvement in the marketplace
• Percentage of time the market is locked/crossed
2

•
•
•
•
•
•

Slippage and price impact
Retail and institutional commission pricing
Shifts among Exchange order type usage
Significant behavioral changes in pricing from ATSs and/or Exchange reserve
quantities
Ongoing monitoring to potentially terminate the program early should there be significant
deterioration in any of the measurement criteria. The Committee would additionally
suggest periodic (every six-months) reporting of data.
Given that the pilot does not prohibit rebates nor apply to inverted venues (see discussion
in Items Suggested for Public Comment), the Committee would suggest monitoring to
ensure that marketplace behavior does not evolve in a way that potentially negates the
output of the pilot, e.g.:
a. Monitoring for material order flow migration to inverted venues/ATSs;
b. Potentially institute a moratorium on new inverted pricing schemes.

ADDITIONAL DETAIL
• Justification for Why a Pilot Should be Conducted
• “Maker-taker” is one of the more debated aspects of current market structure. The
Regulation NMS adopting release acknowledged that “[p]erhaps more than any other
single issue, the proposed limitation on access fees splintered the commenters.” 1
• Regulation NMS Rule 610 limited the fees that any trading center can charge (or can
allow to be charged) for accessing its protected quotations to no more than $0.003 per
share. 2
• Given the complex ecosystem of our marketplace, definitive conclusions on access
fee modifications are difficult to draw without an actual implementation. In addition,
market characteristics, such as effective spreads, have declined since the cap was set.
• Limited experiments, such as the recent Nasdaq pilot, have shown that individual
market experiments do not yield conclusive results about the potential impact of
market-wide policy reform on access fees.
• The access fee cap of $0.003 effectively sets a ceiling for rebates. In the nine years
since the cap went into effect, there are and have been multiple exchange pricing
models along the spectrum up to the access fee cap, including inverted exchanges
where rebates are paid to those accessing quotes. However, the largest exchanges in
terms of volume are those that charge access fees at or near the cap and, hence, pay
the highest rebates to attract displayed liquidity.
• While reducing market complexity is difficult to outline and justify as a primary pilot
goal, there is a case to be made that rules such as the access fee cap create structural
complexity (such as fragmentation, order types, etc.) for which the tangible
cost/benefit is difficult to measure. A pilot will potentially help measure the dynamic
between Rule 610 and complexity.
• A pilot would study, and hopefully help to answer, the following questions:
o The relationship among access fees, liquidity provision and market quality;
1
2

SEC Regulation NMS adopting release, pp.27-28 (https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/34-51808.pdf)
SEC Regulation NMS adopting release, p.27 (link above)

3

o The relationship between access fees, rebates, and order routing practices;
o The potential impact of access fee dynamics on the price discovery process.
•

Regarding Pilot Framework Item 2:
a. The Committee understand the addressable universe of U.S. common stocks and
ETFs with market capitalizations >$3b to be approximately 970 (and
approximately 1,250 with the inclusion of ADRs, REITs, companies incorporated
outside the US and limited partnerships). The Committee believes the selection
of 100 names per bucket (300 in total) appropriately balances the desire to
achieve an adequate sample size and stratification, without over-inclusion within
the pilot.
b. Access fees are more meaningful in larger-capitalization stocks, supporting the
$3b market cap cutoff; in addition this level will limit overlap with the “tick pilot”
that is currently in development.

•

Regarding Pilot Framework Item 4 - Rule 610 does not apply to non-displayed
liquidity on Exchanges, and current industry fee schedules do not distinguish between
displayed and non-displayed liquidity. While the Committee is concerned that the lower
access fee caps could create a theoretical incentive for distinct higher rebates on nondisplayed Exchange liquidity, this was outweighed by the desire to not introduce
additional rulemaking beyond an adjustment to the access fee cap. As such, we are not
incorporating application of the access fee cap to non-displayed Exchange liquidity, but
encourage the SEC to not allow any rule filings that would look to exploit this differential
and disrupt the pilot by introducing a change in the current market structure which could
impact data interpretation.

ITEMS SUGGESTED FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
1. Regarding Pilot Framework Item 1.d. - The Committee intentionally selected $.0002
as the rate in Bucket 4 in order to create a bucket where any rebate should result in a de
minimis economic incentive. The Committee also discussed whether this bucket should
in fact be a no-rebate bucket in order to more clearly measure behavior in the absence of
inducements to trade. However, the Committee does not suggest a no-rebate bucket in
the pilot for several reasons:
a. Capping inducements is currently not an existing component of our market
structure, and the Committee worries about the complicating impacts of
introducing such a restriction on the effectiveness of the pilot.
b. Exchange rebates are only one of several examples of inducements to trade (e.g.,
payment for order flow, soft dollars, rebates to liquidity takers on inverted
exchanges (see below), clearing arrangements, etc.).
c. As such, while the Committee would encourage the SEC to consider a separate
potential study and/or pilot around the role of inducements in trading, we do not
believe the access fee pilot is the place to do so.
d. Given that these considerations also span the other EMSAC Subcommittees, this
topic may also warrant a specific EMSAC recommendation in the future.

4

e. We would encourage additional public comment on this conclusion.
2. Regarding Pilot Framework Item 5 - The Committee does not propose extending the
jurisdiction of Rule 610 to include fees for providing liquidity (or rebates for taking
liquidity) on inverted exchanges in the pilot program in order to remain consistent with
the market structure that is currently in place, and along the same lines as the logic
highlighted above.
a. The Committee would encourage additional public comment on this conclusion.
3. Regarding Pilot Framework Item 6 – The Committee is endeavoring to create as broad
and inclusive of a pilot as possible, and is sensitive to not inadvertently create an unlevel
playing field for exchanges vs. ATSs. However, the Committee does not believe that
extending the application of Rule 610 to ATSs would be a beneficial part of the pilot
given that (i) such limitation does not apply today, (ii) ATSs are not afforded a protected
quote, and (iii) ATS transaction fees generally take the form of an institutional
commission. The Committee would, however, encourage this to be a specific point for
public comment.
4. Options - The Committee believes no specific implications arise with respect to Options
markets, but this warrants further consideration and confirmation.
5. Trade-At – The Committee does not agree with an inclusion of Trade-At in this pilot for
the following reasons, but would encourage additional public comment:
a. The access fee pilot is being proposed to determine, in part, if a trade-at provision
is needed. Many in the market believe that a motivation for ATS activity is
economic, i.e., take fees are too high, and an access fee pilot will help answer that
question. Trade-at will predetermine an outcome of forcing flow back onto
Exchanges that will be independent of the changes to access fees, thus impacting
the measurement criteria for the pilot.
b. The purpose of this pilot is to generate data to see the impact on market quality
when the cap is changed. It is the Committee's opinion that, while many issues
are intertwined, trade-at would address different market structure questions, such
as segmentation. In addition, the likely shift of flows as a result of trade-at would
both make the pilot more complex and impact effective measurement of the
access fee change.
c. The Committee believes an access fee pilot is relatively simple to implement and
conduct, and should be kept that way without introducing significant additional
complications.
d. The tick pilot will yield trade-at results that can be further studied; thus
duplication is not warranted.
6. ETFs – Pursuant to the July 8, 2016 full EMSAC meeting, the Committee is
recommending the inclusion of ETFs in the pilot. The Committee would encourage
additional public comment on this point.

5

