SERVE TRAIN EDUCATE PEOPLE’S SOCIETY

HR POLICIES

3-689 Nagari Street, Srikalahasti 517644,
Chittoor District, Andhra Pradesh, India
Email: stepsngo@rediffmail.com, ngosteps@gmail.com
Web Site: www.steps.org.in

Index
Name of the Content

Page No

1. Legal Form
2. Personnel Policy

3
4 -11

3. Finance Policy

12-16

4. Fixed Assets Policy

17-18

5. Communication Policy

19

6. Computer Policy

20-21

7. Procurement Policy

22-23

8. Performance Policy

24-25

9. Attendance Policy
10. Internet and Email Policy

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

26
27-28

2

LEGAL FORM
STEPS is a Non Governmental organization registered in the
year 1993 (No 592/93) Registered on 8-10-1993 under
societies Registration Act XXI of I860 of Government of
Andhra Pradesh, Registered with union Home Ministry Govt of
India on 18-2-1999 under FCRA HCRA Number: 0101402I6
Registered with Ministry of Finance, Government of India
under

12A

(F.No.Hqrs/308/CIT/TPT/2005-06

dated

22/05/2006. Sl No. 14 of page No 7) and 80G of the income
Tax Act. STEPS have good operating position, Excellent MIS
systems. Accounting systems, adequate control systems, and
good overall management systems.
Planning: STEPS has moderate system of HR planning.
Most of its HR planning

focus on no of field staff and

people in the middle management.
Recruitment: STEPS recruit mostly its staff through advertising
in the local news papers its conducts written test and oral
interview for selecting candidates. It has well laid out
criteria for the qualifications and experiences.
Deployment: All the new recruit are subject to rigorous training
where they are told about the mission, vision, organizational
structure processes and procedures. After that they are
provided with job description.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

3

PERSONNEL POLICY
1.1 Purpose
The purpose of the Personnel Policy is to set down the policies,
conditions, rights and obligations of NGO employees subject to their
performing of the duties and responsibilities in their respective job
descriptions.
From the time of contract, each employee will have access to this
policy, so that he/she can adhere to it with full knowledge and
information.
The policies described below may at any time be subject to
modification if the Board of Members of NGO deems it necessary. In
such cases, employees will be fully informed of the changes made.

1.2 Categories of Personnel
All personnel working for NGO are classified into following types
1.2.1 Employees
Employees designate salaried individuals are given ongoing
assignments, either part-time or full-time, and are paid on monthly
basis. They will be contracted on yearly basis subject to periodic
evaluations and performance assessments. They will have the
responsibility towards the day to day functioning and/or in any one
of more ongoing/prospective projects of the organization.
All the employees of
Management Category,
Categories.

the organization are classified into
Professional Category and Support

1.2.2 Consultants
Consultants are professional experts hired by NGO on short-term
basis only for the completion of specific tasks and assignments
related to NGO or one or more of its projects. Separate and limited
contracts, defining their job description, timeline, deliverables,
reporting procedures and payment details will be issued to
consultants. They will be paid on daily/monthly/weekly basis
depending upon the nature of their assignment. They will not be
considered as full-time or part-time employees of the organization.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

4

1.3 Personnel Files
The Organization maintains personal files for each employee.
Personnel File are maintained for each employee of STEPS
Organization. These personnel files contain confidential documents
and are managed and maintained by Human Resources staff
1.3.1 Personal Records: STEPS Maintains personal records of all
employees. During appointment of the employee the photo copies of
qualifications and experience are collected along with their joining
report and they will be kept in their files.

1.4. JOB DESCRIPTION
The Human Resource Generalist manages the day-to-day operations
of the Human Resource office. The HR Generalist manages the
administration of the human resources policies, procedures and
programs. The HR Generalist curries out responsibilities in the
following functional areas: departmental development, Hu m a n
Resource Information Systems (HR IS ), employee relations, training
and development, benefits, organizational
development. and
employment.
The Human Resources generalist is responsible for all or part of these
areas:
Recruiting and staffing logistics, organizational and space planning
performance management and Improvement systems, organization
development, employment and compliance to regulatory concerns and
reporting, employee orientation, development and training, employee
relations, employee safety, welfare, wellness and health, Employee
services and counseling.
The Human Resources Generalist originates and leads Human
Resources practices and objectives that will provide an employeeoriented. high performance culture that emphasizes empowerment,
quality. productivity and standards, goal attainment, recruitment
and ongoing development of a superior workforce.
The Human Resources Generalist coordinates implementation
of
services, policies, and programs through Human Resources staff:
reports to the Human Resources Director and assists and advices the
organization about I Human Resources issues.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

5

1.5. Job Candidate Evaluation Form
This form enables our staff members, who are participating in the
interview process with ii candidate, to assess the individual's
qualifications. I he format provides a method for comparing the
interviewers' impressions of various candidates.
The questions also provide guidance about the type of s ki l l s mid
potential contributions the interviewers should be assessing in each
candidate they interview. This format allows us to customize the
questionnaire w i th any additional assessments which are necessary
for the pertinent position.
Over time, we will develop customized questions for every position
you commonly fill. Even in the short term, provide some guidance
to the managers and other interviewers about w hich questions each
interviewer is responsible for asking.
As an example, when recruiting ORW. the selection committee should
have the responsibility to assess th individual's ability, his or her
aggressiveness, and other specific work requirements. The Human
Resources Director may want to assess the candidate's cultural fit
with both questions and observations about how the candidate treated
staff. A peer will want to know HOW The candidate works in a team
environment, how the candidate handles rejection, how the candidate
gels leads and how me person might f i t as a coworker
By sharing questions and responsibility across interviewers, we w ill
learn more about the candidate, discover whether the candidate
"fits" for the organization,

1.6. Appointment Letter and Staff Orientation
1.6.1 Appointment Letter
Any personnel employed with NGO will be issued an appointment
letter prior to his/her employment by NGO. The appointment letter
will officially announce his/her position within the organization, the
place of assignment and the effective date of employment. The
appointment letter will carry annexes, specifying the employee’s job
description, terms of reference, salary and benefits and other
relevant terms of employment

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

6

1.6.2 Probationary Period
A probation period of three months shall apply to all new employees
from the date of hire. Exceptionally, the probation period may be
extended to six months. In case, if a new employee fails to perform
in accordance to expectations of NGO staff/board, he/she will be
given a notice, terminating the contract at the end of the
probationary period.
1.6.3 Staff orientation
All new employees will get an orientation about the organization’s
mission and strategies, its structure and the staff within it, the
policies and conditions of employment, the internal rules and
regulations, etc.
1.6.4 Remuneration
NGO believes in attracting and retaining a qualified and effective
workforce through a system of payment that is both appealing and
fair. All employees of NGO are entitled to salary, depending upon
their skills, qualification, experience and as per the guidelines of
funding agencies. Salary will be mentioned in the appointment
letter.
1.6.5 Working Days and Hours
1.6.5.1 Working Days
NGO will follow a 6 days a week working schedule from Monday to
Saturdays and Sunday considered non-working day.
Unless otherwise specified, NGO will observe the same public
holidays as those prescribed by the Government not exceeding 12
days a year. The President will prepare a calendar of public holidays
not exceeding 12 calendar days at the beginning of each fiscal year
and circulate it to all staff.
1.6.5.2 Office Hours
The office shall open from 09.30 am in the morning till 05.30 in the
evening. All employees are expected to complete 8 working hours
daily. There will be one hour lunch-break.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

7

1.7 Travel Rules & Regulations
1.7.1 Travel
Staff members may be asked to travel away from their
workplaces on authorized missions. The policy on payment of
allowances adopted NGO applies to all employees regardless
category or status. It also applies to the consultants,
mentioned in their agreement.

usual
travel
of job
when

After reimbursable expenses are made, the person making an
expense claim shall use the appropriate forms available.
The expenses will not be reimbursed if proper justifying documents
(original receipts) are not attached except for per diem. Eligible
expenses include:
1.7.2 Mode of Transport
NGO will pay only surface transport as far as possible, i.e.
Train/bus. If any individual is using personal vehicle for NGO related
work, they can be reimbursed the actual fuel cost based upon the
mileage. Some maintenance will also be awarded if required.
However, the private transport must be shared by more than one
NGO member or employee.
1.7 Leave and Holidays
1.7.1 Leave
All employees of NGO are entitled to 12 working days off as paid
leave per year. This leave is accured monthly at the rate of 1.5
working days.
1.7.2 Holidays
All employees are entitled to 12 days of paid leave due to public
holidays. Public holidays are specified in advance by the President in
consultation with staff members.
Employees who are required to work on public holidays
to compensatory day off. NGO will keep records of
hours/days worked by its employees on public holidays.
compensatory leave shall be substantiated with this
approved in advance by the President.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

are entitled
number of
Request for
record and

8

1.8. Absences
(1) An employee who is unable to come to the office is required to
notify the office of the reason for his/her absence.
(2) Unauthorized absences are grounds for disciplinary action. The
following procedures shall apply:
i. An employee that has been absent for two consecutive working
days without notice nor explanation shall be personally sought of by
the President. He/she shall be asked to put in writing the reason(s)
for
his/her
absence.
ii. If, after seven consecutive days of absence, the employee
continues to fail to give any explanation of the cause of his/her
absence, the employee will be considered to have resigned from
his/her
position.
iii. In cases where the employee cannot give any satisfactory
answer to the cause of his/her absences, in the judgment of the
President, the employee may be subjected to disciplinary action.
1.9 Staff Movement
(1) Assignments and Transfers
According to project needs, any employee can be transferred
temporarily or permanently to any location where NGO conducts its
activities.
A permanent transfer to a new place of work that includes a new
job mandate shall result in a contract renewal.
(2) Interim positions and promotions
An employee may be called on to temporarily perform a job in a
higher category. That does not automatically give him the right to
the salary and benefits of this position. However, after a reasonable
amount of time, NGO shall reclassify the employee in the category
of the new job or return him/her to his/her former duties.
An employee who receives a promotion can be required to complete
a trial period in the new position. If the trial period is successfully
concluded, the employee will be reclassified in the new job category
and at a salary scale level higher than his former position. If the
trial period is not satisfactorily completed, the employee will be
reinstated in a position at the same level as his former position.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

9

1.10.DISCIPLINE (Progressive Discipline)
Progressive discipline is a process for dealing with job-related
behavior that does not meet expected and communicated
performance standards. The primary purpose for progressive
discipline is to assist the employee to understand that a
performance problem or opportunity for improvement exists.
The process features increasingly formal efforts to provide feedback
to the employee so that he or she can correct the problem. The goal
of progressive discipline is to improve employee performance.
The process of progressive discipline is not intended as a punishment
for an employee, but to assist the employee to overcome
performance problems and satisfy job expectations. Progressive
discipline is most successful when it assists an individual to become
an effectively performing member of the organization.
Failing that, progressive discipline enables the organization to
fairly, and w i t h substantial documentation, terminate the
employment of employees who are ineffective and unwilling to
improve,
Typical steps in a progressive discipline system may include these.
Counseling the employee about performance and ascertain his or
her understanding of requirements. Ascertain whether there are any
issues contributing lo the poor performance that are not immediately
obvious to the supervisor. These issues are solved, if possible.
The employee will be verbally reprimanded for poor performance.
Written warning will be given to the employee, in an effort to improve
employee performance.
Providing an escalating number of days In which the employee is
suspended from work. Start with one day and escalate to five.
Ending the employment of an individual who refuses to improve.

1.11. Employees Termination
1.11.1 Conditions for Termination
Employees shall lose their jobs under any of the following
conditions:
Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

10

(1) Voluntary Resignation
i. Personnel wishing to resign from post may do so by giving a
resignation letter to the Executive Director stating the reasons for
resignation and effective date of the same. Three months of prior
notice
is
required
for
such
resignations.
ii. The date in which the resignation letter is received at the NGO
office is considered the date on which notice of resignation is given.
Failure to provide sufficient notice may be ground for forfeiture of
all accrued employee benefits.
The employee will be relived If anybody gets Government job, any
other job for which they get more salary than what they are
drawing now, If the health condition will not permit to work and on
production of medical certificate, any other genuine cause the
organization believes, if get married not willing to work.
If they will not full fill the above conditions the employees will be
relieved after repaying two months of salary to the organization.
(2) Redundancy of the Position
Depending on the nature and volume of its operation, NGO may
declare certain positions redundant. Persons occupying those
positions will therefore be forced to be separated from NGO with
proper notice. While doing so, NGO will give at least 2 months
notice in advance.
(3) Termination with Cause
termination are the following:

Grounds

for

employee

i. continuing inefficiency and gross negligence of duty.
ii. fund embezzlement.
iii. Misuse of office equipment, and other properties.
iv. repeated unauthorized absences and leaves
v. intoxication while on official business or within office premises
vi. unauthorized disclosure of official information

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

11

FINANCE POLICY

2.1. Fund Receipt
2.1.1 Sources of Funds
NGO receives funds from the following sources:
i. Project fund.
ii. Membership fees.
iii. Income from short term professional services and consultancy
assignments undertaken by NGO.
iv. Grants Donations received from philanthropic organizations and
individuals.
v. Grants received from Government
2.1.2 NGO Core Fund
The following are identified as NGO’s core programme:
A. NGO’s administrative expenses (house rent, utilities,
administrative officer, peon).
Any programme coming to NGO must allocate some funds to
support this core programme.
2.1.3 Signatories to Cheque Books
The President of NGO, its Treasurer will be signatory to NGO’s
cheques. Money can be released by the signatures of two
signatories.
2.1.4 Types of Accounts
The following three types of accounts will be maintained by NGO:
(i) Central Account
All income accrued to NGO will be deposited in the Central Account.
The President, and Treasurer are authorized to operate the bank
account. Two signatures of these officials will be required for fund
disbursement.
Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
12
Policies

(ii) Savings Account
NGO will keep fixed deposit savings account for its trust fund.
(iii) Petty Cash Fund
A petty cash fund
is kept to cover payments not exceeding
Rs.5000. The Accountant/Office Administrator will handle this
account and is to be liquidated every two weeks.
The President and/or Treasurer will ensure proper handling of petty
cash fund through surprise checks from time to time.
(iv)FCRA Account
All the foreign contribution will be deposited in this account. The
President and Treasurers are authorized to operate the bank
account. Separate program wise accounts are maintained.

2.2. Fund Disbursement
All payments be made either by cheque or cash.
2.2.1 Payment by Cheque
Crossed cheques will be issued for all the payments
(i) Payment for Purchases
Payment against purchases exceeding 1000
cheque.

shall be made by

(ii) Payment for Services Rendered
a. Payments for Staff Salaries

i . Payment Calendar
Staff salaries are paid within seven days following the completion of
the month. Single bank statement and single cheque will be sent to
the bank with the name and account numbers of staff members
for depositing their salary in their respective accounts or if any
Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

13

individual are not having bank account they will be issued individual
cheques.

ii. Staff payroll
Staff payroll (salary sheet) is prepared by the Accountant as the
basis of payment. The staff payroll contains information on the
employees’ basic salary for the month, allowances if any,
deductions and net salary payable. The staff payroll is checked by
the Treasurer and approved for payment by the President.

iii. Advance Pay
Advance payment will not be given to the NGO’s employees.
For travel purposes, NGO employees shall be given cash advances
for expenses covered on official trips. Request for cash advances is
prepared by the personnel concerned, recommended by the
Treasurer or Project Director and is approved by the President. All
cash advances for travel are to be liquidated within a week following
the completion of the trip.

iv. Tax Deduction at Source
NGO will deduct tax at source where applicable as per Government
rules.

v. Professional Tax deduction
Registered with Government for the deduction of professional tax.
Renewing registration every year. Professional Tax deducted from
the staff and paying to commercial tax department.
b. Payment for Contractual Services
Payment for contractual services is done through cheque
disbursements. The schedule of payment depends on the Terms of
Reference (TOR) agreed upon by the personnel concerned and NGO.
Payments are covered by a Request for Payment Form prepared by
the accountant and approved by the President.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

14

2.2.2 Procedures for Fund Disbursements
• All requests for payments are to be made using the appropriate
forms.
• Requests for payments are to be properly substantiated with
bills/receipts and essential documents.
• Requests for payments are prepared by accountant and submitted
to the President for checking and approval.

2.3. Book Keeping and Recording
2.3.1 Book Keeping
The recording system of NGO’s financial transactions allows to
monitor bank balances, status of funds receipts and expenditures,
and a comparative statement of budget vs. actual expenditure on a
regular basis.
NGO will maintain records of fixed assets, petty cash
disbursements, supplies, inventory, the use and maintenance of
office equipment.
2.3.2 Accounting
The following sets of financial reports will be prepared by NGO:
A. Quarterly financial reports will be prepared for review by each
individual project manager of NGO’s specific projects as well as of
its core activities. This quarterly report will be reviewed by the
Board of NGO. Financial reports to donors will be submitted as
prescribed in the agreement between donors and NGO.
B. Annual Balance Sheet and Statement of Income and
Expenditures will prepared for each financial year.
C. Separate Annual balance sheet and statement of Income and
Expenditures will be prepared for the foreign contributions.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

15

2.4. Auditing
Books of Accounts of NGO shall be audited annually by an
independent auditor appointed by the General Body.
NGO may hire internal auditor in order to streamline its accounting
systems and procedures

2.5. Formation of Committees
The following committees are constituted for different programme
activities
i. Programme Committee
ii. Financial Committee
iii. Purchase Committee

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

16

FIXED ASSETS POLICY
3.1. Purpose
To carry out its activities, NGO needs material resources. The
quality of these resources is dependent upon how they are used.
Material resources are in large part durable goods, which need to be
well-managed to be maintained in good condition. These goods
include stationary, tables, chairs, shelves, computers and related
accessories. The Fixed Assets Policy will aim for:
•
•
•
•
•

precise identification of goods that are part of the asset base;
sensible use of goods;
periodic taking of physical inventory;
effective maintenance of goods;
replenishment of goods when required.

3.2. Procedures
At NGO, the management of material resources is the responsibility
of the Accountant and Administrative officer . The procedures
involved in managing these resources are
•
•
•
•
•

receiving and recording goods;
using goods properly;
maintaining goods;
taking inventory of goods;
disposing of goods.

Material resources are managed by means of records or files.
3.3. Asset inventory
The purpose of the inventory is the physical monitoring of the items
belonging to a project. The inventory makes it possible to detect
differences between information about goods in the records and the
actual state of goods.
Inventory is usually done once a year and is the responsibility of the
finance division.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

17

3.4. Procedures
The inventory procedure is composed of the following steps:
a. Creation of record cards on which is found:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

type of item
description of item
identification code
service user or name of manager
assigned location
previous placement of item
notes on condition of item
record updates
minutes of physical inventory

b. Final removal of an item
c. Replacement of an item
d. List of annual needs
3.5. Removal of items
The inventory procedure described above permits the identification
of dilapidated or defective goods whose presence in office presents
more inconveniences than advantages, for various reasons:
• steep rise in operating or maintenance expenses;
• excessive cost of repair;
• any other objective reason.
The President should give the authorization to take out of service,
transfer or dispose of any items, and that should be noted in the
book of assets

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

18

COMMUNICATION POLICY
4.1. Purpose
The purpose of this policy is to control and reduce the
communication cost in an effective way. Telephones are the most
convenient and fastest mode of communication but for long distance
communication, they are expensive.
There are other modes for fast communication such as courier, fax
or e-mail. And out of these, e-mail is fast and more affordable. NGO
prefers to use e-mail for out of station correspondence to reduce
the communication costs. Telephones can be used for local calls and
in emergency for national & international long distance calls.
Internet service at the office can be used to download and send
email and to conduct work-related research.
4.2. Guidelines
NGO provides the following guidelines to its staff to control
telephone use.
a. Telephone users are requested to keep their conversations short
in order to keep the cost down and to keep the lines open for other
people in and outside the office that need to use the telephone.
b. In general, employees should avoid using phones for non-official
calls and are encouraged to use STD/ISD facilities available outside
the office. However, the non-official calls will be billed to employees
at prevailing rates. To keep track of such calls, a record sheet is
provided to each employee working in the office in order to make it
easier to remember to record the long distance calls (STD / ISD).
All long distance calls should be recorded on this sheet along with
all required information and submit to the finance division each
month.
c. In order to minimize communication costs as much as possible,
email should be used rather than fax or direct long distance calls.
d. Copies of all in-coming and out-going official communications
(fax, letters sent or received) should be filed. The employees
sending / receiving important e-mails should be responsible to print
and file such e-mails. A copy should go in the central file system.
e. Efforts should also be made to keep fax messages short and to
send
long
documents
by
fax
only
in
urgent
cases.
f. Regarding international phone calls, the need for the official call
should be discussed verbally with the President , unless exceptional
circumstances make this impractical

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

19

COMPUTER POLICY
5.1. Purpose
NGO seeks to effectively manage the computer system for guiding
the use, maintenance and security of the computer equipment.
Employees are responsible for ensuring that the procedures and
policies suggested here are followed.
5.2. Use
Using computer equipment requires particular care because of its
fragility and high cost. Access to the equipment should thus be
strictly reserved to NGO employees only. Those employees who are
unable to handle commonly-used software will be given an
orientation by the senior staff on request. At least one NGO
employee will be trained in handling minor maintenance of
computers and accessories at the office.
5.3. Security
a. In order to safeguard the computers against viruses, the external
drives (CDs/DVDs/floppies/pen drives) that are at NGO office are
only to be used. In the same way, no external drive from any
source other than from sealed packets shall be used in the
computers, unless it is first scanned with a latest anti-virus
software.
b. In order to safeguard computers from viruses, antivirus software
has been installed in the computers. The virus list for this program
should be updated on a regular basis. It is the duty of the employee
who has been assigned a computer to update the virus list on her /
his
computer.
c. There should be at least two backups of all important documents.
One copy should be on the hard disk of the computer assigned to
the concerned employee and a second copy on a CD/DVD kept in
the
office.
d. The computers of the NGO should normally be used by its
employees. Consultants and volunteers should seek prior
permission of NGO employee before using his/her computer in the
office
5.4. Saving documents in the Computers
In order to streamline the procedure to save documents in the
computers and to make it easier for people to find documents and
make back-ups of important documents, each employee should
have a c:/my documents directory in his/her computer. This
Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

20

directory should be broken down into sub-directories to facilitate
retrieval of important documents. Each employee will include a copy
of all their important documents to be backed up on a directory
entitled backup.
5.5. Back-ups of Documents
In order to safeguard important documents and other work done by
the staff, the back-up directory of the employee shall be backed up
on CD/DVD once every month and the CD/DVD stored by the
employee.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

21

PROCUREMENT POLICY
6.1. Purpose
The purchase of goods and services is necessary for the smooth
operation of the organization. The aim of the internal control system
for the supplying of goods and services is to ensure orders are
handled by individuals having skills in evaluating what purchases
are required from suppliers offering the best deals, to ensure
purchases made do not exceed the budget provided and to ensure
purchased goods and services conform with the quantity and price
specified in the order.
6.2. Methodology
NGO shall follow certain methods in purchasing goods, equipment
and services required for the needs of the organization or its
projects. Use of competitive bidding shall be a priority practice. The
first criterion in choosing a supplier shall be the lowest bid.
However, if a supplier does not provide the required level of service
or an adequate guarantee, then other criteria shall also be
considered. NGO shall specify in the purchase file the reasons the
lowest bid was not chosen.





For purchases of single item up to Rs: 10000/-, Quotation is
not required.
For the purchase of more than one item up to Rs20000/quotation is not required
For the Purchase of item above Rs: 20000/- to 5 00000/Three quotation are required.
The purchase file shall contain all the documents pertaining
to each transaction, i.e. the purchase requisition, quotations,
contact information of suppliers purchase contracts or orders,
invoices, delivery slips and any other pertinent documents.

6.3. Purchases
Employees making purchases as part of the project activity or
organizational work shall follow these mechanisms:
a. Requisition form
The employee requesting a purchase fills this form, has it approved
by the President and sends it to finance division.
b. Order form

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

22

The finance division issues the order form, after it is signed by the
President . The concerned employee or the finance division will
make the purchase successful on the basis of the order form.
c. Delivery slip
After the purchase has been made, a delivery slip will be issued by
the finance division for the supplier, who will sign it and give it back
to the finance division.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

23

PERFORMANCE EVALUTION SYSTEM POLICY
7.1. Elements of the Performance Evaluation System
performance evaluation system is composed of three main stages
that generally take place over a period of a year:
7.1.1. Performance planning
The performance planning stage enables employees and supervisors
to come to an agreement on what is to be accomplished during the
year and how it will be carried out. The following procedures and
tools are used to facilitate this stage:
a) Job description or list of duties

Each employee must have an up-to-date job description defining
the purpose of the work and the responsibilities involved.
b) Setting of objectives

For each key responsibility associated with a position, at least one
objective should be established for a particular period. The
objectives should be clear and quantifiable, and the assessment
criteria should be mentioned.
c) Individual action plan

The individual action plan is a planning tool used to specify the
steps to be taken to achieve the objectives set beforehand. The
action plan should be prepared jointly with the immediate
supervisor. It may also involve new initiatives facilitating improved
productivity or personal capacity development.
7.2. Performance Monitoring and Management
Staff performance and productivity should be managed on an ongoing basis throughout the year. The following elements among
others are involved
a) On-going Supervision

This means taking the time to observe, examine sources of difficulty
and seek solutions.
b) Regular Communication

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

24

This involves regular exchanges so that employees can receive
feedback about their performance and receive the necessary
supervision.
c) Periodic Evaluation

This involves formal, scheduled meetings between an employee and
supervisor to discuss activities carried out, end results and the
adjustment of the action plan and objectives, if necessary. A
minimum of one meeting every six months is suggested to ensure
satisfactory results.
7.3. Annual Performance Evaluation: The annual performance
evaluation is the analysis, based on documentation from previous
stages of the process, of an employee’s work record. The evaluation
addresses two fundamental questions. The first relates to the past
and involves verifying what was accomplished qualitatively and
quantitatively during the year. The second relates to the future and
consists of identifying means to be considered to ensure the
employee continues to grow and develop.
The performance evaluation form should include all the sections
needed for the evaluation. This includes a section relating to
performance evaluation in relation to the objectives established at
the outset and in relation to the responsibilities of the position, a
section that specifies or targets what is needed for the employee’s
development and finally a section allowing the employee and the
evaluator to express their comments and affix their respective
signatures. The form should also include a performance level
classification and a definition of each of these levels.
The annual performance evaluation does not have any financial
impact on salaries. It is first and foremost a tool to evaluate the
employee’s performance and take remedial action if necessary.
7.4. Bond: As part of the staff and organizational development
activities, NGO may at times decide to send a designated staff
person for trainings and/or further studies both abroad as well as at
local level. NGO will bear the full/partial costs of the
trainings/studies for this. However, the designated staff sponsored
for the trainings/studies is required to sign a bond with NGO that
requires him/her to complete the full tenure of working with the
organization.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

25

ATTENDANCE AND ABSENTEESIM POLICY
An effective attendance policy or absenteeism policy helps the
organization to ensure employee attendance to accomplish work.
Depending on the type of Work. the attendance policy or
absenteeism policy may designate the number of days on which
employees can he absent from work. A fair and consistently
administered attendance policy or absenteeism policy is critical for
success of the organization.
The Role of the Supervisor in Managing Absenteeism: Almost two
out of three employees who are absent are not i l l . for most
organizations, the responsibility for managing absenteeism has
fallen primarily on immediate supervisory These supervisors are often
the only people who are aware that a certain employee is absent
They are in the best position to understand the circumstances
surrounding an individual’s absence and to notice a problem at an
early stage. Their active involvement in managing absenteeism is
critical.
Excellent attendance is an expectation of all employees of the
organization. Daily attendance is especially important for employees
Attendance polices: Attendance registers are maintaining in all the
places were staff is working . When the employee comes for duly
they have to sign in the register. A separate moment register is
maintaining in all the offices and staff w i l l enter the date, time and
the purpose they are leaving the office. In this attendance policy, the
notification requirements arc stressed. Excuses are reviewed and
excessive absenteeism is a disciplinary issue.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

26

INTERNET AND EMAIL POLICY
Choice mail, email, and Internet usage assigned to an employee's
computer or telephone extensions are solely for the purpose of
conducting Organization activities. Some job responsibilities at the
organization require access to the Internet and the use of software in
addition to the Microsoft Office suite of products. Only people
appropriately authorized, by organization may use the Internet or
access additional software.
Internet Usage
Internet use is authorized to conduct organization activities only.
Internet use brings the possibility of breaches to the security of
confidential organizational information. Internet use also creates the
possibility of contamination to the system via viruses or spyware.
Spyware allows unauthorized people, outside the Company, potential
access to Company passwords and other confidential information.
Removing such programs from the organization network requires IT
staff to invest time and attention that is better devoted to progress.
For this reason, and to assure the use of work lime appropriately for
work, we ask staff members to limit Internet use.
Additionally, under no circumstances may organization computers or
other electronic equipment be used to obtain, view, or reach any
pornographic, or otherwise immoral, unethical or nun-business related Internet sites. Doing so can lead to disciplinary action up to and
including termination of employment
E mail usage at Organization
Email is also to be used for organization activity only. Organization
confidential information must not be shared outside of the
organization, without authorization, at any time. You are also not
lo conduct personal activities using the organization computer or
email.
Keeping this in mind, the employees consider forwarding non-business
emails to associates, family or friends. Non-activity related emails
waste organization time and attention.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

27

Emails That Discriminate
Any emails that discriminate against employees by virtue of any
protected classification including race, gender, nationality, religion, and
so forth, will be dealt with according to the harassment policy.
These emails are prohibited at the organization. Sending or forwarding
non-activity emails will result in disciplinary action that may lead to
employment termination.
Organization owns employees Email
Keep in mind that the organization owns any communication sent via
email or that is stored on organization equipment. Management and
other authorized staff of the organization have the right lo access
any material in email or on computer at any time. The employees do
not consider electronic communication, storage or access to be private
if it is created or stored at work.

Serve Train Educate People’s Society, Srikalahasti
Policies

28

