Rules of Practice Governing Disapproval Proceedings for SRO Proposed Rule Change Filings

Reg. §201.100.

Scope of the Rules of Practice.

(a) Unless provided otherwise, these Rules of Practice govern proceedings before the
Commission under the statutes that it administers.
(b) These rules do not apply to:
(1) Investigations, except where made specifically applicable by the Rules Relating to
Investigations, part 203 of this chapter; or
(2) Action taken by the duty officer pursuant to delegated authority under 17 CFR
200.43.
(3) Initiation of proceedings for SRO proposed rule changes under 17 CFR 201.700701, except where made specifically applicable therein.
(c) The Commission, upon its determination that to do so would serve the interests of
justice and not result in prejudice to the parties to the proceeding, may by order direct, in a
particular proceeding, that an alternative procedure shall apply or that compliance with an
otherwise applicable rule is unnecessary.
*****

Reg. §201.103.

Construction of Rules.

(a) The Rule of Practice shall be construed and administered to secure the just, speedy,
and inexpensive determination of every proceeding.
(b) In any particular proceeding, to the extent that there is a conflict between these
rules and a procedural requirement contained in any statute, or any rule or form adopted
thereunder, the latter shall control.
(c) For purposes of these rules:

(1) Any term in the singular includes the plural, and any term in the plural includes the
singular, if such use would be appropriate;
(2) Any use of a masculine, feminine, or neuter gender encompasses such other
genders as would be appropriate; and
(3) Unless the context requires otherwise, counsel for a party may take any action
required or permitted to be taken by such party.
*****
Reg. §201.104.

Business Hours.

The Headquarters office of the Commission, at 100 F Street, NE, Washington D.C.
20549, is open each day, except Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays, from 9 a.m. to
5:30 p.m., Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in
effect in Washington, D.C. Federal legal holidays consist of New Year’s Day; Birthday of
Martin Luther King, Jr.; President’s Day; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day;
Columbus Day; Veteran’s Day; Thanksgiving Day; Christmas Day; and any other day appointed
as a holiday in Washington, D.C. by the President or the Congress of the United States.
*****
Reg. §201.160.
(a)

Time Computation.
Computation. In computing any period of time prescribed in or allowed by

these Rules of Practice or by order of the Commission, the day of the act, event, or default from
which the designated period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the
period so computed shall be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday (as
defined in §201.104), in which event the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a
Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal

holidays shall be excluded from the computation when the period of time prescribed or allowed
is seven days or less, not including any additional time allowed for service by mail in paragraph
(b) of this section. If on the day a filing is to be made, weather or other conditions have caused
the Secretary’s office or other designated filing location to close, the filing deadline shall be
extended to the end of the next day that is neither a Saturday, a Sunday, nor a Federal legal
holiday.
(b)

Additional time for service by mail. If service is made by mail, three days

shall be added to the prescribed period for response unless an order of the Commission or the
hearing officer specifies a date certain for filing. In the event an order of the Commission or the
hearing officer specifies a date certain for filing, no time shall be added for service by mail
*****
Reg. §201.700.

Initiation of proceedings for SRO proposed rule changes.

(a) Rules of Practice. For purposes of these Rules of Practice contained at 17 CFR 201.700701, the following Rules of Practice apply:
(1) Rule 103, 17 CFR 201.103 (Construction of Rules);
(2) Rule 104, 17 CFR 201.104 (Business Hours); and
(3) Rule 160, 17 CFR 201.160 (Time Computation).
(b) Institution of proceedings; notice and opportunity to submit written views.
(1) Generally. If the Commission determines to initiate proceedings to determine
whether a self-regulatory organization’s proposed rule change should be disapproved, it shall
provide notice thereof to the self-regulatory organization that filed the proposed rule change, as
well as all interested parties and the public, by publication in the Federal Register of the grounds
for disapproval under consideration.

(i) Prior to notice. If the Commission determines to institute proceedings prior to
initial publication by the Commission of the notice of the self-regulatory organization’s
proposed rule change in the Federal Register, then the Commission shall publish notice of
the proposed rule change simultaneously with a brief summary of the grounds for
disapproval under consideration.
(ii) Subsequent to notice. If the Commission determines to institute proceedings
subsequent to initial publication by the Commission of the notice of the self-regulatory
organization’s proposed rule change in the Federal Register, then the Commission shall
publish separately in the Federal Register a brief summary of the grounds for disapproval
under consideration.
(iii) Service of an order instituting proceedings. In addition to publication in the
Federal Register of the grounds for disapproval under consideration, the Secretary, or
another duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the grounds for
disapproval under consideration to the self-regulatory organization that filed the proposed
rule change by serving notice to the person listed as the contact person on the cover page
of the Form 19b-4 filing. Notice shall be made by delivering a copy of the order to such
contact person either by any method specified in 17 CFR 201.141(a) or by electronic
means including email.
(2) Notice of the grounds for disapproval under consideration. The grounds for
disapproval under consideration shall include a brief statement of the matters of fact and law on
which the Commission instituted the proceedings, including the areas in which the Commission
may have questions or may need to solicit additional information on the proposed rule change.
The Commission may consider during the course of the proceedings additional matters of fact

and law beyond what was set forth in its notice of the grounds for disapproval under
consideration.
(3) Demonstration of consistency with the Exchange Act. The burden to demonstrate
that a proposed rule change is consistent with the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations
issued thereunder that are applicable to the self-regulatory organization is on the self-regulatory
organization that proposed the rule change. As reflected in the General Instructions to Form
19b-4, the Form is designed to elicit information necessary for the public to provide meaningful
comment on the proposed rule change and for the Commission to determine whether the
proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and
regulations thereunder applicable to the self-regulatory organization. The self-regulatory
organization must provide all information elicited by the Form, including the exhibits, and must
present the information in a clear and comprehensible manner. In particular, the self-regulatory
organization must explain why the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of
the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the self-regulatory
organization. A mere assertion that the proposed rule change is consistent with those
requirements, or that another self-regulatory organization has a similar rule in place, is not
sufficient. Instead, the description of the proposed rule change, its purpose and operation, its
effect, and a legal analysis of its consistency with applicable requirements must all be
sufficiently detailed and specific to support an affirmative Commission finding. Any failure of
the self-regulatory organization to provide the information elicited by Form 19b-4 may result in
the Commission not having a sufficient basis to make an affirmative finding that a proposed rule
change is consistent with the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations issued thereunder that
are applicable to the self-regulatory organization.

(c) Conduct of hearings.
(1) Initial comment period in writing. Unless otherwise specified by the Commission
in its notice of grounds for disapproval under consideration, all interested persons will be given
an opportunity to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the proposed rule
change under consideration and whether the Commission should approve or disapprove the
proposed rule change. The self-regulatory organization that submitted the proposed rule change
may file a written statement in support of its proposed rule change demonstrating, in specific
detail, how such proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Exchange Act
and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the self-regulatory organization, including
a response to each of the grounds for disapproval under consideration. Such statement may
include specific representations or undertakings by the self-regulatory organization. The
Commission will specify in the summary of the grounds for disapproval under consideration the
length of the initial comment period.
(2) Oral. The Commission, in its sole discretion, may determine whether any issues
relevant to approval or disapproval would be facilitated by the opportunity for an oral
presentation of views.
(3) Rebuttal. At the end of the initial comment period, the self-regulatory organization
that filed the proposed rule change will be given an opportunity to respond to any comments
received. The self-regulatory organization may voluntarily file, or the Commission may request
a self-regulatory organization to file, a response to a comment received regarding any aspect of
the proposed rule change under consideration to assist the Commission in determining whether
the proposed rule change should be disapproved. The Commission will specify in the summary
of the grounds for disapproval under consideration the length of the rebuttal period.

(4) Non-response. Any failure by the self-regulatory organization to provide a
complete response, within the applicable time period specified, to a comment letter received or to
the Commission’s grounds for disapproval under consideration may result in the Commission not
having a sufficient basis to make an affirmative finding that a proposed rule change is consistent
with the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations issued thereunder that are applicable to the
self-regulatory organization.
(d) Record before the Commission.
(1) Filing of papers with the Commission. Filing of papers with the Commission shall
be made by filing them with the Secretary, including through electronic means. In its notice
setting forth the grounds for disapproval under consideration for a proposed rule change, the
Commission shall inform interested parties of the methods by which they may submit written
comments and arguments for or against Commission approval.
(2) Public availability of materials received. During the conduct of the proceedings,
the Commission generally will make available publicly all written comments it receives without
change. In its notice setting forth the grounds for disapproval under consideration for a proposed
rule change, the Commission shall inform interested parties of the methods by which they may
view all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission
and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the
provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552.
(3) Record before the Commission. The Commission shall determine each matter on
the basis of the record. The record shall consist of the proposed rule change filed on Form 19b-4
by the self-regulatory organization, including all attachments and exhibits thereto, and all written
materials received from any interested parties on the proposed rule change, including the self-

regulatory organization that filed the proposed rule change, through the means identified by the
Commission as provided in paragraph (1), as well as any written materials that reflect
communications between the Commission and any interested parties.
(e) Amended notice not required. The Commission is not required to amend its notice of
grounds for disapproval under consideration in order to consider, during the course of the
proceedings, additional matters of fact and law beyond what was set forth in the notice of the
grounds for disapproval under consideration.
Reg. §201.701

Issuance of order.

At any time following conclusion of the rebuttal period specified in 17 CFR
201.700(b)(4), the Commission may issue an order approving or disapproving the self-regulatory
organization’s proposed rule change together with a written statement of the reasons therefor.

