Pursuant to Arts. 8, para. 1, item 1), 23, para. 1 and 121 of the Law on Electronic
Communications (Official Gazette of RS, no. 44/10), Art. 12, para. 1, item 1) and 16 item 4 of
the Statutes of the Republic Agency for Electronic Communications (Official Gazette of RS, no.
59/10),
the Managing Board of the Republic Agency for Electronic Communications, in its
session held on 21 October 2011, adopted the following

RULEBOOK
on the Terms and Conditions for Access to and Usage of the Data from a Public Phone
Directory
1. Introductory Provisions
Article 1
This Rulebook shall stipulate in detail the terms and conditions regarding the access to
and usage of the data on subscribers contained in the public phone directory of an operator
providing publicly available telephone services and in the comprehensive phone directory.
Article 2
The terms used herein shall have the following meaning:
Public phone directory means a list of data on the subscribers of publicly available
telephone services of an operator providing publicly available telephone services, which contains
basic information (name and surname and/or company name, address and subscriber number) on
the subscribers that gave their consent for including the personal data in the public phone
directory.
Phone directory enquiries service means publicly available telephone service for
providing information on subscriber numbers from the public phone directory.
Provider of the public phone directory means a natural or legal entity providing a
comprehensive phone directory service, which may or may not be an operator, and which shall
register in the relevant register of the Republic Agency for Electronic Communications.
Comprehensive phone directory means a phone directory, which includes all subscribers
of publicly available telephone services in the Republic of Serbia which gave their consent for
their personal data to be included in the public phone directory.

1

2. Obligations of the operator providing publicly available telephone service
Article 3
An operator providing publicly available telephone services (hereinafter: operator) shall
be required to:
1) make and keep an up-to-date phone directory with the data on their subscriber;
2) provide the users of their services with the access to the services of the information
provision and public phone directories.
The data on subscribers of the publicly available telephone service shall be registered in
the operator’s public phone directory, with the consent of the subscribers for including the
personal data in the public and comprehensive phone directory, free of charge.
In order to use the data for other purposes, the consent shall be obtained form the
subscribers, in accordance with the law.
On a written request of a subscriber, the operator shall enter, erase or change the data on
the subscriber in the public phone directory, free of charge.
Article 4
The data on subscribers in the phone directory shall be collected, updated and published
in accordance with the Law on Electronic Communications (Official Gazette of RS, no. 44/10,
hereinafter referred to as Law), and the rules regulating personal data protection.
Article 5
The operator shall fulfil any reasonable request for access to data from the public phone
directory under objective and fair conditions, in accordance with the Law and the law regulating
personal data protection.
A public phone directory shall contain the following data:
name and surname or company name for a legal entity
subscriber telephone number(s) and
address and ZIP code.
The access to the data referred to in para. 2 herein shall be provided commercially.

2

Article 6
The operators shall be required to publish the publicly available phone directory with the
data on their subscribers on their website, enable the access to the data through information
services and SMS request.
The numbers for information services and SMS request shall be assigned according to the
Numbering Plan and published in an appropriate manner together with the clearly indicated price
of the service.
The operators may publish the phone directory in printed and/or electronic form, which
shall be updated once every two years.
The operator shall be required to make sure that the data available on the website,
through information service or SMS request, are updated within one working day as of the
moment of a change is made.
Article 7
The operator shall be required to provide the user with the access to the public phone
directory and information services 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Article 8
The operator shall be required to provide all registered public phone directory service
providers with the access to the public phone directory of the subscribers, under terms and
conditions referred to in Art. 5 herein.
The operator shall provide the directory service provider with updated information from
the public phone directory no later than 5 days following the change.
In case a subscriber ports the number to the network of another operator, once the number
is ported the receiving operator shall be responsible for the subscriber information in the publicly
available directory of their subscribers.
3. Responsibilities of the Public Phone Directory Service Provider
Article 9
The public phone directory service provider shall be required to close an agreement with
the operator in order to regulate the access to the data from the public phone directory of the
operator to be used for the sole purpose of forming a comprehensive phone directory.
3

The public phone directory service provider shall be required to update the information in
the comprehensive phone directory according to the information provided by the operators.
The access to the data from the comprehensive phone directory of the service provider
shall be available to all users and made by means of:
1) printed and/or electronic form,
2) calling the information service of the service provider or sending an SMS request,
using the numbers assigned according to the Numbering Plan and published in an
adequate manner along with clearly indicated price of service,
3) access to the website of the service provider.
Number assignment for the purposes of the comprehensive directory shall be carried out
in accordance with the Numbering Plan and the Law.
Article 10
The information from the comprehensive phone directory may be used for the sole
purpose of being published in directory.
In order to use the information for other purposes a prior consent from the subscribers
shall be required, in accordance with the Law.
Article 11
The Republic Agency for Electronic Communications shall keep records on the public
phone directory service providers in the appropriate register.

4. Closing Provision
Article 12
This Rulebook shall enter into force on the eight day following its publication in the
Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia.

Belgrade, 21 October 2011

Chairman of the Managing Board

Ref. No. 1-01-3400-20/11
Prof. Dr. Jovan Radunovic

4

