Committee
Annuity In~~rers
THE
- - OF - - - - - - - - - ·

SUTHERLAND

www.annu1ty-1nsurers.org

October 11, 2016
Brent J. Fields
Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549-1090
Re: Disclosure Update and Simplification, File Number 87-15-16
Dear Mr. Fields:
We are submitting these comments on behalf of the Committee of Annuity Insurers (the
"Committee"). 1 The Committee appreciates the opportunity to comment on the above-referenced
release dated July 13, 2016 (the "July 13th Release"), which proposes amendments to a broad
range of disclosure requirements imposed under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act")
and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act").
While the Committee supports the overall goal of the July 13th Release, it respectfully
disagrees with the characterization of the proposed elimination of Rule 7-02(b) of Regulation S­
X as a technical amendment of a requirement that may have become "redundant, duplicative,
overlapping, outdated or superseded in light of other disclosure requirements, U.S. GAAP, IFRS
or changes in the information environment." Rule 7-02(b) currently permits mutual life
insurance companies and wholly-owned stock insurance subsidiaries of mutual life insurance
companies to include financial statements based on statutory account principles ("SAP Financial
Statements") in any SEC filing, including a registration statement for a regulated insurance
product. Eliminating the relief provided by Rule 7-02(b) would require mutual companies that do
not otherwise prepare financial statements based on generally accepted accounting principles
("GAAP financial statements") to include GAAP financial statements in any registration
statements for insurance products that are not investment company securities and, therefore, are
registered on Forms S-1 or S-3 ("general account insurance products").2 Requiring insurance
companies to prepare GAAP financial statements solely for the purpose of issuing msurance
1

The Committee is a coalition of 29 life insurance companies that issue fixed and variable annuities. The
Committee was formed in 1981 to participate in the development offederal securities law regulation and federal tax
policy affecting annuities. The member companies of the Committee represent over 80% of the annuity business in
the United States. A list of Committee member companies is attached as Appendix A. ·
2
Forms N-3 , N-4 and N-6 for variable insurance products permit the insurance company depositor of a registered
separate account to file SAP financial statements if it would not otherwise have to prepare GAAP financial
statements except for use in a registration statement on Forms N-3, N-4 or N-6. The elimination of Rule 7-02(b)
would not impact this GAAP relief.

Brent J. Fields
October 11, 2016
Page2

products that are registered as securities on Form S-1 or S-3 would impose a substantial financial
burden that will deter such companies from participating in the growing markets for these
products.
Like mutual insurance companies and their wholly-owned stock life insurance
subsidiaries, some stock life insurance companies that are not subsidiaries of a mutual insurance
company do not otherwise have any legal or regulatory obligation to prepare GAAP financial
statements. For these companies, like mutual insurance companies, the requirement to prepare
GAAP financial statements solely for insurance products registered on Forms S-1 or S-3 imposes
substantial financial burdens that significantly deters these companies from offering these
products.
In the July 13th Release, the SEC has not considered the impact that eliminating Rule 7­
02(b) will have on mutual companies that do not currently prepare GAAP financial statements.
As just noted, it could substantially increase their costs or even prevent them from offering
certain types of registered general account insurance products. Therefore, the proposed
elimination of Rule 7-02(b) should not be included in the technical amendments that the SEC
ultimately adopts insofar as that rule currently permits mutual insurance companies that do not
otherwise prepare GAAP financial statements to include SAP financial statements in the
registrations statements for insurance products registered on Forms S-1 and S-3. Furthermore,
the Committee advocates that the SEC extend the relief provided by Rule 7-02(b) to permit the
use of SAP financial statements in registration statements on Forms S-1 and S-3 for general
account insurance products to any life insurance company that does not otherwise prepare GAAP
financial statements for use in SEC filings.
The SEC should preserve the relief provided by Rule 7-02(b) for mutual insurance
companies that do not otherwise prepare GAAP financial statements for use in SEC filings.
The July 13th Release suggests that Rule 7-02(b) is no longer relevant to mutual insurance
companies. 3 While no mutual insurance company currently may file SAP Financial Statements
in reliance on Rule 7-02(b ), elimination of the rule could have a significant impact on the
companies' future business strategies and product development plans. Eliminating Rule 7-02(b)
may effectively prevent mutual insurance companies that do not already prepare GAAP financial
statements from issuing general account annuity and other fixed insurance products that are
registered with the SEC.
If Rule 7-02(b) were eliminated, a mutual insurance company issuing a general account
insurance product would have to comply with the requirement in Form S-1 or S-3 to provide
GAAP financial statements, which would impose significant financial and administrative
3

The release states that accounting guidance issued in 199 5 obviated the purpose of Rule 7-02(b) and that no issuer
under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act relies on the rule as a basis to report under statutory accounting
requirements. July 13th Release at page 129.

38088593.l

Brent J. Fields
October 11, 2016
Page 3

burdens on mutual companies that do not otherwise prepare financial statements on a GAAP
basis. Based on estimates provided by large mutual companies, building the infrastructure
necessary to prepare GAAP financial statements could cost as much as $100 million. For mutual
companies, this cost would be borne entirely by policyholders. If Rule 7-02(b) were eliminated,
any mutual company that does not already prepare GAAP financial statements would have to
choose between foregoing any participation in the market for registered general account
insurance products or imposing on its policyholders the cost associated with building the
infrastructure for preparing GAAP financial statements.
From the investing public's perspective, the market is best served by facilitating the
availability of a wide array of lifetime income and protection products offered by a large number
of insurance companies. The Committee submits that, insofar as the elimination of Rule 7-02(b)
would operate to prevent a significant segment of the life insurance industry from offering
registered general account insurance products that are not investment company securities, such
as products with market value adjustment features or index-linked (structured) insurance
products, it would adversely impact the development of that market.
The proposed elimination of Rule 7-02(b) requires a thorough cost-benefit analysis to
ensure that it strikes the right balance to further the SEC's public policy objectives. The
Committee believes that such analysis, which is missing from the July 13th Release, would reveal
that the proposal would impose significant unwarranted costs on mutual companies that do not
currently prepare GAAP financial statements. The Committee urges the SEC to preserve the
relief provided by Rule 7-02(b) insofar as it permits mutual insurance companies that do not
otherwise prepare GAAP financial statements to use SAP financial statements in registration
statements for insurance products registered on Forms S-1 and S-3.

The SEC should permit all insurance companies that do not otherwise prepare GAAP
financial statements to file SAP financial statements in Securities Act registration
statements for their insurance products.
Requiring GAAP financial statements for general· account insurance products registered
on Forms S-1 or S-3 also deters many stock life insurance companies from offering such
products. Like mutual life insurance companies, some stock life insurance companies do not
have a legal or regulatory obligation to prepare GAAP financial statements. Requiring any life
insurance company to prepare GAAP financial statements solely for the purpose of issuing
registered general account insurance products imposes a substantial financial burden on those
companies that choose to issue the products despite the added costs, and discourages many other
companies from participating in the market. The Committee has members in both situations ­
companies that have incurred the cost to prepare GAAP financial statements solely for general
account products and companies that do not issue general account products because of the
additional cost -- that are deeply concerned about this issue. For this reason, the Committee
advocates that the SEC extend to all life insurance companies that do not otherwise prepare

38088593.l

Brent J. Fields
October 11, 2016
Page4

GAAP financial statements for SEC filings the relief provided by Rule 7-02(b) to use SAP
financial statements in registration statements on Forms S-1 and S-3 for general account
.
msurance
pro ducts. 4
Forms N-3, N-4 and N-6 for variable insurance products all permit life insurance
companies that do not otherwise prepare GAAP financial statements for SEC filings to file SAP
financial statements in registration statements for variable products. No similar relief, however,
is currently provided for general account insurance products, which do not pass through to
contract owners the performance of an insurance company separate account and whose contract
value, benefits and guarantees are paid out of the insurance company's general account. Such
products are not investment company securities eligible to register on one of the specialized
forms for variable insurance products (Forms N-3, N-4 or N-6) and, in the absence of a
specialized registration form, must be registered under the Securities Act on Forms S-1 or S-3.
By providing GAAP relief in the specialized forms for variable insurance products, the
SEC has already acknowledged the cost and administrative burden of producing GAAP financial
statements. In the adopting release for Forms N-3 and N-4, the SEC explained that GAAP relief
was provided solely to reduce the disclosure burden on such issuers of variable insurance
products. 5 The SEC later reaffirmed this position when it adopted Form N-6 in 2002, again
citing the cost burdens that would otherwise be imposed on issuers if the insurance companies
would not have to prepare GAAP Financial Statements except for use in a variable product
.
.
6
registration statement.
Permitting insurance companies that do not otherwise prepare GAAP financial statements
to use SAP financial statements for insurance products registered on Forms S-1 or S-3 will not
harm investors. At the time the SEC fashioned the disclosure requirements for Forms N-3 and N­
4, it observed that the receipt of annuity payments and other guarantees provided by the contract
depends upon the solvency of the insurance company and that contract owners, participants, and
annuitants who invest in the contracts may not want or need disclosure about the investment
performance of the insurance company, but instead may be interested only in the company's
solvency. 7 SAP financial statements are designed to facilitate regulatory oversight of insurance
4

The Committee previously advocated this position in its comment letter dated July 21, 2016 on the Concept
Release on Business and Financial Disclosure Required by Regulation S-K, 81 F.R. 23,916 (April 21, 2016). The
Committee believes that limiting the relief to insurance companies that do not otherwise prepare GAAP financial
statements for use in SEC filings would effectively preclude the relief from being relied upon by any company that
issues other types of registered securities, such as stocks, bonds or notes.
5
Registration Forms for Insurance Company Separate Accounts that Offer Variable Annuity Contracts, Securities
Act Release 6588, Investment Company Act Release 14575, 50 FR 26145 (June 25, 1985) at footnote 9.
6
Registration Form for Insurance Company Separate Accounts that Offer Variable Life Insurance Policies,
Securities Act Release No. 8088, Investment Company Act Release No. 25522, 67 FR 19848 (April 23, 2002) at
19856.
7
Registration Forms for Insurance Company Separate Accounts that Offer Variable Annuity Contracts (proposing
release), Securities Act Release No. 6502, Investment Company Act Release 13689, 49 FR 614 (Jan. 5, 1984)

38088593. l

Brent J. Fields
October 11, 2016
Page5

company solvency by focusing on measurements that relate to the insurance company's ability to
meet its obligations to contract owners, such as the company's liquid assets available for paying
policy holder claims and the amount ofregulatory capital and surplus it maintains as a financial
cushion against unexpected losses. Consequently, SAP financial statements should provide
investors in insurance products registered on Forms S-1 and S-3 sufficient financial infonnation
about the insurance company issuing the product to assess its solvency and its ability to fulfill its
contractual guarantees. With respect to those insurance companies that do not otherwise prepare
GAAP financial statements, GAAP financial statements do not provide additional disclosure
value to investors in registered insurance products that warrants the cost and administrative
burden of preparing and auditing an additional set of financial statement solely for this purpose.
The rationale for providing GAAP relief in registration statements for variable products
applies equally to general account insurance products registered on Forms S-1 or S-3. Requiring
an insurance company to prepare GAAP financial statements solely for a registered general
account insurance product imposes a heavy financial burden that deters many insurance
companies from offering such products. Furthermore, owners of general account insurance
products, like owners of variable products, are principally concerned about the insurance
company's solvency and its ability to fulfill its contractual obligations. For these reasons, the
Committee advocates that the SEC extend the relief already provided to insurance products
registered on Forms N-3, N-4 and N-6 to insurance products that are registered on Forms S-1 or
S-3.
The SEC has already determined that insurance companies issuing general account
insurance products warrant relief from certain disclosure requirements that generally apply to
other types of securities registered on Forms S-1 or S-3. Rule 12h-7 under the Exchange Act
exempts insurance companies from the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act
insofar as Securities Act registration of insurance products otherwise would trigger such periodic
reporting, provided certain conditions are satisfied. Among the conditions required by Rule 12h­
7 is that each year the insurance company file its SAP financial statements with its domiciliary
state regulator. 8
("Form N-4 Proposing Release"). Forms N-3 and N-4 require only that the sponsoring insurance companies provide
a two-year comparative balance sheet in the Statement of Additional Information ("SAI"). To limit the size of the
SAI, the full financial statements of the insurance company are included in Part C of the registration statement and
provided to the contract owner upon request.
8
The conditions required to rely on Rule l 2h-7 relief from filing periodic reports under the Exchange Act include
that:(l) the issuer of the security be subject to state insurance regulation, (2) the security does not constitute an
equity interest in the issuer and that the security be subject to insurance regulation, (3) the insurance company file an
annual statement of its financial condition with and its financial condition be examined periodically by its
domiciliary state insurance regulator, (4) the security not be listed on any exchange or other trading system, (5) the
insurance company take steps to ensure that a trading market in the security does not develop and (6) the prospectus
for the security disclose the insurance company's reliance on the exemption. See Index Annuities and Certain Other
Insurance Contracts, Securities Act Release No. 8996, Exchange Act Release No. 59,221, 74 F.R. 3138 (adopted
Jan. 8, 2009).

38088593.1

Brent J. Fields
October 11, 2016
Page 6

*********************************
In conclusion, the Committee urges the SEC to reconsider its proposed elimination of
Rule 7-02(b) of Regulation S-X. The plain language of the rule currently permits at least some
insurance companies - those companies that are owned by their policyholders - to use SAP
financial statements in the Securities Act registration statements for general account insurance
products. Rather than eliminate the ability of mutual life insurance companies to use SAP
financial statements for insurance products registered on Forms S-1 or S-3, the Committee
requests that the SEC extend similar relief to all insurance companies that do not otherwise
prepare GAAP financial statements for use in SEC filings so that they also can use SAP financial
statements in Form S-1 or S-3 registration statements for general account insurance products that
are not investment company securities.
Members of the Committee very much appreciate your consideration of their views. The
Committee stands ready to provide any additional information that would be helpful to you and
to assist the staff in any way. Please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned at
or at
.

Respectfully submitted,

cc: 	 Barry Miller, Securities and Exchange Commission
Matthew Giordano, Securities and Exchange Commission
William Kotapish, Securities and Exchange Commission

38088593 . l

APPENDIX A 


THE COMMITTEE OF ANNUITY INSURERS
AI G Life & Retirement 

Allianz Life Insurance Company 

Allstate Financial 

Ameriprise Financial 

Athene USA 

AXA Equitable Life Insurance Company 

Fidelity Investments Life Insurance Company 

Genworth Financial 

Global Atlantic Life and Amrnity Companies 

Great American Life Insurance Co. 

Guardian Insurance & Annuity Co., Inc. 

Jackson National Life Insurance Company 

John Hancock Life Insurance Company 

Life Insurance Company of the Southwest 

Lincoln Financial Group 

MassMutual Financial Group 

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company 

Nationwide Life Insurance Companies 

New York Life Insurance Company 

Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company 

Ohio National Financial Services 

Pacific Life Insurance Company 

Protective Life Insurance Company 

Prudential Insurance Company of America 

Symetra Financial 

The Transamerica companies 

TIAA 

USAA Life Insurance Company 

Voya Financial, Inc. 


