October 31, 2016
Mary Jo White, Chairman
Kara M. Stein, Commissioner
Michael S. Piwowar, Commissioner
Brent J. Fields, Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549-1090
Via email to: rule-comments@sec.gov
Re: File No. S7-15-16 - Disclosure Update and Simplification
Dear Chairman, Commissioners, and Secretary:
The Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR) appreciates and welcomes the
opportunity to respond to the SEC’s File No. S7-15-16, Disclosure Update and Simplification.
The proposed Disclosure Update and Simplification rule was issued on July 13, 2016, eight
days prior to the close of the comment period for the Concept Release on Business and
Financial Disclosure Required by Regulation S-K (July 21, 2016). The timing could not have
afforded the SEC the opportunity to review, consider and integrate appropriate feedback
into the proposed rule.
Below we wish to resubmit our views which were expressed in a letter dated July 14th,
2016, regarding the SEC’s Concept Release on Business and Financial Disclosure Required by
Regulation S-K. We wish to express our support for the SEC’s evaluation of disclosure under
Regulation S-K and the establishment of enforceable SEC requirements for companies to
report on sustainability issues. While we note the importance of the entirety of this
complex review, we will focus our comments on Section F, Disclosure of Information
Relating to Public Policy and Sustainability Matters, as well as Number of Employees under
Section IV.A.5.
ICCR is a coalition of investors driven by faith and values who view the management of our
investments as a catalyst for both change and economic stability with the companies where
we are shareowners. Our membership comprises nearly 300 organizations, including faithbased institutions, socially responsible asset management companies, and unions and
other pension funds that collectively represent over $100 billion in invested capital. Many
of ICCR’s member organizations are also members of other coalitions, including the United
Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), whose collective assets

Page 2 of 21

under management total $60 trillion, and CDP which represents in excess of $100 trillion in
assets under management.
ICCR’s members focus on key areas of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG)
concern, including human rights, public health, economic fairness, food and water
sustainability, and the protection of our environment. Members integrate these concerns
into their investment decision-making processes. Throughout our 45 year history, ICCR
members and staff have engaged hundreds of global corporations annually to promote
more sustainable and just practices. We believe this work has a positive impact on
companies’ long term profitability and shareowner value as it helps companies to improve
financial performance and sustain shareholder and long-term value while securing a better
future for their employees, their customers, their investors, and other stakeholders.
ICCR and its members ardently endorse disclosure of sustainability information that is
material and comparable, and that affects our financial interests as shareholders, as well as
our communities. Numerous investors and organizations like the PRI, Ceres, CDP, and the
US Forum for Sustainable and Responsible Investment (US SIF) have made articulate cases
for the need for such information to meet our fiduciary obligations as investors. We are
aware that hundreds of global companies embrace the case for such disclosure as they
publish useful annual sustainability reports. They understand the business and financial
case for addressing these issues. The value of such information is affirmed by an expanding
number of global investors and companies alike, and has been an issue that ICCR members
have raised with companies over decades of engagement. However, this disclosure is done
on a voluntary basis. Because the disclosure is voluntary, the reporting is inconsistent and
therefore insufficient for investor needs.
The ICCR membership believes in the importance of disclosure of relevant and significant
information that may not be deemed “material” in the short-term, but has a clear and direct
impact on financial performance, and when taken together with other information, may
have the potential to damage or strengthen a company’s reputation, impact its social
license to operate, or affect its sales and business relationships. This information would be
relevant to an investor’s assessment of the company and may at a future date be clearly
within the definition of “material” information. There are several examples where this has
manifested with respect to our engagement with companies, including: our members’
concerns over abusive and risky practices in the financial services industry leading up to
the 2008 financial crisis and subsequent economic recession; early concerns raised in the
1990s around climate change impacts; urging companies to recognize the need to address
public health threats, from global health risks of antibiotics in meat supply chains, which is
now an issue that companies must address in their product development, to the
unaffordability of basic life-saving medicines; and to address risks around water
sustainability, which is now seen as a significant risk for corporations. In short, increased
disclosure related to sustainability issues is critical to create transparency for investors
regarding a company’s interactions with, and impact on, employees, communities, and
customers. Frameworks and processes associated with disclosing ESG information may
help a company – and society – to mitigate future risks.

Page 3 of 21

ICCR members use ESG disclosure to evaluate companies for investment, thus informing
our investment strategies and stock selection decisions, and to inform our proxy voting. We
also use existing disclosure to help us identify appropriate companies for shareholder
engagement with corporate management, where we address current practices and policies
that expose companies to risks. We believe that mandatory disclosure of ESG information
under Regulation S-K is necessary for investors to make informed decisions. While
voluntary measures have served an important role in providing increased ESG information
to investors, this information is inconsistent across corporate sectors, and leaves investors
with an unclear basis upon which to build our investment strategies.
Mandatory disclosure would provide more consistent, reliable, comparable, and verifiable
ESG information that would allow educated investors to make more informed investment
decisions across the portfolio and advance effective engagement strategies.
Section F, Disclosure of Information Relating to Public Policy and Sustainability
Matters
216. Are there specific sustainability or public policy issues [that] are important to
informed voting and investment decisions? If so, what are they? If we were to adopt
specific disclosure requirements involving sustainability or public policy issues, how
could our rules elicit meaningful disclosure on such issues? How could we create a
disclosure framework that would be flexible enough to address such issues as they
evolve over time? Alternatively, what additional Commission or staff guidance, if any,
would be necessary to elicit meaningful disclosure on such issues?
Disclosure of financially material sustainability information is already required under
current rules. However, the resulting disclosures fail to meet investors’ needs. Disclosure of
ESG information is useful to investors and necessary for strategic investment planning.
Disclosure allows investors to identify industry leadership in each sector, tells investors
how well positioned a company is to respond to changing regulations, is essential to the
evaluation of investment risks, and informs overall investment and engagement strategies.
The current framework, which leaves it up to the corporation to determine when such an
item is material, however, has not produced the comprehensive and comparable
information that we are seeking.
ESG information is material to understanding a company’s financial performance and
quality of management, and helps to contextualize an investor’s assessment of the company
relative to the whole portfolio. ESG issues present portfolio-wide risk; issues such as
climate change and human rights are relevant beyond a specific company. The ability of
investors to assess the entire portfolio fits within the U.S. Supreme Court definitions of
“materiality” and “a reasonable investor,”1 as it is critically important for investors to avoid
risks resulting from corporate failure to address matters of ESG concern.

1

TSC Industries, Inc. v. Northway, Inc. 426 U.S. 438 (1976)

Page 4 of 21

ICCR members have requested disclosure of meaningful sustainability information for 45
years. We are pleased to see that hundreds of companies are now providing some
sustainability reporting. Shareholder requests for more responsible policies and practices
around a variety of ESG issues have been the subject of 1,177 shareholder resolutions by
ICCR members between 2011 and 2016.2 Companies have begun to respond to the request
for this information from investors, as it has become increasingly clear to shareholders that
evaluating corporate risk management around sustainability issues is critical. This increase
in ESG disclosure follows the recent trend of increasing investor support for ESG disclosure
in shareholder resolutions. For example, a 2016 shareholder resolution on sustainability
reporting at CLARCOR, Inc. received a 60.8% vote. 3 As a second example, a 2016
shareholder resolution on reporting of methane emissions management at WPX Energy,
Inc. received a 50.8% vote.4 While shareholders currently use the resolution process to
convince companies to disclose more and better ESG information, our time would be better
spent meeting with companies on performance improvements and risk mitigation
strategies – rather than basic requests for commonplace sustainability reporting that we
expect to now see across all sizes of companies.
For example, with respect to GHG emissions data, we have found that several companies in
the same industry will use different calculation methods and reporting platforms (i.e. CDP
and individual company reports), which make the information that is available difficult to
understand, and make it difficult to assess how one company is managing the risk of GHG
emissions against another. An additional example exists related to management of water
risk throughout corporate supply chains. While some companies publicly disclose a water
management policy that applies to their operations and supply chain, others will only have
a policy that applies to their operations, and others will include only sparse information in
a Supplier Code of Conduct that is difficult to locate within their public website. Instead of
making the case company by company through engagement, as well as to better enable
ICCR investors to make use of the information, it is preferable to require a clear disclosure
format, consistent expectations, and guidance on how companies should implement it.
Corporate approaches to ESG issues and risks relate directly to value. Corporations that
recognize the need to address ESG concerns are better positioned to anticipate changes and
adapt most effectively.5 A company’s ability to define and measure its progress will help
investors consistently analyze portfolios, creating a more robust investment strategy.
Instead of this more robust disclosure and associated strategic thinking being relevant to
only a small subset of companies that have received pressure from investors or their
customers to provide this information, ICCR members recommend that the SEC should
require at least some subset of information of all companies, to enhance the practices and

ICCR, 2016 Proxy Resolutions and Voting Guide
Walden Asset Management, Walden’s ESG Reporting Resolution at CLARCOR Earns Majority Support
4 Ceres, WPX Energy Methane Emissions Management
5 ICCR, Social Sustainability Resource Guide: Building Sustainable Communities through Multi-Party
Collaboration
2
3

Page 5 of 21

performance of all issuers in this area. Additionally, we want to see that the ESG
information provided is verified externally, which would ensure best practice reporting.
Disclosure of ESG information demonstrates how well positioned a company is to respond
to changing regulation and/or its context. ICCR members are also concerned about the
external impact of corporate policies, which helps us to evaluate systemic risk. We look to
the impact of corporate activity on society, particularly local communities, as well as on the
environment and the impacts to natural resources.
ICCR’s members have identified a number of very relevant and important topics that
should be disclosed in mandatory SEC filings. While we appreciate the work being done by
some companies to provide verification of some reporting, we believe that, as ESG
evaluation has become common practice by large asset managers, mandatory disclosure
would strengthen investor knowledge and decision making. On a larger scale, global stock
exchanges have begun to use sustainability as a listing requirement.6
The SEC could create meaningful disclosure on ESG information by ensuring that there is
mandatory disclosure with consistent, accurate, and reliable reporting by companies on
these important and material items for investors.
218. Some registrants already provide information about ESG matters in
sustainability or corporate social responsibility reports or on their websites.
Corporate sustainability reports may also be available in databases aggregating such
reports. Why do some registrants choose to provide sustainability information
outside of their Commission filings? Is the information provided on company
websites sufficient to address investor needs? What are the advantages and
disadvantages of registrants providing such disclosure on their websites? How
important to investors is integrated reporting, as opposed to separate financial and
sustainability reporting? If we permitted registrants to use information on their
websites to satisfy any ESG disclosure requirement, how would this affect the
comparability and consistency of the disclosure?
ICCR members recognize that hundreds of companies are providing sustainability
reporting to differing degrees on their websites. A significant reason that companies are
now reporting on ESG issues is the history of active engagement by investors.
Available information related to ESG performance and disclosure on company websites is
insufficient for investor needs. While listing this information on company websites can be
helpful, this type of voluntary disclosure is inconsistent, is provided with varying
frequency, and is often very difficult to find. Additionally, information companies provide in
corporate sustainability websites and online reports is information intended for all
stakeholder audiences. We appreciate this information, but seek mandatory reporting of
information that is necessary for investor decisions. We agree with CDP’s statement to the
6

Ceres, Stock Exchanges and Sustainability

Page 6 of 21

SEC that if information is deemed necessary or appropriate to protect investors, then this
material ESG data should be included in a company’s annual report and 10-K filings.7 This
would ensure that investors have access to regularly reported data in a more consistent
and easy-to-find way. Sustainability reports that are filed on corporate websites are not
comparable, are inconsistent, are not audited, and are therefore unreliable. As just a few
illustrative examples of the challenges, some reports are only several pages long, while
others are over a hundred pages; some are formatted as an online web platform, while
others are a well-indexed report; some include information on climate change management
and scenario planning, while others focus on corporate philanthropy and employee
wellness initiatives. While all this information is valuable to a certain audience, having the
most relevant information available to investors in a simple format at the same location
would be ideal and most efficient.
Investors have had to spend significant amounts of time and money to get the level of
disclosure that currently exists. Companies are providing some information on websites,
through sustainability reports or other voluntary disclosure, but this information is not
easily searchable and investors cannot benchmark companies on the basis of varied
disclosure. The result is that there is hidden risk for investors due to this inadequate and
uneven disclosure. ESG information is critical for investors to understand what they own
and to implement their priorities in their investment decision-making.
We urge the SEC to establish mandatory disclosure requirements, and that those
requirements are made through annual filings in a consistent and comparable manner. We
believe such disclosures should be a combination of qualitative and quantitative reporting,
so that companies have clearer expectations for metrics regarding certain types of risk, and
so that they have narrative discussion to explain in more detail to investors the risks and
opportunities of an ESG factor that may impact the business.
219. In an effort to coordinate ESG disclosures, several organizations have published
or are working on sustainability reporting frameworks. Currently, some registrants
use these frameworks and provide voluntary ESG disclosures. If we propose lineitem disclosure requirements on sustainability or public policy issues, which, if any,
of these frameworks should we consider in developing any additional disclosure
requirements?
There are currently several voluntary reporting mechanisms that are each gathering some
information which is helpful to investors when evaluating ESG risks. From the
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), CDP, and the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI), ICCR members appreciate the extensive work done by these organizations over the
years in creating standards for meaningful disclosure of vital ESG information. However,
because each reporting standard is voluntary, each has weaknesses. Not all companies
choose to disclose through these frameworks. In addition, some companies may respond to
only partial sections of a disclosure questionnaire, leaving out portions of the answers that
7

Response from CDP to: Concept Release: Business and Financial Disclosure Required by Regulation S-K

Page 7 of 21

may be most material or relevant to investor concerns, and therefore the response has
limited value. While investors appreciate knowing which reporting standards companies
are working with, as well as the information in them, without specific mandatory
standards, the information is difficult to compare. For example, while the SASB tool is
valuable for sector specific guidance, it has a narrower definition of materiality that might
not capture issues of systemic risk which ICCR members consider to be important. While
the CDP is valuable for specific indictors on climate, water, and forestry, the voluntary
corporate reporting results are not consistently comprehensive across issues. ICCR urges
the SEC to build further expertise in the information that is material around a variety of
subject areas and across industries, and to consider each of these reporting standards in
order to draw from them and create a consistent mandatory reporting mechanism that
provides investors with the critical information they need to evaluate a full spectrum of
ESG risks. SEC guidance or rules should encourage companies to disclose the reference
standards or programs utilized.
220. Are there sustainability or public policy issues for which line-item disclosure
requirements would be consistent with the Commission’s rulemaking authority and
our mission to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly and efficient markets and
facilitate capital formation, as described in Section III.A.1 of this release? If so, how
could we address the evolving nature of such issues and keep our disclosure
requirements current?
ICCR urges the SEC to adopt a policy where line-item disclosure of material information
across sectors is required, but is also flexible so that requirements can be amended as risks
evolve within corporate sectors. We also recommend that the Commission develop a
process for regularly gathering ESG disclosure views from both companies and investors to
identify emerging issues and track the evolution of disclosure needs in this space.
ICCR’s coalition of investors works across a variety of ESG issue areas. With members’
decades of experience across the ESG spectrum, there are a number of key indicators that
we would suggest across the following areas:
Human Rights
Information about the human rights risks present in a company’s operations and supply
chain, as well as the management of those risks, is relevant information for an investor in
assessing a company’s performance and management approach in both the short- and longterm. Poor management of human rights risks can lead to significant reputational,
regulatory, and litigation risk for a company and can have a material impact on financial
performance.8 The adoption of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
(UNGP) in 2011 has made it clear that there is a role for business to play in respecting
human rights.9 Information about how a company is meeting its expectations under the
8
9

See e.g. The Wall Street Journal, Accused of Labor Trafficking, Oil-Rig Repairer Files for Bankruptcy
UN, Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights

Page 8 of 21

UNGP would be relevant for investors, particularly in industries where there are known
risks and violations related to working conditions, labor rights, race and gender
discrimination, forced labor and modern day slavery, and business impacts on local
communities throughout the global supply chain.
There are tools that are evolving to assess and benchmark companies on their human
rights policies, practices, and disclosure, including the UNGP Reporting Framework, 10 the
Corporate Human Rights Benchmark,11 and Know the Chain.12 However, these tools rely on
information that is publicly disclosed by companies, and because there are not clear
standards, this information is inconsistently provided or is of varying quality, not
comparable, and does not always include reliable data.
Furthermore, these tools are unable to assess all companies, and are therefore of limited
value to investors with a diversified portfolio. Therefore, it would be beneficial to require
mandatory disclosure of several key elements related to management of human rights
issues. The experience from the mandatory disclosure related to conflict minerals
demonstrates that requirements for further disclosure encourage companies to better
understand their risks and develop the internal infrastructure, policies, and practices to
mitigate those risks.
There are several critical pieces of information that would enable investors to better
understand and assess the human rights issues and management practices of a company to
inform their investment and voting decisions. Disclosure of the following would provide
consistent information available to all investors:







Whether an issuer has a Human Rights Policy that applies to direct operations and
throughout its supply chain that includes prohibition of child and forced labor, and
how it is auditing the human rights policy.
Governance and Board responsibility for human rights issues.
Data from an independent Human Rights Risk Assessment to define the primary
human rights challenges to inform the company’s approach to human rights issues
in its operations and value chain.
Existence and effectiveness of Remediation and Grievance mechanisms.
The company’s approach to stakeholder engagement.
Reporting on traceability, purchasing practices, recruitment, worker voice, and
monitoring.13

Climate Change

UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework
Business & Human Rights Resource Centre, Corporate Human Rights Benchmark
12 Know the Chain.org
13 Know the Chain, ICT Benchmark: Themes Key Findings
10
11

Page 9 of 21

Climate change poses material financial risk to investors, and over the past several years it
has been increasingly recognized by the financial community as an area of investor
concern. This has been demonstrated by the broad investor action in support of the Paris
Climate Agreement, the 52 shareholder proposals filed by ICCR members in 2016, 14 and the
number of investor statements about climate change. The Paris Climate Agreement,
adopted in Paris in December 2015 by 195 countries, included a commitment to limit
global average temperature increases to 2°C or less above pre-industrial levels. Countries
have made initial commitments in line with this aspirational goal and will be increasing
their regulatory efforts to further align with the 2 degree target. Companies must be
prepared to operate in a carbon constrained economy and additional disclosure about their
strategies to do so is necessary.
Disclosure of the following would provide consistent information available to all investors
related to climate change:







Climate change policy and Governance of climate change issues.
Greenhouse Gas emission reduction targets for scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions and
progress against these targets.
Energy efficiency of operations and products.
For relevant companies in the oil and gas industry, stress testing and scenario
planning for alignment with the 2 degree objective adopted in Paris.
How climate change strategies are connected to a company’s public policy agenda
and activities.
Renewable energy procurement targets.

Water
Water has been declared a human right by the United Nations. The Earth is challenged by
the supply and demand imbalance, the lack of good substitutes, and political controversies
surrounding the issue. Corporations have a critically important role to play in addressing
the freshwater crisis as their agricultural and industrial consumption increases and water
stress becomes a more prominent issue due to climate change and competing interests.
Presently, agricultural and industrial water use account for 70 and 22 percent of total
water use respectively. Apart from the stresses on water supply generated by industrial
use, declining water quality due to agricultural runoff, industrial wastewater, improper
disposal of human waste, and many other issues are contributing to the acute water crises
around the world that the World Economic Forum has identified as a top global risk in its
most recent 2016 Risk Report. Affected communities, civil society, investors, consumers,
and the general public are increasingly engaged in issues of water sustainability.
Beyond the obvious social impact to affected communities, water issues pose a range of
risks to business – from higher costs to major business disruptions stemming from supply
chain interruptions and a possible loss of license to operate. It is imperative that companies
14

ICCR, 2016 Proxy Resolutions and Voting Guide

Page 10 of 21

publicly disclose ways in which they seek to identify and assess water use in core
businesses and key suppliers, and how they incorporate these findings into business
decisions and a water stewardship policy. This process helps businesses and institutional
investors to better understand the risks and opportunities associated with water scarcity
and other water-related issues. Disclosure facilitates a company’s journey towards water
stewardship and water mapping, delivering insight that enables companies to take
intelligent action to manage this critical resource. Further, disclosure communicates and
builds trust with shareholders, clients, communities, and the public audience.
Disclosure of the following would provide consistent information available to all investors
related to water management:





Identification and assessment of water use in core businesses and key suppliers.
Assessment of water availability, issues, challenges, and levels of sustainable use
around business operations.
Performance measured against baselines and goals.
Data on water for operations and supply chain, especially in water stressed or
scarce areas (including seasonal or periodic water stress or scarcity). Report in the
context of local climate, ecology, human population, economy (agriculture, industry,
service) and define the term “local” and the “watershed” area(s) covered.

Food
Given the fragility of the current food system and the need to feed an ever-growing global
population, it is incumbent on all companies in the food supply chain (producers,
processors, and distributors) to ensure that their policies and practices do not further
contribute to the growing crisis, but instead advance innovative solutions that will help
create a more sustainable and resilient food system. The industrialization of agriculture,
intended to help feed the Earth’s growing population, has had unintended environmental
and social consequences. Food operations powered by fossil fuels to produce and ship
foods around the world, the overuse of artificial fertilizers and pesticides, and the
enormous quantities of animal waste and other “externalities” are fouling the soil, air, and
water – to the detriment of both communities and other businesses relying on
uncontaminated resources for their operations.
Companies then need to be publicly transparent on the food security implications of land
and water use along the value chain. Further, consumers and public health and government
officials are increasingly alarmed about the public health risks associated with obesity
which is particularly acute in emerging markets and, increasingly, among young people. As
consumer demand builds for healthier alternatives and growth in these segments
continues to outpace the category, long-term investors will be attracted to those companies
best able to capitalize on these emerging market trends.
Disclosure of the following would provide consistent information available to all investors
related to food:

Page 11 of 21

 For relevant sectors: sustainable agriculture policies, applicable across the value
chain, that demonstrate how the company business model is consistent with longterm environmental and social sustainability.
 Acknowledge that agricultural land needs to be managed sustainably.
 Up-to-date and complete information on their policies, practices and performance
on an ongoing basis, integrating a clear narrative about how addressing nutrition
issues is benefitting their business.
Political Spending and Lobbying
Another vitally important issue upon which we urge disclosure is on a company’s political
spending and lobbying activities. While laws require full disclosure of PAC contributions
gathered by companies from employees, there is no requirement to make parallel
disclosure of expenditures using company funds. Disclosure of lobbying and political
spending would allow shareholders to evaluate whether these expenditures are consistent
with a company’s expressed goals and are in the best interests of the company and
shareholders.
As the SEC is well aware, over 1.2 million petitions and letters have been submitted to the
agency urging mandatory disclosure by companies of their political spending. This is an
issue of huge public importance and we wish to add our support for such specific
disclosure. Understanding the importance of such disclosure, approximately 160
companies have volunteered to publish such information, given the clear relevance to
investors and the public alike.15 Specific details regarding questions to be addressed are
outlined in the standard shareholder proposal seeking disclosure on direct or indirect
expenditures to affect election of candidates.
In addition, we would encourage clear guidelines for disclosure of information on
corporate lobbying directly and through third parties. Again, the specific questions that a
company should address are stipulated in the standard lobbing disclosure resolution
including a summary of primary lobbying priorities, summary of expenditures federally
and in states where the companies lobby, whether the company engages on grassroots
lobbying, Trade Associations a company is a member of, payments made to the Association
and the percent spent on lobbying, and whether the company is a member of any
organization which compiles model legislation for lobbying.
We believe a company’s political spending and lobbying activities can certainly affect the
company’s brand or reputation. Examples include the controversy about specific
companies lobbying against action on climate change, for higher drug prices, or against
public health measures like anti-smoking laws.

15

PoliticalAccountability.net

Page 12 of 21

Disclosure of the following would provide consistent information available to all investors
related to political spending and lobbying:








Policies and procedures for making, with corporate funds or assets, contributions
and expenditures (direct or indirect) to (a) participate or intervene in any political
campaign on behalf of (or in opposition to) any candidate for public office, or (b)
influence the general public, or any segment thereof, with respect to an election or
referendum and which includes a description of the decision making process and
oversight by management and the Board for making payments.
Disclosure of monetary and non-monetary contributions and expenditures (direct
and indirect), including the amount of payment and recipient.
Policies and procedures governing lobbying, both direct and indirect, and grassroots
lobbying communications.
Disclosure of payments used for (a) direct or indirect lobbying or (b) grassroots
lobbying communications, in each case including the amount of the payment and the
recipient.
Any membership in and payments to any tax-exempt organization that writes and
endorses model legislation.
Include a description of the decision making process and oversight by management
and the Board for payments for lobbying communications and to tax-exempt
organizations.

Board Diversity, Non-Discrimination, and Pay Equity
ICCR supports the strengthening of the existing proxy rules to require companies to
disclose the gender and racial composition of their nominees for directors and their plans
to achieve greater gender and racial diversity among their leadership groups. We believe
this proposal is entirely consistent with the interests of investors.
As Chair White stated clearly in an address at ICGN in June 2016, broadening diversity on
company boards is an important priority. At present, under 20% of board seats in S&P 500
companies are held by women. Investors and women’s organizations have joined together
under the umbrella of the Thirty Percent coalition and have pressed companies with no or
inadequate diversity to add women and people of color to their boards. They have done
this through letters, discussions with management and boards, and the filing of
shareholder resolutions.
Workplace discrimination and unequal pay is not just a social issue but a critical business
issue that can affect the performance of the businesses in which we invest. Unfair social
practices within companies can lead to negative outcomes including damaged reputations,
limited internal competition, poor morale, higher turnover, not to mention the risk of legal
violations and lawsuits.16 As a result, investors are becoming increasingly interested in
these issues.
16

Vivek Wadhwa, Bloomberg News, The True Cost of Discrimination

Page 13 of 21

An earlier requirement in 2009 from the SEC for companies to report on board diversity
did not define the term and as a result, companies created their own definitions. Many
companies chose to define diversity on their boards as consisting of members with
different professional experience or even those hailing from different geographic regions.
Though this is no doubt a form of diversity, very little progress has been made on
increasing the racial, ethnic, and gender representation of boards or senior managements
within firms which are the areas of diversity that are most lacking.
As a network of investors with investments spanning a multitude of countries, cultures, and
languages, we are ourselves committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive work
environment. We believe diversity enriches our efforts and aligns with our desire to
consider the full range of social justice, environmental, and corporate governance factors
that influence the long-term performance of our investments.
With regard to greater information on pay gaps by gender and race, the SEC has already
mandated disclosure of the pay gap between public company executives and their
workforce as part of the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. Collecting and disclosing
pay data across gender, race, and ethnicity would significantly increase investor confidence
in the commitment of firms to address the issue. The requirement that companies disclose
this data is a critical first step in addressing the significant pay gap by gender and race.
Investors and the companies themselves must first understand the extent of this problem
before attempting to formulate solutions.
Having a diverse set of skills, experience, and backgrounds on boards is, in our view, an
essential component of good corporate governance and long-term business
success. Similarly, the disclosure of the pay gap analysis by gender, race, and ethnicity will
allow investors to understand the extent of the problem across industries and sectors. Data
collected across sectors will also allow companies that are outperforming on these metrics
to self‐identify and to be rewarded by the marketplace.
We believe the proposed SEC rule should include information about the company’s policy
on board diversity, as well as steps taken to implement a diverse board in terms of gender
and race. In addition, we believe there should be disclosure on how the company instructs
its search firm or search committee to provide a diverse candidate pool and successes or
challenges the company has faced in the last year in meeting those goals. Investors have
asked companies to ensure the Charter of their Nominating Committee includes an
affirmation of a diverse board.
Disclosure of the following 17 would provide consistent information available to all
investors related to diversity and pay equity:
The first two disclosure indicators listed are reflected in 2016 shareholder resolutions filed with Cabot Oil
& Gas Corporation, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp, Discovery Communications, Inc., and Stifel
Financial. See ICCR, 2016 Proxy Resolutions and Voting Guide
17

Page 14 of 21






The inclusion of women and minority candidates in every pool from which board
nominees are chosen.
Plans to advance board diversity.
An assessment of challenges experienced and progress achieved.
Disclosure of pay ratios by gender, race, and ethnicity on an annual basis.

Indigenous Rights and Community Relations
ICCR members who invest in extractives industries urge these companies to address the
concerns of local communities and indigenous populations. The need to respect the rights
of indigenous peoples and local communities relevant to natural resource extraction comes
from more than a community need; there are clear financial risks. When communities do
not give companies a social license to operate, it has significant financial implications, as
has been seen with the Newmont Mining Minas Conga location in Peru. As stated by
Professor John Ruggie, “for a world-class mining operation…there’s a cost somewhere
between $20 million to $30 million a week for operational disruptions by communities”
and the time it takes to bring oil and gas projects online has “doubled over the course of the
previous decade, creating substantial cost inflation.”18
A 2011 study by Environmental Resources Management of delays associated with a sample
of 190 of the world’s largest oil and gas projects (as ranked by Goldman Sachs) found that
73% of project delays were due to “above-ground” or non-technical risk, including
stakeholder resistance.19 In 2014, Ernst and Young elevated the “social license to operate”
to the third place on its list of the greatest business risks to the mining industry, citing that
“the frequency and number of projects being delayed or stopped due to community and
environmental activists continues to rise.”20
In 2013 a dispute between Southwestern Energy and the Elsipogtog First Nation in Canada
resulted in a blockade that halted exploration activities for several weeks, and ended in
violent confrontation with police that made international headlines. An injunction filed by
Southwestern Energy to dismantle the blockade cited losses of $60,000 a day. 21 However,
this number is likely an underestimation of the actual cost to investors because it only
factored in the costs of rental equipment that was unusable during the blockade. It did not
factor legal fees, lost productivity, staff and executive leadership time, or the public
relations expenditure needed in response to the surge in bad press. It also did not account
for the fact that hydraulic fracturing was later banned in New Brunswick, rendering its $37
million investment in the province stranded until further notice.

Business-Ethics.com, Business and Human Rights: Interview with John Ruggie
BSR, Commercial Value From Sustainable Local Benefits in the Extractive Industries: Local Content
20 EY, Business risks facing mining and metals 2015–2016
21 Al Jazeera America, Shale gas company loses bid to halt Canada protests
18
19

Page 15 of 21

Disclosure of the following would provide consistent information available to all investors
related to indigenous peoples and community relations:




Policies and practices for obtaining community support and, where required by the
UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, Free Prior and Informed
Consent from Indigenous Peoples.
Project-level assessments of negative social and environmental impacts to
communities, with specific attention given to Indigenous Peoples, women, and other
vulnerable groups.
Steps being taken in relevant industries (such as trucking and extractives) to
monitor and reduce human trafficking and violence against women that may be
directly or indirectly caused by their operations.

Taxes
Aggressive corporate tax planning can create earnings risk, damage corporate reputation
and brand value, and cause significant harm to local and national economies. As practiced
by large multinational companies, we believe that aggressive tax strategies have become a
key systemic risk that can impact the profitability of a company and have broader impacts
on portfolio returns. Current rules do not provide investors the information we need to
evaluate and address these substantial risks.
In 2013, PRI convened a group of global investors to explore the issue of corporate tax
planning and produce a guide on how to engage with companies on this topic. We would
commend this report to your attention, to gain a better understanding of the range of
concerns raised by investors.22 We would also commend to the Commission’s attention the
comment letter submitted by the FACT Coalition, a coalition of tax-justice organizations.23
The recommendations below are drawn from this letter and the PRI’s comment letter.
Enhanced disclosure on corporate tax practices should allow investors to understand how
corporate boards identify tax related risks and respond to government and other
stakeholders’ expectations. It should also allow investors to identify a potential aggressive
approach to tax planning. At a minimum, this requires companies to disclose meaningful
information on the following areas:




22
23

Corporate tax policy and principles, governance and oversight frameworks, and
management systems for tax-related risks.
What drives the gap between effective tax rate shown on income statement and the
weighted average statutory rate based on the firm’s geographic sales mix.
Explanation of the difference between the foreign effective tax rate and the average
statutory rate of the countries where companies do business, particularly the key
tax strategies employed and the risks of those strategies, including regulatory risks;
currently, this figure is not explained within the tax footnote. Currently, companies

The report is available at: https://www.unpri.org/download_report/8531
The Fact Coalition, FACT Comments to SEC on Concept Release Urge Public Country-by-Country Reporting

Page 16 of 21






are not required to disclose their foreign effective tax rate. This would also be an
important indicator to signal to investors whether a company is engaged in
aggressive tax avoidance in other countries.
An overview of what is driving unrecognized tax benefit (UTB) changes; UTBs
display the tax positions being taken by companies that management believes are
less than 50% likely to be upheld by a tax authority.
Disclosure on intracompany debt, including the countries where the debt is held, the
amount of intracompany debt, and the average interest rate paid by other
subsidiaries on that debt. This would allow investors to evaluate whether
multinationals are shifting profits between subsidiaries in order to avoid tax, or for
appropriate business purposes.
The most financially material tax incentives across jurisdictions; information on
expiries of all incentives, investment requirements and commentary regarding the
likelihood that such incentives will not be renewed should be provided.

It is impossible for an investor to understand a company’s tax strategy without
understanding its global structure, including the business nature of existing subsidiaries, as
well as the overall approach to the use of secrecy jurisdictions, or “tax havens.” Currently,
however, a number of large companies are failing to disclose their subsidiaries, presumably
because they do not deem them to be “significant” under the SEC’s current rules. We would
recommend that the SEC eliminate the significance test for subsidiaries, and simply require
companies to disclose all subsidiaries. The information would provide more insight on
corporate tax practices and would be valuable for investors. We also recommend that the
SEC’s disclosure requirements be aligned with evolving international standards on country
by country reporting (e.g. the OECD- Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project and relevant
template for Country by Country reports).
We also support the FACT Coalition’s call for the following company disclosure, on an
annual, country-by-country basis:










Profit or loss before taxes;
income tax accrued for the current year;
revenues from unrelated parties, related parties, and in total;
income tax paid (on a cash basis);
effective tax rate;
stated capital;
accumulated earnings;
number of employees; and
tangible assets other than cash or cash equivalents.24

Conflict Minerals
24

The Fact Coalition, FACT Comments to SEC on Concept Release Urge Public Country-by-Country Reporting

Page 17 of 21

While disclosure on conflict minerals is required under the Dodd-Frank Act, additional
requirements from the SEC are necessary for investors to accurately review extractives
companies in their portfolios. Over 1200 companies have now reported to the SEC
regarding their sourcing of conflict minerals – tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold – for three
years in a row. Companies have reported on the advantages they have seen to increasing
transparency in their supply chains, having a clearer understanding on the origin of their
raw materials, and looking at their human rights risks.
The consistent disclosures that companies have submitted to the SEC over the last three
years have allowed investors to start tracking companies’ progress in improving their
activities to address the risk that minerals used in manufacturing may support conflict in
the DRC. Reports such as Responsible Sourcing Network’s reports (2014, 2015) Mining the
Disclosures: An Investor Guide to Conflict Minerals Reporting25 have offered investors an
analysis of individual companies’ and industrial sectors’ performance, have ranked
companies, and have pointed out best practices.
Several lessons have been learned from the implementation and evaluation of reporting
under 1502. Having the OECD Due Diligence Guidance as the de facto framework has been
hugely useful. Frameworks are constantly being revised and updated. The OECD guidance
itself does not limit reporting to a specific geographic region, mineral, or issue, and
increasingly conversations among leading conflict minerals stakeholders have turned to
other DRC-related human rights risks, as well as other minerals that are involved in such
risk. The mandatory aspect of this reporting has led to new companies and new industries
putting standardized programs and procedures in place, which has a greater impact on
suppliers.
However, a company does not have to establish that it conducted a “good faith” Reasonable
Country of Origin Inquiry (RCOI), it only needs to assert it. There needs to be more
accountability about how companies decide whether they should be reporting. Allowing
companies who may conduct a less thorough RCOI to skip out on more comprehensive
reporting incentivizes risky behavior, and as a result punishes companies who are more
transparent.
Disclosure of the following would provide consistent information available to all investors
related to minerals/raw materials sourcing:





25

A strong policy and an effective system to implement it.
An assessment of identified risks in the chain of custody of minerals/raw materials.
A due diligence report on steps taken to manage risk.
A report on progress toward meeting established goals to source conflict-free
(ethical and sustainable) minerals/raw materials.

Responsible Sourcing Network, Mining the Disclosures

Page 18 of 21

223. In 2010, the Commission published an interpretive release to assist registrants
in applying existing disclosure requirements to climate change matters. As part of
the Disclosure Effectiveness Initiative, we received a number of comment letters
suggesting that current climate change-related disclosures are insufficient. Are
existing disclosure requirements adequate to elicit the information that would
permit investors to evaluate material climate change risk? Why or why not? If not,
what additional disclosure requirements or guidance would be appropriate to elicit
that information?
Existing disclosure requirements are somewhat helpful to investors in assisting them to
evaluate material climate change risks. However, to realize their full potential, they must be
fully enforced by SEC staff with expertise in the materiality of climate impacts.
Unfortunately, current rules have not produced sufficient information for investors to
evaluate climate risks. While ICCR members appreciate the SEC’s 2010 interpretive
guidance on climate change-related disclosure, its potential to elicit information essential
for investors has been largely unrealized. We are concerned that even in the midst of
increasing regulatory and policy action on climate change, staff have issued very few
comment letters regarding the inadequacy of current disclosures and have not pursued
enforcement actions for failure to meet disclosure requirements, despite a very active
financial risk and disclosure enforcement agenda. Such actions would ensure that
companies were updating their disclosures to reflect the evolving material risks associated
with climate change.
In some cases, line item disclosure rules that apply to industry sectors may be useful here.
Many investors are long-term shareowners, and hold companies representing the breadth
of the economy. Interested in reducing climate risks in their portfolios, they seek disclosure
that enables them to evaluate climate-related risk in exposed industry sectors. Also, with
such broad holdings, these investors are interested in reducing GHG emissions throughout
the economy to reduce systemic risks from climate impacts that are accruing to the
portfolio. For example, rules regarding the disclosure of GHG reduction targets, progress
against these targets, the energy efficiency of operations and products, and climate-related
initiatives would be useful.
Other disclosures that provide investors with more critical tools of the management of such
issues include:





Climate competency of directors – both existing and those running for election.
Executive compensation that may be tied to reducing climate risks or developing
opportunities.
Disclosure of Scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions, and where relevant, newly
coined “Scope 4” emissions (avoided emissions).
Year over year performance of greenhouse gas emissions, their reductions, and
energy efficiency rates.

In some cases, industry specific rules may be appropriate. For instance, many investors are
concerned that the business plans of oil and gas, electric power, and coal companies pose

Page 19 of 21

financial risks in the short- and long-term because they do not sufficiently factor in the
ongoing transition to a low carbon global economy. In this case, rules regarding disclosure
of 2-degree scenario planning results and methodologies may be needed.
Section IV.A.5: Number of Employees
56. Should we require registrants to distinguish among their total number of persons
employed, such as by distinguishing between:
• full-time and part-time or seasonal employees;
• employees and independent contractors; or
• domestic and foreign employees?
Why or why not?
It is important to require registrants to distinguish between the types of workers
employed. Prevalence of migrant workers (domestic or foreign) might indicate a higher
risk for violations of human and labor rights – namely, forced or bonded labor, exploitation,
overtime violations, discrimination, deductions from wages related to the migrant status,
or other scenarios that lead to exploitation of a worker’s vulnerable status. In addition,
where a company employs a higher number of migrant workers, particularly foreign
migrant workers, we see a higher rate of workplace accidents due to improper or
insufficient training related to language barriers, as well as other related health and safety
issues.
Additionally, investors may flag when rates of temporary or contract workers rise
substantially, indicating high turnover, possible lack of training and experience, and lost
institutional knowledge in the enterprise.
57. Rather than requiring registrants to disclose the number of employees or
independent contractors, should we require or permit registrants to provide a
range? Why? Should we allow for different ranges based on the size of the registrant?
Would reporting a range rather than a specific number reduce the costs of producing
this disclosure?
Companies should be required to report the exact number of employees in the different
categories and by region or core business segment. Enabling companies to report ranges
would deprive investors of accurate information about material risk that companies may
face with potential labor and human rights violations. Ranges would also make company to
company comparisons less accurate and valuable. However, a range for a number of
contractors or subcontractors may be acceptable only if the exact number is not known by
the registrant. The acceptable estimate should be a narrow range accompanied by a
disclosure why the exact number is not available.
58. Should we require disclosure of additional information about a registrant’s
employees or employment practices? What would be the challenges of requiring

Page 20 of 21

disclosure of any additional information, and what would be the benefits to
investors?
Companies should be required to disclose additional information about their employment
practices, to ensure that investors have accurate information about a company’s material
risk. As one example, for investors concerned about a company’s risk with human
trafficking, such additional information should include: what is the protocol for hiring
workers? Is the company using agents, recruiters, labor brokers or other third party
contractors to recruit workers? If a third party is used for hiring, is a third party licensed in
the location it operates? Does the company ban fees charged for employment? Does the
company provide written contracts in the employee’s language? Does the company prohibit
retention of any work documents including passports? What is included in the benefit
package for the migrant workers? Is there adequate health coverage? What are the
grievance mechanisms for such workers?
Companies should also be required to disclose information about pay equity by gender,
race, and ethnicity, as described above.
59. As outsourcing and subcontracting have become more prevalent in the last few
decades, what, if any, additional information about a registrant’s outsourcing or
subcontracting arrangements should we require? Would this information be most
useful in the context of the description of the registrant’s business, disclosure about
trends and developments affecting results of operations, or in a discussion of risk
and risk management? What would be the challenges of requiring disclosure of this
information?
Disclosure for investors about a company’s outsourcing and subcontracting is vital in
understanding a company’s risks related to supply chain operations. Supply chain risks
related to labor and human rights violations, as well as environmental impacts, are
increasingly recognized by investors as material to the long-term health and sustainability
of a company. Investors believe that the most profitable companies over the long-term will
be those which are creating transparent, ethical, and accountable corporate cultures
reflected by improved disclosure and reporting, especially on the issue of worker rights in
their supply chains.
CONCLUSION
To summarize our answers to Section F of the Comment Release, it is our view that:
1. Disclosure of material ESG information should be required as it is useful to
investors.
2. Material ESG data should be included in corporate Annual Reports and 10-K filings
to address the insufficiency and inconsistency of voluntary reporting.
3. Line-item disclosure of material information across sectors should be required, but
should be flexible so that it can be amended as risks evolve within corporate sectors.

Page 21 of 21

4. Voluntary reporting frameworks provide information on many companies but
without providing consistency across companies and sectors, and without providing
the checks on accuracy and completeness that are inherent in securities filings.
To summarize our answers to Section IV.A.5 of the Comment Release, it is our view that:
1. Disclosure of material information pertaining to worker recruitment practices and
the types of workers employed directly or by the suppliers (migrant, contract,
temporary) should be required as it is useful to investors.
2. Reporting the exact number of employees is essential to the understanding of
material risk that companies may face with potential labor and human rights
violations. A narrow range for a number of contractors or subcontractors may be
acceptable in lieu of the exact number only when accompanied by a full disclosure of
why the exact number is not available.
3. Companies should be required to disclose additional information related to hiring
practices, benefits, and grievance mechanisms to ensure that investors have
accurate information about company’s material risk.
4. Disclosure for investors about a company’s outsourcing and subcontracting is vital
in understanding a company’s risks related to supply chain operations.
We wish to thank the SEC for this opportunity to comment on the important topic of
sustainability disclosure. We urge the SEC to act and develop mandatory reporting on ESG
issues as described above. We would welcome the opportunity to discuss this matter with
you further at your earliest convenience.
Sincerely,

Josh Zinner
Chief Executive Officer
Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility

Sarah Margolis
Associate Program Director
Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility

