 
 

October 31, 2016
Mr. Brent J Fields, Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street NE
Washington, DC 20549-1090
Dear Mr. Fields:
Re: File Number S7-15-16 -- Disclosure Update and Simplification
On behalf of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of
Industrial Organizations (the “AFL-CIO”), and Americans for Financial
Reform (AFR), I am writing provide comments on the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s proposed rule titled “Disclosure Update and
Simplification.” For the reasons below, we urge the Commission to
withdraw the proposed rule and reconsider its provisions to ensure that
any changes to the Commission’s disclosure rules do not narrow the
scope of information that is provided to investors.
The AFL-CIO is the umbrella federation for U.S. labor unions,
including 56 unions representing 12.5 million members. Unionsponsored and Taft-Hartley pension and employee benefit plans hold
more than $646 billion in assets. Union members also participate
directly in the capital markets as individual investors and as participants
in single-employer and public pension plans. AFR is a coalition of more
than 200 national, state, and local groups who have come together to
advocate for reform of the financial industry. AFR includes consumer,
civil rights, investor, retiree, community, labor, faith based, and
business groups.1
If adopted, the Commission’s proposed rule will eliminate certain
disclosure requirements that purportedly are redundant, overlapping,
outdated or superseded by other disclosure requirements. As a general
matter, we note that repetitive disclosures are not a significant concern
for investors. Investors focus on disclosures that they believe are
material. But because investment strategies differ, investors will
disagree on which disclosures are material. On the other hand, it will be
                                                            
1

 A list of AFR member organizations is available at http://ourfinancialsecurity.org/about/ourcoalition/.

 

 

 
 

Mr. Brent J Fields, Secretary
October 31, 2016
Page Two
of great concern to investors if material information is no longer disclosed. The
overwhelming consensus of investors is that more information should be disclosed, not
less.2
While the proposed rule is presented as a technical revision to the Commission’s
disclosure requirements, we are concerned that such revisions may have unintended
consequences. In particular, we are concerned that eliminating Commission disclosure
rules because they are duplicated by Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
requirements will lead to less disclosure. FASB has proposed to redefine its definition of
materiality according to a narrow legal standard, and this definitional change will result
in a reduction in the overall level of disclosure that will be required under U.S. GAAP.
Specifically, FASB proposes to redefine materiality as a legal concept as stated
by the U.S. Supreme Court’s antifraud definition of materiality. FASB’s proposed
definition shifts the determination of material information that “could influence decisions
that users make” to a “substantial likelihood” that the disclosure will “significantly alter
the total mix of information.” This legal definition sets the minimum floor for disclosure to
avoid committing fraud; it should not be used as a guide for identifying the optimal
amount of required disclosure. A copy of the AFL-CIO’s comment letter to FASB
detailing our opposition to this proposed change is attached.3
Legal and regulatory proceedings in particular are of great interest to investors
because they can significantly impact a company’s business model in ways that go far
beyond the materiality of any contingent monetary liabilities. For example, the dollar
amount of the Wells Fargo $185 million settlement with the CFPB for the alleged
systematic opening of fraudulent accounts may not have been material to investors. But
the existence of such a regulatory proceeding had material implications for Wells
Fargo’s cross-selling business strategy as evidenced by Wells Fargo’s subsequent
stock market value drop by almost $20 billion after the settlement was announced.
In our view, neither Regulation S-K Item 103 nor U.S. GAAP require the
disclosure of sufficient information on pending legal and regulatory proceedings. To help
                                                            
2

 See e.g. Letter from SEC Investor Advisory Committee to the Division of Corporation Finance, Securities and
 
Exchange Commission (June 15, 2016), available at https://www.sec.gov/spotlight/investor‐advisory‐committee‐
2012/iac‐approved‐letter‐reg‐sk‐comment‐letter‐062016.pdf (“While recognizing substantial opportunities for 

improvement, the IAC is of the view that the current degree, quality and frequency of disclosure for U.S. issuers 

overall is appropriate and a source of strength for the U.S. capital markets.”).
 
3
 Letter from Heather Slavkin Corzo, Office of Investment Director, AFL‐CIO to Susan Cosper, Technical Director,
 
Financial Accounting Standards Board (December 7, 2015), available at http://www.aflcio.org/content/download/
 
175390/4167006/FASB_letter_on_Conceptual_Framework_for_Financial_Reporting_12‐7‐15.pdf. 


 

 
 

Mr. Brent J Fields, Secretary
October 31, 2016
Page Three
remedy this information deficiency, we support the greater use of bright line disclosure
rules such as those required by Item 103 for environmental matters. We also favor
preserving Item 103’s disclosure requirements for low-probability but high magnitude
liabilities because these contingencies are significant risk factors for investors. Finally,
disclosure of the venue, parties, and date of material legal proceedings is necessary to
enable investors to conduct their own independent research.
We also believe that investors need more detailed disclosure of corporate
income tax liabilities, not less. We support the incremental disclosure that Regulation SX Rule 4-08(h) provides in addition to the U.S. GAAP requirements, including disclosure
of the amount of domestic and foreign pre-tax income and income tax expense. In
addition, investors would benefit from requiring the disaggregation of foreign amounts of
income tax paid and the effective tax rate on a country-by-country basis. Enhanced
disclosure of foreign tax liabilities on a country-by-country basis will allow investors to
better assess the tax avoidance strategies employed by multinational companies.
The elimination of purportedly outdated or superseded rules also risks reducing
disclosure. For example, the proposed rule will eliminate the equity compensation plan
information table that is required under Regulation S-K Item 201(d). While the stock
exchanges now require that all equity compensation plans be approved by
shareholders, we note that this table also requires disclosure of the number of shares
available for future issuance. This information on a company’s equity compensation
plan burn rate and remaining runway is material for shareholders. Moreover, eliminating
proxy statement disclosure that is also contained in the financial statement notes will
make this information less prominent for investors when casting proxy votes.
Finally, we are concerned that the Commission’s proposed rulemaking
contemplates the elimination of various bright line disclosure rules. For example, the
Commission proposes eliminating bright line rules for the separate reporting of
repurchase agreements, disclosure of material restrictions on dividends, and the names
of major customers. We caution that eliminating bright line rules in favor of a more
principles-based disclosure requirement will diminish comparability of companies who
may decide differently as to whether and how information must be disclosed. For this
reason, disclosure requirements should include bright line rules where appropriate.
For these reasons, we urge the Commission to withdraw the proposed rule for
further review. The Commission should carefully study the economic impacts on
investors before moving forward with any rulemaking to eliminate existing disclosure
rules. We share Commissioner Kara Stein’s concern that the technical subject matter of
the proposed rule “fails to provide a bonafide opportunity for a wide variety of

 

 
 

Mr. Brent J Fields, Secretary
October 31, 2016
Page Four
commenters to truly access and understand what is being proposed.”4 We also question
the value of moving forward with this rulemaking at a time that there are still outstanding
investor protection rules that are required to be adopted by the Dodd-Frank Act. Finally,
promulgating this proposed rule before reviewing the comments on the Commission’s
Concept Release concerning Reg S-K and disclosure raises questions as to the
Commission’s commitment to full transparency and public consultation on these issues.
We appreciate the opportunity to comment on this proposed rulemaking. If we
can be of further assistance, please contact Brandon Rees at (202) 637-5152.
Sincerely,

Heather Slavkin Corzo, Director
Office of Investment

Marcus Stanley, Policy Director
Americans for Financial Reform

HSC/sdw
opeiu #2, afl-cio
Enclosure

                                                            
4

 Statement on the Disclosure Update and Simplification Proposing Release, Kara Stein, Commissioner, Securities 
and Exchange Commission (July 13, 2016), available at https://www.sec.gov/news/statement/stein‐statement‐
open‐meeting‐071316‐disclosure‐update.html. 

 

December 7, 2015
Sent via electronic mail: director@fasb.org
Ms. Susan M. Cosper
Technical Director
Financial Accounting Standards Board
401 Merritt 7
P.O. Box 5116
Norwalk, CT 06856-5116
Re: File Reference No. 2015-300 on Conceptual Framework for Financial
Reporting and No. 2015-310 on Notes to Financial Statements (Topic 235)
Dear Ms. Cosper:
On behalf of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial
Organizations (the “AFL-CIO”), I am writing to comment on the Financial Accounting
Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Exposure Drafts on Conceptual Framework for Financial
Reporting (“Conceptual Framework”), and Notes to Financial Statements (Topic 235)
(“Notes”), on materiality, dated September 24, 2015. We are deeply troubled by FASB’s
proposals to redefine materiality and we believe the proposals should be withdrawn.
The AFL-CIO is the umbrella federation for U.S. labor unions, including 56 unions
representing 12.5 million union members. Union-sponsored and Taft-Hartley pension
plans hold $587 billion in assets. Union members also participate directly in the capital
markets as individual investors and as participants in pension plans sponsored by
corporate and public-sector employers. The retirement savings of America’s working
families depend, in part, on companies making effective disclosures to investors.
The existing FASB definition of materiality states that “Information is material if
omitting it or misstating it could influence decisions that users make on the basis of the
financial information of a specific reporting entity.” (Chapter 3, Qualitative
Characteristics of Useful Financial Information, FASB Concepts Statement No. 8). In the
Conceptual Framework, FASB proposes to replace this definition to state:

Ms. Susan M. Cosper
December 7, 2015
Page Two
Materiality is a legal concept. In the United States, a legal concept may be
established or changed through legislative, executive or judicial action.
In the Conceptual Framework, FASB observes the U.S. Supreme Court’s antifraud
definition of materiality — “information is material if there is a substantial likelihood that
the omitted or misstated item would have been viewed by a reasonable resource
provider as having significantly altered the total mix of information.”
In the Notes exposure draft, FASB explains that adopting a legal definition of
materiality is intended to “improve the effectiveness of disclosures in the notes to
financial statements.” Specifically, FASB states the new definition of materiality would
promote “discretion,” and could reduce or eliminate “irrelevant disclosures.” The notes
to the financial statements provide important context for the numbers provided by
companies in their financial statements, so any changes to the definition of materiality
for notes disclosure will have a major impact on financial reporting.
We strongly oppose redefining materiality based on a legal definition rather than
as an accounting concept that has long been familiar to investors. A legal definition of
materiality will unacceptably narrow the amount of information that is required to be
disclosed. The proposed legal definition shifts the determination of materiality from
information that “could influence decisions that users make” to a “substantial likelihood”
that the disclosure will “significantly alter the total mix of information.” In other words,
information that could influence the decisions of investors would no longer need to be
disclosed unless it has a high probability of having a significant impact.
We are also concerned that the proposed legal definition of materiality will insert
the subjective opinions of attorneys into the disclosure decision-making process. At
present, the preparers of financial statements and their auditors determine whether
information is material and should be disclosed. In close questions of whether
information is material, the current definition of materiality encourages disclosure. Under
the new standard, lawyers will be the ultimate arbiters of what must be included in
financial statements. Accordingly, the definition of materiality will be subject to
significant uncertainty given that different courts may issue varying decisions.
In our opinion, the proposed legal definition of materiality appears intended to
benefit the preparers of financial statements without regard for the costs imposed on the
users of financial statements. If adopted, financial statement preparers will have far
greater latitude to avoid making disclosures. They may cherry pick the information they
choose to disclose, opting to disclose favorable information, while omitting information
which may be unfavorable. Providing less information in financial statements does not
make the remaining disclosure more effective. To the contrary, investors are clamoring
for more, not less, information in financial statements.

Ms. Susan M. Cosper
December 7, 2015
Page Three
We are troubled by the manner in which FASB prepared the exposure drafts,
apparently without seeking input from investors. FASB has stated that the proposals
originated from the concerns of unidentified “stakeholders.” According to FASB’s
website, it does not appear that FASB’s own Investor Advisory Committee has met in
recent years. We also note that FASB’s Investor Advisory Committee does not include
any representatives of beneficial asset owners such as pension plans. At a minimum,
FASB should slow down and set up a panel of investors to solicit their views.
In conclusion, we urge FASB to withdraw the proposals and seek more input
from users of financial statements. Thank you for taking the AFL-CIO’s views into
consideration regarding this matter. If the AFL-CIO can be of further assistance, please
contact Brandon Rees at
or
.
Sincerely,

Heather Slavkin Corzo, Director
Office of Investment
HSC/sdw
opeiu #2, afl-cio

