October 3, 2016
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

By email: rule-comments@sec.gov

Cynthia M. Fornelli
GOVERNING BOARD

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549

Chair
Cathy Engelbert, CEO
Deloitte LLP
Vice Chair
Joe Adams, Managing Partner and CEO
RSM US LLP

Re: Release No. 33-10110, Disclosure Update and Simplification
Dear Office of the Secretary:

Wayne Berson, CEO
BDO USA LLP
Jeffrey R. Brown
University of Illinois College of Business
Lynne M. Doughtie, U.S. Chairman and CEO
KPMG LLP
Michele J. Hooper, President and CEO
The Directors’ Council
Stephen R. Howe, Jr., U.S. Chairman and
Managing Partner, Americas Managing
Partner, Ernst & Young LLP
J. Michael McGuire, CEO
Grant Thornton LLP
Barry C. Melancon, President and CEO
American Institute of CPAs
James L. Powers, CEO
Crowe Horwath LLP
Timothy F. Ryan, Chairman and Senior Partner
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Mary Schapiro, Vice Chairman Advisory Board
Promontory Financial Group

The Center for Audit Quality (“CAQ”) is an autonomous public policy organization
dedicated to enhancing investor confidence and public trust in the global capital
markets. The CAQ fosters high quality performance by public company auditors;
convenes and collaborates with other stakeholders to advance the discussion of
critical issues requiring action and intervention; and advocates policies and
standards that promote public company auditors’ objectivity, effectiveness, and
responsiveness to dynamic market conditions. Based in Washington, D.C., the CAQ
is affiliated with the American Institute of CPAs.
The CAQ appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s (“Commission” or “SEC”) Proposed Rule Disclosure Update and
Simplification (the “Proposal” or the “Proposing Release”).1 This letter represents
the observations of the CAQ but not necessarily the views of any specific firm,
individual, or CAQ Governing Board member.
We provide our comments through the lens of the public company audit profession.
Since auditors play an important role in enhancing the quality, rigor, and reliability
of financial information disclosed in Commission filings, the profession has a strong
interest in the success of the Commission’s Disclosure Effectiveness Initiative. To
facilitate the Commission’s review, the order of topics discussed mirrors the order
presented in the Proposal.
Overall Objective of the Proposing Release
The CAQ supports the Commission’s Disclosure Effectiveness Initiative, including its
efforts in the Proposing Release to improve disclosures by amending certain
requirements that may have become redundant, duplicative, overlapping,
outdated, or superseded. We believe the amendments will benefit investors by
eliminating duplicative and outdated information thereby allowing the investor to

1

Disclosure Update and Simplification, Release No. 33-10110; 34-78310; IC-32175 (July 13, 2016) [81 FR 51607 (Aug. 4,
2016)].
1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 2 of 17
better focus on the disclosure of material information. Additionally, these proposed changes will simplify the
compliance efforts of preparers and their auditors. The body of this letter provides our overall observations
while the Appendix outlines our comments with respect to the proposed amendments.
We also support the Commission’s efforts to work with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) to
eliminate redundancies and make other improvements in disclosure requirements. As noted in the Proposing
Release, although federal securities laws set forth the Commission’s broad authority and responsibility for the
form and content of financial statements to be filed, the Commission has designated the FASB as the privatesector accounting standard setter for Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“U.S.
GAAP”). Accordingly, the CAQ believes the SEC’s disclosure requirements should generally not overlap or
duplicate the requirements in U.S. GAAP. Codifying disclosure requirements related to financial statements in
one place is beneficial for all stakeholders because they become easily accessible and can be better
understood by stakeholders.
We also observe that any referrals of SEC disclosure requirements to the FASB as a result of the Proposing
Release would be subject to the FASB’s due process (subject to the Commission’s monitoring responsibilities)
and its criteria for evaluating disclosures, including the determination of whether the disclosure is beneficial
to investors. We acknowledge this process may not guarantee the disclosures would be incorporated or
subsequently retained in future standard setting activities. However, in such instances, we generally believe
the disclosures in U.S. GAAP that would be required as a result of the FASB’s due process should be sufficient
and therefore the incremental SEC disclosure requirement would not need to be retained. For those
incremental disclosures the SEC elects to retain in its requirements, we recommend the requirement include
distinct disclosure objectives for providing the information to investors beyond those objectives addressed in
the FASB’s standard setting process.
Future Redundancies and Outdated Requirements
The CAQ also encourages the Commission to undertake ongoing reviews of its disclosure requirements to
identify disclosures that, with the passage of time or changes in investor needs, may have become outdated,
overlapping, or duplicative, including those that arise from new or evolving accounting standards.2 For
example, the FASB’s issuance of new guidance related to revenue recognition3 provides significantly enhanced
presentation and disclosure requirements which, in some instances, may supersede, be redundant to, or
overlap with current Commission requirements. Specifically, Rule 5-02.3(c) requires disclosure about longterm contracts and 5-03(b)1(a) requires a specific approach to disaggregation of revenue, both of which may
be considered outdated or superseded by the disclosure requirements in ASC 606 when that guidance
becomes effective. Similar overlap may exist as it relates to other recently issued accounting standards, such
as leasing.4 We recommend the Commission consider whether additional amendments may be needed to its
disclosure requirements in response to these recently issued accounting standards.
Interaction with the FASB Disclosure Framework Project
The Proposing Release seeks feedback regarding the potential interaction between its proposed amendments
and the FASB’s Disclosure Framework project, which includes aligning the definitions of materiality; providing
2

For example, the FASB has a standing project on its agenda to address feedback received from stakeholders on the
Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) which generates periodic proposals of “Technical Corrections and
Improvements.”
3
Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
4
For example, the Tabular Contractual Obligations disclosure in Item 303 refers to “Capital Lease Obligations” and
“Operating Lease Obligations” but these terms will be superseded upon adoption of ASU No. 2016-02 Leases (Topic
842).
1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 3 of 17
certain clarifications with respect to the application of materiality to disclosures; targeted improvements to
specific disclosures; and interim reporting. Provided the SEC and FASB retain consistent definitions of
materiality, we do not believe the FASB’s Disclosure Framework Project should have a significant effect on
the amendments included in the Proposing Release. Rather, certain aspects of the FASB’s Disclosure
Framework Project could help the Commission’s efforts to further enhance disclosure effectiveness. For
example, we do not believe the FASB’s interim reporting project will significantly affect the proposed
amendments in the Proposing Release. However, we do believe aligning disclosure requirements for interim
reporting with the objective of highlighting only material events and changes that have occurred subsequent
to the end of the most recent fiscal year is consistent with the SEC’s Disclosure Effectiveness Initiative. We
believe that any referrals to the FASB related to interim disclosure requirements should be considered in light
of this objective.
Income Tax Disclosures
With respect to income tax disclosures, we observe that, as part of its Disclosure Framework Project, the FASB
recently issued a proposal5 that would modify the current income tax disclosure requirements under U.S.
GAAP (the “Proposed Income Tax ASU”). As a result, a substantial portion of the additional disclosures
proposed for consideration with respect to income taxes have recently been deliberated by the FASB.
As part of its decision making process, we also observe the FASB:


Deliberated certain requirements considered in the Proposing Release, including the utility of further
disaggregation of foreign income and income tax expense by significant jurisdiction.6 Accordingly,
subject to constituent feedback, we believe the SEC should be consistent with the FASB’s decision
with respect to disaggregation of foreign income and income tax expense within any final ASU.



Considered the needs of investors, including any potential implications for Smaller Reporting
Companies (“SRCs”). By replacing the term public entity with the term public business entity, we
believe the FASB determined during its deliberations that the additional benefits of expanding the
income tax disclosure requirements to Regulation A and crowdfunding issuers would exceed the
additional costs.7 We believe the SEC should be consistent with the FASB’s decision with respect to
public business entities within any final ASU.

If the FASB adopts the Proposed Income Tax ASU as a Final ASU, we recommend the Commission consider
eliminating Rule 4-08(h), along with Commission and staff interpretive guidance, in its entirety absent a
specific disclosure objective that necessitates an incremental requirement. However, if the Proposed Income
Tax ASU is not adopted as proposed, we recommend the SEC consider the comments received by the FASB as
part of its due diligence process in determining whether further amendments should be made to S-X Rule 408(h).
Disclosure Location Considerations
The CAQ believes the notes to the financial statements should be limited to explanations of historical
information included in the financial statements. Adding forward-looking information in the notes (1)
introduces liability issues for preparers and potential verification and auditability issues for auditors and (2) is

5

Proposed ASU 2016-270 – Income Taxes (Topic 740) – Disclosure Framework – Changes to the Disclosure
Requirements for Income Taxes.
6
See further discussion within the Background Information and Basis for Conclusions of the Proposed Income Tax ASU.
7
The Proposed Income Tax ASU would replace the term public entity with the term public business entity as defined in
the Master Glossary of the ASC.
1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 4 of 17
not consistent with the objectives of the financial statements. Forward-looking information and other
voluntary disclosure can provide investors with additional insight into a registrant’s financial and operational
activities and preparers can provide that information outside the financial statements.
We also observe that electronic data analysis and search tools render the order of disclosure within a
document less relevant. Users who read SEC filings online or on paper copy may not read the information
“front to back”, but rather focus on selected items they find useful. As a result, we do not believe investors
typically have a preference for the physical or sequential location of disclosures nor do we think prominence
is a function of the item in which a disclosure is required. For example, we do not believe that a disclosure in
Item 1 is more prominent solely based on location. A user that is already familiar with filings generally and
the business specifically might choose to focus on the financial statements and Management’s Discussion and
Analysis (“MD&A”).
Legal Proceedings
The CAQ generally does not support combining Item 103 of Regulation S-K (Legal Proceedings) with ASC 4508
as outlined in the Proposing Release. However, we believe it would be worthwhile for the Commission to
evaluate the disclosure requirements of Item 103. Consistent with our July 21, 2016, letter regarding Release
No. 33-10064, Business and Financial Disclosure Required by Regulation S-K, we believe the Commission
should better articulate the objective of disclosures for legal proceedings and the underlying requirements
should be consistent with that disclosure objective.
As the Commission indicates in the Proposing Release, while there are similarities in the subject, there are
differences in the concepts and objectives of the disclosures in Item 103 of Regulation S-K and ASC 450. The
disclosures required by ASC 450 are designed to provide information that is consistent with the accounting
model for recognition and measurement of a loss contingency. Some of the disclosures required by Item 103
extend beyond those required by ASC 450. We do not believe adding disclosures to the financial statements
that may not be consistent with the accounting model would be appropriate. Further, some of the disclosures
were recently considered by the FASB as proposed changes to ASC 450, but the FASB ultimately concluded,
based on constituent feedback, not to make those amendments.9
We also observe the current American Bar Association (ABA) Statement Policy Regarding Lawyers’
Responses to Auditors’ Requests for Information (“ABA Statement Policy”) and Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) auditing standards incorporate the guidance in ASC 450 and do not contemplate
the expanded disclosures that could result from the integration of the requirements in Item 103 into ASC
450 outlined in the Proposing Release. If the Commission chooses to move forward with this integration, we
believe the ABA Statement Policy and PCAOB auditing standards may need to be revisited to ensure that
this guidance is consistent with the expanded financial statement disclosure requirements for legal
proceedings.
Bright Line Disclosure Threshold Considerations
In general, we believe many of the bright-line thresholds included in the SEC disclosure requirements should
be eliminated. Prescriptive thresholds do not take into account whether a disclosure item could be material,
8

ASC Topic 450 Contingencies.
See Proposed ASU Disclosure of Certain Loss Contingencies (July 10, 2010). The FASB’s proposal would have included
disclosures, for example, of the name of the court or agency in which the proceedings are pending; the date instituted;
the principal parties to the proceedings; and a description of the factual basis alleged to underlie the proceedings. The
proposal would also have required disclosure of certain remote loss contingencies with a potentially severe impact.
This project was removed from the FASB’s standard-setting agenda in 2012.
9

1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 5 of 17
in ways that are specific to each separate set of financial statements and based on both quantitative and
qualitative considerations. In addition, we observe that the SEC’s Proposal to eliminate many of the bright
line disclosure requirements is consistent with the FASB’s proposed elimination of “at a minimum provide”
disclosures contained in U.S. GAAP.10
Smaller Reporting Company (SRC) Considerations
The CAQ supports a disclosure regime that can be consistently applied to all registrants. Different reporting
requirements within the financial statement disclosures for differently-sized registrants may result in
unnecessary confusion and complexity in the disclosure framework.
We believe scaling or reducing disclosure requirements for SRCs within the financial statements would be
contrary to the overall principle in U.S. GAAP that the notes to the financial statements should disclose all
information that would be material to the reader’s understanding of the historical financial information
included in the body of the financial statements. Therefore, if a disclosure requirement of the SEC that is
currently not applicable to SRCs is referred to the FASB and ultimately incorporated into U.S. GAAP, we believe
that requirement, subject to materiality, should apply to SRCs.
*

*

*

In conclusion, the CAQ supports the Commission’s efforts to improve the quality and effectiveness of
disclosures and appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Proposing Release. We would be pleased to
discuss our comments or answer any questions that the Commission may have regarding the
recommendations expressed in this letter, Appendix, or other matters related to its Disclosure Effectiveness
Initiative.
Sincerely,

Cynthia M. Fornelli
Executive Director
Center for Audit Quality

cc:
SEC
Mary Jo White, Chair
Michael S. Piwowar, Commissioner
Kara M. Stein, Commissioner
Keith Higgins, Director, Division of Corporation Finance
Mark Kronforst, Chief Accountant, Division of Corporation Finance
James V. Schnurr, Chief Accountant
Wesley R. Bricker, Interim Chief Accountant
PCAOB
James R. Doty, Chairman
10

Proposed ASU 2015-310 Notes to Financial Statements (Topic 235) – Assessing Whether Disclosures Are Material.
1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 6 of 17
Lewis H. Ferguson, Board Member
Jeanette M. Franzel, Board Member
Jay D. Hanson, Board Member
Steven B. Harris, Board Member
Martin F. Baumann, Chief Auditor and Director of Professional Standards
FASB
Russell G. Golden, Chair
James L. Kroeker, Vice Chair
Christine Ann Botosan, Board Member
Daryl E. Buck, Board Member
R. Harold Schroeder, Board Member
Marc A. Siegel, Board Member
Lawrence W. Smith, Board Member

1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 7 of 17
Appendix
Note: Topics that we have not provided comment on have been omitted from the tables below.
Redundant or Duplicative Requirements – Section II.B of the Proposing Release
Topic

Observations

1. Foreign Currency

There may be diversity in views as to whether the third sentence of Rule 320(d) is redundant to the guidance in ASC 830,11 including whether the
guidance in ASC 830 addresses the accounting from the perspective of the
parent. Accordingly, absent further clarification in ASC 830, we
recommend the requirement be retained.

2. Consolidation

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

3. Obligations

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements. In
addition, we observe the concept of "authorization of debt" is not clear as
to the definition.

4. Income Tax Disclosures

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements. Also
see our observations in the body of the letter.

5. Warrants, Rights, and
Convertible Instruments

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

6. Related Parties

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

7. Contingencies

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

8. Earnings per Share

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

9. Insurance Companies

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

10. Bank Holding Companies

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

11. Changes in Accounting
Principles

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

12. Interim Adjustments

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

13. Interim Financial
Statements – Common
Control Transactions

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

14. Interim Financial
Statements – Dispositions

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

11

ASC Topic 830 Foreign Currency Matters.
1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 8 of 17
Overlapping Requirements – Proposed Deletions – Section III.C of the Proposing Release
Topic

Observations

1. REIT Disclosures –
Undistributed Gains or
Losses on the Sale of
Properties and Status as a
REIT

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

2. Consolidation –
Difference in Fiscal Periods
and Changes in Fiscal
Periods

Subject to feedback from investors as to the utility of the information, we
support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

3. Repurchase and Reverse
Repurchase Agreements –
Balance Sheet Presentation,
Disaggregated Disclosures,
and Collateral Policy

We support the proposed deletions in Rule 4-08(m) except for the
requirement to disclose the registrant’s policy with regards to taking
possession of securities or other assets purchased under agreements to
resell (that is, reverse repurchase agreements).

4. Derivative Accounting
Policy

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

5. Distributable Earnings for
Registered Investment
Companies

We support the proposed deletion and amendments to the disclosure
requirements.

6. Insurance Companies –
Liability Assumptions and
Reinsurance Transactions

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

7. Interim Financial
Statements – Material
Events Subsequent to the
End of the Most Recent
Fiscal Year

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

12

As noted in the Proposing Release, U.S. GAAP is not as specific with respect
to taking possession of collateral. Therefore, we recommend the disclosure
be referred to the FASB for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP. We
believe that disclosure about possession of collateral is an important
aspect of reverse repurchase agreements and is useful information in
understanding the credit risk associated with the transactions in which the
registrant does not take possession of the collateral.

In addition, we do not believe the disclosure requirements for material
non-recurring reinsurance transactions should be referred to the FASB for
potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP because we believe such
transactions are covered by the disclosure requirements of ASC 944-20-503.12

ASC Subtopic 944-20 Financial Services – Insurance: Insurance Activities.
1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 9 of 17
Topic

Observations

8. Interim Financial
Statements – Changes in
Accounting Principles

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

9. Interim Financial
Statements – Pro Forma
Business Combination
Information

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

10. Interim Financial
statements – Pro-forma for
Dispositions

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

The Proposing Release also questions whether the disclosure of the date
of any material accounting change is unnecessary in light of the U.S. GAAP
requirement to disclose changes in accounting principles in the period of
change. In our view, the actual date of change is unnecessary given the U.S.
GAAP requirements set forth in ASC 250,13 which not only require an issuer
to inform the reader that a change was made during the interim period,
but also to communicate the reason the change was made, why the new
principle was considered preferable, the method of applying the change,
and any indirect effects of the change.

In addition, as noted in our comment letter dated November 25, 2015, in
response to the Request for Comment on the Effectiveness of Financial
Disclosures about Entities Other Than the Registrant, we recommend the
Commission coordinate with the FASB to establish more consistency
between the pro forma presentation requirements in ASC 80514 and Article
11.15

However, we observe the Proposing Release indicates that SRCs are
currently required to file pro-forma financial information for significant
disposed businesses under S-X Rule 8-05 on Item 9.01 of Form 8-K. We
understand there may be diversity in practice as the current text of Rule 805 only refers to significant acquisitions and does not specifically refer to
dispositions. In order for Item 9.01 of Form 8-K to sufficiently substitute
the disclosure requirements in Rule 8-03(b)(4), the Commission could
consider amending Rule 8-05 to encompass significant dispositions.

13

ASC Topic 250 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections.
ASC Topic 805 Business Combinations.
15
Our comment letter observed, in part: “Both U.S. GAAP (ASC 805-10-50-1) and S-X Article 11 require disclosure of
pro forma financial information. For various reasons, pro forma operating results giving effect to business
combinations may be different under each requirement. For example:
 Nonrecurring adjustments – S-X Article 11 prohibits income statement adjustments for nonrecurring charges
or credits directly attributable to a transaction. U.S. GAAP requires these adjustments.
 Different assumed transaction dates – S-X Article 11 requires adjustments related to a pro forma income
statement to be computed assuming the transaction was consummated at the beginning of the fiscal year
presented. In contrast, the assumed acquisition date used to compute pro forma operating results in
accordance with U.S. GAAP is not revised as the financial statements are updated. These differences cause S-X
Article 11 pro forma operating results that might initially agree with the U.S. GAAP pro forma operating results
to move out of alignment as time passes.
 Different earnings measures – S-X Article 11 requires pro forma income from continuing operations and
related pro forma per share amounts, and it prohibits showing pro forma amounts reflecting discontinued
operations. U.S. GAAP simply requires a company to present pro forma “earnings” and does not specify which
“earnings” measure is to be presented.
14

1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 10 of 17
Topic

Observations

11. Segments

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

12. Geographic Areas –
Financial Information and
Risks and Dependence

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

13. Seasonality – Interim
Disclosures and Annual
Disclosures

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

14. Research and
Development Activities –
Domestic Issuers, Foreign
Private Issuers, and
Regulation A Issuers

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

15. Warrants, Rights, and
Convertible Instruments

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

16. Dividends

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

With respect to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act (“PSLRA”) safe
harbor, we observe that ASC 270-10-45-1116 requires disclosure about
seasonality to the extent the interim financial statements reflect material
seasonal variations. However, ASC 270-10-45-11 would not require
disclosure of forward-looking information to the extent that interim
financial results are expected to become seasonal or that the effects of
seasonality will become more or less pronounced.

We also encourage the Commission to consider feedback from preparers
and investors as to the potential costs and benefits of the proposed
addition of requirements to Rule 8-03 and Rule 10-01 to mandate Rule 304 be applied to interim periods. In addition, it was not clear to us if the
Commission’s intent was to require the changes in stockholders’ equity and
non-controlling interests to be required for just the year-to-date period, or
the quarter as well.
17. Equity Compensation
Plans

16
17

We support the proposed deletion of the requirements in Item 201(d) with
the exception of the requirement to disclose “any formula for calculating
the number of securities available for issuance under the plan”. We
recommend this disclosure requirement be referred to the FASB for the
potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP. This information might be useful to
investors, if material. ASC 71817 provides a “general” disclosure objective
that may imply this information should be disclosed. However, in our
experience such disclosure is not likely to occur without further
clarification of how the general disclosure objective applies to formulas for
calculating the number of securities to be awarded.

ASC Topic 270 Interim Reporting.
ASC Topic 718 Compensation – Stock Compensation.
1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 11 of 17
Topic

Observations

18. Ratio of Earnings to
Fixed Charges

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

Overlapping Requirements – Proposed Integrations – Section III.D of the Proposing Release
Topic

Observations

1. Foreign Currency
Restrictions

While it could be viewed as implicit, Regulation S-X does not explicitly
require a U.S. company to use the US dollar as its reporting currency. We
encourage the Commission to consider feedback from preparers and
investors as to the costs and benefits of changing Regulation S-X to
explicitly require U.S. companies (and foreign issuers that are not foreign
private issuers (“FPIs”) to report in US dollars. As an alternative, the
Commission could consider (1) providing all registrants the same flexibility
in selecting their reporting currency as foreign private issuers or (2)
codifying the SEC staff policy to allow domestic issuers (and foreign issuers
that are not FPIs) that have substantially all of their operations in a
particular country to report using that reporting currency. 18
We support the proposed amendments to move the restriction in Rule 3A02 to Rule 3-20.

2. Restrictions on Dividends
and Related Items –
Domestic Issuers and
Foreign Private Issuers

We support the proposed amendments to the disclosure requirements.

3. Geographic Areas

We support the proposed deletion of Item 101(d)(4). However, we
question whether the proposed revisions to Item 303 are necessary and
believe they could be confusing as currently drafted. We believe the
addition of the phrase “geographic area” right after “for each reportable
segment” could be interpreted by some registrants to mean that separate
MD&A discussions are required first on a segment by segment basis and
then for the entire business broken down by geographic area, regardless
of the basis for segment reporting. Others may interpret the amendments
as providing a choice to discuss on segment basis or geographic basis.
Accordingly, we recommend the Commission clarify the proposed revisions
to avoid this potential misinterpretation.

18

Section 6640 of the Division of Corporation Finance’s Financial Reporting Manual states: “S-X 3-20 requires that a
U.S.-incorporated registrant will present its financial statements in U.S. dollars. In limited instances, the staff has not
objected to the use of a different reporting currency. Those instances have been limited to situations where the U.S.incorporated registrant had little or no assets and operations in the U.S., substantially all the operations were
conducted in a single functional currency other than the U.S. dollar, and the reporting currency selected was the same
as the functional currency. The staff has also not objected when a foreign issuer who does not meet the definition of
an FPI applies this approach in similar circumstances.”

1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 12 of 17
Overlapping Requirements – Potential Modifications, Eliminations, or FASB Referrals – Section III.E of the
Proposing Release
Topic

Observations

1. REIT Disclosures – Tax
Status of Distributions

We support referral of the disclosure requirements to the FASB for
potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

2. Consolidation

While we do not oppose referral of the disclosure requirements to the
FASB for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP, we observe that existing
requirements may be sufficient to achieve the disclosure objective and the
existing SEC requirement could be deleted. For instance, ASC 810-10-501B19 provides disclosure requirements for the deconsolidation of a
subsidiary or a group of assets and ASC 805 provides disclosures upon
acquisition of a controlling financial interest in a business.

3. Discount on Shares

While we do not oppose referral to the FASB for potential incorporation
into U.S. GAAP the requirement that discounts on shares be presented
separately as a deduction from the applicable accounts, we question
whether the requirement provides useful information to investors given
the following:
 Stock issue costs within equity do not amortize and thus we do not see
the ongoing relevance of such information.
 In the period of issuance, the statement of cash flows would require
separate presentation of such costs in the financing section.
 Other discounts to par or stated value are likely captured by other
disclosure requirements (e.g., see Preferred Shares discussion in the
Proposing Release).

4. Assets Subject to Lien

We support referral of the disclosure requirements to the FASB for
potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

5. Obligations – Defaults
Not Cured, Waived
Defaults, Changes in
Obligations, and Amounts
and Terms of Financing
Arrangements

We support referral of the disclosure requirements to the FASB for
potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP. In addition, we observe the
concept of “authorized amounts of debt” is not clear as to the definition.

6. Preferred Shares

We support referral of the disclosure requirements to the FASB for
potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

7. Income Tax Disclosures

As noted in the body of our letter, if the FASB adopts the Proposed Income
Tax ASU as a Final ASU, we recommend the Commission consider
eliminating Rule 4-08(h), along with Commission and staff interpretive
guidance, in its entirety absent a specific disclosure objective that
necessitates retaining the requirement.

19

ASC Topic 810 Consolidation.
1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 13 of 17
Topic

Observations

8. Related Parties

We support referral of the disclosure requirements to the FASB for
potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

9. Repurchase and Reverse
Repurchase Agreements

We support referral of the disclosure requirements to the FASB for
potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

10. Interim Financial
Statements – Computation
of Earnings Per Share

We support referral of the disclosure requirements to the FASB for
potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

11. Interim Financial
Statements – Retroactive
Prior Period Adjustments

We support referral of the disclosure requirements to the FASB for
potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

12. Interim Financial
Statements – Common
Control Transactions

We support referral of the disclosure requirements to the FASB for
potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

As highlighted in the Proposing Release, U.S. GAAP does not explicitly
require disclosure of the computation of earnings per share (“EPS”) in
interim filings. However, the disclosure requirements in ASC 260-10-50-120
(which include the reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of
basic and diluted earnings per share) are required “for each period for
which an income statement is presented.” We note the Basis for
Conclusions to FASB No. 12821 indicates the Board decided to require the
reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted
EPS computations because “the reconciliation is simple and
straightforward and will help users better understand the dilutive effect of
certain securities included in the EPS computations.” The Basis for
Conclusions also indicates the “reconciliation required by this Statement
should satisfy the SEC requirement…” However, APB 2822 (now ASC 270)
was not amended to specifically mention the computation of EPS in the
minimum required disclosures for interim financial statements. In light of
these observations and the importance of EPS in interim financial
statements, we support the potential clarification to U.S. GAAP.

With respect to whether the application of the requirement to disclose the
effect of retroactive prior period adjustments on retained earnings to SRCs
would result in additional costs, we observe that SRCs must account for
retroactive changes in the same manner as non-SRCs. Therefore, SRCs are
already required to determine the impact of any such changes on retained
earnings in order to recast their financial statements.

We believe that investors in certain industries (e.g., investors in entities
such as MLPs) may benefit from receiving information on key performance
indicators like income from continuing operations and net income on a
separate basis for comparable periods prior to the combination.

20

ASC Topic 260 Earnings per Share.
FASB Statement No. 128 Earnings per Share.
22
APB 28 Interim Financial Reporting.
21

1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 14 of 17
Topic

Observations
However, we question whether the supplemental separate results of the
combined entities should be limited to interim periods as currently
proposed, particularly if separate entity results would be useful to
investors. While the Proposing Release points to ASC 250-10-50-6 as the
source of existing overlapping requirements on an annual basis, we do not
believe those disclosures, absent additional clarification, result in the
supplemental disclosure of the separate results of the combined entities
for periods prior to the combination. We further observe that disclosure of
the “effect of the change”, while provided for periods presented, are only
provided in the year of the change rather than for each period until such
entities have been combined for all periods presented.
We encourage the FASB to consider these points in its deliberations.

13. Products and Services

We believe the existing disclosure requirements about products and
services in ASC 28023 and Item 101 are substantially similar such that it
would be appropriate to delete the disclosure requirements in Item 101.
Further, we do not believe that any of the differences in the disclosure
requirements should be referred to the FASB for potential incorporation
into U.S. GAAP. While U.S. GAAP provides an impracticability exception, we
observe the exception is infrequently utilized. To the extent it is invoked,
we have observed the same impracticability issues with the Item 101
disclosure.
As it relates to the bright lines in Item 101(c)(1)(i), we believe the U.S. GAAP
disclosures are appropriate and sufficient, particularly considering the
range of judgment necessary to aggregate revenue by classes of “similar
products or services”.
With respect to whether issuers encounter challenges in disclosing
revenue by products and services, it is our observation that most issuers
identify their operating segments on the basis of products or services. For
issuers that define segments based on geography, we have infrequently
observed that it would be impracticable for them to disclose revenue
based on products and services or groups of similar products and services.

14. Major Customers

We believe the disclosure requirements about major customers in ASC 280
and Item 101 are substantially similar in that they share a common
objective to inform readers about significant concentrations in revenue
with one or more customers. Accordingly, we recommend the SEC delete
its disclosure requirement with respect to major customers in Items
101(c)(1)(vii) and 101(h)(4)(vi) and request the FASB to consider at a future
date whether (1) requiring or encouraging naming significant customers is
necessary and appropriate and (2) to retain the current 10% bright-line in
ASC 280-10-50-42 for disclosure of revenue concentration by customer.

15. Legal Proceedings

See observations in the body of this letter.

23

ASC Topic 280 Segment Reporting.
1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 15 of 17
Topic

Observations

16. Oil and Gas Producing
Activities

While we believe the phrase “with complete sets of annual financial
statements” in ASC 932-23524 is generally interpreted to apply to each
annual period presented, we do not oppose referral of Instruction 1 of Item
302(b) to the FASB in order to clarify U.S. GAAP. If the incremental
instruction is ultimately added to U.S. GAAP, we would encourage the
Commission to delete not only Instruction 1 but also Instructions 2 and 3
of Item 302(b).
We also encourage the Commission to consider working with the FASB to
further reduce redundancies between ASC 932 for public companies and
Regulation S-K and develop one cohesive set of supplemental unaudited
disclosures that is presented outside the financial statements.
Finally, we believe the disclosure requirement should apply to SRCs. It is
our understanding that the current section of Item 302(b) that exempts
SRCs from providing the oil and gas information under ASC 932 may have
been an unintended consequence when the Commission took the concepts
of Regulation S-B and incorporated them into Regulation S-K and
Regulation S-X. Accordingly, we suggest the Commission consider
amending Item 302 irrespective of any incorporation of the requirement
into U.S. GAAP to clarify that this guidance applies to SRCs.

Outdated Requirements – Section IV of the Proposing Release
Topic

Observations

1. Stale Transition Dates

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

2. Income Tax Disclosures

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

6. Foreign Private Issuer
(FPI) Initial Public Offering
(IPO) Age of Financial
Statements

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

Superseded Requirements – Section V of the Proposing Release
Topic

Observations

1. Auditing Standards

2. Statement of Cash Flows

24

We support the proposed amendments. We recommend clarifying under
what circumstances a filer of a Form 10-Q could have its financial
information reviewed in accordance with standards other than PCAOB
standards.
We support the proposed amendments to the disclosure requirements.

ASC Subtopic 932-235 Extractive Activities – Oil and Gas: Notes to Financial Statements.
1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 16 of 17
Topic

Observations

3. Gain or Loss on Sale of
Properties by REITs

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

4.a. Consolidation –
Difference in Fiscal Periods

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

4.b. Consolidation – Bank
Holding Company Act of
1956

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

4.c. Consolidation –
Intercompany Transactions
Generally

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

4.d. Consolidation –
Intercompany Transactions
in Separate Financial
Statements

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

4.e. Dividends Per Share In
Interim Financial
Statements

We support the proposed amendments to the disclosure requirements.

4.f. Interim Financial
Statements – Pro Forma
Business Combination
Information

We support the proposed amendments to the disclosure requirements.

5. Development Stage
Entities

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

6. Insurance Companies –
Statutory Accounting
Requirements, Reinsurance
Recoverable, and Separate
Account Assets

We support the proposed amendments to the disclosure requirements.

7. Bank Holding Companies
– Net Presentation and
Goodwill

We support the proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements.

8. Discontinued Operations

We generally support the proposed amendments to the disclosure
requirements.

We also recommend the definition of development stage entity be deleted
from Rule 1-02(h).

However, we believe the SEC should consider different revisions to Item
302 to better accomplish the disclosure objective outlined. In lieu of the
proposed changes, we recommend the SEC change Item 302(a)(1) to

1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

Page 17 of 17
Topic

Observations
require the supplementary quarterly financial information to disclose
“income (loss) from continuing operations” where it previously had
required “income (loss) before extraordinary items and cumulative effect
of a change in accounting principle”. Presenting “income (loss) from
continuing operations” as well as “net income (loss)” would highlight the
effects of discontinued operations. We are unclear what income statement
line item was intended by the proposed amended regulation text which
currently refers to “income (loss)”.
We also recommend the SEC reconsider what interim period financial
metrics it requires to be disclosed on a per share basis and make them
consistent with measures that are presented on the face of the interim
income statements.

9. Pooling-of-Interests

We support the proposed amendments to the disclosure requirements.

10. Statement of
Comprehensive Income

We support the proposed amendments to the disclosure requirements.

11. Extraordinary Items

We support the proposed amendments to the disclosure requirements.

12. Cumulative Effect of
Changes in Accounting
Principles

We support the proposed amendments to the disclosure requirements.

14. Selected Financial Data
for Foreign Private Issuers
that Report under IFRS

We support the proposed amendments to the disclosure requirements.

15. Canadian Regulation A
Issuers

We support the proposed amendments to the disclosure requirements.

16. Non-Existent or
Incorrect References

We support the proposed amendments to the disclosure requirements.

1155 F Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 609-8120 www.thecaq.org

