 

October 28, 2016

Via Electronic Mail
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549
Re:

File Number S7-15-16, Proposed Rule: Disclosure Update and Simplification

Ladies and Gentlemen:
The Clearing House Association L.L.C. (“The Clearing House”)1 is pleased to comment
on the above-referenced Proposed Rule (the “Proposal”). The Clearing House strongly supports
efforts to identify ways to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of disclosures. We are
limiting our response to the questions in the Proposal that pertain to Bank Holding Companies
and to areas which impact financial institutions in particular.
In general, we strongly support updating disclosure requirements that have become
redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated, or superseded, in light of other SEC disclosure
requirements, U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“U.S. GAAP”), International
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), or changes in the information environment. We also
support the review of those SEC disclosure requirements that overlap with, but require
information incremental to, U.S. GAAP to determine whether to retain, modify, eliminate, or
refer them to the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) for potential incorporation
into U.S. GAAP. We believe that such efforts at streamlining disclosure requirements will
ultimately improve the delivery of information to investors without altering the total mix of
information provided to investors.
                                                            
1

  

The Clearing House is a banking association and payments company that is owned by the largest
commercial banks and dates back to 1853. The Clearing House Association L.L.C. is a nonpartisan
organization that engages in research, analysis, advocacy and litigation focused on financial regulation that
supports a safe, sound and competitive banking system. Its affiliate, The Clearing House Payments
Company L.L.C. owns and operates core payments system infrastructure in the United States and is
currently working to modernize that infrastructure by building a new, ubiquitous, real-time payment
system. The Payments Company is the only private-sector ACH and wire operator in the United States,
clearing and settling nearly $2 trillion in U.S. dollar payments each day, representing half of all commercial
ACH and wire volume.

 

 

Securities and Exchange Commission

-2-

October 28, 2016

 

In addition, we do not object to the SEC’s proposal to eliminate certain bright-line
disclosure thresholds, such as the 10% disclosure threshold for certain disclosures regarding
repurchase transactions as discussed in section III.C.3 of the Proposal. We believe that a
principles-based approach that requires disclosure based on the materiality and significance of an
activity to an entity is more meaningful than a requirement to disclose information based on an
arbitrary number. We believe that a bright-line disclosure threshold is not always a determinant
of what is material to an entity, and as a result, such an approach may result in overly detailed
disclosures where an activity is not significant to an entity, or conversely, may result in
insufficient disclosure when an activity is material to an entity. Thus, we encourage the SEC and
the FASB to take these considerations into account when reviewing the additional disclosure
requirements for repurchase transactions in Rule 4-08(m) of Regulation S-X that are specified in
section III.E.9 of the Proposal, and to require these incremental disclosures only when such
information is considered material to an entity, rather than being triggered by a 10% bright-line
disclosure threshold.
Finally, we encourage the SEC to continue to look for opportunities to streamline
disclosures and to make this type of initiative part of its regular ongoing efforts, and to continue
to work in close cooperation with other standard-setting authorities to develop disclosures that
are complementary and neither duplicative nor inconsistent.
*****
In conclusion, we support the SEC’s efforts to improve and enhance disclosures as
detailed in the Proposal. We hope you find our suggestions useful. If you have any questions
regarding our letter, please contact me at
(
).

Respectfully submitted,
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

David Wagner
Executive Managing Director, Head of Finance &
Risk Affairs & Senior Associate General Counsel
The Clearing House Association L.L.C.  

 

cc:

Mr. Mark Kronforst
Mr. James Schnurr
(Securities and Exchange Commission)

Securities and Exchange Commission

-3-

 

Mr. Russell Golden
Ms. Susan M. Cosper
(Financial Accounting Standards Board)
Ms. Joanne Wakim
(Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System)
Ms. Kathy Murphy
Mr. Louis A. Thompson, Jr.
(Office of the Comptroller of the Currency)
Mr. Robert Storch
(Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation)

October 28, 2016

