October 27, 2016
Mr. Brent J. Fields
Secretary
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549
Re:

Disclosure Update and Simplification; 17 CFR Parts 210, 229, 230, 239,
240, 249, and 274; Release Nos. 33-10110; 34-78310; IC-32175; File No. S715-16; RIN 3235-AL82
Request for Comment on Subpart 400 of Regulation S-K; 17 CFR Part
229; Release Nos. 33-10198; 34-78687; File No. S7-18-16
Exhibit Hyperlinks and HTML Format; 17 CFR Parts 229, 232, 239 and
249; Release Nos. 33-10201; 34-78737; File No. S7-19-16; RIN 3235-AL95

Dear Mr. Fields:
The Corporate Governance Coalition for Investor Value (the “Coalition”) was
formed to provide a forum for the discussion of issues of common interest among its
members to advocate for strong corporate governance policies and federal securities
laws that promote long-term value creation for investors and the firms in which they
invest. Coalition members represent American businesses of all sizes, from every
industry sector and geographic region. These businesses produce the goods and
services that drive the American economy, employing and creating opportunities for
millions of Americans and serving the countless communities nation-wide in which
they operate. The Coalition believes that strong corporate governance policies are
important to provide investors with a return on investment and businesses with the
capital needed to grow and operate.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or “Commission”)
recently released three regulatory initiatives:(1) Disclosure Update and Simplification

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 2
(the “Disclosure Update Release”), (2) Request for Comment on Subpart 400 of
Regulation S-K Disclosure Requirements Relating to Management, Certain Security
Holders and Corporate Governance Matters (the “Subpart 400 Release”), and (3)
Exhibit Hyperlinks and HTML Format (the “Exhibit Release”; together with the
Disclosure Update Release and the Subpart 400 Release, the “Releases”). Given the
Coalition’s deep interest in each of these issues, we appreciate the opportunity to
provide comment collectively on the Releases.
The Coalition applauds the Commission for its continued focus on disclosure
effectiveness and the need for modernization. Holistically, we believe that the glide
path to robust capital formation is aided by a system of securities regulation in which
investors are provided with decision-useful information to deploy capital efficiently
and for businesses to obtain the financial resources necessary for growth and
expansion. We support the SEC’s efforts to streamline its disclosure requirements as
part of a broader effort to simplify the reporting rules for public companies and
provide information to investors more efficiently.
The “materiality” of disclosures as described by the Supreme Court in seminal
cases such as TSC Industries v. Northway1 and Basic Inc. v. Levinson,2 has been a critical
component of our American capital markets for decades and has contributed to the
formation of the most efficient and riches markets ever. The ability of businesses of
all sizes—from small start-up businesses to more mature companies that have
employed millions of Americans for decades—to obtain capital investment or
financing from a variety of investors or lenders within our disclosure-based regulatory
system is the cornerstone of the American free enterprise system.
Traditionally, materiality has also been the dividing line for determining what
should be disclosed and what should not have to be disclosed under the federal
securities laws. Considering materiality through the eyes of a “reasonable investor” is
a critical feature of the Supreme Court’s test. Materiality does not turn on the needs
of an investor that is not representative of investors more broadly or that is looking to
advance some special interest. This approach to materiality mitigates the risk that
SEC disclosure documents will become too dense and impenetrable for investors by
1

2

426 U.S. 438 (1976).
485 U.S. 224 (1988).

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 3
seeking to be all things to all people. It also helps ensure that the SEC, in creating and
enforcing the disclosure regime under the federal securities laws, focuses on what is
best for investors overall and sticks to the agency’s mission as the capital markets
regulator for the U.S.
Substantial efforts to chip away at the longstanding approach to materiality
have been underway the past several years. This development has complicated and
confused the definition of materiality and will overload investors with more data
points and information that few investors find useful when analyzing a company’s
financial condition and operations. Some special interest advocates are pushing for
materiality concepts that would completely abandon the traditional notion of
materiality based in the Supreme Court’s jurisprudence. These interest groups are
attempting to expand disclosure mandates for businesses in order to advance the
groups’ own parochial agendas and to further goals that are extraneous and run
counter to the SEC’s mission. Thus, the guiding principle for public company
disclosure is, and should remain, materiality as viewed by a reasonable investor,
particularly as the Commission considers additional reform of Regulations S-K and SX.
DISCUSSION
Disclosure Update Release

Overview
The Disclosure Update Release proposes to streamline SEC disclosure rules as
part of the Commission’s broader initiative to improve disclosures for companies and
investors. It would remove duplicative, outdated, and overlapping requirements, and
in particular, would amend rules that call for information already covered by U.S.
GAAP or IFRS. The release identifies various requirements under Regulation S-X or
Regulation S-K that mandate disclosures substantially similar to those required under
U.S. GAAP, IFRS or other SEC rules, and proposes to eliminate those that are
duplicative.
Additionally, the SEC proposes to delete a variety of requirements that provide
for disclosures that convey similar information due to overlapping U.S. GAAP, IFRS

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 4
or SEC mandates, or provide for disclosure incremental to overlapping U.S. GAAP,
IFRS or SEC disclosure rules that may no longer be useful to investors. The
Coalition supports such proposals. An example of redundant or duplicative
requirements includes disclosure of related parties: Rule 4-08(k)(1) of Regulation SX—as well as Item 404 of Regulation S-K—which mandates identification of related
party transactions, while Accounting Standards Codification 850-10-50-1 requires
substantially similar disclosure under U.S. GAAP. An example of overlapping
requirements is the disclosure of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges. Companies
that register debt securities are required to disclose historical and pro forma ratio of
earnings to fixed charges under Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K. The SEC recognizes
that U.S. GAAP and IFRS require disclosure of many of the same components of this
ratio, as well as information from other ratios that convey much the same information
about an issuer’s obligation to meet its financial obligations.
An example of an outdated requirement is the requirement, under Item
201(a)(1) of Regulation S-K, to disclose the stock market price on which a public
company’s stock trades along with the historical stock price information. The SEC
notes in its proposed rule that there are many free websites that offer this information
(in greater detail) than is required by SEC disclosure rules. An example of a
superseded requirement relates to disclosure of discontinued operations. Instruction
1 to Rule 11-02(b) of Regulation S-X makes reference to discontinued segments and
Item 302(a)(3) of Regulation S-K requires a description of the effect of any disposals
of segments of a business. The SEC points out that the U.S. GAAP definition of
discontinued operations has changed multiple times since the SEC disclosure rules
were adopted and now such U.S. GAAP definitions no longer includes any reference
to the term “segment.”
The Coalition supports the SEC’s objective to simplify compliance efforts,
while still providing material information to investors by eliminating duplicative,
overlapping or superseded requirements. However, we note that the SEC concedes
that, in many cases, the streamlined disclosure rules could move information from the
management’s discussion and analysis (MD&A) section of a regulatory filing to the
financial statements and their accompanying footnotes. While we support the
objective of streamlining disclosure requirements and eliminating redundancies, we
are concerned that the relocation of this information could create new audit
requirements and subject the information to additional internal control requirements

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 5
or the rules for tagging information in XBRL. Additionally, relocation of information
to the financial statement footnotes also creates the risk that the disclosure will lose
the benefit of the forward-looking statement safe harbor afforded under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“PSLRA”), which could in turn make
issuers more reluctant to disclose such information.

Overlapping Requirements
The Disclosure Update Release examines what should be considered
“overlapping” requirements that are related to, but not the same as, U.S. GAAP, IFRS
or other SEC rules. These disclosures provide reasonably similar information or
require disclosures incremental to the overlapping SEC rules or accounting principles.
The overlying requirements proposed for elimination or integration includes
provisions relating to material events subsequent to the end of the fiscal year and
changes in accounting principles reportable in interim filings, segment financial
information, financial information by geographic area, seasonality, material research
and development expenditures, the frequency and amount of cash dividends, tabular
disclosure of changes to employee equity plans, ratios of earnings to fixed charges,
invitations for competitive bids, foreign currency restrictions, and restrictions on
dividends. On the whole we support these amendments though, as the SEC notes,
the “proposal relating to some topics would result in the relocation of disclosures
from outside to inside financial statements, subjecting this information to annual audit
and/or interim review, internal control over financial reporting, and XBRL tagging
requirements.”
For example, the requirements in Regulation S-K, Item 103, to disclose certain
legal proceedings, can in certain cases be more expansive than those in U.S. GAAP,
which requires disclosure of certain loss contingencies. However, there is a significant
overlap between the disclosure requirements. We believe that the incorporation of
Item 103, among other requirements, into U.S. GAAP might be more burdensome on
issuers and auditors related to the development and auditing of additional estimates
and disclosures. Incorporation of Item 103 requirements into U.S. GAAP could
result in more instances of immaterial disclosure of the possible range of loss, more
disclosure that is subject to audit or review (such as the internal control requirements),
and a more general materiality threshold in connection with environmental legal
proceedings. It would also give rise to issues under the PSLRA because such

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 6
disclosures, which may be inherently forward-looking, would not be afforded the safeharbor in U.S. GAAP that they presently have under Regulation S-K. Given the
complex issues any change may engender, we recommend that the SEC conduct more
thorough analysis and outreach in this area, particularly with the accounting and legal
professions, and focus its attention elsewhere for the time being as it moves forward
with its disclosure effectiveness initiative.

“Bright-Line” Threshold Issues
The proposed rules also appear to run the risk of removing or adding brightline disclosure thresholds (i.e., a threshold below which no disclosure is required),
which may change the disclosure burden on issuers and the amount of information
disclosed to investors. For example, Regulation S-K requires disclosure of the
amount of revenue from any class of similar products and services that account for
10% or more of revenue. Such a quantitative threshold seems to run counter to the
concept of materiality as it imposes an arbitrary threshold. The Coalition opposes the
continued use of special materiality tests – such as 10 percent of revenue or total
assets – in the context of individual items under Regulation S-K. These create
inconsistency across Regulation S-K disclosure items and could potentially confuse or
mislead investors. Instead, we strongly urge the Commission to abandon these special
tests and replace it with the TSC/Basic approach of considering, with other
quantitative and qualitative factors, whether the required disclosure would significantly
change the total mix of information available to a reasonable investor.
Additionally, some of the proposed amendments would move certain
disclosures from outside to inside the financial statements, which would subject this
information to audit or review, internal control over financial reporting and XBRL
tagging requirements, as well as eliminate the protections provided by the safe harbor
for forward-looking statements under the PSLRA. As the safe harbor may no longer
be used, it will likely have the effect of deterring companies from disclosing certain
forward-looking information. The SEC also cautions that eliminating seemingly
redundant requirements may in practice elicit less or different disclosure. For
example, many of the SEC rules proposed for elimination or integration due to
apparent redundancies provide bright-line disclosure thresholds, while their
counterparts under U.S. GAAP, IFRS or other SEC rules do not. We are sensitive to

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 7
these concerns and offer an approach below that may help remedy the relocation of
certain disclosure requirements to the financial statements.

Outdated and Superseded Requirements
The Disclosure Update Release also identifies disclosure requirements that
have become obsolete or ineffectual as a result of the passage of time or changes in
the regulatory, business environment. The Coalition is generally supportive of these
efforts. The SEC proposes replacing disclosure of the high and low sale prices for an
issuer’s common stock with a requirement that the issuer need only provide its ticker
symbol, given that this information is readily available online. Additionally, the SEC
suggests deleting the provision requiring foreign private issuers to provide exchange
rate data where the financial statements are prepared in a currency other than the U.S.
dollar, as this information is easily found on numerous websites. The SEC also
proposes updating certain disclosure requirements to address inconsistencies that
have developed over time among the various accounting, auditing and SEC disclosure
frameworks. The proposed amendments aim to revise SEC disclosure requirements
in light of changes to U.S. GAAP. These include making conforming changes to the
statement of cash flows and statement of comprehensive income and information
relating to consolidation, discontinued operations and pooling-of-interests.

Additional Comments
Interim Financial Statements. The Coalition supports the proposal to eliminate
Instruction 5 to Item 303(b) as both Instruction 5 and U.S. GAAP require disclosures
about seasonality in interim periods. Additionally, we believe that interim financial
statements should include information only if there are significant changes in financial
positions since the most recent annual financial statements or significant differences
in results of operations that are unclear from the line items. However, we note that
there has been a recent trend in FASB disclosure standards to require the same level
of disclosures for interim and full-year financial statements. This ultimately results in
forcing preparers to forego their normal materiality judgments, which may weigh
down financial statements with immaterial information, and thereby making useful
information less visible and less understandable. Therefore, we believe that it is
critical for both the SEC and the FASB to clearly set forth the principle that interim
disclosures should be made only if they significantly update the year-end information,

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 8
and that existing disclosure requirements that do not incorporate this concept should
be amended to do so.
Use of pro forma information. In 1980, the SEC issued a concept release that
requested comment on whether the requirements for the presentation of historical
and pro forma ratios should be retained or deleted.3 Responses from commenters
were mixed with a substantial number of commenters supporting retention of the
requirement. However, there currently are a variety of analytical tools available to
investors that could accomplish a similar objective as the ratio of earnings to fixed
charges. This ratio measures the issuer’s ability to service fixed financing expenses—
specifically, interest expense, including management’s approximation of the portion of
rent expense that represents interest expense, and preference dividend
requirements—from earnings. Other ratios that accomplish similar objectives include
other variations of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, the interest coverage ratio,
and the debt-service coverage ratio, which can be calculated based on information
readily available in the financial statements. We recommend the SEC consider a more
useful and practical dividing line for forward-looking information such as a
requirement that information regarding estimates and assumptions embedded within a
current measurement used within the financial statements be included in the
footnotes, and that information regarding sensitivity analyses, the effects of alternate
assumptions regarding future cash flows, and other expectations regarding the future
be included in MD&A. These changes would address PSLRA concerns and also
make the information easier for investors to locate and process.
Disclosure of accounting principles, methodology, and critical estimates. As the primary
purpose of the notes to the financial statements is to supplement information on the
face of the financial statements, we believe that notes to the financial statements
should only contain information likely to be material to investors and to a significant
number of reporting entities. We agree with the SEC that U.S. GAAP requires
disclosure of accounting principles and methods that materially affect the financial
statements, including those involving a selection from existing acceptable alternatives,
and important judgments about the appropriateness of the principles. We also agree
that these U.S. GAAP principles call for reasonably similar information as the
corresponding requirements in Regulation S-X, as they require disclosure of the
3

Release No. 33-6196, Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges, 45 Fed. Reg. 16,498 (Mar. 7, 1980).

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 9
accounting method applied to each aspect of a material derivative transaction from
inception to termination.
Additionally, for derivative financial instruments, as defined under U.S. GAAP,
U.S. GAAP requires disclosure of how and why the issuer uses derivative instruments,
how the derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for, and how
they affect the financial statements. Although Regulation S-X is more detailed than
U.S. GAAP, the specificity in Regulation S-X is derived, in part, from the absence of a
comprehensive accounting model for derivatives when the Commission adopted these
disclosure requirements. Since that time, the FASB has adopted an accounting model
for derivative financial instruments, as defined under U.S. GAAP.
We also recommend that the SEC coordinate with the FASB to enhance U.S.
GAAP disclosure requirements on significant accounting policies to provide more
robust discussion about critical accounting estimates, highly judgmental underlying
assumptions, and the susceptibility of such estimates to change. Such disclosures
would better serve investors by explaining accounting policies and related estimates in
one place. If instead the SEC still expects companies to discuss critical accounting
estimates in MD&A, the rule should clearly articulate the disclosure objective to
enhance compliance and the quality of the responsive disclosures. A well-crafted
disclosure objective should help narrow the focus to accounting estimates with the
highest levels of measurement uncertainty or that are most susceptible to material
changes based on likely changes in assumptions in future periods.
Despite this, some of the disclosures that are currently required by the FASB,
as well as some of the disclosures that are required under Regulation S-K, seem to
sweep “MD&A-type information” into the footnotes. Disclosures such as how
changes in assumptions would impact results require entities to maintain records for
choices that management did not make, or for events that have not occurred. In this
regard, we note that in the past, the FASB has required sensitivity analyses and other
similar information to be provided in the footnotes to the financial statements
because such disclosures would therefore also apply to private companies that were,
by definition, not subject to the SEC’s MD&A requirements. We have not observed
that the SEC has conducted similar analyses.

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 10
The Coalition supports the development of a disclosure framework to establish
fundamental concepts of disclosure, and to provide an overarching framework and
guide that can be used by the FASB in developing individual disclosure standards, as
well as by preparers in determining what disclosures to provide in the absence of
specific guidance. We encourage the SEC and FASB to work in close collaboration
with other regulatory and standard-setting authorities in this regard. We believe that
for this type of framework to be most effective, it should be based on a few, clearly
articulated principles. We find the principles—relevance, materiality, and cost-benefit
considerations—to be the most important components of this framework, but we
have concerns that these principles are not adequately emphasized in the proposal to
convey their foundational nature.
Specifically, as indicated earlier in this letter, the concept that FASB should
only mandate information that is material to investors should be the starting point for
the disclosure framework. In addition to emphasizing materiality as a key disclosure
principle, the FASB should also impose the concept of materiality. We believe that
materiality decisions must be made by each individual entity, and FASB should
establish requirements that are not so prescriptive that they preclude reporting entities
from making materiality judgments. The concepts of relevance and materiality are
inextricably linked. Providing immaterial information could obscure more relevant
information in financial statements, thereby undermining their overall usefulness.
Therefore, it is crucial that preparers have the flexibility to exercise discretion and
judgment in applying disclosure requirements, and a significant component of this is
determining whether a particular disclosure is material to the entity. In this regard, we
urge the FASB to review its existing standards and ensure that they incorporate the
ability for preparers to apply materiality determinations as this will further the goal of
“removing the clutter” from financial statements by enabling preparers to apply
materiality judgments to existing disclosures.
The need to carefully consider the cost of providing information in relation to
the benefits produced is another important element in developing disclosures that the
proposal sets forth. We agree that the cost of a requirement to provide information
in notes normally is not justified by the benefits if (a) that information is not specific
to the individual entity and is readily and cost effectively available from sources other
than the entity and (b) knowledgeable users should be aware of the need for the
information and its availability. We do not believe that entities should be required to

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 11
provide information in notes about general economic, political, and social conditions,
events, and circumstances that are common knowledge and not specific to the entity.
Investors would be better served if this type of publicly-available information were
eliminated, furthering the goal of “removing the clutter” from financial statements.
Subpart 400 Release

Item 401: Directors, Executive Officers, Promoters and Control Persons
In 2009, the Commission amended Item 4014 to expand the disclosure
requirements regarding the qualifications of directors and nominees, past
directorships held by directors and nominees, and the time period for disclosure of
legal proceedings involving directors, nominees and executive officers. In particular,
amended Item 401 includes a requirement to disclose the particular experience,
qualifications, attributes or skills that led the board to conclude that a nominee should
serve as a director. The Commission also significantly expanded the list of disclosable
legal proceedings involving directors, executive officers, and nominees covered under
Item 401(f) of Regulation S–K as part of the 2009 amendments.
Item 401 has benefitted investors by increasing the quality of material
information that they receive concerning the background and skills of directors and
nominees for director, thereby enabling investors to make better-informed voting and
investment decisions. Therefore, we believe that Item 401 does not need further
amendment or revision at this time. However, we request that the SEC focus its
attention elsewhere as it pursues the disclosure effectiveness initiative.

Item 402: Executive Compensation
In 2006, the SEC revamped its disclosure rules on executive compensation5
with the adoption of the Compensation Discussion & Analysis (CD&A) requirement
in Item 402 of Regulation S-K. These rules, as amended in 2006, greatly expanded
tabular disclosure concerning executive compensation of named executive officers
and directors. They also required a new narrative discussion and analysis of executive
4
5

Release Nos. 33–9089; 34–61175; IC–29092, Proxy Disclosure Enhancements, 74 Fed. Reg. 68,334 (Dec. 16, 2009).
Release No. 33-8732A, Executive Compensation and Related Person Disclosure, 71 Fed. Reg. 53,158 (Aug. 29, 2006).

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 12
compensation. According to the SEC’s adopting release, the 2006 amendments were
“intended to provide investors with a clearer and more complete picture of the
compensation earned by a company’s principal executive officer, principal financial
officer and highest paid executive officers and members of its board of directors.”6
Over the past decade, there has been a growing amount of concern over the
CD&A, leading it to become the subject of substantial commentary. The complexity
of the SEC’s rules and interpretations, coupled with the technical nature of the
broader subject of executive compensation, means that special expertise is often
required to understand what CD&A requires a company to disclose. When in doubt
about whether a particular fact needs to be disclosed, many companies now err on the
side of disclosing it, even if the information is not necessarily useful or even material
to investors.
Issuers and Registrants are undoubtedly in part responsible for the
current state of affairs and it also is a natural outgrowth of the SEC’s rules and
subsequent interpretations. CD&A has become the archetypal example of the
“avalanche of information” that Justice Marshall predicted and warned against in TSC.
Notably, in 2015 Stanford University released a study of institutional investors, who
control over $17 trillion dollars in assets, finding that the majority found the proxy
statement to be too long and that only a third of the information was relevant.7 Of
several key findings in the Stanford study, we find this one particularly germane to the
issue of Item 402 of Regulation S-K:
Investors are Deeply Dissatisfied with Compensation Disclosure
Less than half (38 percent) of institutional investors believe that
information about executive compensation is clear and effectively
disclosed in the corporate proxy. Responses are consistently negative
across all elements of compensation disclosure. Sixty-five percent say
that the relation between compensation and risk is “not at all” clear.
Forty-eight percent say that it is “not at all” clear that the size of
Id. at 53,159.
DAVID F. LARCKER ET AL., STANFORD UNIV., 2015 INVESTOR SURVEY: DECONSTRUCTING PROXY STATEMENTS—
WHAT MATTERS TO INVESTORS 1 (FEB. 2015), available at https:/www.gsb.stanford.edu/sites/gsb/files/publicationpdf/cgri-survyey-2015-deconstructing-proxy-statements_0.pdf.
6
7

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 13
compensation is appropriate. Forty-three percent believe that it is “not
at all” clear whether performance-based compensation plans are based
on rigorous goals. Significant minorities cannot determine whether the
structure of executive compensation is appropriate (39 percent), cannot
understand the relation between compensation and performance (25
percent), and cannot determine whether compensation is well-aligned
with shareholder interests (22 percent). “Corporations must do a better
job of articulating the rationale behind plan design,” says [Aaron] Boyd,
[Director of Governance Research at Equilar]. “It is not enough that
disclosure in the Compensation Discussion & Analysis (CD&A) section
of the proxy meets regulatory requirements. Companies should take
renewed effort to be clear and concise in explaining their choices.”8
The past decade’s experience with Item 402 undoubtedly demonstrates that
reforms are needed to ensure that CD&A continues to provide investors with the
material information they need to make informed investment and voting decisions
when evaluating a company’s executive compensation system. One possible approach
to revising Item 402 is to eliminate many of the required compensation tables (which
seems to be the source of much confusion to readers of proxy statements) except the
summary compensation table, while placing a greater emphasis on qualitative analysis
surrounding executive compensation decisions, management of risk and construction
of compensation plans.
The Coalition believes that to inform its future actions, the Commission should
undertake a data collection effort from a broad cross-section of issuers and investors
as to their preferences through surveys, hearings, roundtables and other appropriate
means. Materiality should continue to be the filter through which any future
disclosure requirements must pass.

Item 404: Transactions with Related Persons, Promoters and Certain Control
Persons
Item 404 provides that companies must disclose any transactions with “related
persons” (such as a director or executive of the company or their immediate family)
8

Id. at 1.

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 14
and creates a presumptive materiality threshold of $120,000. This amount is scaled
for smaller reporting companies but not for other companies.
The Item 404(a) disclosure threshold was last updated in 20069 when the SEC
increased it from $60,000, where it had been set in the early 1980s, to $120,000. While
we certainly agree that disclosure around material-related party transactions is useful
information for investors making investment and voting decisions, we also believe
that the SEC should revisit the threshold to consider whether $120,000 is appropriate
for all companies and thus whether Item 404 is serving its intended purpose. As with
other one-size-fits-all standards, the $120,000 level may be over-inclusive for some
companies and under-inclusive for others. As detailed in the Disclosure Update
Release, recent amendments to U.S. GAAP concerning related party disclosure have
also led to a significant divergence from the Item 404 standard.
Specifically, we believe the SEC should delete any quantitative threshold from
Item 404(a) and instead require only the disclosure of material related party
transactions. Another option would be to implement a scaled approach to disclosure
of related party transactions for all companies, expanding the smaller reporting
company model. Scaling for larger companies could be based on a percentage of total
assets, as is currently the requirement for smaller reporting companies,10 or some
other financial metric, such as a percentage of total revenue.

Item 407: Corporate Governance
The Commission first adopted Item 407 in 200611 largely to reorganize and
recodify prior reporting requirements. The Commission amended Item 407 in 200712
and again in 2008.13 The Commission then made substantial revisions to Item 407 in
Release Nos. 33–8732A; 34–54302A; IC–27444A, Executive Compensation and Related Person Disclosure, 71 Fed.
Reg. 53,158 (Aug. 29, 2006).
10 Item 404(d)(1) currently provides that smaller reporting companies must provide related-party disclosure when the
amount involved exceeds the lesser of $120,000 or one percent of the average total assets at yearend for the last two
completed fiscal years.
11 Release Nos. 33–8732A; 34–54302A; IC–27444A, Executive Compensation and Related Person Disclosure, 71 Fed.
Reg. 53,158 (Aug. 29, 2006).
12 Release Nos. 33–8876; 34–56994; 39–2451, Smaller Reporting Company Regulatory Relief and Simplification, 73 Fed.
Reg. 964 (Dec. 19, 2007).
13 Release Nos. 33–8961; 34–58656, Technical Amendment to Item 407 of Regulation S–K, 73 Fed. Reg. 57,238 (Sept.
26, 2008).
9

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 15
2009 with its “Proxy Disclosure Enhancements” release, greatly expanding the scope
and breadth of required corporate governance disclosure.14 The 2009 amendments—
among many other things—expanded the required discussion around diversity in the
process by which candidates for director are considered for nomination by a
company’s nominating committee and the disclosure about a company’s board
leadership structure and the board’s role in the oversight of risk. These are topics that
continue to be top of mind for investors today. The Commission most recently
amended Item 407 in 2012 to implement changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act in
listing standards for compensation committees.15 Relative to the many other
disclosure requirements that have not seen this level of scrutiny and modification over
the past decade, we urge the Commission to instead focus its attention on other areas
of Regulation S-K as it continues its disclosure effectiveness initiative.
Exhibit Release
Generally, we support the proposed requirements regarding exhibit hyperlinks
on a going-forward (but not retroactive) basis if the Commission includes the
qualifications incorporated. The Coalition agrees that, in many cases, doing so will
make navigating SEC documents more user-friendly for investors.
Proposed Rule 105(c) of Regulation S-T provides as follows:
If a filer includes an external hyperlink within a filed document, the
information contained in the linked material will not be considered
part of the document for determining compliance with reporting
obligations, but the inclusion of the link will cause the filer to be subject to the
civil liability and antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws with reference
to the information contained in the linked material. (emphasis added)
While this language appears relatively unchanged from the current rule text, we
believe it takes on new significance in light of the proposed hyperlink requirement.

Release Nos. 33–9089; 34–61175; IC–29092, Proxy Disclosure Enhancements, 74 Fed. Reg. 68,334 (Dec. 16, 2009).
Release Nos. 33–9330; 34–67220, Listing Standards for Compensation Committees, 77 Fed. Reg. 38,422 (June 20,
2012).
14
15

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 16
In modern times it is common to include email addresses and URLs of all kinds
in contracts and other documents that might be required to be filed under Item 601 of
Regulation S-K. Examples include links to a contractual counterparty’s website, a
customer service or supplier website, a service provider’s website (such as a website
listed on the letterhead of an Exhibit 5 opinion), a government agency’s website (such
as sec.gov, eeoc.gov or corp.delaware.gov), a disclosure schedule of owned domain
names attached to a credit agreement or purchase agreement, and a proprietary online
portal established for purposes of advancing a contractual relationship (such as an
online data room established for due diligence purposes or to facilitate
communications among lenders). Additionally, many software programs, including
commonly available word-processing programs, automatically create functional
hyperlinks to third party websites whenever letters such as “http” or “www” precede a
domain name. As it reads, proposed Rule 105(c) would extend civil liability and
antifraud liability to each of these third-party websites simply by virtue of the
existence of a hyperlink.
Many websites and their content are usually not prepared with a view towards
compliance with the federal securities laws. Therefore, subjecting registrants to
liability for the information (particularly when the site is controlled by an unrelated
third party) appears to be a particularly harsh and unintended result. It is one thing to
subject a registrant to liability concerning a hyperlink when the registrant intentionally
directs the reader there for purposes of satisfying the federal securities laws, such as a
hyperlink to a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information under Regulation G
or the hyperlink referenced in Item 1.01(b) of Form SD. It is quite another when the
overly broad language of Proposed Rule 105(c) creates a liability dragnet with regard
to a large body of other hyperlinks included for non-SEC purposes, such as those
described in the preceding paragraph. Although we do not object to liability in the
case of the former, we object to liability in the latter case, and strongly urge the
Commission to clarify the scope of Rule 105(c) in any final rule.
We are also concerned about the disproportionate burden the Exhibit Release
would have on smaller reporting companies and non-accelerated filers. As the release
indicates, these types of issuers are more likely to make their filings in ASCII format,
which would require refiling of exhibits or other technical measures to satisfy the
requirement to hyperlink in HTML format. Even when such companies make Edgar
filings in HTML format, they may not have the same resources as large companies to

Mr. Brent J. Fields
October 27, 2016
Page 17
complete the exercise of hyperlinking to historical filings. Although the Exhibit
Release does not appear to address compliance transition periods, we request that the
Commission grant smaller reporting companies and non-accelerated filers one
additional year beyond the compliance date for accelerated filers to allow sufficient
time for these smaller companies to comply with any final rules and take advantage of
any technological enhancements that their larger peers may develop over this time.
CONCLUSION
The Coalition believes that as the SEC continues its disclosure effectiveness
initiative, materiality should be the main focus, and that any goals outside the SEC’s
core mission should be left to other governmental bodies, civil society organizations,
and the private sector to address outside federal securities laws. SEC-mandated
disclosures should not be used to further social, cultural, pecuniary or political
motivations that the federal securities laws were not designed to advance. The SEC
disclosure regime should not provide a glide path for special interests to impose their
agenda on shareholders at large, particularly when doing so does not maximize longterm value for a company. We commend the Commission for its efforts to streamline
and improve disclosure, as reflected in the Releases.
Thank you for your consideration of our comments, and we stand ready to
assist the Commissioners or Staff with this initiative.
Sincerely,
American Insurance Association
American Petroleum Institute
National Black Chamber of Commerce
National Association of Manufacturers
National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
Retail Industry Leaders Association
U.S. Chamber of Commerce
cc:

The Honorable Mary Jo White
The Honorable Kara M. Stein
The Honorable Michael S. Piwowar

