October 31, 2016

Mary Jo White
Chair
Securities and Exchange Commission
Re: “Disclosure Update and Simplification,” Proposed Rule
File No. S7-15-16
RIN 3235-AL82

Dear Chair White,
We oppose the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC, or Agency) proposed rule, titled
“Disclosure Update and Simplification” and ask that it be withdrawn.
Disclosure forms the bedrock of the SEC’S mission in protecting American investors.1
Now, the SEC proposes a major devaluation of this disclosure framework by proposing what the
Agency calls “disclosure simplification.” On its face, the rulemaking may appear to be a series of
innocuous changes, but, in fact, the regulations would have far reaching and dangerous
consequences for investors and the nation’s corporate disclosure regime.
Unsound basis
The rulemaking rests on two unsound pillars:
The first is that investors are burdened with too much information from the companies in which
they invest. We are unaware of this burden, or of any demand, serious or otherwise, expressed in
the investment community for less disclosure. On the contrary, investors consistently ask for
more information—one clear example being political spending information, as evidenced by a
petition calling for this transparency with more than 1.2 million investor and public comments.
In the absence of true investor demand, the SEC is paradoxically hastening to make disclosure
changes to lessen what information is provided. After soliciting comments to broad disclosure
questions in their S-K concept release just months ago as a part of the agency’s “disclosure
effectiveness review” process, it seems unlikely that SEC could have digested the many
1

1

Joel Seligman, THE TRANSFORMATION OF WALL STREET, Houghton Mifflin (2003)

thoughtful responses it received before it published this proposal to change disclosure rules. The
“Disclosure Update and Simplification” NPRM came before the S-K comment deadline.2
The second pillar is the idea that materiality (the standard upon which corporations base their
disclosure decisions) is overbroad and should be narrowed to only “financial materiality.”
Materiality applies to the notes in financial statements, namely, the description by management
of specific items that are part of the aggregate quantifications in the financial statements, either
the income statement or balance sheet. (For example, certain revenue and expense results at a
fast food chain may be different than expected, and management may explain that restaurants in
a region of the country suffered food poisoning from bad chicken.3)
Currently, as described by the Financial Accountings Standards Board (FASB), materiality
means information that “could” influence investor decisions. 4 FASB now proposes to change the
definition of materiality from what “could” influence an investor, to what “would” influence the
investor.56 FASB further proposes to declare that materiality is a legal concept.7 This makes a
firm’s legal officer the pivotal arbiter of the issue. Currently, an independent auditor might take
a contest over whether an item should be discussed in the notes to the firm’s board audit
committee. With this dynamic in force, the company’s financial officer might tend to accept the
auditor’s recommendation instead of facing board arbitration. Under the new FASB rubric, a
dispute between the auditor and in-house finance official will be settled by the in-house counsel.
With this dynamic, the company’s auditor is less likely to contest the omission of what she might
consider material information. In short, the FASB proposal will result in less information.

2

Business and Financial Disclosure Required by Regulation S-K (Release No. 33-10064 (Apr. 13, 2016) available
at https://www.sec.gov/rules/concept/2016/33-10064.pdf ;
3
One imagines that the accounting industry might have developed a manual that establishes numerical metrics. The
question of materiality is undoubtedly informed by the hundreds of independent auditor hours expended each year at
many thousands of public companies, a ritual that has taken place for many decades. Further, the stock market
provides a minute-by-minute evaluation of information that changes stock prices. Given this one might hope that a
concept so basic as materiality would enjoy a more muscular description than what seems little beyond a tautology,
namely, that which could change an investor’s view.
4

The SEC was created to buffer investors from the unscrupulous huckster in the private sector; so trusting the
private sector to set standards (via FASB) could mean that hucksters have taken over or at least are influencing that
standard setting process. P. 51611
5

See FASB Project Update, (website visited October 2015), Available at:
http://www.fasb.org/cs/ContentServer?c=FASBContent_C&pagename=FASB%2FFASBContent_C%2FProjectUpd
atePage&cid=1176156344894
6
See press release, Univ of Tennessee, available at: http://tntoday.utk.edu/2015/10/29/carcello-speaks-proposedrules-limiting-disclosure/
7
These venues include the law, facts, and markets, which can be influence by emotion. Information contained in
print may have a different impact than video. For example, it may be immaterial that a CEO is arrested for DUI.
However, if this arrest is captured on video, this may lead to a different impression of the same information. See
discussion, available at: http://www.theconglomerate.org/2010/10/is-your-ceo-being-arrested-for-dwiduimaterial.html. In another case, a CEO was caught on a surveillance camera abusing his dog. This became public, and
the company was forced to issue a statement condemning its CEO. See San Diego Union, available at:
http://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/2014/aug/25/centerplate-ceo-dog-kicking-san-diego-contracts/

2

This forthcoming definition of materiality should be stopped in its tracks. A number of investor
organizations have called on FASB to stop this effort. The SEC’s own Investor Advisory
Committee similarly warned against debasing the definition of materiality. 8
Regrettably, the SEC seems to also be trending in the same direction. Many of the changes
proposed in the “disclosure simplification” that the agency is seeking comment on here would do
away with SEC rules in favor of US GAAP, or generally accepted accounting principles
disclosures, and would narrow the definition of materiality to that which is financially relevant.
This could frustrate the investor demand for new information in many areas (such as political
spending disclosure.) Corporate political expenditures may not be massive but they are still risky
because they involve politics and could embroil the company in reputational issues and
ultimately hurt the bottom line.
On top of these two unsound pillars teeters a bewilderment of indecipherable statutory,
accounting, and legal terms masking some decidedly dangerous changes. This inscrutability is
emphasized by SEC Commissioner Kara Stein. Commissioner Stein wrote:9
Despite its 500 plus page length, this proposal may be framed in such a hyper-technical way that
it fails to provide a bonafide opportunity for a wide variety of commenters to truly access and
understand what is being proposed and what we are seeking comment on. Any rulemaking release
on a technical subject matter can and should, be made accessible to all of the stakeholders who
will be impacted if the proposal is adopted. Unfortunately, the release before the Commission
today may exclude commenters from the dialogue and limit access to our rulemaking process to
specialized experts. For example, how can non-experts compare distinctions between Rule 408(m)(1)(ii) of Regulation S-X and Accounting Standards Codification 860-30-50-7 without
more information? How are investors to weigh in if they can’t make heads or tails of the subject
matter?

Only an attorney schooled in economics, business history, and accounting, and blessed with an
encyclopedic understanding of SEC statutes, experience with the history of GAAP, IFRS and
other standard setting wars, and afforded at least years’ time of reading, study, review and
consultation, could possibly do justice to a definitive comment. Further, the perils of not
commenting on this rule could lead to a disastrous narrowing of the key standard upon which
many investors seek increased disclosures.

8

Letter to the FASB from the SEC Investor Advisory Committee available at
https://www.sec.gov/spotlight/investor-advisory-committee-2012/iac-letter-fasb-materiality-012116.pdf
9
Stein’s continues: “How are investors to weigh in if they can’t make heads or tails of the subject matter? I
requested the release provide greater clarity and context for these topics and others. This was not adequately done. It
is bitterly ironic that a release on disclosure effectiveness fails to present information in a clear, concise, and
understandable way to the public. How can we require issuers to provide information in plain English, yet fail to
meet this standard ourselves? Moreover, how are we to fulfill our mission of investor protection if we effectively
exclude commenters from engaging on rulemakings that will impact the disclosure they receive? How are we to be
the investor’s advocate, if we do not provide investors with bonafide opportunities to engage?
See: https://www.sec.gov/news/statement/stein-statement-open-meeting-071316-disclosure-update.html

3

Selected Specific Problems
We highlight only a few of the specific dangers beyond our general concerns surround narrowing
disclosure and the definition of materiality:
1. Repurchase agreements.
The Agency proposes to delete Rule 4-08(m)(1)(ii). (The Agency does not explain what this rule
does in the preamble, simply the reasons it proposes to delete it.)10 This rule requires that firms
that borrow money through the repurchase agreement (repo) market should declare the details of
these liabilities if they exceed 10 percent of the assets of the firm. This10% dependence level is
enormously important both to investors in the borrowing firm, and to counterparties as they
make credit decisions. The financial crisis demonstrated that firms such as Lehman had grown
addicted to repo, and had manipulated tax and other rules to enable its dependency. In fact, repo
disclosure should be enhanced, not deleted.11 The Agency makes no reference to these issues;
instead, the basic reason that the SEC proposes to eliminate this requirement is that U.S. GAAP
provides for similar or overlapping reporting. Similar, overlapping standards are not the same
standards, just as two photographs of a building from different angles or distances may be similar
or overlapping, but are not the same. A photograph from 50 feet is similar but not the same as
one from 500 feet.
GAAP, or Generally accepted accounting principles, it must be noted, are not generally accepted.
Nor is the publication freely available. One edition spans 7,692 pages across four volumes.12
U.S. GAAP differs from accounting standards in other countries (an acute problem given that
10

11

Here is the rule:
(A) If, as of the most recent balance sheet date, the carrying amount (or market value, if higher than the
carrying amount) of securities or other assets sold under repurchase agreements, other than securities or
assets specified in paragraph (m)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, exceeds 10% of total assets, disclose in an
appropriately captioned footnote containing a tabular presentation, segregated as to type of such securities
or assets sold under agreements to repurchase (e.g., U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. Government agency
obligations and loans), the following information as of the balance sheet date for each such agreement or
group of agreements (other than agreements involving securities or assets specified in paragraph
(m)(1)(ii)(B) of this section) maturing (1) overnight; (2) term up to 30 days; (3) term of 30 to 90 days; (4)
term over 90 days and (5) demand:
(i) The carrying amount and market value of the assets sold under agreement to repurchase, including
accrued interest plus any cash or other assets on deposit under the repurchase agreements; and
(ii) The repurchase liability associated with such transaction or group of transactions and the interest rate(s)
thereon.
(B) For purposes of paragraph (m)(1)(ii)(A) of this section only, do not include securities or other assets for
which unrealized changes in market value are reported in current income or which have been obtained
under reverse repurchase agreements.

See, e.g., Steven Smalt and J. Marshall Mc Comb II, An Examination of Repurchase Agreements, Journal of
Finance and Accountancy, Volume 19, March 2015 available at http://www.aabri.com/manuscripts/152156.pdf
(outlining the accounting loophole that Lehman Brothers took advantage of in effecting its infamous “Repo 105”
transactions. These accounting manoeuvers allowed Lehman Brothers to temporarily remove billions of dollars of
assets from its balance sheet, thereby hiding the true extent of its leverage.)
12
Accounting Standards Codification, explained here: https://attestationupdate.com/2011/04/28/just-how-manypages-are-there-in-gaap-sas-and-ssars/

4

many public companies operate in multiple nations). And it can change, regardless of what the
SEC does. As with many other proposals, the Agency is ceding its responsibility to safeguard
disclosure to private sector organizations, in this case GAAP and FASB. The SEC should instead
oblige its mandate.
2. Pro forma business combination
The agency proposes13 to delete pro forma (forward looking, with results combined for as yet
separately operating units) financial information in interim filings for business combinations, as
provided in Rule 8-03(b)(4). Annually, Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett lectures on the
accounting manipulations of those who merge companies, where promises are highlighted and
problems not disclosed.14 More than half of all mergers fail.15 If financial reporting were
accurate and frequent, accountants would be better positioned to recognize problems as they
occur, and ideally, advise merger-inclined executives that the marriage may not be such a good
idea; delayed reporting can allow hope to replace harsh reality. Requiring pro forma projections
on an interim basis results in some discipline; eliminating this will permit even more
whitewashing.
3. Executive compensation
The Agency proposes16 to delete its requirement that executive compensation be disaggregated.
Disaggregation allows investors to see what in the pay package is cash, stock, options, etc. The
reason for the deletion is that the Agency notes that the major stock exchanges require such
disaggregation as a listing requirement. As with GAAP, the agencies can change their listing
standards. Wells Fargo faces scrutiny now because it failed to identify that bonus figures were
tied to cross selling quotas that, in turn, proved illusory. Had it been clear to investors that the
millions in bonuses for Named Executive Officers stemmed from line salespeople (paid $25,000
a year) to open eight accounts for each customer,17 or be fired, or cheat and try not to get caught,
then this runaway fraud might have lasted a year, instead of two decades.18 As with the other
changes we mentioned, this is presented as a modest change—but the consequences for
information provided could be disastrous. Already, CEO pay is high and the metrics by which it
is judged are opaque. Obscuring the information makes matters worse.

Conclusion
13

P. 51621
Berkshire Hathaway, 10-k, http://www.berkshirehathaway.com/reports.html
15
See, for example, Why Half of All M&A Deals Fail, and What You Can Do About It, Forbes editors FORBES
(MARCH 19, 2012)
http://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesleadershipforum/2012/03/19/why-half-of-all-ma-deals-fail-and-what-you-can-doabout-it/#75b3fd5020ae
16
p 51626
17
What average person holds eight accounts at a bank? Checking, credit card, mortgage, home equity line of credit,
insurance, wealth management number six.
18
See An Examination of Wells Fargo’s Unauthorized Accounts and the Regulatory Response, SENATE BANKING
COMMITTEE (September 20, 2016) http://www.banking.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/hearings?ID=B80F9B81-43314F95-91BC-718288EC9DA0
14

5

If the Agency is truly interested in addressing disclosure, it should begin with a series of national
listening sessions with investors. It should collect suggestions from these investors. It should
read the comments to the S-K release, which almost universally demand more disclosure. It may
then relay the suggestions and comments to issuers (selected as those recognized by investors for
good governance) to examine what they can and cannot do to accommodate investor interests.
Meanwhile, this proposal should be withdrawn.
For questions, please contact Lisa Gilbert at
.
Sincerely,
As You Sow
Bellamy Woods LLC
Brighton Shores LLC
CSC, LLC
Essential Information
Greenpeace
Howard’s End LLC
Institute for Policy Studies, Global Economy Project
Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR)
NF Trust
OpenTheGovernment
Public Citizen
Rolyan Fund
Sunlight Foundation
Zevin Asset Management LLC

6

, or Bartlett Naylor at

