Crowe Horwath LLP
Independent Member Crowe Horwath International

October 28, 2016

Office of the Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20549-1090

Re: Proposed Rule, “Disclosure Update and Simplification,” File No. S7-15-16
Dear Office of the Secretary:
Crowe Horwath LLP appreciates the opportunity to provide our input on the SEC’s proposed rule,
“Disclosure Update and Simplification” (“Release”). We commend the SEC on its efforts to help improve
registrants’ disclosures and holistically review the financial and other information provided by registrants
to investors, including its broader initiative on Disclosure Effectiveness.
Crowe Horwath audits more than 100 domestic issuers, many of which are middle market companies,
and it is from this perspective that we provide our commentary. We encourage the SEC to continue its
outreach to investors, preparers, and other constituency groups in its consideration of feedback received
on the Release.
Overall Objective of the Release
We support the Commission’s overall Disclosure Effectiveness initiative and its efforts in this Release to
reduce redundancy and remove superseded or outdated Commission disclosure requirements. In
particular, we believe many aspects of the Release will reduce the costs of compliance for all registrants
without altering the total mix of information available to investors and other users of the financial
statements.
Current Overlap
The Release identifies disclosures where Commission rules directly overlap with or have been
superseded by changes in US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“US GAAP”) or other
developments, including changes in International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), other
Commission rules, or the information environment, and it identifies disclosures specified by Commission
rules that overlap with, but are not the same as, US GAAP, IFRS, or other Commission rules. We believe
it is consistent with the overall objective of the Release to integrate or eliminate a rule when the intended
disclosure objective has been met by subsequent developments in US GAAP, IFRS, Commission rules,
or the information environment.
The Release also requests comment on whether certain disclosures incremental to US GAAP should be
referred to the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) for discussion or standard setting. We
agree it is consistent with the objective of the Release to refer such items to the FASB, and we encourage
the SEC to work with the FASB to highlight the concerns of the staff intended to be addressed by the
Commission’s current disclosure rule to facilitate an effective standard setting process.

Office of the Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
October 28, 2016
Page 2

As noted in the Release, the Commission has designated the FASB as the private-sector accounting
standard setter for U.S. financial reporting purposes, and its objective is “to undertake a transparent,
public standard-setting process.” We support the SEC’s continued coordination with the FASB to
streamline and enhance financial statement disclosures, and we expect the outcome of the FASB’s
standard setting process to result in disclosures “useful to existing and potential investors, lenders, and
other creditors in making decisions about providing resources to the entity,” as noted in Statement of
Financial Accounting Concepts No. 8, “Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting.” 1 In this regard,
we generally believe that the disclosures resulting from the FASB’s due process with respect to any item
the Commission refers to the FASB will be sufficient for investors and other users of financial statements
to make an informed investment decision such that any incremental Commission disclosure requirements
can be eliminated without impacting the total mix of information available to investors and other users.
Should the Commission determine any SEC disclosure requirements incremental to US GAAP should be
retained, we observe that future developments in US GAAP might later render such disclosure redundant
or irrelevant. We recommend the Commission consider formalizing a process to periodically address
future redundancies and overlap so that such matters can be identified and remedied timely.

Future Redundancies and Overlap
The Release observes that the Commission has periodically “reviewed and amended its disclosure
requirements to eliminate rules that became redundant, duplicative, or overlapping as the FASB updated
US GAAP;” however, it is not clear from the Release whether the timing of such reviews are formally
scheduled or are executed on an ad hoc basis. Release No. 33-6233 2, “General Revision of Regulation
S-X,” refers to the 1977 report of the Advisory Committee on Corporate Disclosure (“Advisory
Committee”), which recommended the Commission should: 1) have a continuing goal of minimizing
differences between financial statements prepared in accordance with Regulation S-X (“Reg. S-X”) and
US GAAP; 2) provide explicit reasons for disclosures incremental to US GAAP when incremental
disclosures are required to address an emerging problem; and 3) refer any emerging problem to the
FASB for consideration.
We note the increasing pace of change in business and technology naturally gives rise to an evolution in
disclosure issues. To more quickly respond to changes in US GAAP, business, or other aspects (e.g.
technological change) of the Commission’s disclosure regime, we recommend the Commission adopt a
formal process to monitor the effectiveness of its disclosure requirements and more frequently revise its
disclosure rules when they become redundant or are superseded by developments in US GAAP or the
business environment. We note the FASB has a standing project to continually improve the Accounting
Standards Codification. 3 To the extent the Commission identifies an emerging issue requiring rulemaking
that creates disclosure incremental to US GAAP, we support the Advisory Committee’s recommendation
that the Commission provide an explicit rationale or objective for the incremental disclosure and refer the
emerging problem to the FASB for consideration. The Commission could also consider implementing a
policy or practice to state in any disclosure rule adopting release that the staff will review the new
disclosure rule after a specific period to determine if it is meeting the disclosure objective identified or to
ascertain the outcome of any FASB due process on the issue not materially impact the quality of the
information presented. While we acknowledge any disclosures moved from inside to outside the financial
statements would not be subject to audit, internal control over financial reporting 4 (“ICFR”) or XBRL
tagging requirements, such disclosure would still be subject to the registrant’s disclosure controls and
procedures 5 and certain procedures performed by the auditor. For example, under professional
1

http://www.fasb.org/cs/ContentServer?site=FASB&c=Document_C&pagename=FASB%2FDocument_C%2FDocumentPage&cid=1
176157498129
2
45 FR 63660 (Sept 25, 1980)
3
See for example http://www.fasb.org/jsp/FASB/FASBContent_C/ProjectUpdatePage&cid=1176163910174.
4
See Exchange Act Rule 13-a(15)(f)
5
See Exchange Act Rule 13-a(15)(e)

Office of the Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
October 28, 2016
Page 3

standards 6, auditors have responsibilities to consider whether or not disclosures provided outside of the
financial statements in a document filed with the SEC are materially inconsistent with the information in
the audited financial statements.
Disclosure Location
We believe any Commission required disclosures that elicit forward-looking information should not be
moved from outside to inside the audited financial statements. We generally believe the financial
statement footnotes should include only historical financial information because forward-looking
information is inconsistent with the objective for general use financial statements specified by the FASB 7
and can be difficult to verify or audit. Also as noted in the Release, the unavailability of the safe-harbor
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act for forward-looking information is undesirable for
preparers.
Legal Proceedings
The Release requests comment on whether inclusion of legal proceedings disclosure pursuant to Item
103 of Regulation S-K (“Item 103”) in the audited financial statements would create significant burdens for
preparers or auditors. We do not support combining Item 103 disclosure with US GAAP disclosure on loss
contingencies. As noted in the Release, the scope and objective of Item 103 differs from disclosure of
loss contingencies in US GAAP pursuant to Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 450,
“Contingencies.” Moreover, we agree with previously expressed views of Commission staff that because
Item 103 and ASC 450 have differing objectives, satisfying both objectives with a single set of disclosures
might “result in lengthy factual recitations rather than focusing on the underlying loss contingency, the
related exposure and the likelihood of a loss,” 8 which does not appear consistent with the objectives of
the Release or the Commission’s broader Disclosure Effectiveness efforts.
In 2010, the FASB proposed incorporating certain of the disclosure requirements of Item 103 into US GAAP
with proposed ASU, “Disclosure of Certain Loss Contingencies,”9 but, in response to constituent feedback,
removed the project from its agenda in 2012. 10 As an alternative, we recommend the Commission reexamine the disclosure objective of Item 103 to determine if its objective remains relevant and whether Item
103 could be modified to streamline disclosure without changing the total mix of information available to
users.
Should the Commission proceed with combining Item 103 disclosure with ASC 450 disclosure in the
audited financial statements, we encourage the Commission to perform further outreach with various
constituents, including the American Bar Association (“ABA”) and the Public Company Auditing Oversight
Board (“PCAOB”). Current auditing guidance, including PCAOB Auditing Standard 2505, “Inquiry of a
Client's Lawyer Concerning Litigation, Claims, and Assessments,” 11 and ABA Statement Policy Regarding
Lawyers’ Responses to Auditors’ Requests for Information, 12 are based on ASC 450 and do not address
disclosure pursuant to Item 103 that are not currently included in US GAAP. Therefore, the PCAOB and
the ABA might need to revisit the aforementioned areas of the current auditing rules prior to any
integration of Item 103 disclosure into the audited financial statements.

6

See, for example, PCAOB Auditing Standard (AS) 2710, “Other Information in Documents Containing Audited Financial
Statements,” and PCAOB AS 4101, “Responsibilities Regarding Filings Under Federal Securities Statutes.”
7
See supra note 1.
8
http://www.thecaq.org/sec-regulations-committee-highlights-september-21-2010
9

http://www.fasb.org/cs/ContentServer?c=Document_C&pagename=FASB%2FDocument_C%2FDocumentPage&cid=11761571164
58
http://fasb.org/jsp/FASB/Document_C/DocumentPage&cid=1176160163070
11
https://pcaobus.org/Standards/Auditing/Pages/AS2505.aspx
12
https://pcaobus.org/Standards/Auditing/Pages/AU337C.aspx
10

Office of the Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
October 28, 2016
Page 4

Bright-Line Disclosure Threshold Considerations
We believe eliminating many of the bright-line disclosure thresholds included in the SEC’s disclosure
requirements would not result in a material loss of information available to users of the financial
statements. Bright-line thresholds do not consider the meaningful differences between registrants that
can render a specific disclosure material to one registrant but wholly irrelevant to another. As noted in our
letter dated July 21, 2016 on the Commission’s Concept Release, “Business and Financial Disclosure
Required by Regulation S-K” (the “S-K Concept Release”) it has been our experience that preparers do
not have difficulty applying materiality to disclosure rules in Regulation S-K without bright-line thresholds.
We believe the same would hold true if many of the bright-line thresholds identified in the Release were
removed. In addition, we note elimination of many of the bright-line disclosure thresholds is consistent
with the FASB’s reasons for issuing Proposed ASU, “Notes to Financial Statements (Topic 235) –
Assessing Whether Disclosures Are Material,” 13 to clarify how to apply materiality in the context of
financial statement disclosures. If the Commission believes retaining bright-line disclosure thresholds are
in the best interest of investor protection, we recommend revising the specific disclosure rule to state a
rebuttable materiality threshold rather than a bright-line threshold to provide additional flexibility to
preparers in drafting effective disclosure documents.

Smaller Reporting Company (SRC) Considerations
The Release requests responses to multiple questions about whether referral to the FASB for a specific
disclosure item would cause undue burden or costs on SRCs if the item were incorporated into US GAAP
and whether such costs influences whether the disclosure item should be referred to the FASB. We
believe the FASB’s due diligence process results in high quality standards that allow flexibility to
preparers to disclose only material items, a concept which applies equally regardless of the size of the
entity. Consequently, we support referring the identified items to the FASB, which is consistent with the
Commission’s designation of the FASB as the private-sector accounting standard setter for U.S. financial
reporting purposes.

Other Matters Not Addressed in the Release
The Release requests comment on whether there are other matters that may have an effect on the
proposals. We encourage the Commission to consider the following aspects of Article 9 of Reg. S-X –
Bank Holding Companies (“BHCs”).
Scope of Article 9 and Industry Guide 3
Article 9 of Reg. S-X specifies the form and content of and requirements for financial statements for BHCs
filing with the Commission, and BHCs disclose supplemental statistical disclosures in filings, pursuant to
Industry Guide 3. As noted in Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) Topic 11:K, the staff believes Article 9 and
Guide 3 should also be considered by other types of entities engaged in material lending and depository
activities. SABs are interpretations of the staff and are not legally binding. We recommend the
Commission consider whether or not the applicability of Article 9 and Industry Guide 3 should be codified
and if so, in what manner and to what extent (e.g. all entities within the scope of ASC Topic 942,
“Financial Services – Depository and Lending”).

13

http://www.fasb.org/cs/ContentServer?c=Document_C&pagename=FASB%2FDocument_C%2FDocumentPage&cid=11761664023
25

Office of the Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
October 28, 2016
Page 5

Redundant Disclosure
The Release identifies Rules 9-03.6(a), 9-03.7(d), and 9-03.13(h) of Reg. S-X for potential elimination due
to redundancies with US GAAP. The chart below identifies additional redundancies that we believe
should be considered for elimination.
Commission Disclosure
Requirement Proposed for
Elimination
Rule 9-03.6

Rule 9-03.7(a) and (b)

Rule 9-03.10(4)

Description of Commission
Disclosure Requirement
Proposed for Elimination
Disclose the aggregate book
value of investment securities;
show on the balance sheet the
aggregate market value at the
balance sheet date.
Disclose on the balance sheet
or in a note the amount of total
loans in each of certain
specified categories or other
categories to the extent
appropriate.
Disclose separately on the
balance sheet or in a note other
real estate which exceeds thirty
percent of stockholders equity.
Disclose in a note the basis at
which other real estate is
carried. A reduction to fair
market value from the carrying
value of the related loan at the
time of acquisition shall be
accounted for as a loan loss.
Any allowance for losses on
other real estate which has been
established subsequent to
acquisition should be deducted
from other real estate. For each
period for which an income
statement is required,
disclosures should be made in a
note as to the changes in the
allowances, including balance at
beginning and end of period,
provision charged to income,
and losses charged to the
allowance.

Corresponding US GAAP
Disclosure Requirement
ASC 320-10-45-1 and 50-5

ASC 310-10-45-2 and 50-3

ASC 310-10-45-3 and 50-11;
ASC 310-10-50-11B; ASC 31040-40-10; ASC 360-10-35-40,
45-14, 50-3 and 50-4;

Office of the Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
October 28, 2016
Page 6

Bright-Line Disclosure Thresholds
Article 9 of Reg. S-X contains several bright-line disclosure thresholds. For example, Rule 9-03.10
requires separate disclosure of other assets and liabilities that exceed 30 percent of stockholders equity.
Likewise, Rules 9-04.13 and 14 require separate disclosure of other income and expense that exceed
one percent of the aggregate of total interest and other income. We believe the Commission should
consider whether the bright-line thresholds in Article 9 could be revised to specify separate disclosure of
the items when significant, similar to our thoughts on the bright-line disclosure thresholds more generally,
which are included above.
Form and Content of Balance Sheet and Income Statement
Consistent with our letter dated July 21, 2016 on the S-K Concept Release, we believe an objectiveoriented disclosure framework could be considered with respect to Rule 9-03 and 9-04 of Reg. S-X.
Specifically, we encourage the Commission to consider whether Rule 9-03 and 9-04 could be revised to
identify the presentation objective and provide relevant example disclosure. One possible approach is as
follows:
Rule
9.03

Objective
Order of liquidity

9.04

Net Interest Margin Presentation

Guidance
• Liquidity guidance
• Typical line items* separately presented by BHCs
• Typical line items* separately presented by BHCs

* Individual line items presented when significant
The above approach might also be adapted to other Articles of Reg. S-X.

Closing
We appreciate the opportunity to express our views on the Release. Please contact Brad A. Davidson at
317-706-2635 or Mark C. Shannon at 202-779-9921 to answer any questions.
Sincerely,

Crowe Horwath LLP

