KPMG LLP
345 Park Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10154-0102

Telephone
Fax
Internet

+1 212 758 9700
+1 212 758 9819
www.us.kpmg.com

October 19, 2016
Office of the Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20549-1090

File No. S7-15-16
Disclosure Update and Simplification
Release Nos. 33-10110; 34-78310
Dear Office of the Secretary:
We appreciate the opportunity to respond to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (“SEC” or
“Commission”) request for comments on the proposed rule Disclosure Update and Simplification
(the “Proposed Rule”). KPMG LLP fully supports the efforts of the SEC to improve public
company disclosure by amending requirements that over many years have become redundant,
duplicative, overlapping, outdated, or superseded. Furthermore, we believe these proposed
amendments may simplify the compliance efforts of preparers and their auditors.
We previously submitted responses to the SEC’s requests for comments related to Business and
Financial Disclosure Required by Regulation S-K (File No. S7-06-16) 1 and Effectiveness of
Financial Disclosures about Entities Other than the Registrant (File No. S7-20-15) 2. Our responses
to each of the SEC’s requests, including the Proposed Rule, support the SEC’s initiatives to review
its rules and regulations in assessing whether the financial information being provided to investors
and users of the financial statements is useful and relevant while considering the costs and benefits
of providing the information.
Our observations in this letter focus on the topics included in the Proposed Rule and are summarized
as:
•

1

Interactions with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) - We believe the FASB
has appropriate due process in place to evaluate the need for new or amended financial
disclosure requirements and therefore, incremental SEC financial disclosure requirements
should be minimized. The SEC’s rules and regulations should be regularly updated to reflect
new or amended accounting standards.

KPMG’s comments related to Business and Financial Disclosure Required by Regulation S-K (File No. S7-06-16)
can be located at https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-06-16/s70616-246.pdf
2
KPMG’s comments related to Effectiveness of Financial Disclosures about Entities Other than the Registrant (File
No. S7-20-15) can be located at https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-20-15/s72015-36.pdf

•

Disclosure requirements within the financial statements – We believe determining what
financial disclosure is material to investors should not rely on bright-line tests or a distinction
between smaller reporting companies and larger reporting companies.

•

Proposed Rule amendments – We generally support the SEC’s actions as detailed in the
Proposed Rule with some exceptions and further observations.

Interactions with the Financial Accounting Standards Board
The SEC has designated the Financial Accounting Standards Board (‘FASB”) as the private-sector
accounting standard setter for Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States
(“U.S. GAAP”). Therefore, as it relates to disclosure within the financial statements, in general,
KPMG believes the SEC should minimize financial statement disclosure requirements incremental
to U.S. GAAP established by the FASB.
We have observed that having multiple sources (i.e., regulators and standard setters) for financial
statement disclosure requirements can lead to confusion by preparers of financial statements and
adds complexity that can be avoided. Therefore, eliminating or minimizing multiple sources of
requirements for the same subject matter would help registrants provide full and complete
disclosure.
We note the FASB has a rigorous due process in place to set its standard setting agenda, evaluate
proposed new accounting standards and perform post-implementation reviews of recently
implemented accounting standards. We believe the FASB’s disclosure requirements have
appropriately changed over time to address the information needs of investors, but also have
changed to reflect changes in business and economic environments. The SEC is responsible for
monitoring overall the FASB’s compliance with its role as standard setter and also serves as a
participating observer on the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) of the FASB, which is responsible
for the timely identification, discussion, and resolution of financial accounting issues within the
framework of the FASB’s Accounting Standards Codification. As highlighted in a speech recently
at the 2016 AICPA’s National Conference on Banks and Savings Institutions by Wesley Bricker,
in his role as the Interim Chief Accountant, “the SEC staff is involved in the implementation
discussions with respect to all of the key priorities that have been completed by FASB and the
IASB, including revenue recognition and leases.” We believe these roles provide the SEC with the
opportunity to appropriately participate and monitor the FASB’s public standard setting process.
We support the SEC’s referral to the FASB of many of the disclosure requirements identified in
the Proposed Rule. When subjected to the FASB’s due process those disclosure requirements may
not be incorporated into U.S. GAAP. In the event they are not incorporated into U.S. GAAP, we
encourage the SEC to consider the feedback received during the FASB’s due process, which would
include the views of investors and preparers of the financial statements, when evaluating whether
to keep such disclosure requirements in its own rules and regulations.

2

Regular Review of Disclosure Requirements
As we noted previously, disclosure requirements have changed over time to address the information
needs of investors and to reflect changes in business and economic environments. As a period of
significant and rapid change in accounting standards will occur over the next several years as
preparers of financial statements begin to adopt the FASB’s new standards on revenue, leasing and
impairment of financial assets, among others, there will be significant changes to the presentation
and disclosure requirements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which may supersede, be redundant
to, or overlap current SEC disclosure requirements.
Consistent with the mandate by the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act for the SEC to
eliminate disclosure requirements that are duplicative, overlapping, outdated or unnecessary, we
believe the SEC should continue to conduct regular, timely reviews of its disclosure requirements.
For instance, in response to final accounting standards recently issued by the FASB for ASC Topic
606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers and ASC Topic 842, Leases, we believe the SEC
staff should identify now any related disclosure requirements that should be revised to eliminate
redundant, overlapping and outdated requirements. For example, we noted the following examples
of current SEC disclosure requirements that could be redundant or overlapping with the disclosure
requirements of ASC Topic 606:
•
•
•
•

S-X Rule 5-02.3(c) requires disclosure about amounts due under long-term contracts;
S-X Rule 5-02.5 is titled, Unearned income;
S-X Rule 5-02.6 requires certain detailed disclosure of inventoried costs relating to long-term
contracts or programs; and
S- X Rule 5-03(b)1(a) requires a specific approach to disaggregation of revenue.

If the SEC’s disclosure objectives differ in some way from those reflected in accounting standards
promulgated by the FASB, those differences, we believe, should be clearly communicated and
explained.
Current FASB Projects – Materiality in Disclosures and Disclosures in Interim Reports
As the SEC is aware, the FASB’s Disclosure Framework project currently includes certain
proposals, among others, that address the FASB’s Concepts Statement definition of materiality, the
use of materiality by reporting entities, and interim reporting.
Application of Materiality to Disclosures
We do not believe the FASB’s Disclosure Framework project as it relates to assessing whether
disclosures are material will have an effect on the amendments that are included in the Proposed
Rule if there are no changes to the definition of materiality by the SEC and FASB.
Interim Reporting
The SEC requires interim period disclosure where events, which have a material impact on the
registrant subsequent to the end of the most recent fiscal year, have occurred 3. The FASB proposes
3

Regulation S-X, Article 10 – Interim Financial Statements

3

to amend Topic 270, Interim Reporting 4, to reflect that disclosures about matters required to be set
forth in annual financial statements should be provided on an updated basis in the interim report if
there is a substantial likelihood that the updated information would be viewed by a reasonable
investor as significantly altering the “total mix” of information available to the investor. We believe
the FASB and SEC’s objectives of interim reporting are consistent, and therefore, we support the
SEC’s referral to the FASB of interim period disclosures discussed in the Proposed Rule.
Disclosure Location Considerations
Prominence
In a data centric environment, the physical location of a disclosure within a filing has become, we
believe, increasingly less important due to the use of electronic search tools by the users of filings
and auditors. However, in a document centric environment where users are reviewing filings in
paper copy, we continue to believe that the prominence of a disclosure could impact a user.
Financial Statements – Inside Versus Outside
We do not believe including forward-looking statements, that would otherwise be subject to safe
harbor under the Private Securities Litgation Reform Act of 1995, in the notes to the financial
statements is consistent with the objectives of financial statements. If the SEC were to consider
recommending that forward-looking statements be included in the notes to the financial statements,
we believe the PCAOB, through its standard setting process, would need to provide the necessary
rules to auditors as to the nature and extent of the auditor’s involvement.
Bright Line Disclosure Threshold Considerations
In general, we do not believe the use of bright-line disclosure thresholds are necessary because
bright-line thresholds do not properly consider materiality, which is based on both quantitative and
qualitative considerations of an individual registrant’s financial statements. We note that the FASB
has proposed to eliminate the “at a minimum provide” disclosures in U.S. GAAP in its Proposed
Accounting Standards Update 2015-310, Notes to Financial Statements (Topic 235) – Assessing
Whether Disclosures Are Material. We believe the proposed amendments by the SEC to eliminate
bright-line disclosure requirements is consistent with the objective of the FASB.
Smaller Reporting Company (“SRC”) Considerations
We support a view that disclosures within the financial statements should be applied on a consistent
basis to every registrant so as to avoid unnecessary confusion and complexity for investors and
preparers of financial statements. We believe U.S. GAAP requires that the notes to the financial
statements provide disclosure of information that would be material to a user’s understanding of
the historical financial information that is included in the financial statements.

4

FASB Disclosure Framework: Interim Reporting

http://www.fasb.org/cs/ContentServer?c=Document_C&pagename=FASB%2FDocument_C%2FDocumentPage&cid=1176164094480

4

Detailed Requirements
We have provided our views on specific requests within the Proposed Rule listed in the order of
topics in the Proposed Rule in the Appendix.
****************
We appreciate the opportunity to respond to the Proposed Rule. If you have any questions regarding
our comments or other information included in this letter, please do not hesitate to contact Jeffrey
or Melanie Dolan,
,
Jones,
,
.
Very truly yours,

cc:
SEC
Mary Jo White, Chair
Michael S. Piwowar, Commissioner
Kara M. Stein, Commissioner
Keith Higgins, Director, Division of Corporation Finance
Mark Kronforst, Chief Accountant, Division of Corporation Finance
James V. Schnurr, Chief Accountant
Wesley R. Bricker, Interim Chief Accountant

5

APPENDIX
Redundant or Duplicative Requirements
Section II.B. - Pages 22 through 30
We support the proposed amendments to delete the redundant or duplicative disclosure
requirements.
Overlapping Requirements – Proposed Deletions
Section III.C. - Pages 30 through 79
We support the proposed amendments to delete the overlapping disclosure requirements, except
for the following matters:
Topic
3. Repurchase and Reverse
Repurchase Agreements

KPMG Observations
We support deleting certain of the disclosure requirements
in S-X Rule 4-08(m).
As noted in the Proposed Rule, the disclosure requirements
provide reasonably similar information, with the exception
of the requirement to disclose the repurchase liability and
the interest rate(s) thereon, which the SEC plans to retain.
We believe the SEC should refer this disclosure
requirement that the SEC plans to retain to the FASB for
potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

4. Derivative Accounting Policy

We support deleting the disclosure requirements in S-X
Rule 4-08(n).
However, in response to Question No. 24 in the Proposed
Rule, we believe that S-X Rule 4-08(n) is used by analogy
by preparers to account for written options that do not meet
the definition of a derivative financial instrument in
accordance with ASC 815 at fair value.
The deletion of S-X Rule 4-08(n) could potentially impact
the current industry practice to account for written options
at fair value that do not otherwise meet the definition of a
derivative financial instrument under ASC 815. As there
does not appear to be clear guidance in U.S. GAAP that
would require written options to be accounted for at fair
value, preparers have typically viewed the disclosure
requirements in S-X Rule 4-08(n) to require that written
options be presented in the financial statements at fair

value. We believe the SEC should refer the matter to the
FASB for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.
We support deleting the disclosure requirements in S-K
Item 101(c)(1)(v) and Instruction 5 to S-K Item 303(b).

13. Seasonality

However, we believe the SEC should consider feedback
from preparers and users about the potential for registrants
to reduce any voluntary information about seasonality that
may currently be provided that is subject to the safe harbor
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
14. Research and Development
Activities – Domestic, Foreign
and Regulation A

We support deleting the disclosure requirements.
However, we believe the SEC should consider feedback
from preparers and users, including that provided in
response to the SEC’s request for comments on Business
And Financial Disclosure Required by Regulation S-K 5
about the potential for registrants to reduce any voluntary
information about their research and development
activities. We have noted instances where registrants are
voluntarily providing qualitative disclosures about
research and development activities that may be material
to a user’s understanding of the registrant’s financial
statements.

Overlapping Requirements – Proposed Integrations
Section III.D. – Pages 80 through 86
We support the proposed amendments to integrate the disclosure requirements.
Overlapping Requirements – Potential Modifications, Eliminations, or Handoffs to FASB
Section III.E. – Pages 86 through 107
We have the following comments about the proposed modifications or eliminations of the
disclosure requirements or the referral to the FASB for potential incorporation in U.S. GAAP:
Topic
1. REIT Disclosures – Tax
Status of Distributions

5

KPMG Observations
We support referring the disclosure requirements to the FASB
for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

SEC Concept Release, Business and Financial Disclosure Required by Regulation S-K, File No. S7-06-16, dated
April 13, 2016

2. Consolidation

We support referring the disclosure requirements to the FASB
for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

3. Discount on Shares

We support referring the disclosure requirements to the FASB
for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

4. Assets Subject to Lien

We support referring the disclosure requirements to the FASB
for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.
However, we do not believe the disclosure requirements in ASC
860-30-50-1A and 860-30-50-7 include all assets such as
buildings, machinery and equipment for which liens could be
placed as required by S-X Rule 4-08(b).

5.a. Obligations – Defaults
Not Cured

We support referring the disclosure requirements to the FASB
for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

5.b. Waived Defaults

The FASB currently has a presentation and disclosure project
related to Simplifying the Balance Sheet Classification of Debt
on its technical agenda. While the project is intended to reduce
the complexity in determining the current versus noncurrent
balance sheet classification of debt in instances where a default
has occurred, the project does not specifically address the
disclosures that are currently required under S-X Rule 4-08(n).

5.c. Changes in Obligations

We support referring the disclosure requirements to the FASB
for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

5.d Amounts and Terms of
Financing Arrangements

We support referring the disclosure requirements to the FASB
for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

6. Preferred Shares

We support referring the disclosure requirements to the FASB
for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

7. Income Tax Disclosures

If the Proposed Income Tax ASU is issued as a Final ASU, the
disclosure requirements identified as overlapping will be
addressed and therefore could be eliminated.
If the Proposed Income Tax ASU is not adopted as proposed,
we recommend that the SEC consider the comments received
by the FASB as part of its due process in determining whether
amendments to the disclosure requirements should be made.

8. Related Parties

We support referring the disclosure requirements to the FASB
for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

9. Repurchase and Reverse
Repurchase Agreements

We support deleting certain of the disclosure requirements in SX Rule 4-08(m).
As noted in the Proposed Rule, the disclosure requirements
provide reasonably similar information, with the exception of
the requirement to disclose the repurchase liability and the
interest rate(s) thereon, which the SEC plans to retain. We
believe the SEC should refer this disclosure requirement that
the SEC plans to retain to the FASB for potential incorporation
into U.S. GAAP.

10. Interim Financial
Statements – Computation
of Earnings Per Share

We support referring the disclosure requirements to the FASB
for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

11. Interim Financial
Statements – Retroactive
Prior Period Adjustments

We support referring the disclosure requirements to the FASB
for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

12. Interim Financial
Statements - Common
Control Transactions

We support referring the disclosure requirements to the FASB
for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.

13. Products and Services

We support deleting the existing disclosure requirements as the
existing U.S. GAAP requirements are substantially similar.

14. Major Customers

We support deleting the existing disclosure requirements as the
existing U.S. GAAP requirements are substantially similar.

15. Legal Proceedings

We do not support referring the disclosure requirements to the
FASB for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP rather, we
believe, the SEC should better articulate the objective of
disclosures for legal proceedings in accordance with S-K Item
103 and the underlying disclosure requirements should be
consistent with that disclosure objective.
While there are similarities in the requirements in S-K Item 103
and ASC 450, we believe there are significant differences in the
concepts and objectives of the disclosure requirements in S-K
Item 103 and ASC 450.
The disclosures required by ASC 450 are designed to provide
information that is consistent with an accounting model for
recognition and measurement of a loss contingency while the
disclosures required by S-K Item 103 are intended to provide a
description of material pending legal proceedings including
disclosure of information such as the name of court or agency

in which the proceedings are pending and the date the
proceedings were instituted. We do not believe the objectives
of the disclosure requirements of S-K Item 103 are similar to
the disclosure requirements of ASC 450.
Also, the additional disclosure requirements could potentially
present significant burdens for auditors.
We believe the American Bar Association (ABA) Statement
Policy Regarding Lawyers’ Responses to Auditors’ Requests
for Information and PCAOB auditing standards incorporate the
guidance currently provided in ASC 450. Any additional
disclosure requirements as a result of the integration of the
requirements in Item 103 into ASC 450, we believe, would
require amendments to ASC 450, the American Bar Association
(ABA) Statement Policy Regarding Lawyers’ Responses to
Auditors’ Requests for Information, and PCAOB auditing
standards.
16. Oil and Gas Producing
Activities

We support referring the disclosure requirements to the FASB
for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP.
We believe that the requirements of S-K Item 302(b), which
require the disclosures under ASC 932-235-50 at interim
financial reporting periods enhance the users understanding of
the interim financial information of an oil and gas exploration
and producing entity and their related activities and provide
timely disclosure about activities relevant to the entity.

Outdated Requirements
Section IV – Pages 109 through 119
We support the proposed amendments to delete the outdated disclosure requirements.

Superseded Requirements
Section V.B. – Pages 120 through 141
We support the proposed amendments to delete, amend or modify the superseded disclosure
requirements, except for the following matters:
Topic
1. Auditing Standards

KPMG Observations
We generally support the proposed amendments.
However, the amendment to S-X Rule 10-01(d) appears
specific to Form 10-Q, and not Article 10 in general. It is
unclear to us when a registrant could file a Form 10-Q with
financial statements that are not reviewed under PCAOB
standards. We recommend that the change to S-X Rule 10-01(d)
specifically refer to standards of the PCAOB rather than
“applicable professional standards” or explain the
circumstances when PCAOB standards do not apply.
We also note that it can be confusing for registrants to
understand when PCAOB standards are required and when
AICPA standards are permitted for audit or review of financial
statements filed with the SEC. We believe that it would be
beneficial for the SEC to amend its rules and regulations to
provide requirements in one place about what professional
standards apply in each circumstance where financial
statements are filed with the SEC.

