August 24, 2016
Brent J. Fields, Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549-1090
File No. S7-15-16
Proposed Rule: Disclosure Update and Simplification
Dear Mr. Fields:
The Edison Electric Institute (EEI) respectfully requests that the comment deadline
be extended to 90 days for the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
(Commission) Proposed Rule, Disclosure Update and Simplification, File No. S715-16.
EEI is the association that represents all U.S. investor-owned electric companies.
EEI members provide electricity for 220 million Americans, operate in all 50 states
and the District of Columbia, and directly and indirectly create jobs for more than
one million Americans. With more than $100 billion in annual capital expenditures,
the electric power industry is responsible for millions of additional jobs. EEI has
dozens of international electric companies as International Members and hundreds
of industry suppliers and related organizations as Associate Members. Organized
in 1933, EEI provides public policy leadership, strategic business intelligence, and
essential conferences and forums.
EEI applauds the Commission’s objective of addressing disclosure requirements
that may have become redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated, or
superseded, as well as other requirements that overlap with, but require
information incremental to, U.S. GAAP. We support this and other aspects of the
initiative by the Division of Corporation Finance to consider ways to improve the
Commission’s disclosure requirements for the benefit of investors and issuers.
We have reviewed the Proposed Rule and believe that more time is needed in
order to analyze it thoroughly and provide relevant, helpful comments. Many
aspects of the proposal could impact our members, and the portions of the
proposal seeking feedback on requirements that overlap with, but are incremental
to, U.S. GAAP in particular will require thoughtful consideration.

Brent J. Fields, Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549-1090
Page 2
A 90 day comment period would be consistent with the comment period for the
Commission’s recent Request for Comment on Business and Financial Disclosure
Requirements in Regulation S-K. It would also take into account both the time of
year during which the proposal was issued as well as the fact that many registrants
are also evaluating several Exposure Drafts previously issued by the FASB with
comment periods ending during the same time frame.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

EEI appreciates the opportunity to comment on this important proposal and your
timely consideration of our request for an extension of the comment period.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Richard F. McMahon, Jr.
Richard F. McMahon, Jr.
Vice President

