October 28, 2016
Mr. Brent J. Fields
Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549-1090
Re: File No. S7-15-16, Proposed Rule, Disclosure Update and Simplification
Dear Mr. Fields:
The Financial Reporting Committee (FRC) of the Institute of Management Accountants (IMA) is
writing to share its views on the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Proposed Rule, File No.
S7-15-16, Disclosure Update and Simplification (Proposal).
The IMA is a global association representing over 80,000 accountants and finance team professionals.
Our members work inside organizations of various sizes, industries and types, including manufacturing
and services, public and private enterprises, not-for-profit organizations, academic institutions,
government entities and multinational corporations. The FRC is the financial reporting technical
committee of the IMA. The committee includes preparers of financial statements for some of the largest
companies in the world, representatives from the world’s largest accounting firms, valuation experts,
accounting consultants, academics and analysts. The FRC reviews and responds to research studies,
statements, pronouncements, pending legislation, proposals and other documents issued by domestic and
international agencies and organizations. Additional information on the FRC can be found at
www.imanet.org (About IMA, Advocacy Activity, Financial Reporting Committee).
We appreciate the opportunity to comment on the proposed amendments to disclosure requirements.
We are generally supportive of the proposed changes, and have the additional recommendations
summarized below.
Develop Process for Disclosure Rationalization with the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB)
The proposed changes are disclosures that have become, over time, candidates for potential modification
or deletion. We recommend the staff adopt a practice for addressing SEC disclosures that are impacted
by FASB projects during the course of each project. Such a practice could eliminate the need for a
periodic “clean-up” project such as this.
Proceed with Proposed Changes for Redundant, Duplicative, Overlapping, Superseded and
Outdated Requirements
We found an abundance of common sense in these proposed changes, as summarized in Sections II, III,
IV and V. We are very supportive of the proposed changes, with the following additional comments.

1

II. Redundant and Duplicative Requirements, B. Proposed Amendments, 14. Interim Financial
Statements
We believe the proposed elimination of Rule 10-01(b)(5) of Regulation S-X may have an inadvertent
impact of decreasing relevant information disclosed in the financial statements.
Rule 10-01(b)(5) of Regulation S-X requires disclosure of the effects of discontinued operations on
revenues and net income. These effects may substantially differ from revenues and income included
in discontinued operations disclosed pursuant to ASC 205-20-50-5B. The requirements of ASC 20520-50-4B-c-2 include disclosing revenues and expenses presented, if any, in continuing operations
after the disposal transaction that before the disposal transaction were eliminated in consolidated
financial statements as intra-entity transactions. However, ASC 205-20-50-4B-c-2 only applies to
discontinued operations in which the entity retains significant continuing involvement after the
disposal date. It appears that ASC 205-20-50 does not include the corresponding requirement for
discontinued operations in which the entity does not retain significant continuing involvement after
the disposal date. As such, we propose referring Rule 10-01(b)(5) disclosure to the FASB for
potential incorporation into Generally Accepted Accounting Procedures for the United States (US
GAAP).
III. Overlapping Requirements, E. Overlapping Requirements – Potential Modifications,
Eliminations, or FASB Referrals
Overall comment
We support referring these topics to the FASB, with the goal of convergence of the disclosures. In
the event the FASB were to conclude that a present disclosure requirement of the SEC, that is
incremental to US GAAP requirements, is not required, we recommend the SEC eliminate that
disclosure requirement. We recognize the FASB does, at times, provide exceptions to its disclosure
requirements for private entities. However, we believe such exceptions may be indicative that
disclosure is not critical for public entities, as we have commented previously. Our comments on
certain specific topics and questions in Section III follow.
1. REIT Disclosures – Tax Status of Distributions
Given the importance to REIT investors of the income tax treatment of distributions, we recommend
consideration be given to incorporating this requirement into US GAAP.
5. Obligations
This is a topic of considerable interest to investors and, as such, we recommend consideration be
given to incorporating current Regulation S-X requirements into US GAAP.
6. Preferred Shares
This is another topic of considerable interest to investors. It may be simpler to follow the Regulation
S-X requirement to disclose any preferences in excess of par or stated value, rather than limit the
requirement to preferences that are “considerably in excess.”
7. Income Tax Disclosures

2

We believe this topic is a good opportunity for SEC and FASB convergence, particularly given the
FASB’s simplification project. In that context, we recommend the current five percent threshold in
the effective rate reconciliation be revisited, as it can result in an unnecessarily large number of line
items when pre-tax income is relatively small.
Regarding Question 62 in Section III of the Proposal, the distinction between domestic and foreign
income and income tax expense seems to be relevant, at least until a greater degree of global income
tax harmonization is achieved. However, we do not believe that further disaggregating foreign
amounts by foreign jurisdiction would provide useful information; as such disaggregation would
neither reflect exposure to future foreign tax nor shed light on future potential repatriation.
15. Legal Proceedings
Given the amount of repetition that is currently present in many filings, we agree this is a potential
topic for SEC and FASB convergence. As the table, discussion and Question 68 indicate, inclusion
of disclosures in the audited financial statements that are not currently required there could create
burdens and unintended consequences for preparers, auditors and lawyers. Accordingly, it is
important that those parties be part of the convergence effort.
************
We would be pleased to discuss our comments with the SEC staff at their convenience.

Sincerely,

Nancy J. Schroeder, CPA
Chair, Financial Reporting Committee
Institute of Management Accountants

3

