SEC DISCLOSURE COMMENTS:

© Carrie Devorah,

That the SEC is soliciting comments on Disclosures is Farsical.
President Obama adressed the FOIA process increased transparency Executive Order for the
benefit of citizens and requestors, each agency having an office of FOIA staff, as it appears.
The President's mandate states simplify the process, make it clear, even cheaper.
This is not the case with the SEC handling of FOIAs.
The SEC Office, further, plays games. If one gets in to the practice of FOIA requesting, one sees,
easily the pattern in the responses . The denials are the same. The citations are the same. Moreso,
the denials are what are consistent along with, in a technological age of zipping files and
paperless orders from the Oval, the peculiar propensity of the SEC FOIA office to demand
payment of an undetermined amount. The SEC it seems is not caught up enough with the
Internet age to know that sending a file by email takes seconds and no printing costs
The SEC does not stop there with SEC Ridiculousness. The SEC will send a persistent FOIA
requestor, in time, a letter that says is the person is not happy with the FOIA response, they can
demand/request a NARA mediation.
DONE!!!!
Not quite. You see in the SEC world, the SEC intervenes with the NARA requests, blocking the
requested mediation, in time, in fact, pulling the matter back to the SEC either alleging the SEC
will produce the docs or, the reality, the SEC still does not.
When SEC FOIA staffer, Jeff Ovall calls to ask how and why a FOIA request, if not expedited
can be life threatening, Ovall laughs. It seems, Ovall does not watch the news, does not watch
American Greed nor pay attention to how devastated an investors life can become when robbed
of their life savings by a recidivous thief, rules the SEC approved for its current
Broker/Brokerage SRO, the FINRA, wholly owned by NASD Holdings. NASD never did quite
go away. It morphed in to FINRA.
Somehow, somewhere along the way the SEC began accepting tainted data from the FINRA.
FINRA brokercheck does not make 100% disclosure of crimes complaints. The SEC, it appears,
approved the FINRA to let the persons criminal complaints are lodged against to self-report to
the public.
Really.

1

SEC DISCLOSURE COMMENTS:

© Carri e Devorah,

The FINRA broker check does not disclose the FINRA is a 50l (c)(6) a dues collecting business
league collecting dues from the very people the investors are suing.
Nor does the SEC require this Brokercheck to state the number of complaints ever lodged against
the Broker or the IA that knowingly with intent and with the assistance of a lawyer, kept the
criminal complaints hidden by not listing # of complaints, # complaints that were arbitrated in
FINRA, # of complaints that went through FINRA Dispute Resolution.
The SEC allows the FINRA to take investment client complaints in to the FINRA DRS knowing
that Congress has never given the FINRA the regulatory right over Investment Advisors and
Investment Clients. The SEC knows that crimes are being covered up and that criminal actions
are not only not turned over to cops but skewing FINCEN's database,reading false if crimes are
not reported.
FINRA knows that Investment Complaints are addressed in Courts amongst ajury of the harmed
investors peers. The SEC knows this too.
The SEC knows that investment client complaints are destroyed five years after being lodged,
after not being labelled criminal actions. IN a court, those papers would be sitting alive, legacy
papers, able to be pulled, 5, 10, 40 years after the fact, even 50, as in the case of Madoff.
Madofftold the truth. "They" knew. 1963, the first time Madoff was disciplined for no product.
Then again and again and again, determined so via a faked "enforcement" council, members of
the FINRAINASD league, peers out of prison, so to speak, sitting on councils titled,
"Adjudicatory" and "enforcement." These are not cops, these are bro's who know that when it is
their turn for public wrist slapping and paying off funds to the SEC to settle, pennies on the
dollars stolen from victims, that they will still be out street strutting in manolos and pradas and
voting. Yes, voting the point that I made to Governor Terry McCauliffe's staff post the VA
Supreme Court ruling to not grant felons who paid their time, their right to vote, back.
McCauliffe's leg aide and I spent some time on the phone. I walked them to my site to the
Madoff docs and my idiot proof presentation of FINRA/NASD members crime they did not got
to jail for and the first 45 commutants that President Obama gave life back to.
Now you know the rest of Terry McCauliffe's story within days of giving 17K felons their right
to vote back. The debate is not about giving them their right back but about putting criminals
who rob others their due time up the river breaking rocks.
2

SEC DISCLOSURE COMMENTS:

© Carrie Devorah,

A disclosure the SEC does not make.
A crime is a crime unless the SEC is involved then it becomes an action the SEC cashes in on,
with "disciplinary actions" that do not result in jail time nor being labelled felons, a documented
fact I brought to light concurrent to becoming Public Investor 12-03894.
The criminals as USG employees are being reminded is USG employees who break laws in the
course of their paycheck jobs. The SEC employees forget they work for the investor.
The SEC employees do not see they are culpable for going along with FINRA's program that
does not tum criminals over to cops, allows lawyers to practice around the world in FINRA
forums and MOU sites on foreign soil.
The SEC works for the American people, doing what Congress writes as laws, or is supposed
to ..... Full disclosure.

Sincerely

Founder
THE CENTER FOR COPYRIGHT INTEGRITY
vvww. cente rforco pynghti ntegrity. com
Where ARTS, IP, ID, IT and ENFORCEMENT Come Together In One Voice Against Online Theft Of Content
and Commerce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l93F73UYmsw&feature=youtu.be
www.linkedin.com/in/carriedevorah
@godingovt
https://www.instagram .com/carriedevl/
CCIA : Profiler: trained MPI : LACBA-DRS : CA-BSIS
Actively built the 1st discrete site crime analysis lab on a campus in North America
Licensor

http://ybltv.com/?p=306

Retired White House News Photographers Association Alumnus Covering Capitol Hill and the White
House for Almost a Decade

3


