Ernst & Young LLP
5 Times Square
New York, NY 10036

Tel: +1 212 773 3000
ey.com

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549-1090

31 October 2016

Re: Disclosure Update and Simplification (Release No. 33-10110; 34-78310;
File No. S7-15-16)
Dear Mr. Fields:
Ernst & Young LLP is pleased to provide comments to the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC or the Commission) in response to the proposing release, Disclosure Update and Simplification,
under the Commission’s disclosure effectiveness initiative.
We believe the proposing release is an appropriate step toward reducing the costs of complying with
disclosure requirements and simplifying the related requirements, while still providing investors and
markets with material financial information necessary for their decision making. We support
substantially all of the proposed amendments to remove redundant, outdated or superseded SEC
disclosure requirements. For this effort to be successful, we encourage the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) to initiate and expedite a limited-scope project to consider the existing SEC
disclosure requirements that the SEC decides to refer to the FASB for inclusion in US GAAP for public
business entities.
Financial statement and other disclosures
To promote efficiency for financial statement preparers and comprehensive and timely periodic
updates, we believe the FASB’s Accounting Standards Codification (ASC or Codification) should be the
primary source for all note disclosure requirements for public companies reporting under US GAAP.
The FASB standard-setting process is rigorous, involves seeking extensive investor, preparer and other
stakeholder input and is subject to implementation reviews, all of which appropriately consider investor
interests during the standard-setting process. Our view is consistent with the recommendation in the
Final Report of the Advisory Committee on Improvements to Financial Reporting (1 August 2008), to
“integrate existing SEC and FASB disclosure requirements into a cohesive whole to ensure meaningful
communication and logical presentation of disclosures, based on consistent objectives and principles.”
In our view, it may be appropriate for the SEC to adopt targeted financial statement disclosure
requirements for novel business developments or practices on a timely basis and as an interim
measure until the FASB performs a more comprehensive review of the related accounting and
disclosure area. Once the FASB adopts accounting and disclosure standards, the SEC should promptly
rescind its temporary disclosure requirements to eliminate conflicting guidance and redundancies. To
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 2

facilitate this, the SEC should consider ways of streamlining and expediting the process for rescinding
SEC disclosure requirements upon finding that they are no longer needed by investors or markets due
to accounting standard-setting actions. For example, the SEC should consider implementing an annual
technical review of its disclosure requirements, which culminates with issuing an interim final rule that
rescinds or modifies aspects that have become redundant or unnecessary due to accounting
standards that became effective in the past year and then requests public input on the
appropriateness of the nature and extent of those changes.
Aside from such temporary financial statement note disclosures, the SEC rules and regulations should
prescribe disclosure requirements only for information located outside the annual and interim
financial statements and the notes to the financial statements (e.g., supplemental unaudited
information for selected industries, management discussion and analysis (MD&A), legal proceedings,
risk factors, pro forma financial information).
Given that many of the existing redundancies have resulted from subsequent developments in
disclosure requirements of the FASB without timely reconsideration by the SEC, we believe periodic
reviews by the SEC are important. For example, we have previously recommended that the
Commission undertake periodic reviews of its disclosure requirements every five to 10 years to
evaluate whether they are still relevant to investors in an evolving global business environment and
address any redundancies that have not been resolved on a timely basis through the annual technical
review process recommended above.
In this letter, we provide responses to certain questions posed in the proposing release and other
thoughts for consideration by the SEC.
Disclosure location considerations
In various places in the proposing release, the Commission requested input on the benefits and costs to
investors and preparers of relocating certain disclosures into or out of the financial statements. The
proposing release also sought feedback on whether changing the location of certain disclosures within a
filing could affect investors by changing the prominence and/or context of disclosures that move or remain.
We believe the primary purpose of the notes to the financial statements is to provide explanatory
information about measurements in the financial statements or that may be reported in future periods
based on events that have already transpired (e.g., contingencies). Otherwise, forward-looking
information, analyses and expectations should be provided outside the notes to the financial
statements and most preferably in MD&A. The addition of forward-looking information to the financial
statement notes, other than those related to accounting measurements, introduces liability issues for
preparers and verification/auditability issues for auditors and is not consistent with the objectives of
the financial statements.
We also observe that electronic data analysis and search tools render the physical location of a
disclosure within a filing less relevant. Users who read hard copies of SEC filings may not read the
information “front to back” but instead focus on selected items they find useful. As a result, we do not
have a preference or concern over the physical or sequential location of disclosures. For example, we
do not believe that something disclosed in Item 1 is more prominent solely based on location because
a user who is already familiar with the business and similar filings might choose to focus on the
financial statements and MD&A.

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 3

Nevertheless, we recommend that issuers be provided latitude in the order of presentation and the
prominence given to the disclosures, provided that the filing as a whole complies with the specific
disclosure requirements in light of relevant materiality considerations. To facilitate such flexibility in
organizing a filing, registrants should provide a cross reference to identify where in the filing each
disclosure requirement is addressed.
FASB-related considerations
The FASB’s proposal, Notes to Financial Statements (Topic 235): Assessing Whether Disclosures Are
Material, would clarify that an omission of immaterial information from the notes to the financial
statements is not an accounting error.
Provided that the SEC and the FASB retain consistent definitions of materiality,1 we do not believe the
FASB’s proposal would have a significant effect on the SEC’s proposed amendments. Certain aspects
of the FASB’s disclosure framework project, which is focused on both its own process for deciding
what information to require in the notes to the financial statements and how to promote the use of
discretion by reporting entities when evaluating which disclosures to provide, could further enhance
disclosure effectiveness. Any referrals of existing SEC disclosures would appropriately be subject to
the FASB’s due process and its criteria for evaluating disclosures.
The FASB decided2 in its project on interim reporting that disclosures about matters required to be
provided in annual financial statements would be updated in the interim report if there is a substantial
likelihood that a reasonable investor would view the updated information as significantly altering the
total mix of information available to him or her We believe the FASB interim reporting project does not
affect the SEC’s proposed amendments. Instead, the project is an important step in aligning disclosure
requirements for interim reporting with the objective of highlighting only material events and changes
that have occurred subsequent to the end of the most recent fiscal year consistent with the view that
interim periods are not discrete but integral parts of the annual fiscal period.
We hope that any referrals made to the FASB in connection with the SEC’s adopting release that are
related to interim disclosure requirements would be considered in light of this objective. We believe
that the SEC and the FASB should re-embrace the concept that interim financial statements should be
read in conjunction with the annual financial statements and that interim disclosures should focus only
on matters that have arisen or changed materially during the interim period.
If the FASB and the SEC had consistent definitions of materiality, we don’t believe the source of the
disclosure requirements would significantly change the degree to which preparers comply with them,
since preparers consider FASB and SEC disclosure requirements to be equally authoritative. The FASB’s
disclosure requirements historically have been developed through a rigorous due process (including
extensive stakeholder outreach) and are subject to post-implementation reviews. The FASB’s disclosure
requirements are also likely to evolve over time to suit the needs of investors on a more timely basis.
1

2

The FASB recently proposed changing the definition of materiality in FASB Concepts Statement No. 8, Conceptual
Framework for Financial Reporting. In our comment letter to the FASB dated 23 December 2015, we expressed a view
that the definition of materiality included in the superseded Concepts Statement No. 2 is directionally consistent with
the Supreme Court’s definition and provides a better definition of materiality than what was proposed by the FASB.
Refer to the minutes from the FASB’s meeting on 28 May 2014, available at: http://www.fasb.org/cs/ContentServer?c=
Document_C&pagename=FASB%2FDocument_C%2FDocumentPage&cid=1176164094480.

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 4

Bright-line disclosure threshold considerations
In general, we believe many of the bright-line thresholds included in the SEC disclosure requirements
should be eliminated. Prescriptive thresholds fail to allow reasoned judgments about whether a
disclosure item would be material, which is specific to each separate set of financial statements and
based on both quantitative and qualitative considerations. In addition, we observe that the SEC’s
proposal to eliminate many of the bright-line disclosure requirements is consistent with the proposed
elimination of “at a minimum provide” disclosures in the FASB’s proposal related to disclosures in the
notes to financial statements.
Smaller reporting company considerations
We believe compliance with financial statement disclosure requirements should be focused on
materiality, which is subject to a company’s facts and circumstances and not necessarily its relative
size. Accordingly, we do not have concerns if proposed changes effectively would eliminate existing
disclosure accommodations for smaller reporting companies.
Category II — Redundant or duplicative requirements
We support the proposed deletion of all disclosure requirements outlined in Category II because we
agree with the staff’s assessment that doing so would simplify issuer compliance with disclosure
requirements while providing substantially the same information to investors. In addition, we
recommend that a portion of Rule 3A-02(d) of Regulation S-X be moved to MD&A.
Consolidation — material exchange restrictions or controls
The second sentence in Rule 3A-02(d) requires disclosures about material exchange restrictions or
controls relating to the currency of a foreign subsidiary’s domicile. By contrast, US GAAP only
prescribes that foreign subsidiaries operating amid severe foreign exchange restrictions casting doubt
about the parent’s ability to control them should not be consolidated.3 US GAAP is currently silent on
the disclosures a parent is expected to provide when it decides to consolidate a foreign subsidiary
operating in an environment with foreign exchange restrictions and controls. The proposing release
would move the substance of the second sentence in Rule 3A-02(d) to Rule 3-20(b)(2), Currency for
financial statements.4 While we agree with retaining the disclosure, it seems more consistent with the
objectives of MD&A given its relationship to a discussion of trends and uncertainties related to
liquidity. Accordingly, we recommend moving the requirement to Item 303 rather than retaining it in
the footnotes.

3
4

ASC 810-10-15-10.
The proposed amendment to Rule 3-20 specifies: “If there are material exchange restrictions or controls relating to the
currency of a subsidiary’s domicile, the currency held by a subsidiary, or the currency in which a subsidiary will pay
dividends or transfer funds to the issuer or other subsidiaries, prominent disclosure of this fact shall be made in the
financial statements.”

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 5

Category III.C — Overlapping requirements — proposed deletions
�We support all proposed deletions in Category III.C and highlight the following recommendations.
Distributable earnings for registered investment companies
The proposed amendment to Rule 6-04.17 of Regulation S-X would remove the requirement for
registered investment companies and business development companies (collectively, regulated
investment companies) to disclose separately in components of capital on the balance sheet the
accumulated undistributed net investment income, accumulated undistributed net realized gains
(losses) on investment transactions and net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) in value of
investments. 5 The proposal would require that the total, rather than components of distributable
earnings or loss, be presented on the balance sheet. The proposed amendment would align S-X Rule 604.17 with US GAAP.
Under US GAAP, investment companies are required to disclose the components of distributable
earnings on a tax basis in the notes to the financial statements.6 We concur with the Commission’s
statement in the proposing release that disclosing the components of distributable earnings on a tax
basis would be more useful to investors, because regulated investment companies are generally
structured such that they are not subject to entity-level taxation on the amounts distributed to their
investors. In addition, tax-basis information provides shareholders with insight into the tax
implications of distributions.
We recommend that the Commission also amend Rule 6-09.3 of Regulation S-X to align it with US GAAP
and require regulated investment companies to state separately in the statement of changes in net
assets only distributions that represent tax return of capital and the aggregate of all other distributions. 7
If the Commission agrees with our recommendation to amend Rule 6-09.3 of Regulation S-X, we also
recommend that the Commission make conforming amendments to the per-share rollforward that is
required to be presented in the financial highlights section under Item 13(a) of Form N-1A and Item
4.1 of Form N-2. That is, we recommend eliminating the requirements for regulated investment
companies to disclose separately in the per-share rollforward dividends per share from net investment
income and distributions per share from capital gains, and requiring instead disclosure of distributions
per share as a result of tax return of capital and the aggregate of all other distributions per share.
5

6

7

Although Article 6 of Regulation S-X applies to registered investment companies, Instruction 1.a to Item 8.6 of Form N-2,
registration statement used by closed-end management investment companies, requires that business development
companies comply with the provisions of Regulation S-X generally applicable to registered investment companies.
ASC 946-20-50-11 requires all investment companies to disclose only two components of capital on the balance sheet:
shareholder capital and distributable earnings. The components of distributable earnings, on a tax basis, must be
disclosed in a note to financial statements. This information helps investors determine the amount of accumulated and
undistributed earnings they potentially could receive in the future and on which they could be taxed.
ASC 946-20-50-8 requires that dividends paid to investors be disclosed as a single line item in the statement of changes
in net assets, except tax return of capital distributions, which must be disclosed separately. The notes must disclose the
tax-basis components of the dividends paid (that is, either from ordinary income, capital gains or tax return of capital).
Disclosing dividends on a tax basis is consistent with how dividends are reported to shareholders during and at the end
of the calendar year. The financial highlights table would disclose per-share information that is consistent with the
statement of changes in net assets.

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 6

Interim financial statements — pro forma business combination information
We support removing the supplemental pro forma disclosure requirements for interim financial
statements in Rules 10-01(b)(4) and 8-03(b)(4) in favor of the US GAAP supplemental acquisition pro
forma disclosure requirements.8 However, we note that some inconsistencies in the preparation of pro
forma financial information for acquisitions under ASC 805-10-50-2(h) and Article 11 of Regulation S-X
would remain:
►

►

Adjustments that are directly attributable to the acquisition transaction but do not have a continuing
impact on the registrant (“non-recurring adjustments” as outlined in ASC 805-10-50-2(h)(4)) are
included in the preparation of the supplemental revenue and earnings information under ASC 805
but are prohibited in the preparation of pro forma financial information under Article 11.
Article 11 requires adjustments related to the pro forma income statement to be computed
assuming the transaction was consummated at the beginning of the fiscal year presented. In
contrast, the assumed acquisition date used to compute pro forma operating results under
ASC 805 is not revised as the financial statements are updated. These differences cause Article 11
pro forma operating results that might initially agree with US GAAP pro forma operating results to
differ when the Article 11 pro forma financial information is updated.

We recommend that, along with removing the supplemental pro forma disclosure requirements in
Rules 10-01(b)(4) and 8-03(b)(4), the SEC also request the FASB to take up a project to:
►
►

►

Provide public business entities with guidance on the preparation of supplemental pro forma disclosures
Work with the SEC to eliminate the inconsistencies in the preparation of pro forma financial
information between US GAAP and Article 11
Consider replacing the requirement to disclose “pro forma earnings” with a requirement to
disclose “pro forma income from continuing operations” or another appropriate line item on the
face of the statement of comprehensive income, because the term “earnings” is not consistently
understood or applied among preparers and its use increases diversity in the preparation and
presentation of supplemental pro forma information in the notes to the financial statements.

Interim financial statements — dispositions
We support the proposal to remove the requirement in S-X Rule 8-03(b)(4) for smaller reporting
companies to present pro forma information about significant dispositions (including pro forma
revenue). However, the basis articulated in the proposal for this change implies that smaller reporting
companies are currently required to file pro forma financial information for significant disposed
businesses under S-X Rule 8-05 and instructions in Item 9.01 of Form 8-K. While some smaller
reporting companies may voluntarily provide such pro forma information, we believe the current text
of S-X Rule 8-05 only applies to significant acquisitions. The proposed change, therefore, would retain
the asymmetry between smaller reporting companies and other reporting companies in the Form 8-K
reporting of pro forma information for significant dispositions while eliminating an existing interim
disclosure requirement for smaller reporting companies.
8

ASC 805-10-50-2(h).

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 7

To address this asymmetry, the Commission could conform the requirements in Rule 8-05 for smaller
reporting companies with those in Article 11 and thus require presentation of pro forma information
for significant dispositions by all registrants in Form 8-K and registration statements. This would be
consistent with the interpretive guidance in section 5320 of the SEC staff Financial Reporting Manual,
which states, “pro forma financial information should be presented whenever consummation of an
event or transaction has occurred or is probable for which disclosure of pro forma information would
be material to investors. Smaller reporting companies should consider the guidance in S-X Article 11.”
Research and development activities
We support the proposed deletion from Item 5.C of Form 20-F of the requirement to disclose the
amount spent on company-sponsored research and development activities because similar disclosure
requirements exist in IFRS and many country-specific GAAP. The release proposes to retain the
requirement for foreign private issuers (FPIs) to “provide a description of the company’s research and
development policies for the last three years.” It is unclear what information this requirement is trying
to elicit, and we do not understand why such a disclosure would only apply to FPIs. Therefore, we
question whether such a disclosure requirement should remain. If the Commission concludes that it is
beneficial to retain this disclosure, we recommend clarifying whether it relates to accounting policies
or research and development activities.
Dividends
We understand from section V.B.4.c of the proposing release that part of the reason for extending the
S-X Rule 3-04 disclosure of changes in stockholders’ equity to interim periods would be to facilitate the
presentation of interim dividends per share. However, we are not convinced that the solution proposed
is necessary or efficient. Disclosure of total cash dividends and dividends per share for each interim
period should not require adding a reconciliation or rollforward of all stockholders’ activity for the
period. As an alternative, we propose moving the interim dividends per share from the face of the
income statement to the notes to the financial statements to eliminate the acknowledged conflict with
US GAAP, while retaining the disclosure of the amount and frequency of cash dividends declared for
the two most recent fiscal years and any subsequent interim period within S-K Item 201(c)(1).
Category III.D — Overlapping requirements — proposed integrations
We support substantially all proposed rule integrations in Category III.D and recommend the
Commission also consider adopting the suggestions below:
Foreign currency
The proposed amendment to Rule 3-20(a) of Regulation S-X would require issuers that do not qualify
as FPIs to always present their financial statements in US dollars. This would be a significant change
for issuers that currently rely on the interpretive SEC staff position that allows US incorporated
registrants that conduct substantially all of their operations in a foreign functional currency
environment and that have little or no assets and operations within the US to select the foreign
functional currency as their reporting currency. We recommend that the SEC codify the related SEC
staff interpretive guidance in section 6640 of the Financial Reporting Manual and retain this
accommodation for domestic and foreign issuers that do not qualify as FPIs.

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 8

We also believe that Rule 3-20 of Regulation S-X could be reorganized to promote preparer understanding
of its proposed broader scope. To that end, we recommend the rule first list the requirements currently
placed in Rule 3-20(b) that apply to all issuers and then list the requirements that apply only to FPIs.
Geographic areas
We support the SEC’s proposed deletion of the disclosure requirements in Item 101(d)(4) of
Regulation S-K. However, we question whether the related proposed revisions to Item 303 are
necessary, and we are concerned they could be inconsistently interpreted and applied. We believe the
addition of the phrase “geographic area” immediately after “for each reportable segment” could be
interpreted by some registrants to mean that separate MD&A discussions of operations are required
first on a segment-by-segment basis and then for the entire business broken down by geographic area
regardless of the basis for segment reporting, while others may believe that there is a choice to
discuss operations on segment basis or geographic basis. 9 We believe the requirement to consider
further discussion on a geographic basis is already embodied in the following language in Item 303:
“…where in the registrant’s judgment a discussion of segment information or other subdivisions of the
registrant’s business would be appropriate to an understanding of such business.”
Category III.E — Overlapping requirements — potential modifications, eliminations or FASB referrals
We support referring to the FASB many of the disclosure requirements outlined in Category III.E of the
proposing release. However, we believe in certain cases the differences between SEC requirements
and US GAAP are not significant enough to warrant retaining two sets of requirements until the FASB
reconsiders the topic, particularly if the FASB has recently addressed the topic in its standard setting.
We also offer additional thoughts to the Commission and FASB on how to integrate some of the other
SEC disclosure requirements into the Codification in a meaningful and expeditious manner.
Consolidation
We believe S-X Rule 3A-03(b) should be deleted in its entirety, because ASC 805 has substantially
equivalent disclosure requirements for the first consolidation of a business and ASC 810-10-50-1B
provides disclosure requirements on the first consolidation/deconsolidation of entities under the
variable interest entity model and the consolidation of entities under the contract model. We have
observed that many reporting entities provide these US GAAP disclosures whenever the period in
which the transaction or event occurred is presented on a comparative basis. If the SEC’s objective in
retaining S-X Rule 3A-03(b) is to highlight the lack of comparability in any of the annual periods due to
a “change in persons” consolidated or combined, we observe that ASC 205-10-4510 requires
reporting entities to highlight any events leading to a lack of comparability.
9

10

Registrants were required before 1998 to disclose certain financial information in MD&A by both “industry segment” as
defined in SFAS 14, Financial Reporting for Segments of a Business Enterprise, and by geographic area. This requirement
was eliminated in 1998 by Financial Reporting Release 503.01, Industry Segment Reporting, which was issued in
response to the FASB’s adopting SFAS 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.
ASC 205-10-45-3 states that “prior year figures shown for comparative purposes shall in fact be comparable with those
shown for the most recent period. Any exceptions to comparability shall be clearly brought out as described in Topic
250.” ASC 205-10-45-4 states that “notes to the financial statements, explanations, and accountants’ reports
containing qualifications that appeared on the statements for the preceding years shall be repeated, or at least referred
to, in the comparative financial statements to the extent that they continue to be of significance.”

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 9

Income tax disclosures
The proposing release asks whether additional income tax disclosures and further disaggregation of
foreign amounts would be useful to investors. We observe that, as part of its disclosure framework
project, the FASB issued a proposal11 that would modify the current income tax disclosure
requirements (the proposed income tax ASU). As a result, a substantial portion of the additional
contemplated disclosures on income taxes have recently been deliberated by the FASB.
As part of its decision-making process, the FASB has:
►

►

Deliberated certain requirements contemplated in the proposing release, including the benefits,
costs and impediments of further disaggregation of foreign taxable income and income tax
expense by significant jurisdiction.12 Accordingly, absent the FASB’s adopting changes to ASC 740
in response to constituent feedback to the proposed income tax ASU, we believe the SEC should
not require additional income tax disclosures or disaggregation of foreign taxable income and
income tax expense.
Considered the needs of investors, including any potential implications for smaller companies. By
replacing the term “public entity” with the term “public business entity” as defined in the Master
Glossary of the Codification, we believe the FASB determined during its deliberations that the
benefits of extending some income tax disclosure requirements to Regulation A and crowdfunding
issuers (i.e., smaller companies that are not SEC registrants), certain community banks and
insurance entities would exceed the additional costs.13 Accordingly, we believe the SEC should not
expand the scope of the income tax disclosures ultimately adopted by the FASB and not adopt any
additional income tax disclosure requirements or relief.

If the proposed income tax ASU is not adopted, we recommend that the SEC consider the comments
received by the FASB as part of its due process and consider whether further amendments and
expansions to S-X Rule 4-08(h) are warranted. If the FASB’s proposal is adopted, we believe that S-X
Rule 4-08(h) should be deleted in its entirety.
Interim financial statements — computation of earnings per share
The proposing release suggests referring to the FASB the disclosure of the computation of earnings
per share in interim financial statements. 14 However, ASC 260-10-50-1 already requires a
reconciliation of the numerator and denominator of both basic and diluted earnings per share “for
each period for which an income statement is presented,” which appears to include interim financial

11

12

13

14

Proposed Accounting Standards Update (ASU) Income Taxes (Topic 740) — Disclosure Framework — Changes to the
Disclosure Requirements for Income Taxes.
See further discussion in the Background Information and Basis for Conclusions of the proposed income tax ASU, BC21
through BC26.
The proposed income tax ASU would replace the term “public entity” in ASC 740 with the term “public business entity”
as defined in the Master Glossary of the Accounting Standards Codification.
Rule 10-01(b)(2) of Regulation S-X and Item 601(b) of Regulation S-K.

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 10

statements, and we believe that is how it is usually applied.15 Accordingly, we support deleting the
overlapping requirements in Rule 10-01(b)(2) of Regulation S-X and Item 601(b) of Regulation S-K and
do not think a referral to the FASB is necessary.
Interim financial statements — retroactive prior period adjustments
Rules 10-01(b)(7) and 8-03(b)(5) of Regulation S-X and ASC 250-10-50-6 require disclosure of the
effect of changes in reporting entities on net income (in total and per share) in the period of change
and for all periods presented. Further, the SEC rules explicitly require additional disclosure by entities
other than smaller reporting companies of the effect of the change on retained earnings. ASC 25010-50-6 requires presentation of the effect of the change “on other appropriate captions” or on “the
applicable net assets or performance indicator,” and we have observed that reporting entities often
disclose the effect of a change in the composition of consolidated or combined subsidiaries on
additional financial statement line items besides those prescribed in the SEC rules (e.g., effect on
consolidated revenues, income from continuing operations, total assets). Therefore, we support
deleting from Rules 10-01(b)(7) and 8-03(b)(5) all disclosure requirements related to changes in
reporting entities, and referring to the FASB a request to reconsider the disclosure requirements in
ASC 250-10-50-6. We believe during its standard-setting due process, the FASB will appropriately
weigh the benefits to investors and costs to reporting entities of disclosing the effect of a change in
reporting entity on retained earnings and whether to modify the existing requirements in ASC 25010-50-1 to include additional financial statement captions and performance indicators.
Interim financial statements — common control transactions
We believe that investors in certain industries (e.g., oil & gas master limited partnerships) may benefit
from disclosure of key performance indicators (e.g., income from continuing operations and net income)
on a separate basis for periods prior to a combination of entities under common control reported
retroactively. Therefore, we support retaining the requirement in S-X 10-01(b)(3) pending
reconsideration by the FASB. For similar reasons, we question whether disclosure of the supplemental
separate results of the combined entities should be limited to interim periods. The proposing release
points to ASC 250-10-50-6 as the source of existing overlapping annual disclosure requirements.
However, we believe those disclosures do not accomplish the same objective and are only required in the
year of the change rather than until the financial statements no longer include the date of combination.
Products and services
Item 101(c)(1)(i) requires disclosure of the amount or percentage of revenue from any class of similar
products or services which account for 10 percent or more of consolidated revenue in any of the last three
fiscal years or 15 percent or more of consolidated revenue, if total revenue did not exceed $50 million
during any of such fiscal years. It appears that the objective of the quantitative disclosure requirement in
Item 101(c)(1)(i) is to highlight to investors significant concentrations. However, the US GAAP disclosure
requirement16 is more comprehensive as it calls for disclosure of all revenue for each product and service
or each group of similar products and services without regard to any bright-line threshold.

15

16

Our interpretation is supported by paragraph 137 in the Basis for Conclusions to SFAS 128, Earnings per Share, the
source for the disclosure requirement in ASC 260-10-50-1.
ASC 280-10-50-40.

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 11

We believe that the existing quantitative disclosure requirements about products and services in S-K
Item 101 are redundant and duplicative of US GAAP, and that none of the differences warrant referral
to the FASB. Accordingly, it would be appropriate to delete the quantitative disclosure requirements
about products and services in Item 101(c)(1)(i). While US GAAP provides an impracticability
exception, we don’t see the exception used frequently and then usually by companies with financial
reporting systems that have limited reporting functionality. However, when the exception has been
applied, the same practicability issues would apply to the Item 101 quantitative disclosures.
Major customers
Disclosure requirements about major customers in US GAAP 17 and S-K Item 101 are substantially
similar (except for the Item 101 requirement to name significant customers) and share a common
objective to inform readers about significant concentrations in revenue with one or more customers.
Accordingly, we recommend that the SEC delete its disclosure requirement related to major customers
in Items 101(c)(1)(vii) and 101(h)(4)(vi).
We believe the existing GAAP disclosure requirement18 is sufficient to highlight customer
concentrations and their related risks without inflicting potential competitive harm by having
reporting entities name their major customers. MD&A should provide supplemental information about
those risks and uncertainties, particularly the uncertainty of generating future revenue or collection of
receivables from significant customers. In our view, naming customers is not essential to achieving
these disclosure objectives.
Legal proceedings
In our view, the SEC should not refer the legal proceedings disclosures currently required by Item 103
of Regulation S-K to the FASB for integration or inclusion in the Codification. The contingencies
disclosures specified in ASC 450 are consistent with the financial statement objectives outlined in the
introductory section of this letter. The ASC 450 accounting and disclosure model has withstood
multiple deliberations and interpretations and has functioned as the conceptual basis for other US
GAAP developed after its adoption by the FASB in 1975.19
The relocation of some of the additional disclosure requirements in Item 103 of S-K to the Codification
would pose auditability challenges because the current Statement of Policy Regarding Lawyers’
Responses to Auditor Requests20 of the American Bar Association (ABA) does not provide guidance or
requirements for attorneys to disclose such matters to auditors. If such additional disclosure
requirements are incorporated into ASC 450, the ABA policy statement would have to be revised to

17
18
19

20

ASC 275-10-50-18a.
ASC 280-10-50-42.
Proposed Accounting Standards Update, Disclosure of Certain Loss Contingencies (July 10, 2010). This project was
removed from the FASB’s standard-setting agenda in 2012. The accounting and disclosure provisions in ASC 450
(formerly SFAS 5, Contingencies) were previously deliberated by the FASB and Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) when
issuing interpretations like FIN 45 in 2002, FIN 48 in 2006, EITF Topic D-77 in 1999 and FIN 34 in 1981, among others.
Also referred to as the “ABA policy statement.”

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 12

allow auditors to perform corroborative procedures on the reporting entity’s assertions about the
disclosures related to litigation and environmental matters. For instance:
►

►

►

For low probability/high magnitude proceedings, it is currently unclear whether “low probability” in
Item 103 of Regulation S-K coincides with “remote” under ASC 450 and the ABA policy
statement. Paragraph 5 of the ABA policy statement instructs lawyers to refrain from expressing
to auditors judgments about outcomes, except in those few clear cases where the outcome is
either “probable” or “remote.”
Attorney letters to auditors rarely provide a probability assessment for cases that would result in
cease or desist or other nonmonetary damages that are within the scope of S-K Item 103.
Paragraph 5 of the ABA policy statement currently instructs attorneys to provide an estimate of
the monetary loss, if practicable, but it is silent about an attorney’s reporting responsibility to
auditors regarding nonmonetary damages. Potential nonmonetary damages also may not have a
direct or estimable future financial effect. Accordingly, disclosures about potential nonmonetary
damages seem inconsistent with the objective of the notes of the financial statements.
The ABA policy statement requires attorneys to furnish information to auditors only on those
unasserted claims that the reporting entity has specifically identified and determined are probable
of being asserted. Item 103 of Regulation S-K requires all unasserted but contemplated legal
proceedings by governmental authorities to be disclosed, regardless of the reporting entity’s
assessment about whether such proceedings are probable of being asserted. Absent a change to
the ABA policy statement, auditors would not be in a position to receive corroborative information
to assess the completeness of the reporting entity’s disclosures related to unasserted claims by
governmental authorities.

We prefer that the SEC reconsider the disclosure objectives of Item 103 and modernize its disclosure
requirements, if deemed necessary, under a separate rulemaking project. We have also previously
recommended that bright-line quantitative thresholds be removed, such as the $100,000 and 10% of
consolidated current assets included in Item 103. Such bright lines assume that materiality, both
quantitatively and qualitatively, is constant across all registrants. This appears to contradict the
principle that both the SEC and the audit profession currently apply; materiality should be assessed
based on the facts and circumstances unique to each company. 21
We further believe incorporation of Item 103 into GAAP could add voluminous disclosure to the
financial statement notes that would be unrelated to the other disclosures in the financial statements.
We acknowledge that some investors and analysts may prefer to receive all information about legal
proceedings in one location within a company’s SEC filing to expedite their analyses. However, the
disclosure requirements related to contingencies in Item 103 of Regulation S-K and ASC 450 have
different objectives. Item 103 requires more information about case development over time, venue of
legal proceedings and a broader spectrum of low probability, high magnitude loss situations that
would be challenging to include in the notes to the financial statements and subject to a financial
audit. Accordingly, if a single disclosure location for all legal proceedings is valuable to investors, we
21

Our comment letter dated 11 September 2012, on the SEC Regulation S-K review under section 108 of the Jumpstart
our Business Startups Act and our comment letter dated 21 July 2016, on the SEC’s concept release on business and
financial disclosure required by Regulation S-K.

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 13

recommend that such location be outside the audited financial statements. The SEC could satisfy
investor requests for a single disclosure location by expanding the disclosure requirements in Item
103 to include any incremental disclosures residing in ASC 450 or requiring cross reference or
hyperlink in the legal proceedings section of a filing to the ASC 450 disclosures in the notes to the
audited financial statements.
Oil and gas disclosures
We believe Item 302(b) of Regulation S-K could be removed in its entirety because it provides no
incremental informational value to domestic issuers or to FPIs. All domestic SEC registrants are
required to provide the disclosures under ASC 932-235 because they meet the definition of “publicly
traded companies” used in ASC 932-235. FPIs are separately instructed by Item 7 of Form 20-F to
provide the supplemental US GAAP disclosures on oil and gas activities under ASC 932-235 regardless
of their GAAP basis of reporting. Further, we recommend that the SEC and the FASB work together to
further reduce redundancies between ASC 932 and Subpart 1200 of Regulation S-K and develop a
single cohesive set of requirements for supplemental unaudited oil and gas activity disclosures.
Category IV. Outdated Requirements
We support removal of all obsolete disclosure requirements outlined in Category IV. Outdated
Requirements and highlight that the following may need further clarification.
Market price disclosures
We support the proposal to amend Item 201(a)(1) of Regulation S-K to require disclosure of the trading
symbols for each class of the registrant’s common equity. Further, we agree that only in the absence of
an established trading market should it be necessary for an issuer to disclose the range of high and low
bid information for each full quarterly period within the two most recent fiscal years and any subsequent
interim period for which financial statements are included. However, the terms “established trading
market” and “limited or sporadic quotations” would likely need further clarification and definition.
Category V. Superseded Requirements
We support deleting all superseded disclosure requirements and terminology outlined in Category V.
Superseded Requirements and draw attention to the following additional amendments for consideration.
Auditing standards
The proposed revision to S-X Rule 10-01(d) indicates that interim financial statements included in
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q must be reviewed by an independent public accountant using
“applicable professional standards and procedures for conducting such reviews.” We highlight that
periodic reports on Form 10-Q are those of an issuer, and therefore, the applicable professional
standards with respect to such a review are those of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(PCAOB). To prevent any potential misinterpretation of which professional standards should be
applied, we recommend that the Commission revise Rule 10-01(d) to state that interim financial
statements included in quarterly reports on Form 10-Q must be reviewed by an independent
accountant “in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.”

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 14

Related parties — intercompany profits (losses)
We believe Rule 4-08(k)(2) should be deleted in its entirety. Its scope is limited to the separate
financial statements of a parent, subsidiary or investee, and it requires disclosure of intercompany
profits (losses) from transactions with related parties. This requirement, which predates Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 57, Related Party Disclosures, is unnecessary because ASC
850-10-50-1 already requires disclosures about related party transactions necessary to understand
their effects on the financial statements.22 Further, it is unclear whether the scope of the explicit SEC
disclosure requirement applies to transactions with all related parties or just members of the
consolidated group. Accordingly, we recommend deleting Rule 4-08(k)(2). However, if the SEC decides
otherwise, we recommend it clarify that the rule’s scope only applies to intercompany profits (losses)
recognized by the reporting entity on transactions with other members of its consolidated group and
that the disclosure is not required in the separate financial statements of significant equity investees
provided under S-X Rule 3-09.
Development stage entities
We support eliminating the outdated requirement to present cumulative financial information since
inception for development stage entities from Rules 8-03(b)(6) and 10-01(a)(7) of Regulation S-X.
We further recommend eliminating the definition of “development stage company” in Rule 1-02 of
Regulation S-X to avoid any implication that Regulation S-X provides reporting requirements for
development stage companies beyond those in the Codification.
Discontinued operations
We agree that the recent US GAAP changes to the definition of “discontinued operations” have
superseded certain existing SEC disclosure requirements and support the proposed revisions to
Instruction 1 to Rule 11-02(b) of Regulation S-X.
However, we believe the SEC should consider different revisions to Item 302 of Regulation S-K to
better accomplish the objective. In lieu of the proposed changes, we recommend that the SEC change
Item 302(a)(1) to require “income (loss) from continuing operations” to be disclosed in the
supplementary quarterly financial information rather than “income (loss) before extraordinary items
and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle” as previously required. Presenting “income
(loss) from continuing operations” as well as “net income (loss)” would highlight the effects of
discontinued operations. We are unclear about what income statement line item was intended by the
text of the proposed amendments, which currently refers to “income (loss).”
We also suggest that the SEC reconsider which interim period financial metrics must be disclosed on a
per-share basis and make them consistent with measures that are presented on the face of the interim
income statements.

22

ASC 850-10-50-1b requires disclosure of the following: A description of the transactions, including transactions to
which no amounts or nominal amounts were ascribed, for each of the periods for which income statements are
presented, and such other information deemed necessary to an understanding of the effects of the transactions on the
financial statements.

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 15

Other outdated requirements
Consolidation requirements for registered investment companies
We recommend that the Commission eliminate the conflict between the investment company
consolidation guidance in Regulation S-X and US GAAP by deleting Rule 6-03(c)(1)(i) of Regulation S-X.
Rule 6-03(c)(1)(i) of Regulation S-X states that the financial statements of regulated investment
companies may be consolidated only with those of subsidiaries which are investment companies.
ASC 946-810-45-2 states that consolidation by an investment company of an investee that is not an
investment company is not appropriate, with one exception. ASC 946-810-45-3 provides that an
investment company holding a controlling financial interest in an operating entity should consolidate
that investee, rather than measure its investment at fair value, if the investee provides services to the
investment company (e.g., an investment adviser or transfer agent). In those cases, the purpose of the
investment is to provide services to the investment company rather than to realize a gain on the sale
of the investment.
Furthermore, it is unclear whether the term “investment companies” used in the phrase “subsidiaries
which are investment companies” in Rule 6-03(c)(1)(i) Regulation S-X is consistent with the definition
of “investment company” in US GAAP. While the term “investment company” under Rule 6-03(c)(1)(i)
of Regulation S-X is likely based on the definition of an investment company in section 3(a) of the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (1940 Act), US GAAP defines an investment company as an entity
that meets the assessment criteria described in ASC 946-10-15-4 through 9.
There is also ambiguity about whether, under Regulation S-X, an investment company investee that
could be consolidated by a regulated investment company must itself be a regulated investment
company, or whether it could be an entity that would otherwise be an investment company under
section 3(a) of the 1940 Act if it were not excepted from the definition of an investment company
under the 1940 Act (e.g., a holding company or “a blocker entity” excepted from the definition of an
investment company pursuant to section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act).
Therefore, depending on the interpretation of “investment company” under Regulation S-X, an
“investment company” subsidiary eligible for consolidation by a regulated investment company under
US GAAP (e.g., a holding company or “blocker entity”) technically may not be eligible for consolidation
by a regulated investment company under Regulation S-X.
There are also certain entities that would not meet the definition of an investment company under
section 3(a) of the 1940 Act because, for example, they do not invest or trade in securities (e.g., “a
blocker entity” that invests only in commodities), but they would meet the definition under US GAAP.
Such entities could be consolidated by regulated investment companies under US GAAP but technically
could not be consolidated by regulated investment companies under Rule 6-03(c)(1)(i) of Regulation S-X.
In 2014, the Division of Investment Management issued Investment Management Guidance Update
No. 2014-11 (IMGU) on investment company consolidation. The IMGU, among other things, expresses
the staff’s view that generally a regulated investment company should consolidate a wholly owned or
substantially wholly owned subsidiary if the design and purpose of such subsidiary is to act as an
extension of the regulated investment company’s investment operations and facilitate the execution of
the regulated investment company’s investment strategy (e.g., a subsidiary that is a holding company

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Securities and Exchange Commission
Page 16

or blocker). The staff believes that consolidation of such subsidiary provides the most meaningful
presentation, 23 which US GAAP permits; however, Regulation S-X may technically prohibit
consolidation of certain of these subsidiaries. Therefore, we recommend that the Commission delete
Rule 6-03(c)(1)(i) of Regulation S-X to eliminate the conflict between the investment company
consolidation guidance and US GAAP and any ambiguity in Regulation S-X regarding which investment
entities could and which operating entities should be consolidated by regulated investment companies.
Article 6A — Employee stock purchase, savings and similar plans
�Plans subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) may file Forms S-8
and 11-K with their financial statements and schedules prepared in accordance with the US GAAP
financial reporting requirements, 24 which are currently codified in ASC 962, Plan Accounting —
Defined Contribution Pension Plans. We have observed that substantially all plans subject to ERISA
choose to present financial statements compliant with US GAAP in their filings with the SEC instead of
following the outdated presentation requirements in S-X Article 6A. Only a handful of plans, namely
those that are not subject to ERISA regulation, are currently required to comply with the financial
statement presentation requirements in S-X Article 6A. We encourage the Commission to rescind S-X
Article 6A and allow all defined contribution plans to provide US GAAP-compliant financial statements
in their filings on Forms S-8 and 11-K to promote comparability and remove redundancies between
SEC rules and US GAAP.
*

*

*

*

*

We would be pleased to discuss our comments with the Commission or its staff at your convenience.
Yours sincerely,

Copy to:

23

24

Wesley Bricker, Interim Chief Accountant, Office of Chief Accountant
Keith Higgins, Director, Division of Corporation Finance
Mark Kronforst, Chief Accountant, Division of Corporation Finance
Russell Golden, Chair, Financial Accounting Standards Board

Prior to the issuance of the IMGU, the staff granted no action relief to certain regulated investment companies in
connection with consolidation of such subsidiaries. See NGP Capital Resources Co., SEC Staff No-Action Letter
(December 28, 2007) and Fidelity Select Portfolio, SEC Staff No-Action Letter (April 29, 2008).
29 CFR Chapter XXV — Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor, Part 2520.103-1.

Appendix

1

Summary of recommendations
SEC rule/disclosure item affected

Proposing release discussion

EY commentary

In order of SEC disclosure requirement in the demonstration version of the proposing release

• Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X

• V.B.5 Development stage

• Remove the definition of development stage company.

• Rule 3-04 of Regulation S-X

• III.C.16 Dividends

• Do not extend the reconciliation of stockholders’ equity

• Rule 3-20(a) of Regulation S-X

• III.D.1 Foreign currency

• Codify the SEC staff interpretive guidance currently residing

• Rules 4-08(k)(2) of Regulation S-X

• V.B.4 Consolidation

• Remove Rule 4-08(k)(2) given the disclosures required by

• Rule 4-08(h) of Regulation S-X

• III.E.7 Income tax disclosures

• Assess feedback in response to the FASB’s proposed income

• Rule 6-03(c) of Regulation S-X

• N/A

• Remove from Rule 6-03(c) the prohibition for an investment

• Rule 6-04.17 of Regulation S-X

• III.C.5 Distributable earnings for • Amend Rule 6-09.3 of Regulation S-X to align it with US

entities

restrictions

requirement to interim financial statements.

in section 6640 of the Financial Reporting Manual and retain
the accommodation for certain issuers that are not FPIs to
not use the US dollar as their reporting currency.
ASC 850-10-50.

tax ASU and related FASB standard setting and conclude
whether further amendments and expansions to the
disclosure requirements in Rule 4-08(h) of Regulation S-X are
warranted or whether it can be deleted in its entirety.
company to consolidate a controlled operating company
providing services to the investment company.

registered investment
companies

•

GAAP and require investment companies to state separately
on the statement of changes in net assets only dividends that
represent tax return of capital and all other distributions.
Make conforming amendments to the per-share rollforward
required to be presented in the financial highlights pursuant
to Item 13(a) of Form N-1A and Item 4.1 of Form N-2.

• Rule 8-03(b)(4) of Regulation S-X

• Category III.C.10 Interim

• Consider conforming the requirements in Rule 8-05 for

• Rule 10-01(b)(2) of Regulation S-X

• III.E.10 Interim financial

• Delete the requirements in Rule 10-01(b)(2) of Regulation S-X

• Rule 10-01(b)(3) of Regulation S-X

• III.E.12 Interim financial

• Refer to the FASB for potential incorporation in US GAAP of

and Item 601(b) of Regulation S-K

financial statements —
dispositions

statements — computation of EPS
statements — common control
transactions

smaller reporting companies with those in Article 11 of
Regulation S-X related to pro forma information for
significant dispositions.
and Item 601(b) of Regulation S-K that overlap with US GAAP.
the disclosure of supplemental separate pre-combination
results of entities combined under common control in the
interim period when the combination occurs, the annual
period which contains such interim period and all other
annual periods presented on a comparative basis with the
annual period of the combination.

• Rules 10-01(b)(4) and 8-03(b)(4) of • Category III.C.9 Interim financial • Encourage the FASB to provide public business entities with
Regulation S-X

statements — pro forma
business combination
information

•

guidance on the preparation of supplemental pro forma
disclosures and eliminate inconsistencies in the preparation
of pro forma financial preparation between US GAAP and
Article 11 of Regulation S-X.
Encourage the FASB to consider replacing the requirement to
disclose “pro forma earnings” with “pro forma income from
continuing operations.”

2

SEC rule/disclosure item affected

Proposing release discussion

EY commentary

• Rules 10-01(b)(7) and 8-03(b)(5) of • III.E.11 Interim financial

• Delete from Rules 10-01(b)(7) and 8-03(b)(5) all disclosure

• Rule 10-01(d) of Regulation S-X

• V.B.1 Auditing standards

• Revise Rule 10-01(d) to state that an issuer’s interim financial

• Rules 3A-02(d) and 3-20(b)(2) of

• Category II.2 Consolidation

• Incorporate the disclosure about consolidated subsidiaries that

• Rule 3A-03(b) of Regulation S-X

• III.E.2 Consolidation

• Delete.

• Article 6A of Regulation S-X

• N/A

• Allow all defined contribution plans to provide US GAAP-

• Item 101(c)(1)(i) of Regulation S-K

• III.E.13 Products and services

• Delete.

• Items 101(c)(1)(vii) and

• III.E.14 Major customers

• Delete.

• Item 103 of Regulation S-K

• III.E.15 Legal proceedings

• Do not refer the legal proceedings disclosures currently

• Item 201(a)(1) of Regulation S-K

• IV.B.4 Market price disclosures

• Provide further clarification of the terms “established trading

• Item 302(a)(1) of Regulation S-K

• V.B.8 Discontinued operations

• Amend Item 302(a)(1) of Regulation S-K to require

Regulation S-X

Regulation S-X

101(h)(4)(vi) of Regulation S-K

statements — retroactive prior
period adjustments

requirements related to changes in reporting entities while
asking the FASB to reconsider the disclosure requirements in
ASC 250-10-50-6.
statements included in quarterly reports on Form 10-Q must
be reviewed by an independent accountant “in accordance
with the standards of the PCAOB.”

operate under material exchange restrictions or controls into
the requirements for MD&A.

compliant financial statements and rescind the presentation
requirements in Article 6A of Regulation S-X.

required by Item 103 of Regulation S-K to the FASB for
integration or inclusion in the ASC. The SEC should consider
the disclosure objectives of Item 103 and modernize it if
deemed necessary under a separate rulemaking project.
market” and “limited or sporadic quotations.”

•

supplementary quarterly financial information to disclose
“income (loss) from continuing operations” where it currently
requires “income (loss) before extraordinary items and
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.”
Consider what interim financial metrics are required to be
disclosed on a per-share basis and make them consistent, to
the extent possible, with measures that are presented on the
face of the interim income statements.

• Item 302(b) of Regulation S-K

• III.E.16 Oil and gas producing

• Item 5.C of Form 20-F

• Category III.C.14 Research and • Rescind the requirement to disclose research and

activities

development activities

• Delete Item 302(b) of Regulation S-K and work with the FASB
to further reduce redundancies between the disclosures in
ASC 932 and Subpart 1200 of Regulation S-K for public
entities engaged in oil- and gas-producing activities.

development policies for FPIs or clarify whether it relates to
accounting or actual R&D activities.

