SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
[AS AMENDED

THROUGH

P.L. 112-158,

APPROVED

AUGUST 10, 2012]

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

TITLE I—REGULATION OF SECURITIES EXCHANGES.
1. Short Title.
2. Necessity for Regulation As Provided in This Title.
3. Definitions and Application of Title.
3A. Swap Agreements.
3B. Securities-Related Derivatives.
3C. Clearing for Security-Based Swaps.
3D. Security-Based Swap Execution Facilities.
3E. Segregation of Assets Held As Collateral in Security-Based Swap Transactions.
4. Securities and Exchange Commission.
4A. Delegation of Functions by Commission.
4B. Transfer of Functions With Respect to Assignment of Personnel to Chairman.
4C. Appearance and Practice Before the Commission.
4D. Additional Duties of Inspector General.
4E. Deadline for Completing Enforcement Investigations and Compliance Examinations and Inspections.
5. Transactions on Unregistered Exchanges.
6. National Securities Exchanges.
7. Margin Requirements.
8. Restrictions on Borrowing by Members, Brokers, and Dealers.
9. Prohibition Against Manipulation of Security Prices.
10. Regulation of the Use of Manipulative and Deceptive Devices.
10A. Audit Requirements.
10B. Position Limits and Position Accountability for Security-Based Swaps and
Large Trader Reporting.
10C. Compensation Committees.
10D. Recovery of Erroneously Awarded Compensation Policy.
11. Trading by Members of Exchanges, Brokers, and Dealers.
11A. National Market System for Securities; Securities Information Processors.
12. Registration Requirements for Securities.
13. Periodical and Other Reports.
13A. Reporting and Recordkeeping for Certain Security-Based Swaps.
14. Proxies.
14A. Shareholder Approval of Executive Compensation.
14B. Corporate Governance.
15. Registration and Regulation of Brokers and Dealers.
15A. Registered Securities Associations.
15B. Municipal Securities.
15C. Government Securities Brokers and Dealers.
15D. Securities Analysts and Research Reports.
15E. Registration of Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations.
15F. Registration and Regulation of Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major
Security-Based Swap Participants.
15G. Credit Risk Retention.
16. Directors, Officers, and Principal Stockholders.
17. Accounts and Records, Examinations of Exchanges, Members, and Others.
17A. National System for Clearance and Settlement of Securities Transactions.
17B. Automated Quotation Systems for Penny Stocks.
18. Liability for Misleading Statements.
19. Registration, Responsibilities, and Oversight of Self-Regulatory Organizations.
1

Sec. 1
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

2

20. Liability of Controlling Persons and Persons Who Aid and Abet Violations.
20A. Liability to Contemporaneous Traders for Insider Trading.
21. Investigations; Injunctions and Prosecution of Offenses.
21A. Civil Penalties for Insider Trading.
21B. Civil Remedies in Administrative Proceedings.
21C. Cease-And-Desist Proceedings.
21D. Private Securities Litigation.
21E. Application of Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements.
21F. Securities Whistleblower Incentives and Protection.
22. Hearings by Commission.
23. Rules, Regulations, and Orders; Annual Reports.
24. Public Availability of Information.
25. Court Review of Orders and Rules.
26. Unlawful Representations.
27. Jurisdiction of Offenses and Suits.
27A. Special Provision Relating to Statute of Limitations on Private Causes of
Action.
28. Effect on Existing Law.
29. Validity of Contracts.
30. Foreign Securities Exchanges.
30A. Prohibited Foreign Trade Practices by Issuers.
31. Transaction Fees.
32. Penalties.
33. Separability of Provisions.
34. Effective Date.
35. Authorization of Appropriations.
35A. Requirements for the Edgar System.
36. General Exemptive Authority.
37. Tennessee Valley Authority.
38. Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Federal Home Loan Banks.
39. Investor Advisory Committee.
TITLE II—AMENDMENTS

TO

SECURITIES ACT

OF

1933.

TITLE I—REGULATION OF SECURITIES EXCHANGES
SHORT TITLE

SEC. 1. This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Securities Exchange Act
of 1934’’.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 881.)
NECESSITY FOR REGULATION AS PROVIDED IN THIS TITLE

SEC. 2. For the reasons hereinafter enumerated, transactions
in securities as commonly conducted upon securities exchanges and
over-the-counter markets are effected with a national public interest which makes it necessary to provide for regulation and control
of such transactions and of practices and matters related thereto,
including transactions by officers, directors, and principal security
holders, to require appropriate reports, to remove impediments to
and perfect the mechanisms of a national market system for securities and a national system for the clearance and settlement of securities transactions and the safeguarding of securities and funds related thereto, and to impose requirements necessary to make such
regulation and control reasonably complete and effective, in order
to protect interstate commerce, the national credit, the Federal taxing power, to protect and make more effective the national banking

3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

system and Federal Reserve System, and to insure the maintenance of fair and honest markets in such transactions:
(1) Such transactions (a) are carried on in large volume by the
public generally and in large part originate outside the States in
which the exchanges and over-the-counter markets are located and/
or are effected by means of the mails and instrumentalities of
interstate commerce; (b) constitute an important part of the current of interstate commerce; (c) involve in large part the securities
of issuers engaged in interstate commerce; (d) involve the use of
credit, directly affect the financing of trade, industry, and transportation in interstate commerce, and directly affect and influence the
volume of interstate commerce; and affect the national credit.
(2) The prices established and offered in such transactions are
generally disseminated and quoted throughout the United States
and foreign countries and constitute a basis for determining and
establishing the prices at which securities are bought and sold, the
amount of certain taxes owing to the United States and to the several States by owners, buyers, and sellers of securities, and the
value of collateral for bank loans.
(3) Frequently the prices of securities on such exchanges and
markets are susceptible to manipulation and control, and the dissemination of such prices gives rise to excessive speculation, resulting in sudden and unreasonable fluctuations in the prices of securities which (a) cause alternately unreasonable expansion and unreasonable contraction of the volume of credit available for trade,
transportation, and industry in interstate commerce, (b) hinder the
proper appraisal of the value of securities and thus prevent a fair
calculation of taxes owing to the United States and to the several
States by owners, buyers, and sellers of securities, and (c) prevent
the fair valuation of collateral for bank loans and/or obstruct the
effective operation of the national banking system and Federal Reserve System.
(4) National emergencies, which produce widespread unemployment and the dislocation of trade, transportation, and industry,
and which burden interstate commerce and adversely affect the
general welfare, are precipitated, intensified, and prolonged by manipulation and sudden and unreasonable fluctuations of security
prices and by excessive speculation on such exchanges and markets, and to meet such emergencies the Federal Government is put
to such great expense as to burden the national credit.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 2, 48 Stat. 881; June 4, 1975,
Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 2, 89 Stat. 97; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec.
985(b)(1), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1933.)
DEFINITIONS AND APPLICATION OF TITLE

SEC. 3. (a) When used in this title, unless the context otherwise requires—
(1) The term ‘‘exchange’’ means any organization, association, or group of persons, whether incorporated or unincorporated, which constitutes, maintains, or provides a market
place or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers
of securities or for otherwise performing with respect to securi-

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

4

ties the functions commonly performed by a stock exchange as
that term is generally understood, and includes the market
place and the market facilities maintained by such exchange.
(2) The term ‘‘facility’’ when used with respect to an exchange includes its premises, tangible or intangible property
whether on the premises or not, any right to the use of such
premises or property or any service thereof for the purpose of
effecting or reporting a transaction on an exchange (including,
among other things, any system of communication to or from
the exchange, by ticker or otherwise, maintained by or with
the consent of the exchange), and any right of the exchange to
the use of any property or service.
(3)(A) The term ‘‘member’’ when used with respect to a national securities exchange means (i) any natural person permitted to effect transactions on the floor of the exchange without the services of another person acting as broker, (ii) any
registered broker or dealer with which such a natural person
is associated, (iii) any registered broker or dealer permitted to
designate as a representative such a natural person, and (iv)
any other registered broker or dealer which agrees to be regulated by such exchange and with respect to which the exchange
undertakes to enforce compliance with the provisions of this
title, the rules and regulations thereunder, and its own rules.
For purposes of sections 6(b)(1), 6(b)(4), 6(b)(6), 6(b)(7), 6(d),
17(d), 19(d), 19(e), 19(g), 19(h), and 21 of this title, the term
‘‘member’’ when used with respect to a national securities exchange also means, to the extent of the rules of the exchange
specified by the Commission, any person required by the Commission to comply with such rules pursuant to section 6(f) of
this title.
(B) The term ‘‘member’’ when used with respect to a registered securities association means any broker or dealer who
agrees to be regulated by such association and with respect to
whom the association undertakes to enforce compliance with
the provisions of this title, the rules and regulations thereunder, and its own rules.
(4) BROKER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘broker’’ means any person engaged in the business of effecting transactions in securities for the account of others.
(B) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN BANK ACTIVITIES.—A bank
shall not be considered to be a broker because the bank engages in any one or more of the following activities under
the conditions described:
(i) THIRD PARTY BROKERAGE ARRANGEMENTS.—The
bank enters into a contractual or other written arrangement with a broker or dealer registered under
this title under which the broker or dealer offers brokerage services on or off the premises of the bank if—
(I) such broker or dealer is clearly identified
as the person performing the brokerage services;
(II) the broker or dealer performs brokerage
services in an area that is clearly marked and, to

5

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

the extent practicable, physically separate from
the routine deposit-taking activities of the bank;
(III) any materials used by the bank to advertise or promote generally the availability of brokerage services under the arrangement clearly indicate that the brokerage services are being provided by the broker or dealer and not by the bank;
(IV) any materials used by the bank to advertise or promote generally the availability of brokerage services under the arrangement are in
compliance with the Federal securities laws before
distribution;
(V) bank employees (other than associated
persons of a broker or dealer who are qualified
pursuant to the rules of a self-regulatory organization) perform only clerical or ministerial functions
in connection with brokerage transactions including scheduling appointments with the associated
persons of a broker or dealer, except that bank
employees may forward customer funds or securities and may describe in general terms the types
of investment vehicles available from the bank
and the broker or dealer under the arrangement;
(VI) bank employees do not receive incentive
compensation for any brokerage transaction unless such employees are associated persons of a
broker or dealer and are qualified pursuant to the
rules of a self- regulatory organization, except that
the bank employees may receive compensation for
the referral of any customer if the compensation is
a nominal one-time cash fee of a fixed dollar
amount and the payment of the fee is not contingent on whether the referral results in a transaction;
(VII) such services are provided by the broker
or dealer on a basis in which all customers that
receive any services are fully disclosed to the
broker or dealer;
(VIII) the bank does not carry a securities account of the customer except as permitted under
clause (ii) or (viii) of this subparagraph; and
(IX) the bank, broker, or dealer informs each
customer that the brokerage services are provided
by the broker or dealer and not by the bank and
that the securities are not deposits or other obligations of the bank, are not guaranteed by the
bank, and are not insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation.
(ii) TRUST ACTIVITIES.—The bank effects transactions in a trustee capacity, or effects transactions in
a fiduciary capacity in its trust department or other
department that is regularly examined by bank examiners for compliance with fiduciary principles and
standards, and—

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

6

(I) is chiefly compensated for such transactions, consistent with fiduciary principles and
standards, on the basis of an administration or
annual fee (payable on a monthly, quarterly, or
other basis), a percentage of assets under management, or a flat or capped per order processing fee
equal to not more than the cost incurred by the
bank in connection with executing securities
transactions for trustee and fiduciary customers,
or any combination of such fees; and
(II) does not publicly solicit brokerage business, other than by advertising that it effects
transactions in securities in conjunction with advertising its other trust activities.
(iii) PERMISSIBLE SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS.—The
bank effects transactions in—
(I) commercial paper, bankers acceptances, or
commercial bills;
(II) exempted securities;
(III) qualified Canadian government obligations as defined in section 5136 of the Revised
Statutes, in conformity with section 15C of this
title and the rules and regulations thereunder, or
obligations of the North American Development
Bank; or
(IV) any standardized, credit enhanced debt
security issued by a foreign government pursuant
to the March 1989 plan of then Secretary of the
Treasury Brady, used by such foreign government
to retire outstanding commercial bank loans.
(iv) CERTAIN STOCK PURCHASE PLANS.—
(I) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS.—The bank effects transactions, as part of its transfer agency
activities, in the securities of an issuer as part of
any pension, retirement, profit-sharing, bonus,
thrift, savings, incentive, or other similar benefit
plan for the employees of that issuer or its affiliates (as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956), if the bank does not solicit
transactions or provide investment advice with respect to the purchase or sale of securities in connection with the plan.
(II) DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLANS.—The
bank effects transactions, as part of its transfer
agency activities, in the securities of an issuer as
part of that issuer’s dividend reinvestment plan,
if—
(aa) the bank does not solicit transactions
or provide investment advice with respect to
the purchase or sale of securities in connection with the plan; and
(bb) the bank does not net shareholders’
buy and sell orders, other than for programs

7

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

for odd- lot holders or plans registered with
the Commission.
(III) ISSUER PLANS.—The bank effects transactions, as part of its transfer agency activities, in
the securities of an issuer as part of a plan or program for the purchase or sale of that issuer’s
shares, if—
(aa) the bank does not solicit transactions
or provide investment advice with respect to
the purchase or sale of securities in connection with the plan or program; and
(bb) the bank does not net shareholders’
buy and sell orders, other than for programs
for odd- lot holders or plans registered with
the Commission.
(IV) PERMISSIBLE DELIVERY OF MATERIALS.—
The exception to being considered a broker for a
bank engaged in activities described in subclauses
(I), (II), and (III) will not be affected by delivery
of written or electronic plan materials by a bank
to employees of the issuer, shareholders of the
issuer, or members of affinity groups of the issuer,
so long as such materials are—
(aa) comparable in scope or nature to that
permitted by the Commission as of the date of
the enactment of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act; or
(bb) otherwise permitted by the Commission.
(v) SWEEP ACCOUNTS.—The bank effects transactions as part of a program for the investment or reinvestment of deposit funds into any no-load, open-end
management investment company registered under
the Investment Company Act of 1940 that holds itself
out as a money market fund.
(vi) AFFILIATE TRANSACTIONS.—The bank effects
transactions for the account of any affiliate of the
bank (as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956) other than—
(I) a registered broker or dealer; or
(II) an affiliate that is engaged in merchant
banking, as described in section 4(k)(4)(H) of the
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
(vii) PRIVATE SECURITIES OFFERINGS.—The bank—
(I) effects sales as part of a primary offering
of securities not involving a public offering, pursuant to section 3(b), 4(2), [1] or 4(5) [1] of the Securities Act of 1933 or the rules and regulations
issued thereunder;
(II) at any time after the date that is 1 year
after the date of the enactment of the Gramm1Section 4(2), (5), and (6) of the Securities Act of 1933 was redesignated 4(a)(2), (5), and (6)
by Pub. L. 112-106, title II, Sec. 201(b)(1), (c)(1), Apr. 5, 2012, 126 Stat. 314.

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

8

Leach- Bliley Act, is not affiliated with a broker or
dealer that has been registered for more than 1
year in accordance with this Act, and engages in
dealing, market making, or underwriting activities, other than with respect to exempted securities; and
(III) if the bank is not affiliated with a broker
or dealer, does not effect any primary offering described in subclause (I) the aggregate amount of
which exceeds 25 percent of the capital of the
bank, except that the limitation of this subclause
shall not apply with respect to any sale of government securities or municipal securities.
(viii) SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY ACTIVITIES.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—The bank, as part of customary banking activities—
(aa) provides safekeeping or custody services with respect to securities, including the
exercise of warrants and other rights on behalf of customers;
(bb) facilitates the transfer of funds or securities, as a custodian or a clearing agency,
in connection with the clearance and settlement of its customers’ transactions in securities;
(cc) effects securities lending or borrowing
transactions with or on behalf of customers as
part of services provided to customers pursuant to division (aa) or (bb) or invests cash collateral pledged in connection with such transactions;
(dd) holds securities pledged by a customer to another person or securities subject
to purchase or resale agreements involving a
customer, or facilitates the pledging or transfer of such securities by book entry or as otherwise provided under applicable law, if the
bank maintains records separately identifying
the securities and the customer; or
(ee) serves as a custodian or provider of
other related administrative services to any
individual retirement account, pension, retirement, profit sharing, bonus, thrift savings, incentive, or other similar benefit plan.
(II) EXCEPTION FOR CARRYING BROKER ACTIVITIES.—The exception to being considered a broker
for a bank engaged in activities described in subclause (I) shall not apply if the bank, in connection with such activities, acts in the United States
as a carrying broker (as such term, and different
formulations thereof, are used in section 15(c)(3)
of this title and the rules and regulations thereunder) for any broker or dealer, unless such carrying broker activities are engaged in with respect

9

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

to government securities (as defined in paragraph
(42) of this subsection).
(ix) IDENTIFIED BANKING PRODUCTS.—The bank effects transactions in identified banking products as defined in section 206 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.
(x) MUNICIPAL SECURITIES.—The bank effects
transactions in municipal securities.
(xi) DE MINIMIS EXCEPTION.—The bank effects,
other than in transactions referred to in clauses (i)
through (x), not more than 500 transactions in securities in any calendar year, and such transactions are
not effected by an employee of the bank who is also an
employee of a broker or dealer.
(C) EXECUTION BY BROKER OR DEALER.—The exception
to being considered a broker for a bank engaged in activities described in clauses (ii), (iv), and (viii) of subparagraph (B) shall not apply if the activities described in such
provisions result in the trade in the United States of any
security that is a publicly traded security in the United
States, unless—
(i) the bank directs such trade to a registered
broker or dealer for execution;
(ii) the trade is a cross trade or other substantially similar trade of a security that—
(I) is made by the bank or between the bank
and an affiliated fiduciary; and
(II) is not in contravention of fiduciary principles established under applicable Federal or
State law; or
(iii) the trade is conducted in some other manner
permitted under rules, regulations, or orders as the
Commission may prescribe or issue.
(D) FIDUCIARY CAPACITY.—For purposes of subparagraph (B)(ii), the term ‘‘fiduciary capacity’’ means—
(i) in the capacity as trustee, executor, administrator, registrar of stocks and bonds, transfer agent,
guardian, assignee, receiver, or custodian under a uniform gift to minor act, or as an investment adviser if
the bank receives a fee for its investment advice;
(ii) in any capacity in which the bank possesses
investment discretion on behalf of another; or
(iii) in any other similar capacity.
(E) EXCEPTION FOR ENTITIES SUBJECT TO SECTION
15(E) [2].— The term ‘‘broker’’ does not include a bank that—
(i) was, on the day before the date of enactment
of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, subject to section
15(e) [3]; and
(ii) is subject to such restrictions and requirements as the Commission considers appropriate.
2Section 15(e) was redesignated 15(f) by Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec. 929X(c)(1), July 21,
2010, 124 Stat. 1870.
3Section 15(e) was redesignated 15(f) by Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec. 929X(c)(1), July 21,
2010, 124 Stat. 1870.

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

10

(F) JOINT RULEMAKING REQUIRED.—The Commission
and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
shall jointly adopt a single set of rules or regulations to
implement the exceptions in subparagraph (B).
(5) DEALER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘dealer’’ means any person
engaged in the business of buying and selling securities
(not including security-based swaps, other than securitybased swaps with or for persons that are not eligible contract participants) for such person’s own account through
a broker or otherwise.
(B) EXCEPTION FOR PERSON NOT ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS OF DEALING.—The term ‘‘dealer’’ does not include a
person that buys or sells securities (not including securitybased swaps, other than security-based swaps with or for
persons that are not eligible contract participants) for such
person’s own account, either individually or in a fiduciary
capacity, but not as a part of a regular business.
(C) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN BANK ACTIVITIES.—A bank
shall not be considered to be a dealer because the bank engages in any of the following activities under the conditions described:
(i) PERMISSIBLE SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS.—The
bank buys or sells—
(I) commercial paper, bankers acceptances, or
commercial bills;
(II) exempted securities;
(III) qualified Canadian government obligations as defined in section 5136 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, in conformity with
section 15C of this title and the rules and regulations thereunder, or obligations of the North
American Development Bank; or
(IV) any standardized, credit enhanced debt
security issued by a foreign government pursuant
to the March 1989 plan of then Secretary of the
Treasury Brady, used by such foreign government
to retire outstanding commercial bank loans.
(ii) INVESTMENT, TRUSTEE, AND FIDUCIARY TRANSACTIONS.— The bank buys or sells securities for investment purposes—
(I) for the bank; or
(II) for accounts for which the bank acts as a
trustee or fiduciary.
(iii) ASSET-BACKED TRANSACTIONS.—The bank engages in the issuance or sale to qualified investors,
through a grantor trust or other separate entity, of securities backed by or representing an interest in notes,
drafts, acceptances, loans, leases, receivables, other
obligations (other than securities of which the bank is
not the issuer), or pools of any such obligations predominantly originated by—
(I) the bank;

11

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

(II) an affiliate of any such bank other than
a broker or dealer; or
(III) a syndicate of banks of which the bank is
a member, if the obligations or pool of obligations
consists of mortgage obligations or consumer-related receivables.
(iv) IDENTIFIED BANKING PRODUCTS.—The bank
buys or sells identified banking products, as defined in
section 206 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.
(6) The term ‘‘bank’’ means (A) a banking institution organized under the laws of the United States or a Federal savings
association, as defined in section 2(5) [4] of the Home Owners’
Loan Act, (B) a member bank of the Federal Reserve System,
(C) any other banking institution or savings association, as defined in section 2(4) [4] of the Home Owners’ Loan Act, whether
incorporated or not, doing business under the laws of any State
or of the United States, a substantial portion of the business
of which consists of receiving deposits or exercising fiduciary
powers similar to those permitted to national banks under the
authority of the Comptroller of the Currency pursuant to the
first section of Public Law 87-722 (12 U.S.C. 92a), and which
is supervised and examined by State or Federal authority having supervision over banks or savings associations, and which
is not operated for the purpose of evading the provisions of this
title, and (D) a receiver, conservator, or other liquidating agent
of any institution or firm included in clauses (A), (B), or (C) of
this paragraph.
(7) The term ‘‘director’’ means any director of a corporation
or any person performing similar functions with respect to any
organization, whether incorporated or unincorporated.
(8) The term ‘‘issuer’’ means any person who issues or proposes to issue any security; except that with respect to certificates of deposit for securities, voting-trust certificates, or
collateral- trust certificates, or with respect to certificates of interest or shares in an unincorporated investment trust not
having a board of directors or of the fixed, restricted management, or unit type, the term ‘‘issuer’’ means the person or persons performing the acts and assuming the duties of depositor
or manager pursuant to the provisions of the trust or other
agreement or instrument under which such securities are
issued; and except that with respect to equipment-trust certificates or like securities, the term ‘‘issuer’’ means the person by
whom the equipment or property is, or is to be, used.
(9) The term ‘‘person’’ means a natural person, company,
government, or political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality
of a government.
(10) The term ‘‘security’’ means any note, stock, treasury
stock, security future, security-based swap, bond, debenture,
4Section 2 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act was amended by Pub. L. 111-203, title III, Sec.
369(2)(C), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1557, by redesignating pars. (4) and (5) as (2) and (3), respectively.
5The Internal Revenue Code of 1954 was redesignated as the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
by Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095.

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

12

certificate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing
agreement or in any oil, gas, or other mineral royalty or lease,
any collateral-trust certificate, preorganization certificate or
subscription, transferable share, investment contract, votingtrust certificate, certificate of deposit for a security, any put,
call, straddle, option, or privilege on any security, certificate of
deposit, or group or index of securities (including any interest
therein or based on the value thereof), or any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege entered into on a national securities exchange relating to foreign currency, or in general, any instrument commonly known as a ‘‘security’’; or any certificate of interest or participation in, temporary or interim certificate for,
receipt for, or warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase, any
of the foregoing; but shall not include currency or any note,
draft, bill of exchange, or banker’s acceptance which has a maturity at the time of issuance of not exceeding nine months, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof the maturity
of which is likewise limited.
(11) The term ‘‘equity security’’ means any stock or similar
security; or any security future on any such security; or any security convertible, with or without consideration, into such a
security, or carrying any warrant or right to subscribe to or
purchase such a security; or any such warrant or right; or any
other security which the Commission shall deem to be of similar nature and consider necessary or appropriate, by such rules
and regulations as it may prescribe in the public interest or for
the protection of investors, to treat as an equity security.
(12)(A) The term ‘‘exempted security’’ or ‘‘exempted securities’’ includes—
(i) government securities, as defined in paragraph (42)
of this subsection;
(ii) municipal securities, as defined in paragraph (29)
of this subsection;
(iii) any interest or participation in any common trust
fund or similar fund that is excluded from the definition
of the term ‘‘investment company’’ under section 3(c)(3) of
the Investment Company Act of 1940;
(iv) any interest or participation in a single trust fund,
or a collective trust fund maintained by a bank, or any security arising out of a contract issued by an insurance
company, which interest, participation, or security is
issued in connection with a qualified plan as defined in
subparagraph (C) of this paragraph;
(v) any security issued by or any interest or participation in any pooled income fund, collective trust fund, collective investment fund, or similar fund that is excluded
from the definition of an investment company under section 3(c)(10)(B) of the Investment Company Act of 1940;
(vi) solely for purposes of sections 12, 13, 14, and 16
of this title, any security issued by or any interest or participation in any church plan, company, or account that is
excluded from the definition of an investment company
under section 3(c)(14) of the Investment Company Act of
1940; and

13

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

(vii) such other securities (which may include, among
others, unregistered securities, the market in which is predominantly intrastate) as the Commission may, by such
rules and regulations as it deems consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors, either unconditionally or upon specified terms and conditions or for stated periods, exempt from the operation of any one or more
provisions of this title which by their terms do not apply
to an ‘‘exempted security’’ or to ‘‘exempted securities’’.
(B)(i) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A)(i) of this paragraph, government securities shall not be deemed to be ‘‘exempted securities’’ for the purposes of section 17A of this title.
(ii) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A)(ii) of this paragraph, municipal securities shall not be deemed to be ‘‘exempted securities’’ for the purposes of sections 15 and 17A of this
title.
(C) For purposes of subparagraph (A)(iv) of this paragraph,
the term ‘‘qualified plan’’ means (i) a stock bonus, pension, or
profit- sharing plan which meets the requirements for qualification under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954, [5] (ii) an annuity plan which meets the requirements for
the deduction of the employer’s contribution under section
404(a)(2) of such Code, (iii) a governmental plan as defined in
section 414(d) of such Code which has been established by an
employer for the exclusive benefit of its employees or their
beneficiaries for the purpose of distributing to such employees
or their beneficiaries the corpus and income of the funds accumulated under such plan, if under such plan it is impossible,
prior to the satisfaction of all liabilities with respect to such
employees and their beneficiaries, for any part of the corpus or
income to be used for, or diverted to, purposes other than the
exclusive benefit of such employees or their beneficiaries, or
(iv) a church plan, company, or account that is excluded from
the definition of an investment company under section 3(c)(14)
of the Investment Company Act of 1940, other than any plan
described in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of this subparagraph which
(I) covers employees some or all of whom are employees within
the meaning of section 401(c) of such Code, or (II) is a plan
funded by an annuity contract described in section 403(b) of
such Code.
(13) The terms ‘‘buy’’ and ‘‘purchase’’ each include any contract to buy, purchase, or otherwise acquire. For security futures products, such term includes any contract, agreement, or
transaction for future delivery. For security-based swaps, such
terms include the execution, termination (prior to its scheduled
maturity date), assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or
conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations under,
a security-based swap, as the context may require.
(14) The terms ‘‘sale’’ and ‘‘sell’’ each include any contract
to sell or otherwise dispose of. For security futures products,
such term includes any contract, agreement, or transaction for
5The Internal Revenue Code of 1954 was redesignated as the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
by Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095.

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

14

future delivery. For security-based swaps, such terms include
the execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity
date), assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance
of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations under, a securitybased swap, as the context may require.
(15) The term ‘‘Commission’’ means the Securities and Exchange Commission established by section 4 of this title.
(16) The term ‘‘State’’ means any State of the United
States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other possession of the United States. [6]
(17) The term ‘‘interstate commerce’’ means trade, commerce, transportation, or communication among the several
States, or between any foreign country and any State, or between any State and any place or ship outside thereof. The
term also includes intrastate use of (A) any facility of a national securities exchange or of a telephone or other interstate
means of communication, or (B) any other interstate instrumentality.
(18) The term ‘‘person associated with a broker or dealer’’
or ‘‘associated person of a broker or dealer’’ means any partner,
officer, director, or branch manager of such broker or dealer (or
any person occupying a similar status or performing similar
functions), any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such broker or dealer,
or any employee of such broker or dealer, except that any person associated with a broker or dealer whose functions are
solely clerical or ministerial shall not be included in the meaning of such term for purposes of section 15(b) of this title (other
than paragraph (6) thereof).
(19) The terms ‘‘investment company,’’ ‘‘affiliated person,’’
‘‘insurance company,’’ ‘‘separate account,’’ and ‘‘company’’ have
the same meanings as in the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(20) The terms ‘‘investment adviser’’ and ‘‘underwriter’’
have the same meanings as in the Investment Advisers Act of
1940.
(21) The term ‘‘persons associated with a member’’ or ‘‘associated person of a member’’ when used with respect to a
member of a national securities exchange or registered securities association means any partner, officer, director, or branch
manager of such member (or any person occupying a similar
status or performing similar functions), any person directly or
indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control
with such member, or any employee of such member.
(22)(A) The term ‘‘securities information processor’’ means
any person engaged in the business of (i) collecting, processing,
or preparing for distribution or publication, or assisting, participating in, or coordinating the distribution or publication of,
information with respect to transactions in or quotations for
any security (other than an exempted security) or (ii) distributing or publishing (whether by means of a ticker tape, a communications network, a terminal display device, or otherwise)
6The words ‘‘Philippine Islands’’ were deleted from the definition of the term ‘‘State’’ on the
basis of Presidential Proclamation No. 2695, effective July 4, 1946 (11 F.R. 7517; 60 Stat. 1352),
which granted Independence to the Philippine Islands.

15

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

on a current and continuing basis, information with respect to
such transactions or quotations. The term ‘‘securities information processor’’ does not include any bona fide newspaper, news
magazine, or business or financial publication of general and
regular circulation, any self- regulatory organization, any
bank, broker, dealer, building and loan, savings and loan, or
homestead association, or cooperative bank, if such bank,
broker, dealer, association, or cooperative bank would be
deemed to be a securities information processor solely by reason of functions performed by such institutions as part of customary banking, brokerage, dealing, association, or cooperative
bank activities, or any common carrier, as defined in section 3
of the Communications Act of 1934, subject to the jurisdiction
of the Federal Communications Commission or a State commission, as defined in section 3 of that Act, unless the Commission determines that such carrier is engaged in the business of
collecting, processing, or preparing for distribution or publication, information with respect to transactions in or quotations
for any security.
(B) The term ‘‘exclusive processor’’ means any securities
information processor or self-regulatory organization which, directly or indirectly, engages on an exclusive basis on behalf of
any national securities exchange or registered securities association, or any national securities exchange or registered securities association which engages on an exclusive basis on its
own behalf, in collecting, processing, or preparing for distribution or publication any information with respect to (i) transactions or quotations on or effected or made by means of any
facility of such exchange or (ii) quotations distributed or published by means of any electronic system operated or controlled
by such association.
(23)(A) The term ‘‘clearing agency’’ means any person who
acts as an intermediary in making payments or deliveries or
both in connection with transactions in securities or who provides facilities for comparison of data respecting the terms of
settlement of securities transactions, to reduce the number of
settlements of securities transactions, or for the allocation of
securities settlement responsibilities. Such term also means
any person, such as a securities depository, who (i) acts as a
custodian of securities in connection with a system for the central handling of securities whereby all securities of a particular
class or series of any issuer deposited within the system are
treated as fungible and may be transferred, loaned, or pledged
by bookkeeping entry without physical delivery of securities
certificates, or (ii) otherwise permits or facilitates the settlement of securities transactions or the hypothecation or lending
of securities without physical delivery of securities certificates.
(B) The term ‘‘clearing agency’’ does not include (i) any
Federal Reserve bank, Federal home loan bank, or Federal
land bank; (ii) any national securities exchange or registered
securities association solely by reason of its providing facilities
for comparison of data respecting the terms of settlement of securities transactions effected on such exchange or by means of
any electronic system operated or controlled by such associa-

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

16

tion; (iii) any bank, broker, dealer, building and loan, savings
and loan, or homestead association, or cooperative bank if such
bank, broker, dealer, association, or cooperative bank would be
deemed to be a clearing agency solely by reason of functions
performed by such institution as part of customary banking,
brokerage, dealing, association, or cooperative banking activities, or solely by reason of acting on behalf of a clearing agency
or a participant therein in connection with the furnishing by
the clearing agency of services to its participants or the use of
services of the clearing agency by its participants, unless the
Commission, by rule, otherwise provides as necessary or appropriate to assure the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions or to prevent evasion of this
title; (iv) any life insurance company, its registered separate
accounts, or a subsidiary of such insurance company solely by
reason of functions commonly performed by such entities in
connection with variable annuity contracts or variable life policies issued by such insurance company or its separate accounts; (v) any registered open-end investment company or
unit investment trust solely by reason of functions commonly
performed by it in connection with shares in such registered
open-end investment company or unit investment trust, or (vi)
any person solely by reason of its performing functions described in paragraph 25(E) of this subsection.
(24) The term ‘‘participant’’ when used with respect to a
clearing agency means any person who uses a clearing agency
to clear or settle securities transactions or to transfer, pledge,
lend, or hypothecate securities. Such term does not include a
person whose only use of a clearing agency is (A) through another person who is a participant or (B) as a pledgee of securities.
(25) The term ‘‘transfer agent’’ means any person who engages on behalf of an issuer of securities or on behalf of itself
as an issuer of securities in (A) countersigning such securities
upon issuance; (B) monitoring the issuance of such securities
with a view to preventing unauthorized issuance, a function
commonly performed by a person called a registrar; (C) registering the transfer of such securities; (D) exchanging or converting such securities; or (E) transferring record ownership of
securities by bookkeeping entry without physical issuance of
securities certificates. The term ‘‘transfer agent’’ does not include any insurance company or separate account which performs such functions solely with respect to variable annuity
contracts or variable life policies which it issues or any registered clearing agency which performs such functions solely
with respect to options contracts which it issues.
(26) The term ‘‘self-regulatory organization’’ means any national securities exchange, registered securities association, or
registered clearing agency, or (solely for purposes of sections
19(b), 19(c), and 23(b) of this title) the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board established by section 15B of this title.
(27) The term ‘‘rules of an exchange’’, ‘‘rules of an association’’, or ‘‘rules of a clearing agency’’ means the constitution,
articles of incorporation, bylaws, and rules, or instruments cor-

17

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

responding to the foregoing, of an exchange, association of brokers and dealers, or clearing agency, respectively, and such of
the stated policies, practices, and interpretations of such exchange, association, or clearing agency as the Commission, by
rule, may determine to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors to be deemed to
be rules of such exchange, association, or clearing agency.
(28) The term ‘‘rules of a self-regulatory organization’’
means the rules of an exchange which is a national securities
exchange, the rules of an association of brokers and dealers
which is a registered securities association, the rules of a clearing agency which is a registered clearing agency, or the rules
of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.
(29) The term ‘‘municipal securities’’ means securities
which are direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to
principal or interest by, a State or any political subdivision
thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of a State or any political subdivision thereof, or any municipal corporate instrumentality of one or more States, or any security which is an
industrial development bond (as defined in section 103(c)(2) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1954) [7] the interest on which is
excludable from gross income under section 103(a)(1) of such
Code if, by reason of the application of paragraph (4) or (6) of
section 103(c) of such Code (determined as if paragraphs (4)(A),
(5), and (7) were not included in such section 103(c)), paragraph (1) of such section 103(c) does not apply to such security.
(30) The term ‘‘municipal securities dealer’’ means any person (including a separately identifiable department or division
of a bank) engaged in the business of buying and selling municipal securities for his own account, through a broker or otherwise, but does not include—
(A) any person insofar as he buys or sells such securities for his own account, either individually or in some fiduciary capacity, but not as a part of a regular business;
or
(B) a bank, unless the bank is engaged in the business
of buying and selling municipal securities for its own account other than in a fiduciary capacity, through a broker
or otherwise; Provided, however, That if the bank is engaged in such business through a separately identifiable
department or division (as defined by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board in accordance with section
15B(b)(2)(H) of this title), the department or division and
not the bank itself shall be deemed to be the municipal securities dealer.
(31) The term ‘‘municipal securities broker’’ means a
broker engaged in the business of effecting transactions in municipal securities for the account of others.
(32) The term ‘‘person associated with a municipal securities dealer’’ when used with respect to a municipal securities
dealer which is a bank or a division or department of a bank
7The Internal Revenue Code of 1954 was redesignated as the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
by Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095.

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

18

means any person directly engaged in the management, direction, supervision, or performance of any of the municipal securities dealer’s activities with respect to municipal securities,
and any person directly or indirectly controlling such activities
or controlled by the municipal securities dealer in connection
with such activities.
(33) The term ‘‘municipal securities investment portfolio’’
means all municipal securities held for investment and not for
sale as part of a regular business by a municipal securities
dealer or by a person, directly or indirectly, controlling, controlled by, or under common control with a municipal securities dealer.
(34) The term ‘‘appropriate regulatory agency’’ means—
(A) When used with respect to a municipal securities
dealer:
(i) the Comptroller of the Currency, in the case of
a national bank, a subsidiary or a department or division of any such bank, a Federal savings association
(as defined in section 3(b)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(2))), the deposits of
which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, or a subsidiary or department or division
of any such Federal savings association;
(ii) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, in the case of a State member bank of the
Federal Reserve System, a subsidiary or a department
or division thereof, a bank holding company, a subsidiary of a bank holding company which is a bank
other than a bank specified in clause (i), (iii), or (iv)
of this subparagraph, a subsidiary or a department or
division of such subsidiary, or a savings and loan holding company;
(iii) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, in
the case of a bank insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (other than a member of the Federal Reserve System), a subsidiary or department or
division of any such bank, a State savings association
(as defined in section 3(b)(3) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(3))), the deposits of
which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, or a subsidiary or a department or division of any such State savings association; and
(iv) the Commission in the case of all other municipal securities dealers.
(B) When used with respect to a clearing agency or
transfer agent:
(i) the Comptroller of the Currency, in the case of
a national bank, a subsidiary of any such bank, a Federal savings association (as defined in section 3(b)(2) of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1813(b)(2))), the deposits of which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or a subsidiary of any such Federal savings association;

19

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

(ii) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, in the case of a State member bank of the
Federal Reserve System, a subsidiary thereof, a bank
holding company, a subsidiary of a bank holding company that is a bank other than a bank specified in
clause (i) or (iii) of this subparagraph, or a savings
and loan holding company;
(iii) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, in
the case of a bank insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (other than a member of the Federal Reserve System), a subsidiary of any such bank,
a State savings association (as defined in section
3(b)(3) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1813(b)(3))), the deposits of which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or a subsidiary of any such State savings association; and
(iv) the Commission in the case of all other clearing agencies and transfer agents.
(C) When used with respect to a participant or applicant to become a participant in a clearing agency or a person requesting or having access to services offered by a
clearing agency:
(i) the Comptroller of the Currency, in the case of
a national bank or a Federal savings association (as
defined in section 3(b)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(2))), the deposits of which
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation [8] when the appropriate regulatory agency for
such clearing agency is not the Commission;
(ii) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System in the case of a State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, a bank holding company, or a
subsidiary of a bank holding company, a subsidiary of
a bank holding company that is a bank other than a
bank specified in clause (i) or (iii) of this subparagraph, or a savings and loan holding company when
the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing
agency is not the Commission;
(iii) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, in
the case of a bank insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (other than a member of the Federal Reserve System) or a State savings association (as
defined in section 3(b)(3) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(3))), the deposits of which
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and [9] when the appropriate regulatory agency
for such clearing agency is not the Commission; [10]
(iv) the Commission in all other cases.
(D) When used with respect to an institutional investment manager which is a bank the deposits of which are
8So
9So

in original. Probably should be followed by a comma.
in original. The ‘‘; and’’ probably should be a comma.
in original. Probably should be followed by ‘‘and’’.

10So

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

20

insured in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act:
(i) the Comptroller of the Currency, in the case of
a national bank or a Federal savings association (as
defined in section 3(b)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(2))), the deposits of which
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
(ii) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, in the case of any other member bank of the
Federal Reserve System; and
(iii) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, in
the case of any other insured bank or a State savings
association (as defined in section 3(b)(3) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(3))), the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(E) When used with respect to a national securities exchange or registered securities association, member thereof, person associated with a member thereof, applicant to
become a member thereof or to become associated with a
member thereof, or person requesting or having access to
services offered by such exchange or association or member
thereof, or the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board,
the Commission.
(F) When used with respect to a person exercising investment discretion with respect to an account; [11]
(i) the Comptroller of the Currency, in the case of
a national bank or a Federal savings association (as
defined in section 3(b)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(2))), the deposits of which
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
(ii) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System in the case of any other member bank of the
Federal Reserve System;
(iii) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, in
the case of any other bank the deposits of which are
insured in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or a State savings association (as defined in
section 3(b)(3) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(3))), the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
and
(iv) the Commission in the case of all other such
persons.
(G) When used with respect to a government securities
broker or government securities dealer, or person associated with a government securities broker or government
securities dealer:
(i) the Comptroller of the Currency, in the case of
a national bank, a Federal savings association (as de11So

in original. The semicolon probably should be a colon.

21

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

fined in section 3(b)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act), the deposits of which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or a Federal
branch or Federal agency of a foreign bank (as such
terms are used in the International Banking Act of
1978);
(ii) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, in the case of a State member bank of the
Federal Reserve System, a foreign bank, an uninsured
State branch or State agency of a foreign bank, a commercial lending company owned or controlled by a foreign bank (as such terms are used in the International
Banking Act of 1978), or a corporation organized or
having an agreement with the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System pursuant to section 25 or
section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act;
(iii) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, in
the case of a bank insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (other than a member of the Federal Reserve System or a Federal savings bank), a
State savings association (as defined in section 3(b)(3)
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act), the deposits of
which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, or an insured State branch of a foreign
bank (as such terms are used in the International
Banking Act of 1978); and
(iv) the Commission, in the case of all other government securities brokers and government securities
dealers.
(H) When used with respect to an institution described
in subparagraph (D), (F), or (G) of section 2(c)(2), or held
under section 4(f), of the Bank Holding Company Act of
1956—
(i) the Comptroller of the Currency, in the case of
a national bank;
(ii) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, in the case of a State member bank of the
Federal Reserve System or any corporation chartered
under section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act;
(iii) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, in
the case of any other bank the deposits of which are
insured in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; or
(iv) the Commission in the case of all other such
institutions.
As used in this paragraph, the terms ‘‘bank holding company’’
and ‘‘subsidiary of a bank holding company’’ have the meanings given them in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act
of 1956. As used in this paragraph, the term ‘‘savings and loan
holding company’’ has the same meaning as in section 10(a) of
the Home Owners’ Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a)).
(35) A person exercises ‘‘investment discretion’’ with respect to an account if, directly or indirectly, such person (A) is
authorized to determine what securities or other property shall

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

22

be purchased or sold by or for the account, (B) makes decisions
as to what securities or other property shall be purchased or
sold by or for the account even though some other person may
have responsibility for such investment decisions, or (C) otherwise exercises such influence with respect to the purchase and
sale of securities or other property by or for the account as the
Commission, by rule, determines, in the public interest or for
the protection of investors, should be subject to the operation
of the provisions of this title and rules and regulations thereunder.
(36) A class of persons or markets is subject to ‘‘equal regulation’’ if no member of the class has a competitive advantage
over any other member thereof resulting from a disparity in
their regulation under this title which the Commission determines is unfair and not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this title.
(37) The term ‘‘records’’ means accounts, correspondence,
memorandums, tapes, discs, papers, books, and other documents or transcribed information of any type, whether expressed in ordinary or machine language.
(38) The term ‘‘market maker’’ means any specialist permitted to act as a dealer, any dealer acting in the capacity of
block positioner, and any dealer who, with respect to a security, holds himself out (by entering quotations in an inter-dealer communications system or otherwise) as being willing to buy
and sell such security for his own account on a regular or continuous basis.
(39) A person is subject to a ‘‘statutory disqualification’’
with respect to membership or participation in, or association
with a member of, a self-regulatory organization, if such person—
(A) has been and is expelled or suspended from membership or participation in, or barred or suspended from
being associated with a member of, any self-regulatory organization, foreign equivalent of a self-regulatory organization, foreign or international securities exchange, contract
market designated pursuant to section 5 of the Commodity
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7), or any substantially equivalent
foreign statute or regulation, or futures association registered under section 17 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 21), or any
substantially equivalent foreign statute or regulation, or
has been and is denied trading privileges on any such contract market or foreign equivalent;
(B) [12] is subject to—
(i) an order of the Commission, other appropriate regulatory agency, or foreign financial regulatory authority—
(I) denying, suspending for a period not exceeding
12 months, or revoking his registration as a broker,
dealer, municipal securities dealer, government securities broker, government securities dealer, securitybased swap dealer, or major security-based swap participant or limiting his activities as a foreign person
12Margin

so in law.

23

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

performing a function substantially equivalent to any
of the above; or
(II) barring or suspending for a period not exceeding 12 months his being associated with a broker,
dealer, municipal securities dealer, security-based
swap dealer, major security-based swap participant,
government securities broker, government securities
dealer, or foreign person performing a function substantially equivalent to any of the above;
(ii) an order of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission denying, suspending, or revoking his registration
under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.);
or
(iii) an order by a foreign financial regulatory authority denying, suspending, or revoking the person’s authority
to engage in transactions in contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery or other instruments traded on
or subject to the rules of a contract market, board of trade,
or foreign equivalent thereof;
(C) by his conduct while associated with a broker,
dealer, municipal securities dealer, government securities
broker, government securities dealer, security-based swap
dealer, or major security-based swap participant, or while
associated with an entity or person required to be registered under the Commodity Exchange Act, has been
found to be a cause of any effective suspension, expulsion,
or order of the character described in subparagraph (A) or
(B) of this paragraph, and in entering such a suspension,
expulsion, or order, the Commission, an appropriate regulatory agency, or any such self-regulatory organization
shall have jurisdiction to find whether or not any person
was a cause thereof;
(D) by his conduct while associated with any broker,
dealer, municipal securities dealer, government securities
broker, government securities dealer, security-based swap
dealer, major security-based swap participant, or any other
entity engaged in transactions in securities, or while associated with an entity engaged in transactions in contracts
of sale of a commodity for future delivery or other instruments traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market, board of trade, or foreign equivalent thereof, has been
found to be a cause of any effective suspension, expulsion,
or order by a foreign or international securities exchange
or foreign financial regulatory authority empowered by a
foreign government to administer or enforce its laws relating to financial transactions as described in subparagraph
(A) or (B) of this paragraph;
(E) has associated with him any person who is known,
or in the exercise of reasonable care should be known, to
him to be a person described by subparagraph (A), (B), (C),
or (D) of this paragraph; or
(F) has committed or omitted any act, or is subject to
an order or finding, enumerated in subparagraph (D), (E),
(H), or (G) of paragraph (4) of section 15(b) of this title,

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

24

has been convicted of any offense specified in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph (4) or any other felony within
ten years of the date of the filing of an application for
membership or participation in, or to become associated
with a member of, such self- regulatory organization, is enjoined from any action, conduct, or practice specified in
subparagraph (C) of such paragraph (4), has willfully
made or caused to be made in any application for membership or participation in, or to become associated with a
member of, a self-regulatory organization, report required
to be filed with a self-regulatory organization, or proceeding before a self-regulatory organization, any statement which was at the time, and in the light of the circumstances under which it was made, false or misleading
with respect to any material fact, or has omitted to state
in any such application, report, or proceeding any material
fact which is required to be stated therein.
(40) The term ‘‘financial responsibility rules’’ means the
rules and regulations of the Commission or the rules and regulations prescribed by any self-regulatory organization relating
to financial responsibility and related practices which are designated by the Commission, by rule or regulation, to be financial responsibility rules.
(41) The term ‘‘mortgage related security’’ means a security that meets standards of credit-worthiness as established
by the Commission, and either:
(A) represents ownership of one or more promissory
notes or certificates of interest or participation in such
notes (including any rights designed to assure servicing of,
or the receipt or timeliness of receipt by the holders of
such notes, certificates, or participations of amounts payable under, such notes, certificates, or participations),
which notes:
(i) are directly secured by a first lien on a single
parcel of real estate, including stock allocated to a
dwelling unit in a residential cooperative housing corporation, upon which is located a dwelling or mixed
residential and commercial structure, on a residential
manufactured home as defined in section 603(6) of the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Act of 1974, whether such manufactured home is considered real or personal property
under the laws of the State in which it is to be located,
or on one or more parcels of real estate upon which is
located one or more commercial structures; and
(ii) were originated by a savings and loan association, savings bank, commercial bank, credit union, insurance company, or similar institution which is supervised and examined by a Federal or State authority, or by a mortgage approved by the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development pursuant to sections
203 and 211 of the National Housing Act, or, where
such notes involve a lien on the manufactured home,
by any such institution or by any financial institution

25

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

approved for insurance by the Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development pursuant to section 2 of the
National Housing Act; or
(B) is secured by one or more promissory notes or certificates of interest or participations in such notes (with or
without recourse to the issuer thereof) and, by its terms,
provides for payments of principal in relation to payments,
or reasonable projections of payments, on notes meeting
the requirements of subparagraphs (A) (i) and (ii) or certificates of interest or participations in promissory notes
meeting such requirements.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the term ‘‘promissory note’’,
when used in connection with a manufactured home, shall also
include a loan, advance, or credit sale as evidence [13] by a retail installment sales contract or other instrument.
(42) The term ‘‘government securities’’ means—
(A) securities which are direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal or interest by, the United
States;
(B) securities which are issued or guaranteed by the
Tennessee Valley Authority or by corporations in which
the United States has a direct or indirect interest and
which are designated by the Secretary of the Treasury for
exemption as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors;
(C) securities issued or guaranteed as to principal or
interest by any corporation the securities of which are designated, by statute specifically naming such corporation, to
constitute exempt securities within the meaning of the
laws administered by the Commission;
(D) for purposes of sections 15C and 17A, any put,
call, straddle, option, or privilege on a security described
in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) other than a put, call,
straddle, option, or privilege—
(i) that is traded on one or more national securities exchanges; or
(ii) for which quotations are disseminated through
an automated quotation system operated by a registered securities association; or
(E) for purposes of sections 15, 15C, and 17A as applied to a bank, a qualified Canadian government obligation as defined in section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States.
(43) The term ‘‘government securities broker’’ means any
person regularly engaged in the business of effecting transactions in government securities for the account of others, but
does not include—
(A) any corporation the securities of which are government securities under subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (42) of this subsection; or
(B) any person registered with the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, any contract market designated by
13So

in law. Probably should be ‘‘evidenced’’.

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

26

the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, such contract market’s affiliated clearing organization, or any floor
trader on such contract market, solely because such person
effects transactions in government securities that the Commission, after consultation with the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, has determined by rule or order to
be incidental to such person’s futures-related business.
(44) The term ‘‘government securities dealer’’ means any
person engaged in the business of buying and selling government securities for his own account, through a broker or otherwise, but does not include—
(A) any person insofar as he buys or sells such securities for his own account, either individually or in some fiduciary capacity, but not as a part of a regular business;
(B) any corporation the securities of which are government securities under subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (42) of this subsection;
(C) any bank, unless the bank is engaged in the business of buying and selling government securities for its
own account other than in a fiduciary capacity, through a
broker or otherwise; or
(D) any person registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, any contract market designated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
such contract market’s affiliated clearing organization, or
any floor trader on such contract market, solely because
such person effects transactions in government securities
that the Commission, after consultation with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, has determined by
rule or order to be incidental to such person’s futures-related business.
(45) The term ‘‘person associated with a government securities broker or government securities dealer’’ means any partner, officer, director, or branch manager of such government
securities broker or government securities dealer (or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions),
and any other employee of such government securities broker
or government securities dealer who is engaged in the management, direction, supervision, or performance of any activities
relating to government securities, and any person directly or
indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control
with such government securities broker or government securities dealer.
(46) The term ‘‘financial institution’’ means—
(A) a bank (as defined in paragraph (6) of this subsection);
(B) a foreign bank (as such term is used in the International Banking Act of 1978); and
(C) a savings association (as defined in section 3(b) of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) the deposits of which
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(47) The term ‘‘securities laws’’ means the Securities Act of
1933 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,

27

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77aaa et seq.), the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.), the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b et seq.), and
the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78aaa
et seq.).
(48) The term ‘‘registered broker or dealer’’ means a broker
or dealer registered or required to register pursuant to section
15 or 15B of this title, except that in paragraph (3) of this subsection and sections 6 and 15A the term means such a broker
or dealer and a government securities broker or government
securities dealer registered or required to register pursuant to
section 15C(a)(1)(A) of this title.
(49) The terms ‘‘person associated with a transfer agent’’
and ‘‘associated person of a transfer agent’’ mean any person
(except an employee whose functions are solely clerical or ministerial) directly engaged in the management, direction, supervision, or performance of any of the transfer agent’s activities
with respect to transfer agent functions, and any person directly or indirectly controlling such activities or controlled by
the transfer agent in connection with such activities.
(50) The term ‘‘foreign securities authority’’ means any foreign government, or any governmental body or regulatory organization empowered by a foreign government to administer or
enforce its laws as they relate to securities matters.
(51)(A) The term ‘‘penny stock’’ means any equity security
other than a security that is—
(i) registered or approved for registration and traded
on a national securities exchange that meets such criteria
as the Commission shall prescribe by rule or regulation for
purposes of this paragraph;
(ii) authorized for quotation on an automated
quotation system sponsored by a registered securities association, if such system (I) was established and in operation
before January 1, 1990, and (II) meets such criteria as the
Commission shall prescribe by rule or regulation for purposes of this paragraph;
(iii) issued by an investment company registered
under the Investment Company Act of 1940;
(iv) excluded, on the basis of exceeding a minimum
price, net tangible assets of the issuer, or other relevant
criteria, from the definition of such term by rule or regulation which the Commission shall prescribe for purposes of
this paragraph; or
(v) exempted, in whole or in part, conditionally or unconditionally, from the definition of such term by rule, regulation, or order prescribed by the Commission.
(B) The Commission may, by rule, regulation, or order,
designate any equity security or class of equity securities described in clause (i) or (ii) of subparagraph (A) as within the
meaning of the term ‘‘penny stock’’ if such security or class of
securities is traded other than on a national securities exchange or through an automated quotation system described in
clause (ii) of subparagraph (A).

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

28

(C) In exercising its authority under this paragraph to prescribe rules, regulations, and orders, the Commission shall determine that such rule, regulation, or order is consistent with
the public interest and the protection of investors.
(52) The term ‘‘foreign financial regulatory authority’’
means any (A) foreign securities authority, (B) other governmental body or foreign equivalent of a self-regulatory organization empowered by a foreign government to administer or enforce its laws relating to the regulation of fiduciaries, trusts,
commercial lending, insurance, trading in contracts of sale of
a commodity for future delivery, or other instruments traded
on or subject to the rules of a contract market, board of trade,
or foreign equivalent, or other financial activities, or (C) membership organization a function of which is to regulate participation of its members in activities listed above.
(53)(A) The term ‘‘small business related security’’ means
a security that meets standards of credit-worthiness as established by the Commission, and either—
(i) represents an interest in 1 or more promissory
notes or leases of personal property evidencing the obligation of a small business concern and originated by an insured depository institution, insured credit union, insurance company, or similar institution which is supervised
and examined by a Federal or State authority, or a finance
company or leasing company; or
(ii) is secured by an interest in 1 or more promissory
notes or leases of personal property (with or without recourse to the issuer or lessee) and provides for payments
of principal in relation to payments, or reasonable projections of payments, on notes or leases described in clause
(i).
(B) For purposes of this paragraph—
(i) an ‘‘interest in a promissory note or a lease of personal property’’ includes ownership rights, certificates of
interest or participation in such notes or leases, and rights
designed to assure servicing of such notes or leases, or the
receipt or timely receipt of amounts payable under such
notes or leases;
(ii) the term ‘‘small business concern’’ means a business that meets the criteria for a small business concern
established by the Small Business Administration under
section 3(a) of the Small Business Act;
(iii) the term ‘‘insured depository institution’’ has the
same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; and
(iv) the term ‘‘insured credit union’’ has the same
meaning as in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act.
(54) QUALIFIED INVESTOR.—
(A) DEFINITION.—Except as provided in subparagraph
(B), for purposes of this title, the term ‘‘qualified investor’’
means—
(i) any investment company registered with the
Commission under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940;

29

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

(ii) any issuer eligible for an exclusion from the
definition of investment company pursuant to section
3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940;
(iii) any bank (as defined in paragraph (6) of this
subsection), savings association (as defined in section
3(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act), broker,
dealer, insurance company (as defined in section
2(a)(13) of the Securities Act of 1933), or business development company (as defined in section 2(a)(48) of
the Investment Company Act of 1940);
(iv) any small business investment company licensed by the United States Small Business Administration under section 301 (c) or (d) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958;
(v) any State sponsored employee benefit plan, or
any other employee benefit plan, within the meaning
of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, other than an individual retirement account, if
the investment decisions are made by a plan fiduciary,
as defined in section 3(21) of that Act, which is either
a bank, savings and loan association, insurance company, or registered investment adviser;
(vi) any trust whose purchases of securities are directed by a person described in clauses (i) through (v)
of this subparagraph;
(vii) any market intermediary exempt under section 3(c)(2) of the Investment Company Act of 1940;
(viii) any associated person of a broker or dealer
other than a natural person;
(ix) any foreign bank (as defined in section 1(b)(7)
of the International Banking Act of 1978);
(x) the government of any foreign country;
(xi) any corporation, company, or partnership that
owns and invests on a discretionary basis, not less
than $25,000,000 in investments;
(xii) any natural person who owns and invests on
a discretionary basis, not less than $25,000,000 in investments;
(xiii) any government or political subdivision,
agency, or instrumentality of a government who owns
and invests on a discretionary basis not less than
$50,000,000 in investments; or
(xiv) any multinational or supranational entity or
any agency or instrumentality thereof.
(B) ALTERED THRESHOLDS FOR ASSET-BACKED SECURITIES AND LOAN PARTICIPATIONS.—For purposes of section
3(a)(5)(C)(iii) of this title and section 206(a)(5) of the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the term ‘‘qualified investor’’ has
the meaning given such term by subparagraph (A) of this
paragraph except that clauses (xi) and (xii) shall be applied by substituting ‘‘$10,000,000’’ for ‘‘$25,000,000’’.
(C) ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY.—The Commission may, by
rule or order, define a ‘‘qualified investor’’ as any other
person, taking into consideration such factors as the finan-

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

30

cial sophistication of the person, net worth, and knowledge
and experience in financial matters.
(55)(A) The term ‘‘security future’’ means a contract of sale
for future delivery of a single security or of a narrow-based security index, including any interest therein or based on the
value thereof, except an exempted security under section
3(a)(12) of this title as in effect on the date of the enactment
of the Futures Trading Act of 1982 (other than any municipal
security as defined in section 3(a)(29) as in effect on the date
of the enactment of the Futures Trading Act of 1982). The term
‘‘security future’’ does not include any agreement, contract, or
transaction excluded from the Commodity Exchange Act under
section 2(c), 2(d), 2(f ), or 2(g) of the Commodity Exchange Act
(as in effect on the date of the enactment of the Commodity
Futures Modernization Act of 2000) or title IV of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000.
(B) The term ‘‘narrow-based security index’’ means an
index—
(i) that has 9 or fewer component securities;
(ii) in which a component security comprises more
than 30 percent of the index’s weighting;
(iii) in which the five highest weighted component securities in the aggregate comprise more than 60 percent of
the index’s weighting; or
(iv) in which the lowest weighted component securities
comprising, in the aggregate, 25 percent of the index’s
weighting have an aggregate dollar value of average daily
trading volume of less than $50,000,000 (or in the case of
an index with 15 or more component securities,
$30,000,000), except that if there are two or more securities with equal weighting that could be included in the calculation of the lowest weighted component securities comprising, in the aggregate, 25 percent of the index’s
weighting, such securities shall be ranked from lowest to
highest dollar value of average daily trading volume and
shall be included in the calculation based on their ranking
starting with the lowest ranked security.
(C) Notwithstanding subparagraph (B), an index is not a
narrow- based security index if—
(i)(I) it has at least nine component securities;
(II) no component security comprises more than 30
percent of the index’s weighting; and
(III) each component security is—
(aa) registered pursuant to section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(bb) one of 750 securities with the largest market
capitalization; and
(cc) one of 675 securities with the largest dollar
value of average daily trading volume;
(ii) a board of trade was designated as a contract market by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission with
respect to a contract of sale for future delivery on the
index, before the date of the enactment of the Commodity
Futures Modernization Act of 2000;

31

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

(iii)(I) a contract of sale for future delivery on the
index traded on a designated contract market or registered
derivatives transaction execution facility for at least 30
days as a contract of sale for future delivery on an index
that was not a narrow-based security index; and
(II) it has been a narrow-based security index for no
more than 45 business days over 3 consecutive calendar
months;
(iv) a contract of sale for future delivery on the index
is traded on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of
trade and meets such requirements as are jointly established by rule or regulation by the Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
(v) no more than 18 months have passed since the
date of the enactment of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 and—
(I) it is traded on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade;
(II) the offer and sale in the United States of a
contract of sale for future delivery on the index was
authorized before the date of the enactment of the
Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000; and
(III) the conditions of such authorization continue
to be met; or
(vi) a contract of sale for future delivery on the index
is traded on or subject to the rules of a board of trade and
meets such requirements as are jointly established by rule,
regulation, or order by the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(D) Within 1 year after the enactment of the Commodity
Futures Modernization Act of 2000, the Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission jointly shall adopt
rules or regulations that set forth the requirements under
clause (iv) of subparagraph (C).
(E) An index that is a narrow-based security index solely
because it was a narrow-based security index for more than 45
business days over 3 consecutive calendar months pursuant to
clause (iii) of subparagraph (C) shall not be a narrow-based security index for the 3 following calendar months.
(F) For purposes of subparagraphs (B) and (C) of this paragraph—
(i) the dollar value of average daily trading volume
and the market capitalization shall be calculated as of the
preceding 6 full calendar months; and
(ii) the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall, by rule or regulation, jointly specify
the method to be used to determine market capitalization
and dollar value of average daily trading volume.
(56) The term ‘‘security futures product’’ means a security
future or any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege on any security future.
(57)(A) The term ‘‘margin’’, when used with respect to a security futures product, means the amount, type, and form of
collateral required to secure any extension or maintenance of

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

32

credit, or the amount, type, and form of collateral required as
a performance bond related to the purchase, sale, or carrying
of a security futures product.
(B) The terms ‘‘margin level’’ and ‘‘level of margin’’, when
used with respect to a security futures product, mean the
amount of margin required to secure any extension or maintenance of credit, or the amount of margin required as a performance bond related to the purchase, sale, or carrying of a
security futures product.
(C) The terms ‘‘higher margin level’’ and ‘‘higher level of
margin’’, when used with respect to a security futures product,
mean a margin level established by a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(g) that is higher than
the minimum amount established and in effect pursuant to
section 7(c)(2)(B).
(58) AUDIT COMMITTEE.—The term ‘‘audit committee’’
means—
(A) a committee (or equivalent body) established by
and amongst the board of directors of an issuer for the
purpose of overseeing the accounting and financial reporting processes of the issuer and audits of the financial
statements of the issuer; and
(B) if no such committee exists with respect to an
issuer, the entire board of directors of the issuer.
(59) REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM.—The term
‘‘registered public accounting firm’’ has the same meaning as
in section 2 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
(60) CREDIT RATING.—The term ‘‘credit rating’’ means an
assessment of the creditworthiness of an obligor as an entity
or with respect to specific securities or money market instruments.
(61) CREDIT RATING AGENCY.—The term ‘‘credit rating
agency’’ means any person—
(A) engaged in the business of issuing credit ratings
on the Internet or through another readily accessible
means, for free or for a reasonable fee, but does not include a commercial credit reporting company;
(B) employing either a quantitative or qualitative
model, or both, to determine credit ratings; and
(C) receiving fees from either issuers, investors, or
other market participants, or a combination thereof.
(62) NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATION.— The term ‘‘nationally recognized statistical rating organization’’ means a credit rating agency that—
(A) issues credit ratings certified by qualified institutional buyers, in accordance with section 15E(a)(1)(B)(ix),
with respect to—
(i) financial institutions, brokers, or dealers;
(ii) insurance companies;
(iii) corporate issuers;
(iv) issuers of asset-backed securities (as that
term is defined in section 1101(c) of part 229 of title
17, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on the
date of enactment of this paragraph);

33

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

(v) issuers of government securities, municipal securities, or securities issued by a foreign government;
or
(vi) a combination of one or more categories of obligors described in any of clauses (i) through (v); and
(B) is registered under section 15E.
(63) PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH A NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED
STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATION.—The term ‘‘person associated with’’ a nationally recognized statistical rating organization means any partner, officer, director, or branch manager of
a nationally recognized statistical rating organization (or any
person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions), any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled
by, or under common control with a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, or any employee of a nationally
recognized statistical rating organization.
(64) QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER.—The term ‘‘qualified institutional buyer’’ has the meaning given such term in
section 230.144A(a) of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, or
any successor thereto.
(65) ELIGIBLE CONTRACT PARTICIPANT.—The term ‘‘eligible
contract participant’’ has the same meaning as in section 1a of
the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a).
(66) MAJOR SWAP PARTICIPANT.—The term ‘‘major swap
participant’’ has the same meaning as in section 1a of the
Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a).
(67) MAJOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP PARTICIPANT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘major security-based
swap participant’’ means any person—
(i) who is not a security-based swap dealer; and
(ii)(I) who maintains a substantial position in security-based swaps for any of the major security-based
swap categories, as such categories are determined by
the Commission, excluding both positions held for
hedging or mitigating commercial risk and positions
maintained by any employee benefit plan (or any contract held by such a plan) as defined in paragraphs (3)
and (32) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C.
1002) for the primary purpose of hedging or mitigating
any risk directly associated with the operation of the
plan;
(II) whose outstanding security-based swaps create substantial counterparty exposure that could have
serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the
United States banking system or financial markets; or
(III) that is a financial entity that—
(aa) is highly leveraged relative to the amount
of capital such entity holds and that is not subject
to capital requirements established by an appropriate Federal banking agency; and
(bb) maintains a substantial position in outstanding security-based swaps in any major

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

34

security- based swap category, as such categories
are determined by the Commission.
(B) DEFINITION OF SUBSTANTIAL POSITION.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), the Commission shall define, by
rule or regulation, the term ‘‘substantial position’’ at the
threshold that the Commission determines to be prudent
for the effective monitoring, management, and oversight of
entities that are systemically important or can significantly impact the financial system of the United States. In
setting the definition under this subparagraph, the Commission shall consider the person’s relative position in
uncleared as opposed to cleared security-based swaps and
may take into consideration the value and quality of collateral held against counterparty exposures.
(C) SCOPE OF DESIGNATION.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), a person may be designated as a major securitybased swap participant for 1 or more categories of securitybased swaps without being classified as a major securitybased swap participant for all classes of security-based
swaps.
(68) SECURITY-BASED SWAP.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph
(B), the term ‘‘security-based swap’’ means any agreement,
contract, or transaction that—
(i) is a swap, as that term is defined under section
1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (without regard to
paragraph (47)(B)(x) of such section); and
(ii) is based on—
(I) an index that is a narrow-based security
index, including any interest therein or on the
value thereof;
(II) a single security or loan, including any interest therein or on the value thereof; or
(III) the occurrence, nonoccurrence, or extent
of the occurrence of an event relating to a single
issuer of a security or the issuers of securities in
a narrow- based security index, provided that such
event directly affects the financial statements, financial condition, or financial obligations of the
issuer.
(B) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING MASTER AGREEMENTS.— The term ‘‘security-based swap’’ shall be construed to include a master agreement that provides for an
agreement, contract, or transaction that is a security-based
swap pursuant to subparagraph (A), together with all supplements to any such master agreement, without regard to
whether the master agreement contains an agreement,
contract, or transaction that is not a security-based swap
pursuant to subparagraph (A), except that the master
agreement shall be considered to be a security-based swap
only with respect to each agreement, contract, or transaction under the master agreement that is a securitybased swap pursuant to subparagraph (A).

35

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

(C) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘security-based swap’’
does not include any agreement, contract, or transaction
that meets the definition of a security-based swap only because such agreement, contract, or transaction references,
is based upon, or settles through the transfer, delivery, or
receipt of an exempted security under paragraph (12), as
in effect on the date of enactment of the Futures Trading
Act of 1982 (other than any municipal security as defined
in paragraph (29) as in effect on the date of enactment of
the Futures Trading Act of 1982), unless such agreement,
contract, or transaction is of the character of, or is commonly known in the trade as, a put, call, or other option.
(D) MIXED SWAP.—The term ‘‘security-based swap’’ includes any agreement, contract, or transaction that is as
described in subparagraph (A) and also is based on the
value of 1 or more interest or other rates, currencies, commodities, instruments of indebtedness, indices, quantitative measures, other financial or economic interest or
property of any kind (other than a single security or a narrow-based security index), or the occurrence, non-occurrence, or the extent of the occurrence of an event or contingency associated with a potential financial, economic, or
commercial consequence (other than an event described in
subparagraph (A)(ii)(III)).
(E) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING USE OF THE
TERM INDEX.—The term ‘‘index’’ means an index or group
of securities, including any interest therein or based on the
value thereof.
(69) SWAP.—The term ‘‘swap’’ has the same meaning as in
section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a).
(70) PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH A SECURITY-BASED SWAP
DEALER OR MAJOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP PARTICIPANT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘person associated with a
security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap
participant’’ or ‘‘associated person of a security-based swap
dealer or major security-based swap participant’’ means—
(i) any partner, officer, director, or branch manager of such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant (or any person occupying
a similar status or performing similar functions);
(ii) any person directly or indirectly controlling,
controlled by, or under common control with such
security- based swap dealer or major security-based
swap participant; or
(iii) any employee of such security-based swap
dealer or major security-based swap participant.
(B) EXCLUSION.—Other than for purposes of section
15F(l)(2), the term ‘‘person associated with a securitybased swap dealer or major security-based swap participant’’ or ‘‘associated person of a security-based swap dealer
or major security-based swap participant’’ does not include
any person associated with a security-based swap dealer or
major security- based swap participant whose functions
are solely clerical or ministerial.

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

36

(71) SECURITY-BASED SWAP DEALER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘security-based swap dealer’’ means any person who—
(i) holds themself out as a dealer in security-based
swaps;
(ii) makes a market in security-based swaps;
(iii) regularly enters into security-based swaps
with counterparties as an ordinary course of business
for its own account; or
(iv) engages in any activity causing it to be commonly known in the trade as a dealer or market
maker in security-based swaps.
(B) DESIGNATION BY TYPE OR CLASS.—A person may be
designated as a security-based swap dealer for a single
type or single class or category of security-based swap or
activities and considered not to be a security-based swap
dealer for other types, classes, or categories of securitybased swaps or activities.
(C) EXCEPTION.—The term ‘‘security-based swap dealer’’ does not include a person that enters into securitybased swaps for such person’s own account, either individually or in a fiduciary capacity, but not as a part of regular
business.
(D) DE MINIMIS EXCEPTION.—The Commission shall exempt from designation as a security-based swap dealer an
entity that engages in a de minimis quantity of securitybased swap dealing in connection with transactions with or
on behalf of its customers. The Commission shall promulgate regulations to establish factors with respect to the
making of any determination to exempt.
(72) APPROPRIATE FEDERAL BANKING AGENCY.—The term
‘‘appropriate Federal banking agency’’ has the same meaning
as in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
U.S.C. 1813(q)).
(73) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(74) PRUDENTIAL REGULATOR.—The term ‘‘prudential regulator’’ has the same meaning as in section 1a of the Commodity
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a).
(75) SECURITY-BASED SWAP DATA REPOSITORY.—The term
‘‘security-based swap data repository’’ means any person that
collects and maintains information or records with respect to
transactions or positions in, or the terms and conditions of, security-based swaps entered into by third parties for the purpose of providing a centralized recordkeeping facility for security-based swaps.
(76) SWAP DEALER.—The term ‘‘swap dealer’’ has the same
meaning as in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7
U.S.C. 1a).
(77) SECURITY-BASED SWAP EXECUTION FACILITY.—The term
‘‘security-based swap execution facility’’ means a trading system or platform in which multiple participants have the ability
to execute or trade security-based swaps by accepting bids and
offers made by multiple participants in the facility or system,

37

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

through any means of interstate commerce, including any trading facility, that—
(A) facilitates the execution of security-based swaps
between persons; and
(B) is not a national securities exchange.
(78) SECURITY-BASED SWAP AGREEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of sections 9, 10, 16,
20, and 21A of this Act, and section 17 of the Securities
Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77q), the term ‘‘security-based swap
agreement’’ means a swap agreement as defined in section
206A of the Gramm- Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 78c note)
of which a material term is based on the price, yield,
value, or volatility of any security or any group or index
of securities, or any interest therein.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘security-based swap
agreement’’ does not include any security-based swap.
(79) ASSET-BACKED SECURITY.—The term ‘‘asset-backed security’’—
(A) means a fixed-income or other security
collateralized by any type of self-liquidating financial asset
(including a loan, a lease, a mortgage, or a secured or unsecured receivable) that allows the holder of the security
to receive payments that depend primarily on cash flow
from the asset, including—
(i) a collateralized mortgage obligation;
(ii) a collateralized debt obligation;
(iii) a collateralized bond obligation;
(iv) a collateralized debt obligation of asset-backed
securities;
(v) a collateralized debt obligation of collateralized
debt obligations; and
(vi) a security that the Commission, by rule, determines to be an asset-backed security for purposes of
this section; and
(B) does not include a security issued by a finance subsidiary held by the parent company or a company controlled by the parent company, if none of the securities
issued by the finance subsidiary are held by an entity that
is not controlled by the parent company.
(80) [14] EMERGING GROWTH COMPANY.—The term ‘‘emerging growth company’’ means an issuer that had total annual
gross revenues of less than $1,000,000,000 (as such amount is
indexed for inflation every 5 years by the Commission to reflect
the change in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, setting the
threshold to the nearest 1,000,000) during its most recently
completed fiscal year. An issuer that is an emerging growth
company as of the first day of that fiscal year shall continue
to be deemed an emerging growth company until the earliest
of—
(A) the last day of the fiscal year of the issuer during
which it had total annual gross revenues of $1,000,000,000
14Two

pars. (80) have been enacted.

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

38

(as such amount is indexed for inflation every 5 years by
the Commission to reflect the change in the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, setting the threshold to the nearest 1,000,000) or more;
(B) the last day of the fiscal year of the issuer following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of
common equity securities of the issuer pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of
1933;
(C) the date on which such issuer has, during the previous 3-year period, issued more than $1,000,000,000 in
non- convertible debt; or
(D) the date on which such issuer is deemed to be a
‘‘large accelerated filer’’, as defined in section 240.12b-2 of
title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor
thereto.
(80) [14] FUNDING PORTAL.—The term ‘‘funding portal’’
means any person acting as an intermediary in a transaction
involving the offer or sale of securities for the account of others, solely pursuant to section 4(6) [15] of the Securities Act of
1933 (15 U.S.C. 77d(6) [16]), that does not—
(A) offer investment advice or recommendations;
(B) solicit purchases, sales, or offers to buy the securities offered or displayed on its website or portal;
(C) compensate employees, agents, or other persons for
such solicitation or based on the sale of securities displayed or referenced on its website or portal;
(D) hold, manage, possess, or otherwise handle investor funds or securities; or
(E) engage in such other activities as the Commission,
by rule, determines appropriate.
(b) The Commission and the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, as to matters within their respective jurisdictions,
shall have power by rules and regulations to define technical,
trade, accounting, and other terms used in this title, consistently
with the provisions and purposes of this title.
(c) No provision of this title shall apply to, or be deemed to include, any executive department or independent establishment of
the United States, or any lending agency which is wholly owned,
directly or indirectly, by the United States, or any officer, agent, or
employee of any such department, establishment, or agency, acting
in the course of his official duty as such, unless such provision
makes specific reference to such department, establishment, or
agency.
(d) No issuer of municipal securities or officer or employee
thereof acting in the course of his official duties as such shall be
deemed to be a ‘‘broker’’, ‘‘dealer’’, or ‘‘municipal securities dealer’’
solely by reason of buying, selling, or effecting transactions in the
issuer’s securities.
(e) CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.—
15Probably
16Probably

should read ‘‘4(a)(6)’’.
should read ‘‘77d(a)(6)’’.

39

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3

(1) EXEMPTION.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
this title, but subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, a
charitable organization, as defined in section 3(c)(10)(D) of the
Investment Company Act of 1940, or any trustee, director, officer, employee, or volunteer of such a charitable organization
acting within the scope of such person’s employment or duties
with such organization, shall not be deemed to be a ‘‘broker’’,
‘‘dealer’’, ‘‘municipal securities broker’’, ‘‘municipal securities
dealer’’, ‘‘government securities broker’’, or ‘‘government securities dealer’’ for purposes of this title solely because such organization or person buys, holds, sells, or trades in securities for
its own account in its capacity as trustee or administrator of,
or otherwise on behalf of or for the account of—
(A) such a charitable organization;
(B) a fund that is excluded from the definition of an
investment company under section 3(c)(10)(B) of the Investment Company Act of 1940; or
(C) a trust or other donative instrument described in
section 3(c)(10)(B) of the Investment Company Act of 1940,
or the settlors (or potential settlors) or beneficiaries of any
such trust or other instrument.
(2) LIMITATION ON COMPENSATION.—The exemption provided under paragraph (1) shall not be available to any charitable organization, or any trustee, director, officer, employee,
or volunteer of such a charitable organization, unless each person who, on or after 90 days after the date of enactment of this
subsection, solicits donations on behalf of such charitable organization from any donor to a fund that is excluded from the
definition of an investment company under section 3(c)(10)(B)
of the Investment Company Act of 1940, is either a volunteer
or is engaged in the overall fund raising activities of a charitable organization and receives no commission or other special
compensation based on the number or the value of donations
collected for the fund.
(f) CONSIDERATION OF PROMOTION OF EFFICIENCY, COMPETITION, AND CAPITAL FORMATION.—Whenever pursuant to this title
the Commission is engaged in rulemaking, or in the review of a
rule of a self-regulatory organization, and is required to consider or
determine whether an action is necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, the Commission shall also consider, in addition to
the protection of investors, whether the action will promote efficiency, competition, and capital formation.
(g) CHURCH PLANS.—No church plan described in section
414(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, no person or entity
eligible to establish and maintain such a plan under the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, no company or account that is excluded
from the definition of an investment company under section
3(c)(14) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, and no trustee, director, officer or employee of or volunteer for such plan, company,
account, person, or entity, acting within the scope of that person’s
employment or activities with respect to such plan, shall be deemed
to be a ‘‘broker’’, ‘‘dealer’’, ‘‘municipal securities broker’’, ‘‘municipal
securities dealer’’, ‘‘government securities broker’’, ‘‘government se-

Sec. 3

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

40

curities dealer’’, ‘‘clearing agency’’, or ‘‘transfer agent’’ for purposes
of this title—
(1) solely because such plan, company, person, or entity
buys, holds, sells, trades in, or transfers securities or acts as
an intermediary in making payments in connection with transactions in securities for its own account in its capacity as trustee or administrator of, or otherwise on behalf of, or for the account of, any church plan, company, or account that is excluded from the definition of an investment company under
section 3(c)(14) of the Investment Company Act of 1940; and
(2) if no such person or entity receives a commission or
other transaction-related sales compensation in connection
with any activities conducted in reliance on the exemption provided by this subsection.
(h) LIMITED EXEMPTION FOR FUNDING PORTALS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall, by rule, exempt,
conditionally or unconditionally, a registered funding portal
from the requirement to register as a broker or dealer under
section 15(a)(1), provided that such funding portal—
(A) remains subject to the examination, enforcement,
and other rulemaking authority of the Commission;
(B) is a member of a national securities association
registered under section 15A; and
(C) is subject to such other requirements under this
title as the Commission determines appropriate under
such rule.
(2) NATIONAL SECURITIES ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP.—For
purposes of sections 15(b)(8) and 15A, the term ‘‘broker or dealer’’ includes a funding portal and the term ‘‘registered broker
or dealer’’ includes a registered funding portal, except to the
extent that the Commission, by rule, determines otherwise,
provided that a national securities association shall only examine for and enforce against a registered funding portal rules of
such national securities association written specifically for registered funding portals.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 3, 48 Stat. 882; Aug. 23, 1935,
ch. 614, Sec. 203(a), 49 Stat. 704; Proc. No. 2695, eff. July 4, 1946,
11 F.R. 7517, 60 Stat. 1352; June 25, 1959, Pub. L. 86-70, Sec.
12(b), 73 Stat. 143; July 12, 1960, Pub. L. 86-624, Sec. 7(b), 74
Stat. 412; Aug. 20, 1964, Pub. L. 88-467, Sec. 2, 78 Stat. 565; Aug.
10, 1970, Pub. L. 91-373, title IV, Sec. 401(b), 84 Stat. 718; Dec.
14, 1970, Pub. L. 91-547, Sec. 28(a), (b), 84 Stat. 1435; Dec. 22,
1970, Pub. L. 91-567, Sec. 6(b), 84 Stat. 1499; June 4, 1975, Pub.
L. 94-29, Sec. 3, 89 Stat. 97; May 21, 1978, Pub. L. 95-283, Sec.
16, 92 Stat. 274; Oct. 21, 1980, Pub. L. 96-477, title VII, Sec. 702,
94 Stat. 2295; Oct. 13, 1982, Pub. L. 97-303, Sec. 2, 96 Stat. 1409;
Aug. 10, 1984, Pub. L. 98-376, Sec. 6(a), 98 Stat. 1265; Oct. 3, 1984,
Pub. L. 98-440, title I, Sec. 101, 98 Stat. 1689; Oct. 22, 1986, Pub.
L. 99-514, Sec. 2, 100 Stat. 2095; Oct. 28, 1986, Pub. L. 99-571,
title I, Sec. 102(a)-(d), 100 Stat. 3214-3216; Dec. 4, 1987, Pub. L.
100-181, title III, Sec. 301-306, 101 Stat. 1253, 1254; Nov. 19, 1988,
Pub. L. 100-704, Sec. 6(a), 102 Stat. 4681; Aug. 9, 1989, Pub. L.
101-73, title VII, Sec. 744(u)(1), 103 Stat. 441; Oct. 15, 1990, Pub.

41

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3A

L. 101-429, title V, Sec. 503, 104 Stat. 952; Nov. 15, 1990, Pub. L.
101-550, title II, Sec. 203(b), 204, 104 Stat. 2717, 2718; Dec. 17,
1993, Pub. L. 103-202, title I, Sec. 106(b)(2)(A), 109(a), 107 Stat.
2350, 2352; Sept. 23, 1994, Pub. L. 103-325, title II, Sec. 202, title
III, Sec. 347(a), 108 Stat. 2198, 2241; Dec. 8, 1995, Pub. L. 104-62,
Sec. 4(a), (b), 109 Stat. 684; Oct. 11, 1996, Pub. L. 104-290, title
I, Sec. 106(b), title V, Sec. 508(c), 110 Stat. 3424, 3447; Nov. 3,
1998, Pub. L. 105-353, title III, Sec. 301(b)(1)-(4), 112 Stat. 3235,
3236; Nov. 12, 1999, Pub. L. 106-102, title II, Secs. 201, 202, 207,
208, 221(b), 231(b)(1), 113 Stat. 1385, 1390, 1394, 1395, 1401, 1406;
Dec. 21, 2000, Pub. L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5) [title II, Sec. 201], 114
Stat. 2763, 2763A-413; Pub. L. 107-204, Sec. 2(b), title II, Sec.
205(a), title VI, Sec. 604(c)(1)(A), July 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 749, 773,
796; Pub. L. 108-359, Sec. 1(c)(1), Oct. 25, 2004 118 Stat. 1666;
Pub. L. 108-386, Sec. 8(f)(1)-(3), Oct. 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 2232; Pub.
L. 108-447, div. H, title V, Sec. 520(1), Dec. 8, 2004, 118 Stat. 3267;
Pub. L. 109-291, Sec. 3(a), Sept. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 1328; Pub. L.
109-351, title I, Sec. 101(a)(1), title IV, Sec. 401(a)(1), (2), Oct. 13,
2006, 120 Stat. 1968, 1971, 1972; Pub. L. 111-203, title III, Sec.
376(1), title VII, Sec. 761(a), title IX, Secs. 932(b), 939(e), 941(a),
944(b), 985(b)(2), 986(a)(1), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1566, 1754,
1883, 1886, 1890, 1898, 1933, 1935; Pub. L. 112-106, title I, Sec.
101(b), title III, Sec. 304(a)(1), (b), Apr. 5, 2012, 126 Stat. 307, 321,
322.)
SEC. 3A. SWAP AGREEMENTS.

(a) [Reserved]
(b) SECURITY-BASED SWAP AGREEMENTS.—
(1) The definition of ‘‘security’’ in section 3(a)(10) of this
title does not include any security-based swap agreement.
(2) The Commission is prohibited from registering, or requiring, recommending, or suggesting, the registration under
this title of any security-based swap agreement. If the Commission becomes aware that a registrant has filed a registration
application with respect to such a swap agreement, the Commission shall promptly so notify the registrant. Any such registration with respect to such a swap agreement shall be void
and of no force or effect.
(3) Except as provided in section 16(a) with respect to reporting requirements, the Commission is prohibited from—
(A) promulgating, interpreting, or enforcing rules; or
(B) issuing orders of general applicability; under this
title in a manner that imposes or specifies reporting or recordkeeping requirements, procedures, or standards as prophylactic measures against fraud, manipulation, or insider
trading with respect to any security-based swap agreement.
(4) References in this title to the ‘‘purchase’’ or ‘‘sale’’ of a
security-based swap agreement shall be deemed to mean the
execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date),
assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of, or
extinguishing of rights or obligations under, a security-based
swap agreement, as the context may require.

Sec. 3B

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

42

(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 3A, as added Pub. L. 106-554,
Sec. 1(a)(5) [title III, Sec. 303(a)], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763,
2763A-452; Pub. L. 111-203, title VII, Sec. 761(d)(1), July 21, 2010,
124 Stat. 1760.)
SEC. 3B. SECURITIES-RELATED DERIVATIVES.

(a) Any agreement, contract, or transaction (or class thereof)
that is exempted by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
pursuant to section 4(c)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7
U.S.C. 6(c)(1)) with the condition that the Commission exercise concurrent jurisdiction over such agreement, contract, or transaction
(or class thereof) shall be deemed a security for purposes of the securities laws.
(b) With respect to any agreement, contract, or transaction (or
class thereof) that is exempted by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission pursuant to section 4(c)(1) of the Commodity Exchange
Act (7 U.S.C. 6(c)(1)) with the condition that the Commission exercise concurrent jurisdiction over such agreement, contract, or transaction (or class thereof), references in the securities laws to the
‘‘purchase’’ or ‘‘sale’’ of a security shall be deemed to include the
execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date), assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations under such agreement, contract, or
transaction, as the context may require.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 3B, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title VII, Sec. 717(b), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1651.)
SEC. 3C. CLEARING FOR SECURITY-BASED SWAPS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) STANDARD FOR CLEARING.—It shall be

unlawful for any
person to engage in a security-based swap unless that person
submits such security-based swap for clearing to a clearing
agency that is registered under this Act or a clearing agency
that is exempt from registration under this Act if the securitybased swap is required to be cleared.
(2) OPEN ACCESS.—The rules of a clearing agency described
in paragraph (1) shall—
(A) prescribe that all security-based swaps submitted
to the clearing agency with the same terms and conditions
are economically equivalent within the clearing agency and
may be offset with each other within the clearing agency;
and
(B) provide for non-discriminatory clearing of a security-based swap executed bilaterally or on or through the
rules of an unaffiliated national securities exchange or security-based swap execution facility.
(b) COMMISSION REVIEW.—
(1) COMMISSION-INITIATED REVIEW.—
(A) The Commission on an ongoing basis shall review
each security-based swap, or any group, category, type, or
class of security-based swaps to make a determination that

43

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3C

such security-based swap, or group, category, type, or class
of security-based swaps should be required to be cleared.
(B) The Commission shall provide at least a 30-day
public comment period regarding any determination under
subparagraph (A).
(2) SWAP SUBMISSIONS.—
(A) A clearing agency shall submit to the Commission
each security-based swap, or any group, category, type, or
class of security-based swaps that it plans to accept for
clearing and provide notice to its members (in a manner
to be determined by the Commission) of such submission.
(B) Any security-based swap or group, category, type,
or class of security-based swaps listed for clearing by a
clearing agency as of the date of enactment of this subsection shall be considered submitted to the Commission.
(C) The Commission shall—
(i) make available to the public any submission received under subparagraphs (A) and (B);
(ii) review each submission made under subparagraphs (A) and (B), and determine whether the security-based swap, or group, category, type, or class of
security-based swaps, described in the submission is
required to be cleared; and
(iii) provide at least a 30-day public comment period regarding its determination whether the clearing
requirement under subsection (a)(1) shall apply to the
submission.
(3) DEADLINE.—The Commission shall make its determination under paragraph (2)(C) not later than 90 days after receiving a submission made under paragraphs (2)(A) and (2)(B), unless the submitting clearing agency agrees to an extension for
the time limitation established under this paragraph.
(4) DETERMINATION.—
(A) In reviewing a submission made under paragraph
(2), the Commission shall review whether the submission
is consistent with section 17A.
(B) In reviewing a security-based swap, group of security-based swaps or class of security-based swaps pursuant
to paragraph (1) or a submission made under paragraph
(2), the Commission shall take into account the following
factors:
(i) The existence of significant outstanding notional exposures, trading liquidity and adequate pricing data.
(ii) The availability of rule framework, capacity,
operational expertise and resources, and credit support infrastructure to clear the contract on terms that
are consistent with the material terms and trading
conventions on which the contract is then traded.
(iii) The effect on the mitigation of systemic risk,
taking into account the size of the market for such
contract and the resources of the clearing agency
available to clear the contract.

Sec. 3C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

44

(iv) The effect on competition, including appropriate fees and charges applied to clearing.
(v) The existence of reasonable legal certainty in
the event of the insolvency of the relevant clearing
agency or 1 or more of its clearing members with regard to the treatment of customer and security-based
swap counterparty positions, funds, and property.
(C) In making a determination under subsection (b)(1)
or paragraph (2)(C) that the clearing requirement shall
apply, the Commission may require such terms and conditions to the requirement as the Commission determines to
be appropriate.
(5) RULES.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Commission shall adopt rules for
a clearing agency’s submission for review, pursuant to this subsection, of a security-based swap, or a group, category, type, or
class of security-based swaps, that it seeks to accept for clearing. Nothing in this paragraph limits the Commission from
making a determination under paragraph (2)(C) for securitybased swaps described in paragraph (2)(B).
(c) STAY OF CLEARING REQUIREMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—After making a determination pursuant
to subsection (b)(2), the Commission, on application of a
counterparty to a security-based swap or on its own initiative,
may stay the clearing requirement of subsection (a)(1) until the
Commission completes a review of the terms of the securitybased swap (or the group, category, type, or class of securitybased swaps) and the clearing arrangement.
(2) DEADLINE.—The Commission shall complete a review
undertaken pursuant to paragraph (1) not later than 90 days
after issuance of the stay, unless the clearing agency that
clears the security-based swap, or group, category, type, or
class of security-based swaps, agrees to an extension of the
time limitation established under this paragraph.
(3) DETERMINATION.—Upon completion of the review undertaken pursuant to paragraph (1), the Commission may—
(A) determine, unconditionally or subject to such
terms and conditions as the Commission determines to be
appropriate, that the security-based swap, or group, category, type, or class of security-based swaps, must be
cleared pursuant to this subsection if it finds that such
clearing is consistent with subsection (b)(4); or
(B) determine that the clearing requirement of subsection (a)(1) shall not apply to the security-based swap, or
group, category, type, or class of security-based swaps.
(4) RULES.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Commission shall adopt rules for
reviewing, pursuant to this subsection, a clearing agency’s
clearing of a security-based swap, or a group, category, type, or
class of security-based swaps, that it has accepted for clearing.
(d) PREVENTION OF EVASION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall prescribe rules
under this section (and issue interpretations of rules prescribed
under this section), as determined by the Commission to be

45

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3C

necessary to prevent evasions of the mandatory clearing requirements under this Act.
(2) DUTY OF COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE AND TAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS.—To the extent the Commission finds that a particular security-based swap or any group, category, type, or
class of security-based swaps that would otherwise be subject
to mandatory clearing but no clearing agency has listed the security-based swap or the group, category, type, or class of security-based swaps for clearing, the Commission shall—
(A) investigate the relevant facts and circumstances;
(B) within 30 days issue a public report containing the
results of the investigation; and
(C) take such actions as the Commission determines to
be necessary and in the public interest, which may include
requiring the retaining of adequate margin or capital by
parties to the security-based swap or the group, category,
type, or class of security-based swaps.
(3) EFFECT ON AUTHORITY.—Nothing in this subsection—
(A) authorizes the Commission to adopt rules requiring a clearing agency to list for clearing a security-based
swap or any group, category, type, or class of securitybased swaps if the clearing of the security-based swap or
the group, category, type, or class of security-based swaps
would threaten the financial integrity of the clearing agency; and
(B) affects the authority of the Commission to enforce
the open access provisions of subsection (a)(2) with respect
to a security-based swap or the group, category, type, or
class of security-based swaps that is listed for clearing by
a clearing agency.
(e) REPORTING TRANSITION RULES.—Rules adopted by the Commission under this section shall provide for the reporting of data,
as follows:
(1) Security-based swaps entered into before the date of
the enactment of this section shall be reported to a registered
security-based swap data repository or the Commission no
later than 180 days after the effective date of this section.
(2) Security-based swaps entered into on or after such date
of enactment shall be reported to a registered security-based
swap data repository or the Commission no later than the later
of—
(A) 90 days after such effective date; or
(B) such other time after entering into the securitybased swap as the Commission may prescribe by rule or
regulation.
(f) CLEARING TRANSITION RULES.—
(1) Security-based swaps entered into before the date of
the enactment of this section are exempt from the clearing requirements of this subsection if reported pursuant to subsection (e)(1).
(2) Security-based swaps entered into before application of
the clearing requirement pursuant to this section are exempt
from the clearing requirements of this section if reported pursuant to subsection (e)(2).

Sec. 3C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

46

(g) EXCEPTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The requirements of subsection (a)(1)
shall not apply to a security-based swap if 1 of the
counterparties to the security-based swap—
(A) is not a financial entity;
(B) is using security-based swaps to hedge or mitigate
commercial risk; and
(C) notifies the Commission, in a manner set forth by
the Commission, how it generally meets its financial obligations associated with entering into non-cleared securitybased swaps.
(2) OPTION TO CLEAR.—The application of the clearing exception in paragraph (1) is solely at the discretion of the
counterparty to the security-based swap that meets the conditions of subparagraphs (A) through (C) of paragraph (1).
(3) FINANCIAL ENTITY DEFINITION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—For the purposes of this subsection,
the term ‘‘financial entity’’ means—
(i) a swap dealer;
(ii) a security-based swap dealer;
(iii) a major swap participant;
(iv) a major security-based swap participant;
(v) a commodity pool as defined in section 1a(10)
of the Commodity Exchange Act;
(vi) a private fund as defined in section 202(a) of
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80-b2(a) [17]);
(vii) an employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002);
(viii) a person predominantly engaged in activities
that are in the business of banking or financial in nature, as defined in section 4(k) of the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956.
(B) EXCLUSION.—The Commission shall consider
whether to exempt small banks, savings associations, farm
credit system institutions, and credit unions, including—
(i) depository institutions with total assets of
$10,000,000,000 or less;
(ii) farm credit system institutions with total assets of $10,000,000,000 or less; or
(iii) credit unions with total assets of
$10,000,000,000 or less.
(4) TREATMENT OF AFFILIATES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—An affiliate of a person that qualifies for an exception under this subsection (including affiliate entities predominantly engaged in providing financing
for the purchase of the merchandise or manufactured
goods of the person) may qualify for the exception only if
the affiliate, acting on behalf of the person and as an
agent, uses the security-based swap to hedge or mitigate
17So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘80b-2(a)’’.

47

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3C

the commercial risk of the person or other affiliate of the
person that is not a financial entity.
(B) PROHIBITION RELATING TO CERTAIN AFFILIATES.—
The exception in subparagraph (A) shall not apply if the
affiliate is—
(i) a swap dealer;
(ii) a security-based swap dealer;
(iii) a major swap participant;
(iv) a major security-based swap participant;
(v) an issuer that would be an investment company, as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3), but for paragraph
(1) or (7) of subsection (c) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a3(c));
(vi) a commodity pool; or
(vii) a bank holding company with over
$50,000,000,000 in consolidated assets.
(C) TRANSITION RULE FOR AFFILIATES.—An affiliate,
subsidiary, or a wholly owned entity of a person that qualifies for an exception under subparagraph (A) and is predominantly engaged in providing financing for the purchase or lease of merchandise or manufactured goods of
the person shall be exempt from the margin requirement
described in section 15F(e) and the clearing requirement
described in subsection (a) with regard to security-based
swaps entered into to mitigate the risk of the financing activities for not less than a 2-year period beginning on the
date of enactment of this subparagraph.
(5) ELECTION OF COUNTERPARTY.—
(A) SECURITY-BASED SWAPS REQUIRED TO BE
CLEARED.—With respect to any security-based swap that is
subject to the mandatory clearing requirement under subsection (a) and entered into by a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant with a
counterparty that is not a swap dealer, major swap participant, security-based swap dealer, or major security-based
swap participant, the counterparty shall have the sole
right to select the clearing agency at which the securitybased swap will be cleared.
(B) SECURITY-BASED SWAPS NOT REQUIRED TO BE
CLEARED.— With respect to any security-based swap that
is not subject to the mandatory clearing requirement
under subsection (a) and entered into by a security-based
swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant
with a counterparty that is not a swap dealer, major swap
participant, security-based swap dealer, or major securitybased swap participant, the counterparty—
(i) may elect to require clearing of the securitybased swap; and
(ii) shall have the sole right to select the clearing
agency at which the security-based swap will be
cleared.
(6) ABUSE OF EXCEPTION.—The Commission may prescribe
such rules or issue interpretations of the rules as the Commis-

Sec. 3C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

48

sion determines to be necessary to prevent abuse of the exceptions described in this subsection. The Commission may also
request information from those persons claiming the clearing
exception as necessary to prevent abuse of the exceptions described in this subsection.
(h) TRADE EXECUTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—With respect to transactions involving security-based swaps subject to the clearing requirement of subsection (a)(1), counterparties shall—
(A) execute the transaction on an exchange; or
(B) execute the transaction on a security-based swap
execution facility registered under section 3D or a securitybased swap execution facility that is exempt from registration under section 3D(e).
(2) EXCEPTION.—The requirements of subparagraphs (A)
and (B) of paragraph (1) shall not apply if no exchange or security-based swap execution facility makes the security-based
swap available to trade or for security-based swap transactions
subject to the clearing exception under subsection (g).
(i) BOARD APPROVAL.—Exemptions from the requirements of
this section to clear a security-based swap or execute a securitybased swap through a national securities exchange or securitybased swap execution facility shall be available to a counterparty
that is an issuer of securities that are registered under section 12
or that is required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d), only if
an appropriate committee of the issuer’s board or governing body
has reviewed and approved the issuer’s decision to enter into security-based swaps that are subject to such exemptions.
(j) DESIGNATION OF CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each registered clearing agency shall
designate an individual to serve as a chief compliance officer.
(2) DUTIES.—The chief compliance officer shall—
(A) report directly to the board or to the senior officer
of the clearing agency;
(B) in consultation with its board, a body performing
a function similar thereto, or the senior officer of the registered clearing agency, resolve any conflicts of interest
that may arise;
(C) be responsible for administering each policy and
procedure that is required to be established pursuant to
this section;
(D) ensure compliance with this title (including regulations issued under this title) relating to agreements, contracts, or transactions, including each rule prescribed by
the Commission under this section;
(E) establish procedures for the remediation of noncompliance issues identified by the compliance officer
through any—
(i) compliance office review;
(ii) look-back;
(iii) internal or external audit finding;
(iv) self-reported error; or
(v) validated complaint; and

49

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3D

(F) establish and follow appropriate procedures for the
handling, management response, remediation, retesting,
and closing of noncompliance issues.
(3) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with rules prescribed
by the Commission, the chief compliance officer shall annually prepare and sign a report that contains a description of—
(i) the compliance of the registered clearing agency or security-based swap execution facility of the compliance officer with respect to this title (including regulations under this title); and
(ii) each policy and procedure of the registered
clearing agency of the compliance officer (including the
code of ethics and conflict of interest policies of the
registered clearing agency).
(B) REQUIREMENTS.—A compliance report under subparagraph (A) shall—
(i) accompany each appropriate financial report of
the registered clearing agency that is required to be
furnished to the Commission pursuant to this section;
and
(ii) include a certification that, under penalty of
law, the compliance report is accurate and complete.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 3C, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title VII, Sec. 763(a), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1762.)
SEC. 3D. SECURITY-BASED SWAP EXECUTION FACILITIES.
(a) REGISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No person may operate a facility

for the
trading or processing of security-based swaps, unless the facility is registered as a security-based swap execution facility or
as a national securities exchange under this section.
(2) DUAL REGISTRATION.—Any person that is registered as
a security-based swap execution facility under this section
shall register with the Commission regardless of whether the
person also is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission as a swap execution facility.
(b) TRADING AND TRADE PROCESSING.—A security-based swap
execution facility that is registered under subsection (a) may—
(1) make available for trading any security-based swap;
and
(2) facilitate trade processing of any security-based swap.
(c) IDENTIFICATION OF FACILITY USED TO TRADE SECURITYBASED SWAPS BY NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES.—A national
securities exchange shall, to the extent that the exchange also operates a security-based swap execution facility and uses the same
electronic trade execution system for listing and executing trades
of security-based swaps on or through the exchange and the facility, identify whether electronic trading of such security-based
swaps is taking place on or through the national securities exchange or the security-based swap execution facility.

Sec. 3D

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

50

(d) CORE PRINCIPLES FOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP EXECUTION
FACILITIES.—
(1) COMPLIANCE WITH CORE PRINCIPLES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—To be registered, and maintain registration, as a security-based swap execution facility, the
security-based swap execution facility shall comply with—
(i) the core principles described in this subsection;
and
(ii) any requirement that the Commission may impose by rule or regulation.
(B) REASONABLE DISCRETION OF SECURITY-BASED SWAP
EXECUTION FACILITY.—Unless otherwise determined by the
Commission, by rule or regulation, a security-based swap
execution facility described in subparagraph (A) shall have
reasonable discretion in establishing the manner in which
it complies with the core principles described in this subsection.
(2) COMPLIANCE WITH RULES.—A security-based swap execution facility shall—
(A) establish and enforce compliance with any rule established by such security-based swap execution facility,
including—
(i) the terms and conditions of the security-based
swaps traded or processed on or through the facility;
and
(ii) any limitation on access to the facility;
(B) establish and enforce trading, trade processing,
and participation rules that will deter abuses and have the
capacity to detect, investigate, and enforce those rules, including means—
(i) to provide market participants with impartial
access to the market; and
(ii) to capture information that may be used in establishing whether rule violations have occurred; and
(C) establish rules governing the operation of the facility, including rules specifying trading procedures to be
used in entering and executing orders traded or posted on
the facility, including block trades.
(3) SECURITY-BASED SWAPS NOT READILY SUSCEPTIBLE TO
MANIPULATION.—The security-based swap execution facility
shall permit trading only in security-based swaps that are not
readily susceptible to manipulation.
(4) MONITORING OF TRADING AND TRADE PROCESSING.—The
security-based swap execution facility shall—
(A) establish and enforce rules or terms and conditions
defining, or specifications detailing—
(i) trading procedures to be used in entering and
executing orders traded on or through the facilities of
the security-based swap execution facility; and
(ii) procedures for trade processing of securitybased swaps on or through the facilities of the
security- based swap execution facility; and
(B) monitor trading in security-based swaps to prevent
manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions of the deliv-

51

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3D

ery or cash settlement process through surveillance, compliance, and disciplinary practices and procedures, including methods for conducting real-time monitoring of trading
and comprehensive and accurate trade reconstructions.
(5) ABILITY TO OBTAIN INFORMATION.—The security-based
swap execution facility shall—
(A) establish and enforce rules that will allow the facility to obtain any necessary information to perform any
of the functions described in this subsection;
(B) provide the information to the Commission on request; and
(C) have the capacity to carry out such international
information-sharing agreements as the Commission may
require.
(6) FINANCIAL INTEGRITY OF TRANSACTIONS.—The securitybased swap execution facility shall establish and enforce rules
and procedures for ensuring the financial integrity of securitybased swaps entered on or through the facilities of the security-based swap execution facility, including the clearance and
settlement of security-based swaps pursuant to section
3C(a)(1).
(7) EMERGENCY AUTHORITY.—The security-based swap execution facility shall adopt rules to provide for the exercise of
emergency authority, in consultation or cooperation with the
Commission, as is necessary and appropriate, including the authority to liquidate or transfer open positions in any securitybased swap or to suspend or curtail trading in a security-based
swap.
(8) TIMELY PUBLICATION OF TRADING INFORMATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The security-based swap execution
facility shall make public timely information on price,
trading volume, and other trading data on security-based
swaps to the extent prescribed by the Commission.
(B) CAPACITY OF SECURITY-BASED SWAP EXECUTION FACILITY.— The security-based swap execution facility shall
be required to have the capacity to electronically capture
and transmit and disseminate trade information with respect to transactions executed on or through the facility.
(9) RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A security-based swap execution facility shall—
(i) maintain records of all activities relating to the
business of the facility, including a complete audit
trail, in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission for a period of 5 years; and
(ii) report to the Commission, in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission, such information as
the Commission determines to be necessary or appropriate for the Commission to perform the duties of the
Commission under this title.
(B) REQUIREMENTS.—The Commission shall adopt data
collection and reporting requirements for security-based
swap execution facilities that are comparable to cor-

Sec. 3D

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

52

responding requirements for clearing agencies and security-based swap data repositories.
(10) ANTITRUST CONSIDERATIONS.—Unless necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of this title, the securitybased swap execution facility shall not—
(A) adopt any rules or taking [18] any actions that result in any unreasonable restraint of trade; or
(B) impose any material anticompetitive burden on
trading or clearing.
(11) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.—The security-based swap
execution facility shall—
(A) establish and enforce rules to minimize conflicts of
interest in its decision-making process; and
(B) establish a process for resolving the conflicts of interest.
(12) FINANCIAL RESOURCES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The security-based swap execution
facility shall have adequate financial, operational, and
managerial resources to discharge each responsibility of
the security-based swap execution facility, as determined
by the Commission.
(B) DETERMINATION OF RESOURCE ADEQUACY.—The financial resources of a security-based swap execution facility shall be considered to be adequate if the value of the
financial resources—
(i) enables the organization to meet its financial
obligations to its members and participants notwithstanding a default by the member or participant creating the largest financial exposure for that organization in extreme but plausible market conditions; and
(ii) exceeds the total amount that would enable
the security-based swap execution facility to cover the
operating costs of the security-based swap execution
facility for a 1-year period, as calculated on a rolling
basis.
(13) SYSTEM SAFEGUARDS.—The security-based swap execution facility shall—
(A) establish and maintain a program of risk analysis
and oversight to identify and minimize sources of operational risk, through the development of appropriate controls and procedures, and automated systems, that—
(i) are reliable and secure; and
(ii) have adequate scalable capacity;
(B) establish and maintain emergency procedures,
backup facilities, and a plan for disaster recovery that
allow for—
(i) the timely recovery and resumption of operations; and
(ii) the fulfillment of the responsibilities and obligations of the security-based swap execution facility;
and
18So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘take’’.

53

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3D

(C) periodically conduct tests to verify that the backup
resources of the security-based swap execution facility are
sufficient to ensure continued—
(i) order processing and trade matching;
(ii) price reporting;
(iii) market surveillance; and
(iv) maintenance of a comprehensive and accurate
audit trail.
(14) DESIGNATION OF CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Each security-based swap execution
facility shall designate an individual to serve as a chief
compliance officer.
(B) DUTIES.—The chief compliance officer shall—
(i) report directly to the board or to the senior officer of the facility;
(ii) review compliance with the core principles in
this subsection;
(iii) in consultation with the board of the facility,
a body performing a function similar to that of a
board, or the senior officer of the facility, resolve any
conflicts of interest that may arise;
(iv) be responsible for establishing and administering the policies and procedures required to be established pursuant to this section;
(v) ensure compliance with this title and the rules
and regulations issued under this title, including rules
prescribed by the Commission pursuant to this section;
(vi) establish procedures for the remediation of
noncompliance issues found during—
(I) compliance office reviews;
(II) look backs;
(III) internal or external audit findings;
(IV) self-reported errors; or
(V) through validated complaints; and
(vii) establish and follow appropriate procedures
for the handling, management response, remediation,
retesting, and closing of noncompliance issues.
(C) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with rules prescribed by the Commission, the chief compliance officer shall annually prepare and sign a report that contains a description of—
(I) the compliance of the security-based swap
execution facility with this title; and
(II) the policies and procedures, including the
code of ethics and conflict of interest policies, of
the security-based security-based [19] swap execution facility.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—The chief compliance officer
shall—
19So

in original.

Sec. 3E

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

54

(I) submit each report described in clause (i)
with the appropriate financial report of the
security- based swap execution facility that is required to be submitted to the Commission pursuant to this section; and
(II) include in the report a certification that,
under penalty of law, the report is accurate and
complete.
(e) EXEMPTIONS.—The Commission may exempt, conditionally
or unconditionally, a security-based swap execution facility from
registration under this section if the Commission finds that the facility is subject to comparable, comprehensive supervision and regulation on a consolidated basis by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.
(f) RULES.—The Commission shall prescribe rules governing
the regulation of security-based swap execution facilities under this
section.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 3D, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title VII, Sec. 763(c), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1769.)
SEC. 3E. SEGREGATION OF ASSETS HELD AS COLLATERAL IN SECURITY-BASED SWAP TRANSACTIONS.
(a) REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.—It shall be unlawful for any

person to accept any money, securities, or property (or to extend
any credit in lieu of money, securities, or property) from, for, or on
behalf of a security-based swaps customer to margin, guarantee, or
secure a security-based swap cleared by or through a clearing agency (including money, securities, or property accruing to the customer as the result of such a security-based swap), unless the person shall have registered under this title with the Commission as
a broker, dealer, or security-based swap dealer, and the registration shall not have expired nor been suspended nor revoked.
(b) CLEARED SECURITY-BASED SWAPS.—
(1) SEGREGATION REQUIRED.—A broker, dealer, or securitybased swap dealer shall treat and deal with all money, securities, and property of any security-based swaps customer received to margin, guarantee, or secure a security-based swap
cleared by or though [20] a clearing agency (including money,
securities, or property accruing to the security-based swaps
customer as the result of such a security-based swap) as belonging to the security-based swaps customer.
(2) COMMINGLING PROHIBITED.—Money, securities, and
property of a security-based swaps customer described in paragraph (1) shall be separately accounted for and shall not be
commingled with the funds of the broker, dealer, or securitybased swap dealer or be used to margin, secure, or guarantee
any trades or contracts of any security-based swaps customer
or person other than the person for whom the same are held.
(c) EXCEPTIONS.—
(1) USE OF FUNDS.—
20So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘through’’.

55

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 3E

(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsection (b),
money, securities, and property of a security-based swaps
customer of a broker, dealer, or security-based swap dealer
described in subsection (b) may, for convenience, be commingled and deposited in the same 1 or more accounts
with any bank or trust company or with a clearing agency.
(B) WITHDRAWAL.—Notwithstanding subsection (b),
such share of the money, securities, and property described
in subparagraph (A) as in the normal course of business
shall be necessary to margin, guarantee, secure, transfer,
adjust, or settle a cleared security-based swap with a
clearing agency, or with any member of the clearing agency, may be withdrawn and applied to such purposes, including the payment of commissions, brokerage, interest,
taxes, storage, and other charges, lawfully accruing in connection with the cleared security-based swap.
(2) COMMISSION ACTION.—Notwithstanding subsection (b),
in accordance with such terms and conditions as the Commission may prescribe by rule, regulation, or order, any money, securities, or property of the security-based swaps customer of a
broker, dealer, or security-based swap dealer described in subsection (b) may be commingled and deposited as provided in
this section with any other money, securities, or property received by the broker, dealer, or security-based swap dealer and
required by the Commission to be separately accounted for and
treated and dealt with as belonging to the security-based
swaps customer of the broker, dealer, or security-based swap
dealer.
(d) PERMITTED INVESTMENTS.—Money described in subsection
(b) may be invested in obligations of the United States, in general
obligations of any State or of any political subdivision of a State,
and in obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by
the United States, or in any other investment that the Commission
may by rule or regulation prescribe, and such investments shall be
made in accordance with such rules and regulations and subject to
such conditions as the Commission may prescribe.
(e) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for any person, including any clearing agency and any depository institution, that has received any money, securities, or property for deposit in a separate
account or accounts as provided in subsection (b) to hold, dispose
of, or use any such money, securities, or property as belonging to
the depositing broker, dealer, or security-based swap dealer or any
person other than the swaps customer of the broker, dealer, or security-based swap dealer.
(f) SEGREGATION REQUIREMENTS FOR UNCLEARED SECURITYBASED SWAPS.—
(1) SEGREGATION OF ASSETS HELD AS COLLATERAL IN
UNCLEARED SECURITY-BASED SWAP TRANSACTIONS.—
(A) NOTIFICATION.—A security-based swap dealer or
major security-based swap participant shall be required to
notify the counterparty of the security-based swap dealer
or major security-based swap participant at the beginning
of a security-based swap transaction that the counterparty
has the right to require segregation of the funds of other

Sec. 3E

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

56

property supplied to margin, guarantee, or secure the obligations of the counterparty.
(B) SEGREGATION AND MAINTENANCE OF FUNDS.—At
the request of a counterparty to a security-based swap that
provides funds or other property to a security-based swap
dealer or major security-based swap participant to margin,
guarantee, or secure the obligations of the counterparty,
the security-based swap dealer or major security-based
swap participant shall—
(i) segregate the funds or other property for the
benefit of the counterparty; and
(ii) in accordance with such rules and regulations
as the Commission may promulgate, maintain the
funds or other property in a segregated account separate from the assets and other interests of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap
participant.
(2) APPLICABILITY.—The requirements described in paragraph (1) shall—
(A) apply only to a security-based swap between a
counterparty and a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that is not submitted for
clearing to a clearing agency; and
(B)(i) not apply to variation margin payments; or
(ii) not preclude any commercial arrangement regarding—
(I) the investment of segregated funds or other
property that may only be invested in such investments as the Commission may permit by rule or regulation; and
(II) the related allocation of gains and losses resulting from any investment of the segregated funds
or other property.
(3) USE OF INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY CUSTODIANS.—The
segregated account described in paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) carried by an independent third-party custodian;
and
(B) designated as a segregated account for and on behalf of the counterparty.
(4) REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—If the counterparty does
not choose to require segregation of the funds or other property
supplied to margin, guarantee, or secure the obligations of the
counterparty, the security-based swap dealer or major securitybased swap participant shall report to the counterparty of the
security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant on a quarterly basis that the back office procedures of
the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap
participant relating to margin and collateral requirements are
in compliance with the agreement of the counterparties.
(g) BANKRUPTCY.—A security-based swap, as defined in section
3(a)(68) shall be considered to be a security as such term is used
in section 101(53A)(B) and subchapter III of title 11, United States

57

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 4

Code. [21] An account that holds a security-based swap, other than
a portfolio margining account referred to in section 15(c)(3)(C) shall
be considered to be a securities account, as that term is defined in
section 741 of title 11, United States Code. The definitions of the
terms ‘‘purchase’’ and ‘‘sale’’ in section 3(a)(13) and (14) shall be applied to the terms ‘‘purchase’’ and ‘‘sale’’, as used in section 741 of
title 11, United States Code. The term ‘‘customer’’, as defined in
section 741 of title 11, United States Code, excludes any person, to
the extent that such person has a claim based on any open repurchase agreement, open reverse repurchase agreement, stock borrowed agreement, non-cleared option, or non-cleared security-based
swap except to the extent of any margin delivered to or by the customer with respect to which there is a customer protection requirement under section 15(c)(3) or a segregation requirement.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 3E, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title VII, Sec. 763(d), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1774.)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SEC. 4. (a) There is hereby established a Securities and Exchange Commission (hereinafter referred to as the ‘‘Commission’’)
to be composed of five commissioners to be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Not more
than three of such commissioners shall be members of the same political party, and in making appointments members of different political parties shall be appointed alternately as nearly as may be
practicable. No commissioner shall engage in any other business,
vocation, or employment than that of serving as commissioner, nor
shall any commissioner participate, directly or indirectly, in any
stock-market operations or transactions of a character subject to
regulation by the Commission pursuant to this title. Each commissioner shall hold office for a term of five years and until his successor is appointed and has qualified, except that he shall not so
continue to serve beyond the expiration of the next session of Congress subsequent to the expiration of said fixed term of office, and
except (1) any commissioner appointed to fill a vacancy occurring
prior to the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was
appointed shall be appointed for the remainder of such term, and
(2) the terms of office of the commissioners first taking office after
the enactment of this title shall expire as designated by the President at the time of nomination, one at the end of one year, one at
the end of two years, one at the end of three years, one at the end
of four years, and one at the end of five years, after the date of the
enactment of this title.
(b) APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION OF STAFF AND LEASING
AUTHORITY.—
(1) APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.—The Commission
shall appoint and compensate officers, attorneys, economists,
examiners, and other employees in accordance with section
4802 of title 5, United States Code.
21So

in original.

Sec. 4

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

58

(2) REPORTING OF INFORMATION.—In establishing and adjusting schedules of compensation and benefits for officers, attorneys, economists, examiners, and other employees of the
Commission under applicable provisions of law, the Commission shall inform the heads of the agencies referred to under
section 1206 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 1833b) and Congress
of such compensation and benefits and shall seek to maintain
comparability with such agencies regarding compensation and
benefits.
(3) LEASING AUTHORITY.—Nothwithstanding [22] any other
provision of law, the Commission is authorized to enter directly
into leases for real property for office, meeting, storage, and
such other space as is necessary to carry out its functions, and
shall be exempt from any General Services Administration
space management regulations or directives.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in accordance
with regulations which the Commission shall prescribe to prevent
conflicts of interest, the Commission may accept payment and reimbursement, in cash or in kind, from non-Federal agencies, organizations, and individuals for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred by Commission members and employees
in attending meetings and conferences concerning the functions or
activities of the Commission. Any payment or reimbursement accepted shall be credited to the appropriated funds of the Commission. The amount of travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses for members and employees paid or reimbursed under this
subsection may exceed per diem amounts established in official
travel regulations, but the Commission may include in its regulations under this subsection a limitation on such amounts.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, former employers of participants in the Commission’s professional fellows programs may pay such participants their actual expenses for relocation to Washington, District of Columbia, to facilitate their participation in such programs, and program participants may accept
such payments.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever any
fee is required to be paid to the Commission pursuant to any provision of the securities laws or any other law, the Commission may
provide by rule that such fee shall be paid in a manner other than
in cash and the Commission may also specify the time that such
fee shall be determined and paid relative to the filing of any statement or document with the Commission.
(f) REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES FOR ASSISTING FOREIGN SECURITIES AUTHORITIES.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the Commission may accept payment and reimbursement, in
cash or in kind, from a foreign securities authority, or made on behalf of such authority, for necessary expenses incurred by the Commission, its members, and employees in carrying out any investigation pursuant to section 21(a)(2) of this title or in providing any
other assistance to a foreign securities authority. Any payment or
22So

in law. Probably should be ‘‘Notwithstanding’’.

59

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 4

reimbursement accepted shall be considered a reimbursement to
the appropriated funds of the Commission.
(g) OFFICE OF THE INVESTOR ADVOCATE.—
(1) OFFICE ESTABLISHED.—There is established within the
Commission the Office of the Investor Advocate (in this subsection referred to as the ‘‘Office’’).
(2) INVESTOR ADVOCATE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The head of the Office shall be the
Investor Advocate, who shall—
(i) report directly to the Chairman; and
(ii) be appointed by the Chairman, in consultation
with the Commission, from among individuals having
experience in advocating for the interests of investors
in securities and investor protection issues, from the
perspective of investors.
(B) COMPENSATION.—The annual rate of pay for the
Investor Advocate shall be equal to the highest rate of annual pay for other senior executives who report to the
Chairman of the Commission.
(C) LIMITATION ON SERVICE.—An individual who
serves as the Investor Advocate may not be employed by
the Commission—
(i) during the 2-year period ending on the date of
appointment as Investor Advocate; or
(ii) during the 5-year period beginning on the date
on which the person ceases to serve as the Investor
Advocate.
(3) STAFF OF OFFICE.—The Investor Advocate, after consultation with the Chairman of the Commission, may retain or
employ independent counsel, research staff, and service staff,
as the Investor Advocate deems necessary to carry out the
functions, powers, and duties of the Office.
(4) FUNCTIONS OF THE INVESTOR ADVOCATE.—The Investor
Advocate shall—
(A) assist retail investors in resolving significant problems such investors may have with the Commission or
with self-regulatory organizations;
(B) identify areas in which investors would benefit
from changes in the regulations of the Commission or the
rules of self-regulatory organizations;
(C) identify problems that investors have with financial service providers and investment products;
(D) analyze the potential impact on investors of—
(i) proposed regulations of the Commission; and
(ii) proposed rules of self-regulatory organizations
registered under this title; and
(E) to the extent practicable, propose to the Commission changes in the regulations or orders of the Commission and to Congress any legislative, administrative, or
personnel changes that may be appropriate to mitigate
problems identified under this paragraph and to promote
the interests of investors.
(5) ACCESS TO DOCUMENTS.—The Commission shall ensure
that the Investor Advocate has full access to the documents of

Sec. 4

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

60

the Commission and any self-regulatory organization, as necessary to carry out the functions of the Office.
(6) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
(A) REPORT ON OBJECTIVES.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than June 30 of each
year after 2010, the Investor Advocate shall submit to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial
Services of the House of Representatives a report on
the objectives of the Investor Advocate for the following fiscal year.
(ii) CONTENTS.—Each report required under clause
(i) shall contain full and substantive analysis and explanation.
(B) REPORT ON ACTIVITIES.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than December 31 of
each year after 2010, the Investor Advocate shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives a report on the activities of the Investor Advocate during
the immediately preceding fiscal year.
(ii) CONTENTS.—Each report required under clause
(i) shall include—
(I) appropriate statistical information and full
and substantive analysis;
(II) information on steps that the Investor Advocate has taken during the reporting period to
improve investor services and the responsiveness
of the Commission and self-regulatory organizations to investor concerns;
(III) a summary of the most serious problems
encountered by investors during the reporting period;
(IV) an inventory of the items described in
subclause (III) that includes—
(aa) identification of any action taken by
the Commission or the self-regulatory organization and the result of such action;
(bb) the length of time that each item has
remained on such inventory; and
(cc) for items on which no action has been
taken, the reasons for inaction, and an identification of any official who is responsible for
such action;
(V) recommendations for such administrative
and legislative actions as may be appropriate to
resolve problems encountered by investors; and
(VI) any other information, as determined appropriate by the Investor Advocate.
(iii) INDEPENDENCE.—Each report required under
this paragraph shall be provided directly to the Committees listed in clause (i) without any prior review or
comment from the Commission, any commissioner,

61

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 4

any other officer or employee of the Commission, or
the Office of Management and Budget.
(iv) CONFIDENTIALITY.—No report required under
clause (i) may contain confidential information.
(7) REGULATIONS.—The Commission shall, by regulation,
establish procedures requiring a formal response to all recommendations submitted to the Commission by the Investor
Advocate, not later than 3 months after the date of such submission.
(8) OMBUDSMAN.—
(A) APPOINTMENT.—Not later than 180 days after the
date on which the first Investor Advocate is appointed
under paragraph (2)(A)(i), [23] the Investor Advocate shall
appoint an Ombudsman, who shall report directly to the
Investor Advocate.
(B) DUTIES.—The Ombudsman appointed under subparagraph (A) shall—
(i) act as a liaison between the Commission and
any retail investor in resolving problems that retail investors may have with the Commission or with selfregulatory organizations;
(ii) review and make recommendations regarding
policies and procedures to encourage persons to
present questions to the Investor Advocate regarding
compliance with the securities laws; and
(iii) establish safeguards to maintain the confidentiality of communications between the persons described in clause (ii) and the Ombudsman.
(C) LIMITATION.—In carrying out the duties of the Ombudsman under subparagraph (B), the Ombudsman shall
utilize personnel of the Commission to the extent practicable. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as
replacing, altering, or diminishing the activities of any ombudsman or similar office of any other agency.
(D) REPORT.—The Ombudsman shall submit a semiannual report to the Investor Advocate that describes the
activities and evaluates the effectiveness of the Ombudsman during the preceding year. The Investor Advocate
shall include the reports required under this section in the
reports required to be submitted by the Inspector Advocate
under paragraph (6).
(h) EXAMINERS.—
(1) DIVISION OF TRADING AND MARKETS.—The Division of
Trading and Markets of the Commission, or any successor organizational unit, shall have a staff of examiners who shall—
(A) perform compliance inspections and examinations
of entities under the jurisdiction of that Division; and
(B) report to the Director of that Division.
(2) DIVISION OF INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT.—The Division
of Investment Management of the Commission, or any successor organizational unit, shall have a staff of examiners who
shall—
23So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘(2)(A)(ii),’’.

Sec. 4

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

62

(A) perform compliance inspections and examinations
of entities under the jurisdiction of that Division; and
(B) report to the Director of that Division.
(i) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION RESERVE FUND.—
(1) RESERVE FUND ESTABLISHED.—There is established in
the Treasury of the United States a separate fund, to be known
as the ‘‘Securities and Exchange Commission Reserve Fund’’
(referred to in this subsection as the ‘‘Reserve Fund’’).
(2) RESERVE FUND AMOUNTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph
(B), any registration fees collected by the Commission
under section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C.
77f(b)) or section 24(f) of the Investment Company Act of
1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(f)) shall be deposited into the Reserve Fund.
(B) LIMITATIONS.—For any 1 fiscal year—
(i) the amount deposited in the Fund may not exceed $50,000,000; and
(ii) the balance in the Fund may not exceed
$100,000,000.
(C) EXCESS FEES.—Any amounts in excess of the limitations described in subparagraph (B) that the Commission collects from registration fees under section 6(b) of the
Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77f(b)) or section 24(f) of
the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(f))
shall be deposited in the General Fund of the Treasury of
the United States and shall not be available for obligation
by the Commission.
(3) USE OF AMOUNTS IN RESERVE FUND.—The Commission
may obligate amounts in the Reserve Fund, not to exceed a
total of $100,000,000 in any 1 fiscal year, as the Commission
determines is necessary to carry out the functions of the Commission. Any amounts in the reserve fund shall remain available until expended. Not later than 10 days after the date on
which the Commission obligates amounts under this paragraph, the Commission shall notify Congress of the date,
amount, and purpose of the obligation.
(4) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Amounts collected and deposited in the Reserve Fund shall not be construed to be Government funds or appropriated monies and shall not be subject to
apportionment for the purpose of chapter 15 of title 31, United
States Code, or under any other authority.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 4, 48 Stat. 885; Oct. 28, 1949,
ch. 782, title XI, Sec. 1106(a), 63 Stat. 972; July 12, 1960, Pub. L.
86-619, Sec. 3, 74 Stat. 408; Sept. 13, 1960, Pub. L. 86-771, 74 Stat.
913; Aug. 14, 1964, Pub. L. 88-426, title III, Sec. 305(20), 78 Stat.
425; June 6, 1983, Pub. L. 98-38, Sec. 1, 97 Stat. 205; Dec. 4, 1987,
Pub. L. 100-181, title III, Sec. 307, 101 Stat. 1254; Nov. 15, 1990,
Pub. L. 101-550, title I, Sec. 103, title II, Sec. 207, 104 Stat. 2713,
2721; Oct. 11, 1996, Pub. L. 104-290, title IV, Sec. 406, 110 Stat.
3444; Nov. 3, 1998, Pub. L. 105-353, title II, Sec. 203, 112 Stat.
3234; Jan. 16, 2002, Pub. L. 107-123, Sec. 8(d)(2), 115 Stat. 2399;

63

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 4B

Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Secs. 915, 919D, 965, 991(e)(1), July 21,
2010, 124 Stat. 1830, 1911, 1954.)
DELEGATION OF FUNCTIONS BY COMMISSION

SEC. 4A. (a) In addition to its existing authority, the Securities
and Exchange Commission shall have the authority to delegate, by
published order or rule, any of its functions to a division of the
Commission, an individual Commissioner, an administrative law
judge, or an employee or employee board, including functions with
respect to hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting, or
otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter. Nothing in
this section shall be deemed to supersede the provisions of section
556(b) of title 5, or to authorize the delegation of the function of
rulemaking as defined in subchapter II of chapter 5 title 5, United
States Code, with reference to general rules as distinguished from
rules of particular applicability, or of the making of any rule pursuant to section 19(c) of this title.
(b) With respect to the delegation of any of its functions, as
provided in subsection (a) of this section, the Commission shall retain a discretionary right to review the action of any such division
of the Commission, individual Commissioner, administrative law
judge, employee, or employee board, upon its own initiative or upon
petition of a party to or intervenor in such action, within such time
and in such manner as the Commission by rule shall prescribe. The
vote of one member of the Commission shall be sufficient to bring
any such action before the Commission for review. A person or
party shall be entitled to review by the Commission if he or it is
adversely affected by action at a delegated level which (1) denies
any request for action pursuant to section 8(a) or section 8(c) of the
Securities Act of 1933 or the first sentence of section 12(d) of this
title; (2) suspends trading in a security pursuant to section 12(k)
of this title; or (3) is pursuant to any provision of this title in a case
of adjudication, as defined in section 551 of title 5, United States
Code, not required by this title to be determined on the record after
notice and opportunity for hearing (except to the extent there is involved a matter described in section 554(a) (1) through (6) of such
title 5).
(c) If the right to exercise such review is declined, or if no such
review is sought within the time stated in the rules promulgated
by the Commission, then the action of any such division of the
Commission, individual Commissioner, administrative law judge,
employee, or employee board, shall, for all purposes, including appeal or review thereof, be deemed the action of the Commission.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 4A, as added Pub. L. 100-181,
title III, Sec. 308(a), Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1254.)
TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO ASSIGNMENT OF
PERSONNEL TO CHAIRMAN

SEC. 4B. In addition to the functions transferred by the provisions of Reorganization Plan Numbered 10 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1265),

Sec. 4C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

64

there are hereby transferred from the Commission to the Chairman
of the Commission the functions of the Commission with respect to
the assignment of Commission personnel, including Commissioners,
to perform such functions as may have been delegated by the Commission to the Commission personnel, including Commissioners,
pursuant to section 4A of this title.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 4B, as added Pub. L. 100-181,
title III, Sec. 308(a), Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1255.)
SEC. 4C. APPEARANCE AND PRACTICE BEFORE THE COMMISSION.
(a) AUTHORITY TO CENSURE.—The Commission may censure

any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any
way, if that person is found by the Commission, after notice and
opportunity for hearing in the matter—
(1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent
others;
(2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or
(3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted
the violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the
rules and regulations issued thereunder.
(b) DEFINITION.—With respect to any registered public accounting firm or associated person, for purposes of this section, the term
‘‘improper professional conduct’’ means—
(1) intentional or knowing conduct, including reckless conduct, that results in a violation of applicable professional
standards; and
(2) negligent conduct in the form of—
(A) a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct
that results in a violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in which the registered public accounting firm or associated person knows, or should know,
that heightened scrutiny is warranted; or
(B) repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each
resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before
the Commission.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 4C, as added Pub. L. 107-204,
title VI, Sec. 602, July 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 794.)
SEC. 4D. ADDITIONAL DUTIES OF INSPECTOR GENERAL.
(a) SUGGESTION SUBMISSIONS BY COMMISSION EMPLOYEES.—
(1) HOTLINE ESTABLISHED.—The Inspector General of the

Commission shall establish and maintain a telephone hotline
or other electronic means for the receipt of—
(A) suggestions by employees of the Commission for
improvements in the work efficiency, effectiveness, and
productivity, and the use of the resources, of the Commission; and

65

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 4E

(B) allegations by employees of the Commission of
waste, abuse, misconduct, or mismanagement within the
Commission.
(2) CONFIDENTIALITY.—The Inspector General shall maintain as confidential—
(A) the identity of any individual who provides information by the means established under paragraph (1), unless the individual requests otherwise, in writing; and
(B) at the request of any such individual, any specific
information provided by the individual.
(b) CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS.—The Inspector General shall
consider any suggestions or allegations received by the means established under subsection (a)(1), and shall recommend appropriate
action in relation to such suggestions or allegations.
(c) RECOGNITION.—The Inspector General may recognize any
employee who makes a suggestion under subsection (a)(1) (or by
other means) that would or does—
(1) increase the work efficiency, effectiveness, or productivity of the Commission; or
(2) reduce waste, abuse, misconduct, or mismanagement
within the Commission.
(d) REPORT.—The Inspector General of the Commission shall
submit to Congress an annual report containing a description of—
(1) the nature, number, and potential benefits of any suggestions received under subsection (a);
(2) the nature, number, and seriousness of any allegations
received under subsection (a);
(3) any recommendations made or actions taken by the Inspector General in response to substantiated allegations received under subsection (a); and
(4) any action the Commission has taken in response to
suggestions or allegations received under subsection (a).
(e) FUNDING.—The activities of the Inspector General under
this subsection shall be funded by the Securities and Exchange
Commission Investor Protection Fund established under section
21F.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 4D, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title IX, Sec. 966, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1912.)
SEC. 4E. DEADLINE FOR COMPLETING ENFORCEMENT INVESTIGATIONS AND COMPLIANCE EXAMINATIONS AND INSPECTIONS.
(a) ENFORCEMENT INVESTIGATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after the date on

which Commission staff provide [24] a written Wells notification
to any person, the Commission staff shall either file an action
against such person or provide notice to the Director of the Division of Enforcement of its intent to not file an action.
(2) EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN COMPLEX ACTIONS.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if the Director of the Division of Enforcement of the Commission or the Director’s designee deter-

24So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘provides’’.

Sec. 5

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

66

mines that a particular enforcement investigation is sufficiently complex such that a determination regarding the filing
of an action against a person cannot be completed within the
deadline specified in paragraph (1), the Director of the Division
of Enforcement of the Commission or the Director’s designee
may, after providing notice to the Chairman of the Commission, extend such deadline as needed for one additional 180day period. If after the additional 180-day period the Director
of the Division of Enforcement of the Commission or the Director’s designee determines that a particular enforcement investigation is sufficiently complex such that a determination regarding the filing of an action against a person cannot be completed within the additional 180-day period, the Director of the
Division of Enforcement of the Commission or the Director’s
designee may, after providing notice to and receiving approval
of the Commission, extend such deadline as needed for one or
more additional successive 180-day periods.
(b) COMPLIANCE EXAMINATIONS AND INSPECTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after the date on
which Commission staff completes the on-site portion of its
compliance examination or inspection or receives all records requested from the entity being examined or inspected, whichever is later, Commission staff shall provide the entity being
examined or inspected with written notification indicating either that the examination or inspection has concluded, has concluded without findings, or that the staff requests the entity
undertake corrective action.
(2) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN COMPLEX ACTIONS.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if the head of any division or office
within the Commission responsible for compliance examinations and inspections or his designee determines that a particular compliance examination or inspection is sufficiently
complex such that a determination regarding concluding the
examination or inspection, or regarding the staff requests the
entity undertake corrective action, cannot be completed within
the deadline specified in paragraph (1), the head of any division or office within the Commission responsible for compliance
examinations and inspections or his designee may, after providing notice to the Chairman of the Commission, extend such
deadline as needed for one additional 180-day period.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 4E, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title IX, Sec. 929U, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1867.)
TRANSACTIONS ON UNREGISTERED EXCHANGES

SEC. 5. It shall be unlawful for any broker, dealer, or exchange,
directly or indirectly, to make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce for the purpose of using any
facility of an exchange within or subject to the jurisdiction of the
United States to effect any transaction in a security, or to report
any such transaction, unless such exchange (1) is registered as a
national securities exchange under section 6 of this title, or (2) is
exempted from such registration upon application by the exchange

67

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 6

because, in the opinion of the Commission, by reason of the limited
volume of transactions effected on such exchange, it is not practicable and not necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors to require such registration.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 5, 48 Stat. 885.)
NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES

SEC. 6. (a) An exchange may be registered as a national securities exchange under the terms and conditions hereinafter provided
in this section and in accordance with the provisions of section
19(a) of this title, by filing with the Commission an application for
registration in such form as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe containing the rules of the exchange and such other information and documents as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as
necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection
of investors.
(b) An exchange shall not be registered as a national securities
exchange unless the Commission determines that—
(1) Such exchange is so organized and has the capacity to
be able to carry out the purposes of this title and to comply,
and (subject to any rule or order of the Commission pursuant
to section 17(d) or 19(g)(2) of this title) to enforce compliance
by its members and persons associated with its members, with
the provisions of this title, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the exchange.
(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (c) of this section, the rules of the exchange provide that any registered
broker or dealer or natural person associated with a registered
broker or dealer may become a member of such exchange and
any person may become associated with a member thereof.
(3) The rules of the exchange assure a fair representation
of its members in the selection of its directors and administration of its affairs and provide that one or more directors shall
be representative of issuers and investors and not be associated with a member of the exchange, broker, or dealer.
(4) The rules of the exchange provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees, and other charges among its
members and issuers and other persons using its facilities.
(5) The rules of the exchange are designed to prevent
fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote
just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and
coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating
transactions in securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national
market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the
public interest; and are not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers, or dealers, or to
regulate by virtue of any authority conferred by this title matters not related to the purposes of this title or the administration of the exchange.

Sec. 6

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

68

(6) The rules of the exchange provide that (subject to any
rule or order of the Commission pursuant to section 17(d) or
19(g)(2) of this title) its members and persons associated with
its members shall be appropriately disciplined for violation of
the provisions of this title, the rules or regulations thereunder,
or the rules of the exchange, by expulsion, suspension, limitation of activities, functions, and operations, fine, censure, being
suspended or barred from being associated with a member, or
any other fitting sanction.
(7) The rules of the exchange are in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (d) of this section, and in general, provide a fair procedure for the disciplining of members and persons associated with members, the denial of membership to
any person seeking membership therein, the barring of any
person from becoming associated with a member thereof, and
the prohibition or limitation by the exchange of any person
with respect to access to services offered by the exchange or a
member thereof.
(8) The rules of the exchange do not impose any burden on
competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the
purposes of this title.
(9)(A) The rules of the exchange prohibit the listing of any
security issued in a limited partnership rollup transaction (as
such term is defined in paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 14(h)),
unless such transaction was conducted in accordance with procedures designed to protect the rights of limited partners, including—
(i) the right of dissenting limited partners to one of the
following:
(I) an appraisal and compensation;
(II) retention of a security under substantially the
same terms and conditions as the original issue;
(III) approval of the limited partnership rollup
transaction by not less than 75 percent of the outstanding securities of each of the participating limited
partnerships;
(IV) the use of a committee of limited partners
that is independent, as determined in accordance with
rules prescribed by the exchange, of the general partner or sponsor, that has been approved by a majority
of the outstanding units of each of the participating
limited partnerships, and that has such authority as is
necessary to protect the interest of limited partners,
including the authority to hire independent advisors,
to negotiate with the general partner or sponsor on behalf of the limited partners, and to make a recommendation to the limited partners with respect to
the proposed transaction; or
(V) other comparable rights that are prescribed by
rule by the exchange and that are designed to protect
dissenting limited partners;
(ii) the right not to have their voting power unfairly
reduced or abridged;

69

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 6

(iii) the right not to bear an unfair portion of the costs
of a proposed limited partnership rollup transaction that is
rejected; and
(iv) restrictions on the conversion of contingent interests or fees into non-contingent interests or fees and restrictions on the receipt of a non-contingent equity interest
in exchange for fees for services which have not yet been
provided.
(B) As used in this paragraph, the term ‘‘dissenting limited
partner’’ means a person who, on the date on which soliciting
material is mailed to investors, is a holder of a beneficial interest in a limited partnership that is the subject of a limited
partnership rollup transaction, and who casts a vote against
the transaction and complies with procedures established by
the exchange, except that for purposes of an exchange or tender offer, such person shall file an objection in writing under
the rules of the exchange during the period during which the
offer is outstanding.
(10)(A) The rules of the exchange prohibit any member
that is not the beneficial owner of a security registered under
section 12 from granting a proxy to vote the security in connection with a shareholder vote described in subparagraph (B),
unless the beneficial owner of the security has instructed the
member to vote the proxy in accordance with the voting instructions of the beneficial owner.
(B) A shareholder vote described in this subparagraph is
a shareholder vote with respect to the election of a member of
the board of directors of an issuer, executive compensation, or
any other significant matter, as determined by the Commission, by rule, and does not include a vote with respect to the
uncontested election of a member of the board of directors of
any investment company registered under the Investment
Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1 [25] et seq.).
(C) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prohibit a national securities exchange from prohibiting a member
that is not the beneficial owner of a security registered under
section 12 from granting a proxy to vote the security in connection with a shareholder vote not described in subparagraph
(A).
(c)(1) A national securities exchange shall deny membership to
(A) any person, other than a natural person, which is not a registered broker or dealer or (B) any natural person who is not, or
is not associated with, a registered broker or dealer.
(2) A national securities exchange may, and in cases in which
the Commission, by order, directs as necessary or appropriate in
the public interest or for the protection of investors shall, deny
membership to any registered broker or dealer or natural person
associated with a registered broker or dealer, and bar from becoming associated with a member any person, who is subject to a statutory disqualification. A national securities exchange shall file notice
with the Commission not less than thirty days prior to admitting
28Subsection (k) of section 17 was redesignated subsec. (j) by Pub. L. 111-203, title VI, Sec.
617(a)(2), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1616.

Sec. 6

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

70

any person to membership or permitting any person to become associated with a member, if the exchange knew, or in the exercise
of reasonable care should have known, that such person was subject to a statutory disqualification. The notice shall be in such form
and contain such information as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the
protection of investors.
(3)(A) A national securities exchange may deny membership to,
or condition the membership of, a registered broker or dealer if (i)
such broker or dealer does not meet such standards of financial responsibility or operational capability or such broker or dealer or
any natural person associated with such broker or dealer does not
meet such standards of training, experience, and competence as are
prescribed by the rules of the exchange or (ii) such broker or dealer
or person associated with such broker or dealer has engaged and
there is a reasonable likelihood he may again engage in acts or
practices inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade. A
national securities exchange may examine and verify the qualifications of an applicant to become a member and the natural persons
associated with such an applicant in accordance with procedures
established by the rules of the exchange.
(B) A national securities exchange may bar a natural person
from becoming a member or associated with a member, or condition
the membership of a natural person or association of a natural person with a member, if such natural person (i) does not meet such
standards of training, experience, and competence as are prescribed
by the rules of the exchange or (ii) has engaged and there is a reasonable likelihood he may again engage in acts or practices inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade. A national securities exchange may examine and verify the qualifications of an applicant to become a person associated with a member in accordance
with procedures established by the rules of the exchange and require any person associated with a member, or any class of such
persons, to be registered with the exchange in accordance with procedures so established.
(C) A national securities exchange may bar any person from
becoming associated with a member if such person does not agree
(i) to supply the exchange with such information with respect to its
relationship and dealings with the member as may be specified in
the rules of the exchange and (ii) to permit the examination of its
books and records to verify the accuracy of any information so supplied.
(4) A national securities exchange may limit (A) the number of
members of the exchange and (B) the number of members and designated representatives of members permitted to effect transactions
on the floor of the exchange without the services of another person
acting as broker: Provided, however, That no national securities exchange shall have the authority to decrease the number of memberships in such exchange, or the number of members and designated
representatives of members permitted to effect transactions on the
floor of such exchange without the services of another person acting
as broker, below such number in effect on May 1, 1975, or the date
such exchange was registered with the Commission, whichever is
later: And provided further, That the Commission, in accordance

71

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 6

with the provisions of section 19(c) of this title, may amend the
rules of any national securities exchange to increase (but not to decrease) or to remove any limitation on the number of memberships
in such exchange or the number of members or designated representatives of members permitted to effect transactions on the
floor of the exchange without the services of another person acting
as broker, if the Commission finds that such limitation imposes a
burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance
of the purposes of this title.
(d)(1) In any proceeding by a national securities exchange to
determine whether a member or person associated with a member
should be disciplined (other than a summary proceeding pursuant
to paragraph (3) of this subsection), the exchange shall bring specific charges, notify such member or person of, and give him an opportunity to defend against, such charges, and keep a record. A determination by the exchange to impose a disciplinary sanction shall
be supported by a statement setting forth—
(A) any act or practice in which such member or person associated with a member has been found to have engaged, or
which such member or person has been found to have omitted;
(B) the specific provision of this title, the rules or regulations thereunder, or the rules of the exchange which any such
act or practice, or omission to act, is deemed to violate; and
(C) the sanction imposed and the reasons therefor.
(2) In any proceeding by a national securities exchange to determine whether a person shall be denied membership, barred from
becoming associated with a member, or prohibited or limited with
respect to access to services offered by the exchange or a member
thereof (other than a summary proceeding pursuant to paragraph
(3) of this subsection), the exchange shall notify such person of, and
give him an opportunity to be heard upon, the specific grounds for
denial, bar, or prohibition or limitation under consideration and
keep a record. A determination by the exchange to deny membership, bar a person from becoming associated with a member, or
prohibit or limit a person with respect to access to services offered
by the exchange or a member thereof shall be supported by a statement setting forth the specific grounds on which the denial, bar, or
prohibition or limitation is based.
(3) A national securities exchange may summarily (A) suspend
a member or person associated with a member who has been and
is expelled or suspended from any self-regulatory organization or
barred or suspended from being associated with a member of any
self-regulatory organization, (B) suspend a member who is in such
financial or operating difficulty that the exchange determines and
so notifies the Commission that the member cannot be permitted
to continue to do business as a member with safety to investors,
creditors, other members, or the exchange, or (C) limit or prohibit
any person with respect to access to services offered by the exchange if subparagraph (A) or (B) of this paragraph is applicable
to such person or, in the case of a person who is not a member,
if the exchange determines that such person does not meet the
qualification requirements or other prerequisites for such access
and such person cannot be permitted to continue to have such access with safety to investors, creditors, members, or the exchange.

Sec. 6

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

72

Any person aggrieved by any such summary action shall be
promptly afforded an opportunity for a hearing by the exchange in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection. The Commission, by order, may stay any such summary
action on its own motion or upon application by any person aggrieved thereby, if the Commission determines summarily or after
notice and opportunity for hearing (which hearing may consist solely of the submission of affidavits or presentation of oral arguments)
that such stay is consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors.
(e)(1) On and after the date of enactment of the Securities Acts
Amendments of 1975, no national securities exchange may impose
any schedule or fix rates of commissions, allowances, discounts, or
other fees to be charged by its members: Provided, however, That
until May 1, 1976, the preceding provisions of this paragraph shall
not prohibit any such exchange from imposing or fixing any schedule of commissions, allowances, discounts, or other fees to be
charged by its members for acting as broker on the floor of the exchange or as odd-lot dealer: And provided further, That the Commission, in accordance with the provisions of section 19(b) of this
title as modified by the provisions of paragraph (3) of this subsection, may—
(A) permit a national securities exchange, by rule, to impose a reasonable schedule or fix reasonable rates of commissions, allowances, discounts, or other fees to be charged by its
members for effecting transactions on such exchange prior to
November 1, 1976, if the Commission finds that such schedule
or fixed rates of commissions, allowances, discounts, or other
fees are in the public interest; and
(B) permit a national securities exchange, by rule, to impose a schedule or fix rates of commissions, allowances, discounts, or other fees to be charged by its members for effecting
transactions on such exchange after November 1, 1976, if the
Commission finds that such schedule or fixed rates of commissions, allowances, discounts, or other fees (i) are reasonable in
relation to the costs of providing the service for which such
fees are charged (and the Commission publishes the standards
employed in adjudging reasonableness) and (ii) do not impose
any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this title, taking into consideration
the competitive effects of permitting such schedule or fixed
rates weighed against the competitive effects of other lawful
actions which the Commission is authorized to take under this
title.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 19(c) of this title,
the Commission, by rule, may abrogate any exchange rule which
imposes a schedule or fixes rates of commissions, allowances, discounts, or other fees, if the Commission determines that such
schedule or fixed rates are no longer reasonable, in the public interest, or necessary to accomplish the purposes of this title.
(3)(A) Before approving or disapproving any proposed rule
change submitted by a national securities exchange which would
impose a schedule or fix rates of commissions, allowances, discounts, or other fees to be charged by its members for effecting

73

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 6

transactions on such exchange, the Commission shall afford interested persons (i) an opportunity for oral presentation of data,
views, and arguments and (ii) with respect to any such rule concerning transactions effected after November 1, 1976, if the Commission determines there are disputed issues of material fact, to
present such rebuttal submissions and to conduct (or have conducted under subparagraph (B) of this paragraph) such cross-examination as the Commission determines to be appropriate and required for full disclosure and proper resolution of such disputed
issues of material fact.
(B) The Commission shall prescribe rules and make rulings
concerning any proceeding in accordance with subparagraph (A) of
this paragraph designed to avoid unnecessary costs or delay. Such
rules or rulings may (i) impose reasonable time limits on each interested person’s oral presentations, and (ii) require any cross-examination to which a person may be entitled under subparagraph
(A) of this paragraph to be conducted by the Commission on behalf
of that person in such manner as the Commission determines to be
appropriate and required for full disclosure and proper resolution
of disputed issues of material fact.
(C)(i) If any class of persons, the members of which are entitled
to conduct (or have conducted) cross-examination under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this paragraph and which have, in the view
of the Commission, the same or similar interests in the proceeding,
cannot agree upon a single representative of such interests for purposes of cross-examination, the Commission may make rules and
rulings specifying the manner in which such interests shall be represented and such cross- examination conducted.
(ii) No member of any class of persons with respect to which
the Commission has specified the manner in which its interests
shall be represented pursuant to clause (i) of this subparagraph
shall be denied, pursuant to such clause (i), the opportunity to conduct (or have conducted) cross-examination as to issues affecting
his particular interests if he satisfies the Commission that he has
made a reasonable and good faith effort to reach agreement upon
group representation and there are substantial and relevant issues
which would not be presented adequately by group representation.
(D) A transcript shall be kept of any oral presentation and
cross- examination.
(E) In addition to the bases specified in subsection 25(a), a reviewing Court may set aside an order of the Commission under section 19(b) approving an exchange rule imposing a schedule or fixing
rates of commissions, allowances, discounts, or other fees, if the
Court finds—
(1) [26] a Commission determination under subparagraph
(A) of this paragraph that an interested person is not entitled
to conduct cross-examination or make rebuttal submissions, or
(2) [27] a Commission rule or ruling under subparagraph
(B) of this paragraph limiting the petitioner’s cross-examination or rebuttal submissions,
25So
26So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘80a-1’’.
in law. Probably should be clause (i).

Sec. 6

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

74

has precluded full disclosure and proper resolution of disputed
issues of material fact which were necessary for fair determination
by the Commission.
(f) The Commission, by rule or order, as it deems necessary or
appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors, to maintain fair and orderly markets, or to assure equal regulation, may require—
(1) any person not a member or a designated representative of a member of a national securities exchange effecting
transactions on such exchange without the services of another
person acting as a broker, or
(2) any broker or dealer not a member of a national securities exchange effecting transactions on such exchange on a regular basis,
to comply with such rules of such exchange as the Commission may
specify.
(g) NOTICE REGISTRATION OF SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCT EXCHANGES.—
(1) REGISTRATION REQUIRED.—An exchange that lists or
trades security futures products may register as a national securities exchange solely for the purposes of trading security futures products if—
(A) the exchange is a board of trade, as that term is
defined by the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(2)),
that has been designated a contract market by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and such designation
is not suspended by order of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; and
(B) such exchange does not serve as a market place for
transactions in securities other than—
(i) security futures products; or
(ii) futures on exempted securities or groups or indexes of securities or options thereon that have been
authorized under section 2(a)(1)(C) of the Commodity
Exchange Act.
(2) REGISTRATION BY NOTICE FILING.—
(A) FORM AND CONTENT.—An exchange required to
register only because such exchange lists or trades security
futures products may register for purposes of this section
by filing with the Commission a written notice in such
form as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe containing
the rules of the exchange and such other information and
documents concerning such exchange, comparable to the
information and documents required for national securities
exchanges under section 6(a), as the Commission, by rule,
may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. If such exchange
has filed documents with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, to the extent that such documents contain information satisfying the Commission’s informational requirements, copies of such documents may be filed with
the Commission in lieu of the required written notice.
(B) IMMEDIATE EFFECTIVENESS.—Such registration
shall be effective contemporaneously with the submission

75

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 6

of notice, in written or electronic form, to the Commission,
except that such registration shall not be effective if such
registration would be subject to suspension or revocation.
(C) TERMINATION.—Such registration shall be terminated immediately if any of the conditions for registration
set forth in this subsection are no longer satisfied.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The Commission shall promptly
publish in the Federal Register an acknowledgment of receipt
of all notices the Commission receives under this subsection
and shall make all such notices available to the public.
(4) EXEMPTION OF EXCHANGES FROM SPECIFIED PROVISIONS.—
(A) TRANSACTION EXEMPTIONS.—An exchange that is
registered under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be
exempt from, and shall not be required to enforce compliance by its members with, and its members shall not, solely with respect to those transactions effected on such exchange in security futures products, be required to comply
with, the following provisions of this title and the rules
thereunder:
(i) Subsections (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(7), (b)(9), (c),
(d), and (e) of this section.
(ii) Section 8.
(iii) Section 11.
(iv) Subsections (d), (f), and (k) [28] of section 17.
(v) Subsections (a), (f ), and (h) of section 19.
(B) RULE CHANGE EXEMPTIONS.—An exchange that
registered under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall also
be exempt from submitting proposed rule changes pursuant to section 19(b) of this title, except that—
(i) such exchange shall file proposed rule changes
related to higher margin levels, fraud or manipulation,
recordkeeping, reporting, listing standards, or decimal
pricing for security futures products, sales practices
for security futures products for persons who effect
transactions in security futures products, or rules effectuating such exchange’s obligation to enforce the securities laws pursuant to section 19(b)(7);
(ii) such exchange shall file pursuant to sections
19(b)(1) and 19(b)(2) proposed rule changes related to
margin, except for changes resulting in higher margin
levels; and
(iii) such exchange shall file pursuant to section
19(b)(1) proposed rule changes that have been abrogated by the Commission pursuant to section
19(b)(7)(C).
(5) TRADING IN SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph (B), it shall
be unlawful for any person to execute or trade a security
futures product until the later of—
(i) 1 year after the date of the enactment of the
Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000; or
27So

in law. Probably should be clause (ii).

Sec. 6

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

76

(ii) such date that a futures association registered
under section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act has
met the requirements set forth in section 15A(k)(2) of
this title.
(B) PRINCIPAL-TO-PRINCIPAL TRANSACTIONS.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), a person may execute or trade
a security futures product transaction if—
(i) the transaction is entered into—
(I) on a principal-to-principal basis between
parties trading for their own accounts or as described in section 1a(18)(B)(ii) of the Commodity
Exchange Act; and
(II) only between eligible contract participants
(as defined in subparagraphs (A), (B)(ii), and (C)
of such section 1a(18)) at the time at which the
persons enter into the agreement, contract, or
transaction; and
(ii) the transaction is entered into on or after the
later of—
(I) 8 months after the date of the enactment
of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of
2000; or
(II) such date that a futures association registered under section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act has met the requirements set forth in
section 15A(k)(2) of this title.
(h) TRADING IN SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS.—
(1) TRADING ON EXCHANGE OR ASSOCIATION REQUIRED.— It
shall be unlawful for any person to effect transactions in security futures products that are not listed on a national securities
exchange or a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a).
(2) LISTING STANDARDS REQUIRED.—Except as otherwise
provided in paragraph (7), a national securities exchange or a
national securities association registered pursuant to section
15A(a) may trade only security futures products that (A) conform with listing standards that such exchange or association
files with the Commission under section 19(b) and (B) meet the
criteria specified in section 2(a)(1)(D)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act.
(3) REQUIREMENTS FOR LISTING STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS FOR TRADING.—Such listing standards shall—
(A) except as otherwise provided in a rule, regulation,
or order issued pursuant to paragraph (4), require that
any security underlying the security future, including each
component security of a narrow-based security index, be
registered pursuant to section 12 of this title;
(B) require that if the security futures product is not
cash settled, the market on which the security futures
product is traded have arrangements in place with a registered clearing agency for the payment and delivery of the
securities underlying the security futures product;
(C) be no less restrictive than comparable listing
standards for options traded on a national securities ex-

77

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 6

change or national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of this title;
(D) except as otherwise provided in a rule, regulation,
or order issued pursuant to paragraph (4), require that the
security future be based upon common stock and such
other equity securities as the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission jointly determine appropriate;
(E) require that the security futures product is cleared
by a clearing agency that has in place provisions for linked
and coordinated clearing with other clearing agencies that
clear security futures products, which permits the security
futures product to be purchased on one market and offset
on another market that trades such product;
(F) require that only a broker or dealer subject to suitability rules comparable to those of a national securities
association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) effect
transactions in the security futures product;
(G) require that the security futures product be subject
to the prohibition against dual trading in section 4j of the
Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6j) and the rules and
regulations thereunder or the provisions of section 11(a) of
this title and the rules and regulations thereunder, except
to the extent otherwise permitted under this title and the
rules and regulations thereunder;
(H) require that trading in the security futures product not be readily susceptible to manipulation of the price
of such security futures product, nor to causing or being
used in the manipulation of the price of any underlying security, option on such security, or option on a group or
index including such securities;
(I) require that procedures be in place for coordinated
surveillance among the market on which the security futures product is traded, any market on which any security
underlying the security futures product is traded, and
other markets on which any related security is traded to
detect manipulation and insider trading;
(J) require that the market on which the security futures product is traded has in place audit trails necessary
or appropriate to facilitate the coordinated surveillance required in subparagraph (I);
(K) require that the market on which the security futures product is traded has in place procedures to coordinate trading halts between such market and any market
on which any security underlying the security futures
product is traded and other markets on which any related
security is traded; and
(L) require that the margin requirements for a security futures product comply with the regulations prescribed
pursuant to section 7(c)(2)(B), except that nothing in this
subparagraph shall be construed to prevent a national securities exchange or national securities association from
requiring higher margin levels for a security futures prod-

Sec. 6

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

78

uct when it deems such action to be necessary or appropriate.
(4) AUTHORITY TO MODIFY CERTAIN LISTING STANDARD REQUIREMENTS.—
(A) AUTHORITY TO MODIFY.—The Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, by rule, regulation, or order, may jointly modify the listing standard requirements specified in subparagraph (A) or (D) of paragraph (3) to the extent such modification fosters the development of fair and orderly markets in security futures
products, is necessary or appropriate in the public interest,
and is consistent with the protection of investors.
(B) AUTHORITY TO GRANT EXEMPTIONS.—The Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, by
order, may jointly exempt any person from compliance
with the listing standard requirement specified in subparagraph (E) of paragraph (3) to the extent such exemption fosters the development of fair and orderly markets in
security futures products, is necessary or appropriate in
the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of
investors.
(5) REQUIREMENTS FOR OTHER PERSONS TRADING SECURITY
FUTURE PRODUCTS.—It shall be unlawful for any person (other
than a national securities exchange or a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a)) to constitute,
maintain, or provide a marketplace or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of security future products or to
otherwise perform with respect to security future products the
functions commonly performed by a stock exchange as that
term is generally understood, unless a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) or a national securities exchange of which such person is a member—
(A) has in place procedures for coordinated surveillance among such person, the market trading the securities underlying the security future products, and other
markets trading related securities to detect manipulation
and insider trading;
(B) has rules to require audit trails necessary or appropriate to facilitate the coordinated surveillance required
in subparagraph (A); and
(C) has rules to require such person to coordinate
trading halts with markets trading the securities underlying the security future products and other markets trading related securities.
(6) DEFERRAL OF OPTIONS ON SECURITY FUTURES TRADING.—No person shall offer to enter into, enter into, or confirm
the execution of any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege on
a security future, except that, after 3 years after the date of
the enactment of this subsection, the Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission may by order jointly
determine to permit trading of puts, calls, straddles, options,
or privileges on any security future authorized to be traded
under the provisions of this Act and the Commodity Exchange
Act.

79

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 6

(7) DEFERRAL OF LINKED AND COORDINATED CLEARING.—
(A) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), until the compliance date, a national securities exchange or national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a)
may trade a security futures product that does not—
(i) conform with any listing standard promulgated
to meet the requirement specified in subparagraph (E)
of paragraph (3); or
(ii) meet the criterion specified in section
2(a)(1)(D)(i)(IV) of the Commodity Exchange Act.
(B) The Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission shall jointly publish in the Federal
Register a notice of the compliance date no later than 165
days before the compliance date.
(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘‘compliance date’’ means the later of—
(i) 180 days after the end of the first full calendar
month period in which the average aggregate comparable share volume for all security futures products
based on single equity securities traded on all national
securities exchanges, any national securities associations registered pursuant to section 15A(a), and all
other persons equals or exceeds 10 percent of the average aggregate comparable share volume of options on
single equity securities traded on all national securities exchanges and any national securities associations
registered pursuant to section 15A(a); or
(ii) 2 years after the date on which trading in any
security futures product commences under this title.
(i) Consistent with this title, each national securities exchange
registered pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall issue such
rules as are necessary to avoid duplicative or conflicting rules applicable to any broker or dealer registered with the Commission
pursuant to section 15(b) (except paragraph (11) thereof ), that is
also registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
pursuant to section 4f(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (except
paragraph (2) thereof ), with respect to the application of—
(1) rules of such national securities exchange of the type
specified in section 15(c)(3)(B) involving security futures products; and
(2) similar rules of national securities exchanges registered
pursuant to section 6(g) and national securities associations
registered pursuant to section 15A(k) involving security futures
products.
(j) PROCEDURES AND RULES FOR SECURITY FUTURE PRODUCTS.—A national securities exchange registered pursuant to subsection (a) shall implement the procedures specified in section
6(h)(5)(A) of this title and adopt the rules specified in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section 6(h)(5) of this title not later than 8
months after the date of receipt of a request from an alternative
trading system for such implementation and rules.
(k)(1) To the extent necessary or appropriate in the public interest, to promote fair competition, and consistent with the promotion of market efficiency, innovation, and expansion of invest-

Sec. 7

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

80

ment opportunities, the protection of investors, and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall jointly issue such rules,
regulations, or orders as are necessary and appropriate to permit
the offer and sale of a security futures product traded on or subject
to the rules of a foreign board of trade to United States persons.
(2) The rules, regulations, or orders adopted under paragraph
(1) shall take into account, as appropriate, the nature and size of
the markets that the securities underlying the security futures
product reflect.
(l) SECURITY-BASED SWAPS.—It shall be unlawful for any person to effect a transaction in a security-based swap with or for a
person that is not an eligible contract participant, unless such
transaction is effected on a national securities exchange registered
pursuant to subsection (b).
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 6, 48 Stat. 885; Pub. L. 94-29,
Sec. 4, June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 104; Pub. L. 100-181, title III, Sec.
309-312, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1255; Pub. L. 103-202, title III,
Sec. 303(b), Dec. 17, 1993, 107 Stat. 2365; Pub. L. 106-554, Sec.
1(a)(5) [title II, Sec. 202(a), 206(a), (i), (k)(2), (l)], Dec. 21, 2000, 114
Stat. 2763, 2763A-416, 2763A-426, 2763A-433, 2763A-434; Pub. L.
111-203, title VII, Secs. 721(e)(8), 734(b)(2), 763(e), title IX, Sec.
957, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1671, 1718, 1777, 1906.)
MARGIN REQUIREMENTS

SEC. 7. (a) For the purpose of preventing the excessive use of
credit for the purchase or carrying of securities, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall, prior to the effective
date of this section and from time to time thereafter, prescribe
rules and regulations with respect to the amount of credit that may
be initially extended and subsequently maintained on any security
(other than an exempted security or a security futures product).
For the initial extension of credit, such rules and regulations shall
be based upon the following standard: An amount not greater than
whichever is the higher of—
(1) 55 per centum of the current market price of the security, or
(2) 100 per centum of the lowest market price of the security during the preceding thirty-six calendar months, but not
more than 75 per centum of the current market price.
Such rules and regulations may make appropriate provision with
respect to the carrying of undermargined accounts for limited periods and under specified conditions; the withdrawal of funds or securities; the substitution or additional purchases of securities; the
transfer of accounts from one lender to another; special or different
margin requirements for delayed deliveries, short sales, arbitrage
transactions, and securities to which paragraph (2) of this subsection does not apply; the bases and the methods to be used in calculating loans, and margins and market prices; and similar administrative adjustments and details. For the purposes of paragraph
(2) of this subsection until July 1, 1936, the lowest price at which
a security has sold on or after July 1, 1933, shall be considered as

81

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 7

the lowest price at which such security has sold during the preceding thirty-six calendar months.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may,
from time to time, with respect to all or specified securities or
transactions, or classes of securities, or classes of transactions, by
such rules and regulations (1) prescribe such lower margin requirements for the initial extension or maintenance of credit as it deems
necessary or appropriate for the accommodation of commerce and
industry, having due regard to the general credit situation of the
country, and (2) prescribe such higher margin requirements for the
initial extension or maintenance of credit as it may deem necessary
or appropriate to prevent the excessive use of credit to finance
transactions in securities.
(c) UNLAWFUL CREDIT EXTENSION TO CUSTOMERS.—
(1) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for any member of
a national securities exchange or any broker or dealer, directly
or indirectly, to extend or maintain credit or arrange for the
extension or maintenance of credit to or for any customer—
(A) on any security (other than an exempted security),
except as provided in paragraph (2), in contravention of
the rules and regulations which the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System (hereafter in this section referred to as the ‘‘Board’’) shall prescribe under subsections
(a) and (b); or
(B) without collateral or on any collateral other than
securities, except in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Board may prescribe—
(i) to permit under specified conditions and for a
limited period any such member, broker, or dealer to
maintain a credit initially extended in conformity with
the rules and regulations of the Board; and
(ii) to permit the extension or maintenance of
credit in cases where the extension or maintenance of
credit is not for the purpose of purchasing or carrying
securities or of evading or circumventing the provisions of subparagraph (A).
(2) MARGIN REGULATIONS.—
(A) COMPLIANCE WITH MARGIN RULES REQUIRED.—It
shall be unlawful for any broker, dealer, or member of a
national securities exchange to, directly or indirectly, extend or maintain credit to or for, or collect margin from
any customer on, any security futures product unless such
activities comply with the regulations—
(i) which the Board shall prescribe pursuant to
subparagraph (B); or
(ii) if the Board determines to delegate the authority to prescribe such regulations, which the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
shall jointly prescribe pursuant to subparagraph (B).
If the Board delegates the authority to prescribe such regulations under clause (ii) and the Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission have not jointly
prescribed such regulations within a reasonable period of

Sec. 7

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

82

time after the date of such delegation, the Board shall prescribe such regulations pursuant to subparagraph (B).
(B) CRITERIA FOR ISSUANCE OF RULES.—The Board
shall prescribe, or, if the authority is delegated pursuant
to subparagraph (A)(ii), the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall jointly prescribe, such regulations to establish margin requirements,
including the establishment of levels of margin (initial and
maintenance) for security futures products under such
terms, and at such levels, as the Board deems appropriate,
or as the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission jointly deem appropriate—
(i) to preserve the financial integrity of markets
trading security futures products;
(ii) to prevent systemic risk;
(iii) to require that—
(I) the margin requirements for a security future product be consistent with the margin requirements for comparable option contracts traded
on any exchange registered pursuant to section
6(a) of this title; and
(II) initial and maintenance margin levels for
a security future product not be lower than the
lowest level of margin, exclusive of premium, required for any comparable option contract traded
on any exchange registered pursuant to section
6(a) of this title, other than an option on a security future;
except that nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed to prevent a national securities exchange or national securities association from requiring higher
margin levels for a security future product when it
deems such action to be necessary or appropriate; and
(iv) to ensure that the margin requirements (other
than levels of margin), including the type, form, and
use of collateral for security futures products, are and
remain consistent with the requirements established
by the Board, pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and (B)
of paragraph (1).
(3) EXCEPTION.—This subsection and the rules and regulations issued under this subsection shall not apply to any credit
extended, maintained, or arranged by a member of a national
securities exchange or a broker or dealer to or for a member
of a national securities exchange or a registered broker or dealer—
(A) a substantial portion of whose business consists of
transactions with persons other than brokers or dealers; or
(B) to finance its activities as a market maker or an
underwriter;
except that the Board may impose such rules and regulations,
in whole or in part, on any credit otherwise exempted by this
paragraph if the Board determines that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.

83

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 7

(d) UNLAWFUL CREDIT EXTENSION IN VIOLATION OF RULES AND
REGULATIONS; EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICATION OF RULES, ETC.—
(1) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for any person not
subject to subsection (c) to extend or maintain credit or to arrange for the extension or maintenance of credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any security, in contravention
of such rules and regulations as the Board shall prescribe to
prevent the excessive use of credit for the purchasing or carrying of or trading in securities in circumvention of the other
provisions of this section. Such rules and regulations may impose upon all loans made for the purpose of purchasing or carrying securities limitations similar to those imposed upon
members, brokers, or dealers by subsection (c) and the rules
and regulations thereunder.
(2) EXCEPTIONS.—This subsection and the rules and regulations issued under this subsection shall not apply to any
credit extended, maintained, or arranged—
(A) by a person not in the ordinary course of business;
(B) on an exempted security;
(C) to or for a member of a national securities exchange or a registered broker or dealer—
(i) a substantial portion of whose business consists
of transactions with persons other than brokers or
dealers; or
(ii) to finance its activities as a market maker or
an underwriter;
(D) by a bank on a security other than an equity security; or
(E) as the Board shall, by such rules, regulations, or
orders as it may deem necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, exempt, either
unconditionally or upon specified terms and conditions or
for stated periods, from the operation of this subsection
and the rules and regulations thereunder.
(3) BOARD AUTHORITY.—The Board may impose such rules
and regulations, in whole or in part, on any credit otherwise
exempted by subparagraph (C) if it determines that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the
protection of investors.
(e) The provisions of this section or the rules and regulations
thereunder shall not apply on or before July 1, 1937, to any loan
or extension of credit made prior to the enactment of this title or
to the maintenance, renewal, or extension of any such loan or credit, except to the extent that the Federal Reserve Board may by
rules and regulations prescribe as necessary to prevent the circumvention of the provisions of this section or the rules and regulations thereunder by means of withdrawals of funds or securities,
substitutions of securities, or additional purchases or by any other
device.
(f)(1) It is unlawful for any United States person, or any foreign person controlled by a United States person or acting on behalf of or in conjunction with such person, to obtain, receive, or
enjoy the beneficial use of a loan or other extension of credit from
any lender (without regard to whether the lender’s office or place

Sec. 7

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

84

of business is in a State or the transaction occurred in whole or in
part within a State) for the purpose of (A) purchasing or carrying
United States securities, or (B) purchasing or carrying within the
United States of any other securities, if, under this section or rules
and regulations prescribed thereunder, the loan or other credit
transaction is prohibited or would be prohibited if it had been made
or the transaction had otherwise occurred in a lender’s office or
other place of business in a State.
(2) For the purposes of this subsection—
(A) The term ‘‘United States person’’ includes a person
which is organized or exists under the laws of any State or, in
the case of a natural person, a citizen or resident of the United
States; a domestic estate; or a trust in which one or more of
the foregoing persons has a cumulative direct or indirect beneficial interest in excess of 50 per centum of the value of the
trust.
(B) The term ‘‘United States security’’ means a security
(other than an exempted security) issued by a person incorporated under the laws of any State, or whose principal place
of business is within a State.
(C) The term ‘‘foreign person controlled by a United States
person’’ includes any noncorporate entity in which United
States persons directly or indirectly have more than a 50 per
centum beneficial interest, and any corporation in which one or
more United States persons, directly or indirectly, own stock
possessing more than 50 per centum of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote, or more than
50 per centum of the total value of shares of all classes of
stock.
(3) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
may, in its discretion and with due regard for the purposes of this
section, by rule or regulation exempt any class of United States
persons or foreign persons controlled by a United States person
from the application of this subsection.
(g) Subject to such rules and regulations as the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may adopt in the public interest and for the protection of investors, no member of a national
securities exchange or broker or dealer shall be deemed to have extended or maintained credit or arranged for the extension or maintenance of credit for the purpose of purchasing a security, within
the meaning of this section, by reason of a bona fide agreement for
delayed delivery of a mortgage related security or a small business
related security against full payment of the purchase price thereof
upon such delivery within one hundred and eighty days after the
purchase, or within such shorter period as the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System may prescribe by rule or regulation.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 7, 48 Stat. 886; Aug. 23, 1935,
ch. 614, Sec. 203(a), 49 Stat. 704; Pub. L. 90-437, July 29, 1968,
82 Stat. 452; Pub. L. 91-508, title III, Sec. 301(a), Oct. 26, 1970,
84 Stat. 1124; Pub. L. 98-440, title I, Sec. 102, Oct. 3, 1984, 98
Stat. 1690; Pub. L. 103-325, title II, Sec. 203, Sept. 23, 1994, 108
Stat. 2199; Pub. L. 104-290, title I, Sec. 104(a), Oct. 11, 1996, 110
Stat. 3422; Pub. L. 105-353, title III, Sec. 301(b)(5), (6), Nov. 3,

85

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 9

1998, 112 Stat. 3236; Pub. L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5) [title II, Sec.
206(b)], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-429; Pub. L. 111-203,
title IX, Sec. 929, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1852.)
RESTRICTIONS ON BORROWING BY MEMBERS, BROKERS, AND DEALERS

SEC. 8. It shall be unlawful for any registered broker or dealer,
member of a national securities exchange, or broker or dealer who
transacts a business in securities through the medium of any member of a national securities exchange, directly or indirectly—
(a) In contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission shall prescribe for the protection of investors to hypothecate or arrange for the hypothecation of any securities carried for
the account of any customer under circumstances (1) that will permit the commingling of his securities without his written consent
with the securities of any other customer, (2) that will permit such
securities to be commingled with the securities of any person other
than a bona fide customer, or (3) that will permit such securities
to be hypothecated, or subjected to any lien or claim of the pledgee,
for a sum in excess of the aggregate indebtedness of such customers in respect of such securities.
(b) To lend or arrange for the lending of any securities carried
for the account of any customer without the written consent of such
customer or in contravention of such rules and regulations as the
Commission shall prescribe for the protection of investors.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 8, 48 Stat. 888; Aug. 23, 1935,
ch. 614, Sec. 203(a), 49 Stat. 704; Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 5, June 4,
1975, 89 Stat. 109; Pub. L. 98-440, title I, Sec. 103, Oct. 3, 1984,
98 Stat. 1690; Pub. L. 103-325, title II, Sec. 204, Sept. 23, 1994,
108 Stat. 2199; Pub. L. 104-290, title I, Sec. 104(b), Oct. 11, 1996,
110 Stat. 3423.)
PROHIBITION AGAINST MANIPULATION OF SECURITY PRICES

SEC. 9. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, by the use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of
interstate commerce, or of any facility of any national securities exchange, or for any member of a national securities exchange—
(1) For the purpose of creating a false or misleading appearance of active trading in any security other than a government security, or a false or misleading appearance with respect to the market for any such security, (A) to effect any transaction in such security which involves no change in the beneficial ownership thereof,
or (B) to enter an order or orders for the purchase of such security
with the knowledge that an order or orders of substantially the
same size, at substantially the same time, and at substantially the
same price, for the sale of any such security, has been or will be
entered by or for the same or different parties, or (C) to enter any
order or orders for the sale of any such security with the knowledge
that an order or orders of substantially the same size, at substantially the same time, and at substantially the same price, for the

Sec. 9

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

86

purchase of such security, has been or will be entered by or for the
same or different parties.
(2) To effect, alone or with 1 or more other persons, a series
of transactions in any security other than a government security,
any security not so registered, or in connection with any securitybased swap or security-based swap agreement with respect to such
security creating actual or apparent active trading in such security,
or raising or depressing the price of such security, for the purpose
of inducing the purchase or sale of such security by others.
(3) If a dealer, broker, security-based swap dealer, major security-based swap participant, or other person selling or offering for
sale or purchasing or offering to purchase the security, a securitybased swap, or a security-based swap agreement with respect to
such security, to induce the purchase or sale of any security other
than a government security, any security not so registered, any security-based swap, or any security-based swap agreement with respect to such security by the circulation or dissemination in the ordinary course of business of information to the effect that the price
of any such security will or is likely to rise or fall because of market operations of any 1 or more persons conducted for the purpose
of raising or depressing the price of such security.
(4) If a dealer, broker, security-based swap dealer, major security-based swap participant, or other person selling or offering for
sale or purchasing or offering to purchase the security, a securitybased swap, or security-based swap agreement with respect to such
security, to make, regarding any security other than a government
security, any security not so registered, any security-based swap, or
any security-based swap agreement with respect to such security,
for the purpose of inducing the purchase or sale of such security,
such security-based swap, or such security-based swap agreement
any statement which was at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it was made, false or misleading with respect to any material fact, and which that person knew or had reasonable ground to believe was so false or misleading.
(5) For a consideration, received directly or indirectly from a
broker, dealer, security-based swap dealer, major security-based
swap participant, or other person selling or offering for sale or purchasing or offering to purchase the security, a security-based swap,
or security-based swap agreement with respect to such security, to
induce the purchase of any security other than a government security, any security not so registered, any security-based swap, or any
security-based swap agreement with respect to such security by the
circulation or dissemination of information to the effect that the
price of any such security will or is likely to rise or fall because of
the market operations of any 1 or more persons conducted for the
purpose of raising or depressing the price of such security.
(6) To effect either alone or with one or more other persons any
series of transactions for the purchase and/or sale of any security
other than a government security for the purpose of pegging, fixing,
or stabilizing the price of such security in contravention of such
rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of
investors.

87

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 9

(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to effect, in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe
as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors—
(1) any transaction in connection with any security whereby any party to such transaction acquires—
(A) any put, call, straddle, or other option or privilege
of buying the security from or selling the security to another without being bound to do so;
(B) any security futures product on the security; or
(C) any security-based swap involving the security or
the issuer of the security;
(2) any transaction in connection with any security with
relation to which such person has, directly or indirectly, any
interest in any—
(A) such put, call, straddle, option, or privilege;
(B) such security futures product; or
(C) such security-based swap; or
(3) any transaction in any security for the account of any
person who such person has reason to believe has, and who actually has, directly or indirectly, any interest in any—
(A) such put, call, straddle, option, or privilege;
(B) such security futures product with relation to such
security; or
(C) any security-based swap involving such security or
the issuer of such security.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any broker, dealer, or member of
a national securities exchange directly or indirectly to endorse or
guarantee the performance of any put, call, straddle, option, or
privilege in relation to any security other than a government security, in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(d) TRANSACTIONS RELATING TO SHORT SALES OF SECURITIES.—
It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, by the
use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, or of any facility of any national securities exchange, or for
any member of a national securities exchange to effect, alone or
with one or more other persons, a manipulative short sale of any
security. The Commission shall issue such other rules as are necessary or appropriate to ensure that the appropriate enforcement
options and remedies are available for violations of this subsection
in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(e) The terms ‘‘put’’, ‘‘call’’, ‘‘straddle’’, ‘‘option’’, or ‘‘privilege’’ as
used in this section shall not include any registered warrant, right,
or convertible security.
(f) Any person who willfully participates in any act or transaction in violation of subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section, shall
be liable to any person who shall purchase or sell any security at
a price which was affected by such act or transaction, and the person so injured may sue in law or in equity in any court of competent jurisdiction to recover the damages sustained as a result of
any such act or transaction. In any such suit the court may, in its
discretion, require an undertaking for the payment of the costs of

Sec. 9

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

88

such suit, and assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, against either party litigant. Every person who becomes
liable to make any payment under this subsection may recover contribution as in cases of contract from any person who, if joined in
the original suit, would have been liable to make the same payment. No action shall be maintained to enforce any liability created
under this section, unless brought within one year after the discovery of the facts constituting the violation and within three years
after such violation.
(g) The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply to an exempted security.
(h)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission shall have the authority to regulate the trading of any put,
call, straddle, option, or privilege on any security, certificate of deposit, or group or index of securities (including any interest therein
or based on the value thereof), or any put, call, straddle, option, or
privilege entered into on a national securities exchange relating to
foreign currency (but not, with respect to any of the foregoing, an
option on a contract for future delivery other than a security futures product).
(2) Notwithstanding the Commodity Exchange Act, the Commission shall have the authority to regulate the trading of any security futures product to the extent provided in the securities laws.
(i) LIMITATIONS ON PRACTICES THAT AFFECT MARKET VOLATILITY.—It shall be unlawful for any person, by the use of the mails
or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce or of any
facility of any national securities exchange, to use or employ any
act or practice in connection with the purchase or sale of any equity security in contravention of such rules or regulations as the
Commission may adopt, consistent with the public interest, the
protection of investors, and the maintenance of fair and orderly
markets—
(1) to prescribe means reasonably designed to prevent manipulation of price levels of the equity securities market or a
substantial segment thereof; and
(2) to prohibit or constrain, during periods of extraordinary
market volatility, any trading practice in connection with the
purchase or sale of equity securities that the Commission determines (A) has previously contributed significantly to extraordinary levels of volatility that have threatened the maintenance of fair and orderly markets; and (B) is reasonably certain to engender such levels of volatility if not prohibited or
constrained.
In adopting rules under paragraph (2), the Commission shall, consistent with the purposes of this subsection, minimize the impact
on the normal operations of the market and a natural person’s freedom to buy or sell any equity security.
(j) [29] The authority of the Commission under this section with
respect to security-based swap agreements shall be subject to the
restrictions and limitations of section 3A(b) of this title.
29Two

subsecs. (j) have been enacted.

89

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 10

(j) [30] It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly,
by the use of any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce
or of the mails, or of any facility of any national securities exchange, to effect any transaction in, or to induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any security-based swap, in connection with which such person engages in any fraudulent, deceptive,
or manipulative act or practice, makes any fictitious quotation, or
engages in any transaction, practice, or course of business which
operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. The Commission
shall, for the purposes of this subsection, by rules and regulations
define, and prescribe means reasonably designed to prevent, such
transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business as are fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative, and such quotations as are fictitious.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 9, 48 Stat. 889; Pub. L. 97-303,
Sec. 3, Oct. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1409; Pub. L. 101-432, Sec. 6(a), Oct.
16, 1990, 104 Stat. 975; Pub. L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5) [title II, Sec.
205(a)(1), (2), title III, Sec. 303(b), (c)], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat.
2763, 2763A-425, 2763A-426, 2763A-453, 2763A-454; Pub. L. 111203, title VII, Secs. 762(d)(2), 763(f), (g), title IX, Secs. 929L(1),
929X(b), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1760, 1777, 1861, 1870.)
REGULATION OF THE USE OF MANIPULATIVE AND DECEPTIVE DEVICES

SEC. 10. It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, by the use of any means or instrumentality of interstate
commerce or of the mails, or of any facility of any national securities exchange—
(a)(1) To effect a short sale, or to use or employ any stoploss order in connection with the purchase or sale, of any security other than a government security, in contravention of such
rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(2) [31] Paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not apply to security futures products.
(b) To use or employ, in connection with the purchase or
sale of any security registered on a national securities exchange or any security not so registered, or any securitiesbased swap agreement [32] any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(c)(1) To effect, accept, or facilitate a transaction involving
the loan or borrowing of securities in contravention of such
rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
30Two

subsecs. (j) have been enacted.
so in law.
in original. Probably should be followed by a comma.

31Margin
32So

Sec. 10A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

90

(2) Nothing in paragraph (1) may be construed to limit the
authority of the appropriate Federal banking agency (as defined in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
U.S.C. 1813(q))), the National Credit Union Administration, or
any other Federal department or agency having a responsibility under Federal law to prescribe rules or regulations restricting transactions involving the loan or borrowing of securities in order to protect the safety and soundness of a financial
institution or to protect the financial system from systemic
risk.
Rules promulgated under subsection (b) that prohibit fraud, manipulation, or insider trading (but not rules imposing or specifying reporting or recordkeeping requirements, procedures, or standards as
prophylactic measures against fraud, manipulation, or insider trading), and judicial precedents decided under subsection (b) and rules
promulgated thereunder that prohibit fraud, manipulation, or insider trading, shall apply to security-based swap agreements to the
same extent as they apply to securities. Judicial precedents decided
under section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and sections 9, 15,
16, 20, and 21A of this title, and judicial precedents decided under
applicable rules promulgated under such sections, shall apply to security-based swap agreements to the same extent as they apply to
securities.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 10, 48 Stat. 891; Pub. L. 106554, Sec. 1(a)(5) [title II, Sec. 206(g), title III, Sec. 303(d)], Dec. 21,
2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-432, 2763A-454; Pub. L. 111-203, title
VII, Sec. 762(d)(3), title IX, Secs. 929L(2), 984(a), July 21, 2010,
124 Stat. 1761, 1861, 1932.)
SEC. 10A. AUDIT REQUIREMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Each audit

required pursuant to this title of
the financial statements of an issuer by a registered public accounting firm shall include, in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, as may be modified or supplemented from time
to time by the Commission—
(1) procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance of
detecting illegal acts that would have a direct and material effect on the determination of financial statement amounts;
(2) procedures designed to identify related party transactions that are material to the financial statements or otherwise require disclosure therein; and
(3) an evaluation of whether there is substantial doubt
about the ability of the issuer to continue as a going concern
during the ensuing fiscal year.
(b) REQUIRED RESPONSE TO AUDIT DISCOVERIES.—
(1) INVESTIGATION AND REPORT TO MANAGEMENT.—If, in
the course of conducting an audit pursuant to this title to
which subsection (a) applies, the registered public accounting
firm detects or otherwise becomes aware of information indicating that an illegal act (whether or not perceived to have a
material effect on the financial statements of the issuer) has
or may have occurred, the firm shall, in accordance with gen-

91

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 10A

erally accepted auditing standards, as may be modified or supplemented from time to time by the Commission—
(A)(i) determine whether it is likely that an illegal act
has occurred; and
(ii) if so, determine and consider the possible effect of
the illegal act on the financial statements of the issuer, including any contingent monetary effects, such as fines,
penalties, and damages; and
(B) as soon as practicable, inform the appropriate level
of the management of the issuer and assure that the audit
committee of the issuer, or the board of directors of the
issuer in the absence of such a committee, is adequately
informed with respect to illegal acts that have been detected or have otherwise come to the attention of such firm
in the course of the audit, unless the illegal act is clearly
inconsequential.
(2) RESPONSE TO FAILURE TO TAKE REMEDIAL ACTION.—If,
after determining that the audit committee of the board of directors of the issuer, or the board of directors of the issuer in
the absence of an audit committee, is adequately informed with
respect to illegal acts that have been detected or have otherwise come to the attention of the firm in the course of the
audit of such accountant, the registered public accounting firm
concludes that—
(A) the illegal act has a material effect on the financial
statements of the issuer;
(B) the senior management has not taken, and the
board of directors has not caused senior management to
take, timely and appropriate remedial actions with respect
to the illegal act; and
(C) the failure to take remedial action is reasonably
expected to warrant departure from a standard report of
the auditor, when made, or warrant resignation from the
audit engagement;
the registered public accounting firm shall, as soon as practicable, directly report its conclusions to the board of directors.
(3) NOTICE TO COMMISSION; RESPONSE TO FAILURE TO NOTIFY.—An issuer whose board of directors receives a report
under paragraph (2) shall inform the Commission by notice not
later than 1 business day after the receipt of such report and
shall furnish the registered public accounting firm making
such report with a copy of the notice furnished to the Commission. If the registered public accounting firm fails to receive a
copy of the notice before the expiration of the required 1-business-day period, the registered public accounting firm shall—
(A) resign from the engagement; or
(B) furnish to the Commission a copy of its report (or
the documentation of any oral report given) not later than
1 business day following such failure to receive notice.
(4) REPORT AFTER RESIGNATION.—If a registered public accounting firm resigns from an engagement under paragraph
(3)(A), the firm shall, not later than 1 business day following
the failure by the issuer to notify the Commission under para-

Sec. 10A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

92

graph (3), furnish to the Commission a copy of the report of the
firm (or the documentation of any oral report given).
(c) AUDITOR LIABILITY LIMITATION.—No registered public accounting firm shall be liable in a private action for any finding,
conclusion, or statement expressed in a report made pursuant to
paragraph (3) or (4) of subsection (b), including any rule promulgated pursuant thereto.
(d) CIVIL PENALTIES IN CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS.—If
the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing in
a proceeding instituted pursuant to section 21C, that a registered
public accounting firm has willfully violated paragraph (3) or (4) of
subsection (b), the Commission may, in addition to entering an
order under section 21C, impose a civil penalty against the registered public accounting firm and any other person that the Commission finds was a cause of such violation. The determination to
impose a civil penalty and the amount of the penalty shall be governed by the standards set forth in section 21B.
(e) PRESERVATION OF EXISTING AUTHORITY.—Except as provided in subsection (d), nothing in this section shall be held to limit
or otherwise affect the authority of the Commission under this
title.
(f) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section, the term ‘‘illegal act’’
means an act or omission that violates any law, or any rule or regulation having the force of law. As used in this section, the term
‘‘issuer’’ means an issuer (as defined in section 3), the securities of
which are registered under section 12, or that is required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d), or that files or has filed a registration statement that has not yet become effective under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.), and that it has not withdrawn.
(g) PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.—Except as provided in subsection
(h), it shall be unlawful for a registered public accounting firm (and
any associated person of that firm, to the extent determined appropriate by the Commission) that performs for any issuer any audit
required by this title or the rules of the Commission under this
title or, beginning 180 days after the date of commencement of the
operations of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board established under section 101 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (in
this section referred to as the ‘‘Board’’), the rules of the Board, to
provide to that issuer, contemporaneously with the audit, any nonaudit service, including—
(1) bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting
records or financial statements of the audit client;
(2) financial information systems design and implementation;
(3) appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions, or
contribution-in-kind reports;
(4) actuarial services;
(5) internal audit outsourcing services;
(6) management functions or human resources;
(7) broker or dealer, investment adviser, or investment
banking services;
(8) legal services and expert services unrelated to the
audit; and

93

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 10A

(9) any other service that the Board determines, by regulation, is impermissible.
(h) PREAPPROVAL REQUIRED FOR NON-AUDIT SERVICES.—A registered public accounting firm may engage in any non-audit service,
including tax services, that is not described in any of paragraphs
(1) through (9) of subsection (g) for an audit client, only if the activity is approved in advance by the audit committee of the issuer, in
accordance with subsection (i).
(i) PREAPPROVAL REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTION.—All auditing services
(which may entail providing comfort letters in connection
with securities underwritings or statutory audits required
for insurance companies for purposes of State law) and
non-audit services, other than as provided in subparagraph (B), provided to an issuer by the auditor of the
issuer shall be preapproved by the audit committee of the
issuer.
(B) DE MINIMIS EXCEPTION.—The preapproval requirement under subparagraph (A) is waived with respect to the
provision of non-audit services for an issuer, if—
(i) the aggregate amount of all such non-audit
services provided to the issuer constitutes not more
than 5 percent of the total amount of revenues paid by
the issuer to its auditor during the fiscal year in which
the non-audit services are provided;
(ii) such services were not recognized by the issuer
at the time of the engagement to be non-audit services; and
(iii) such services are promptly brought to the attention of the audit committee of the issuer and approved prior to the completion of the audit by the
audit committee or by 1 or more members of the audit
committee who are members of the board of directors
to whom authority to grant such approvals has been
delegated by the audit committee.
(2) DISCLOSURE TO INVESTORS.—Approval by an audit committee of an issuer under this subsection of a non-audit service
to be performed by the auditor of the issuer shall be disclosed
to investors in periodic reports required by section 13(a).
(3) DELEGATION AUTHORITY.—The audit committee of an
issuer may delegate to 1 or more designated members of the
audit committee who are independent directors of the board of
directors, the authority to grant preapprovals required by this
subsection. The decisions of any member to whom authority is
delegated under this paragraph to preapprove an activity
under this subsection shall be presented to the full audit committee at each of its scheduled meetings.
(4) APPROVAL OF AUDIT SERVICES FOR OTHER PURPOSES.—
In carrying out its duties under subsection (m)(2), if the audit
committee of an issuer approves an audit service within the
scope of the engagement of the auditor, such audit service shall
be deemed to have been preapproved for purposes of this subsection.

Sec. 10A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

94

(j) AUDIT PARTNER ROTATION.—It shall be unlawful for a registered public accounting firm to provide audit services to an issuer
if the lead (or coordinating) audit partner (having primary responsibility for the audit), or the audit partner responsible for reviewing
the audit, has performed audit services for that issuer in each of
the 5 previous fiscal years of that issuer.
(k) REPORTS TO AUDIT COMMITTEES.—Each registered public
accounting firm that performs for any issuer any audit required by
this title shall timely report to the audit committee of the issuer—
(1) all critical accounting policies and practices to be used;
(2) all alternative treatments of financial information within generally accepted accounting principles that have been discussed with management officials of the issuer, ramifications of
the use of such alternative disclosures and treatments, and the
treatment preferred by the registered public accounting firm;
and
(3) other material written communications between the
registered public accounting firm and the management of the
issuer, such as any management letter or schedule of
unadjusted differences.
(l) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.—It shall be unlawful for a registered public accounting firm to perform for an issuer any audit
service required by this title, if a chief executive officer, controller,
chief financial officer, chief accounting officer, or any person serving in an equivalent position for the issuer, was employed by that
registered independent public accounting firm and participated in
any capacity in the audit of that issuer during the 1-year period
preceding the date of the initiation of the audit.
(m) STANDARDS RELATING TO AUDIT COMMITTEES.—
(1) COMMISSION RULES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Effective not later than 270 days
after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Commission shall, by rule, direct the national securities exchanges
and national securities associations to prohibit the listing
of any security of an issuer that is not in compliance with
the requirements of any portion of paragraphs (2) through
(6).
(B) OPPORTUNITY TO CURE DEFECTS.—The rules of the
Commission under subparagraph (A) shall provide for appropriate procedures for an issuer to have an opportunity
to cure any defects that would be the basis for a prohibition under subparagraph (A), before the imposition of such
prohibition.
(2) RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMS.—The audit committee of each issuer, in its
capacity as a committee of the board of directors, shall be directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, and
oversight of the work of any registered public accounting firm
employed by that issuer (including resolution of disagreements
between management and the auditor regarding financial reporting) for the purpose of preparing or issuing an audit report
or related work, and each such registered public accounting
firm shall report directly to the audit committee.
(3) INDEPENDENCE.—

95

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 10B

(A) IN GENERAL.—Each member of the audit committee of the issuer shall be a member of the board of directors of the issuer, and shall otherwise be independent.
(B) CRITERIA.—In order to be considered to be independent for purposes of this paragraph, a member of an
audit committee of an issuer may not, other than in his or
her capacity as a member of the audit committee, the
board of directors, or any other board committee—
(i) accept any consulting, advisory, or other compensatory fee from the issuer; or
(ii) be an affiliated person of the issuer or any
subsidiary thereof.
(C) EXEMPTION AUTHORITY.—The Commission may exempt from the requirements of subparagraph (B) a particular relationship with respect to audit committee members, as the Commission determines appropriate in light of
the circumstances.
(4) COMPLAINTS.—Each audit committee shall establish
procedures for—
(A) the receipt, retention, and treatment of complaints
received by the issuer regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters; and
(B) the confidential, anonymous submission by employees of the issuer of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters.
(5) AUTHORITY TO ENGAGE ADVISERS.—Each audit committee shall have the authority to engage independent counsel
and other advisers, as it determines necessary to carry out its
duties.
(6) FUNDING.—Each issuer shall provide for appropriate
funding, as determined by the audit committee, in its capacity
as a committee of the board of directors, for payment of compensation—
(A) to the registered public accounting firm employed
by the issuer for the purpose of rendering or issuing an
audit report; and
(B) to any advisers employed by the audit committee
under paragraph (5).
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 10A, as added Dec. 22, 1995,
Pub. L. 104-67, title III, Sec. 301(a), 109 Stat. 762; amended Pub.
L. 107-204, title II, Secs. 201(a), 202-204, 205(b), (d), 206, title III,
Sec. 301, July 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 771-775; Pub. L. 111-203, title
IX, Sec. 985(b)(3), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1933.)
SEC. 10B. POSITION LIMITS AND POSITION ACCOUNTABILITY FOR
SECURITY-BASED SWAPS AND LARGE TRADER REPORTING.
(a) POSITION LIMITS.—As a means reasonably designed to pre-

vent fraud and manipulation, the Commission shall, by rule or regulation, as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the
protection of investors, establish limits (including related hedge exemption provisions) on the size of positions in any security-based

Sec. 10B

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

96

swap that may be held by any person. In establishing such limits,
the Commission may require any person to aggregate positions in—
(1) any security-based swap and any security or loan or
group of securities or loans on which such security-based swap
is based, which such security-based swap references, or to
which such security-based swap is related as described in paragraph (68) of section 3(a), and any other instrument relating
to such security or loan or group or index of securities or loans;
or
(2) any security-based swap and—
(A) any security or group or index of securities, the
price, yield, value, or volatility of which, or of which any
interest therein, is the basis for a material term of such
security-based swap as described in paragraph (68) of section 3(a); and
(B) any other instrument relating to the same security
or group or index of securities described under subparagraph (A).
(b) EXEMPTIONS.—The Commission, by rule, regulation, or
order, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt any person or
class of persons, any security-based swap or class of security-based
swaps, or any transaction or class of transactions from any requirement the Commission may establish under this section with respect to position limits.
(c) SRO RULES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraud or manipulation, the Commission, by rule, regulation, or order, as necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance
of the purposes of this title, may direct a self-regulatory organization—
(A) to adopt rules regarding the size of positions in
any security-based swap that may be held by—
(i) any member of such self-regulatory organization; or
(ii) any person for whom a member of such selfregulatory organization effects transactions in such security-based swap; and
(B) to adopt rules reasonably designed to ensure compliance with requirements prescribed by the Commission
under this subsection.
(2) REQUIREMENT TO AGGREGATE POSITIONS.—In establishing the limits under paragraph (1), the self-regulatory organization may require such member or person to aggregate positions in—
(A) any security-based swap and any security or loan
or group or narrow-based security index of securities or
loans on which such security-based swap is based, which
such security- based swap references, or to which such security-based swap is related as described in section
3(a)(68), and any other instrument relating to such security or loan or group or narrow-based security index of securities or loans; or
(B)(i) any security-based swap; and

97

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 10C

(ii) any security-based swap and any other instrument
relating to the same security or group or narrow-based security index of securities.
(d) LARGE TRADER REPORTING.—The Commission, by rule or
regulation, may require any person that effects transactions for
such person’s own account or the account of others in any securities-based swap or uncleared security-based swap and any security
or loan or group or narrow-based security index of securities or
loans as set forth in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) under
this section to report such information as the Commission may prescribe regarding any position or positions in any security-based
swap or uncleared security-based swap and any security or loan or
group or narrow-based security index of securities or loans and any
other instrument relating to such security or loan or group or narrow-based security index of securities or loans as set forth in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) under this section.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 10B, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title VII, Sec. 763(h), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1778.)
SEC. 10C. COMPENSATION COMMITTEES.
(a) INDEPENDENCE OF COMPENSATION COMMITTEES.—
(1) LISTING STANDARDS.—The Commission shall,

by rule,
direct the national securities exchanges and national securities
associations to prohibit the listing of any equity security of an
issuer, other than an issuer that is a controlled company, limited partnership, company in bankruptcy proceedings, openended management investment company that is registered
under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or a foreign private issuer that provides annual disclosures to shareholders of
the reasons that the foreign private issuer does not have an
independent compensation committee, that does not comply
with the requirements of this subsection.
(2) INDEPENDENCE OF COMPENSATION COMMITTEES.—The
rules of the Commission under paragraph (1) shall require that
each member of the compensation committee of the board of directors of an issuer be—
(A) a member of the board of directors of the issuer;
and
(B) independent.
(3) INDEPENDENCE.—The rules of the Commission under
paragraph (1) shall require that, in determining the definition
of the term ‘‘independence’’ for purposes of paragraph (2), the
national securities exchanges and the national securities associations shall consider relevant factors, including—
(A) the source of compensation of a member of the
board of directors of an issuer, including any consulting,
advisory, or other compensatory fee paid by the issuer to
such member of the board of directors; and
(B) whether a member of the board of directors of an
issuer is affiliated with the issuer, a subsidiary of the
issuer, or an affiliate of a subsidiary of the issuer.

Sec. 10C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

98

(4) EXEMPTION AUTHORITY.—The rules of the Commission
under paragraph (1) shall permit a national securities exchange or a national securities association to exempt a particular relationship from the requirements of paragraph (2),
with respect to the members of a compensation committee, as
the national securities exchange or national securities association determines is appropriate, taking into consideration the
size of an issuer and any other relevant factors.
(b) INDEPENDENCE OF COMPENSATION CONSULTANTS AND
OTHER COMPENSATION COMMITTEE ADVISERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The compensation committee of an issuer
may only select a compensation consultant, legal counsel, or
other adviser to the compensation committee after taking into
consideration the factors identified by the Commission under
paragraph (2).
(2) RULES.—The Commission shall identify factors that affect the independence of a compensation consultant, legal counsel, or other adviser to a compensation committee of an issuer.
Such factors shall be competitively neutral among categories of
consultants, legal counsel, or other advisers and preserve the
ability of compensation committees to retain the services of
members of any such category, and shall include—
(A) the provision of other services to the issuer by the
person that employs the compensation consultant, legal
counsel, or other adviser;
(B) the amount of fees received from the issuer by the
person that employs the compensation consultant, legal
counsel, or other adviser, as a percentage of the total revenue of the person that employs the compensation consultant, legal counsel, or other adviser;
(C) the policies and procedures of the person that employs the compensation consultant, legal counsel, or other
adviser that are designed to prevent conflicts of interest;
(D) any business or personal relationship of the compensation consultant, legal counsel, or other adviser with
a member of the compensation committee; and
(E) any stock of the issuer owned by the compensation
consultant, legal counsel, or other adviser.
(c) COMPENSATION COMMITTEE AUTHORITY RELATING TO COMPENSATION CONSULTANTS.—
(1) AUTHORITY TO RETAIN COMPENSATION CONSULTANT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The compensation committee of an
issuer, in its capacity as a committee of the board of directors, may, in its sole discretion, retain or obtain the advice
of a compensation consultant.
(B) DIRECT RESPONSIBILITY OF COMPENSATION COMMITTEE.—The compensation committee of an issuer shall
be directly responsible for the appointment, compensation,
and oversight of the work of a compensation consultant.
(C) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—This paragraph may not
be construed—
(i) to require the compensation committee to implement or act consistently with the advice or recommendations of the compensation consultant; or

99

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 10C

(ii) to affect the ability or obligation of a compensation committee to exercise its own judgment in
fulfillment of the duties of the compensation committee.
(2) DISCLOSURE.—In any proxy or consent solicitation material for an annual meeting of the shareholders (or a special
meeting in lieu of the annual meeting) occurring on or after
the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, each issuer shall disclose in the proxy or consent material, in accordance with regulations of the Commission, whether—
(A) the compensation committee of the issuer retained
or obtained the advice of a compensation consultant; and
(B) the work of the compensation consultant has
raised any conflict of interest and, if so, the nature of the
conflict and how the conflict is being addressed.
(d) AUTHORITY TO ENGAGE INDEPENDENT LEGAL COUNSEL AND
OTHER ADVISERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The compensation committee of an
issuer, in its capacity as a committee of the board of directors,
may, in its sole discretion, retain and obtain the advice of independent legal counsel and other advisers.
(2) DIRECT RESPONSIBILITY OF COMPENSATION COMMITTEE.—The compensation committee of an issuer shall be directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, and
oversight of the work of independent legal counsel and other
advisers.
(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—This subsection may not be
construed—
(A) to require a compensation committee to implement
or act consistently with the advice or recommendations of
independent legal counsel or other advisers under this subsection; or
(B) to affect the ability or obligation of a compensation
committee to exercise its own judgment in fulfillment of
the duties of the compensation committee.
(e) COMPENSATION OF COMPENSATION CONSULTANTS, INDEPENDENT LEGAL COUNSEL, AND OTHER ADVISERS.—Each issuer
shall provide for appropriate funding, as determined by the compensation committee in its capacity as a committee of the board of
directors, for payment of reasonable compensation—
(1) to a compensation consultant; and
(2) to independent legal counsel or any other adviser to the
compensation committee.
(f) COMMISSION RULES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 360 days after the date of
enactment of this section, the Commission shall, by rule, direct
the national securities exchanges and national securities associations to prohibit the listing of any security of an issuer that
is not in compliance with the requirements of this section.
(2) OPPORTUNITY TO CURE DEFECTS.—The rules of the Commission under paragraph (1) shall provide for appropriate procedures for an issuer to have a reasonable opportunity to cure

Sec. 10D

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

100

any defects that would be the basis for the prohibition under
paragraph (1), before the imposition of such prohibition.
(3) EXEMPTION AUTHORITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The rules of the Commission under
paragraph (1) shall permit a national securities exchange
or a national securities association to exempt a category of
issuers from the requirements under this section, as the
national securities exchange or the national securities association determines is appropriate.
(B) CONSIDERATIONS.—In determining appropriate exemptions under subparagraph (A), the national securities
exchange or the national securities association shall take
into account the potential impact of the requirements of
this section on smaller reporting issuers.
(g) CONTROLLED COMPANY EXEMPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—This section shall not apply to any controlled company.
(2) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this section, the term
‘‘controlled company’’ means an issuer—
(A) that is listed on a national securities exchange or
by a national securities association; and
(B) that holds an election for the board of directors of
the issuer in which more than 50 percent of the voting
power is held by an individual, a group, or another issuer.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 10C, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title IX, Sec. 952(a), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1900.)
SEC. 10D. RECOVERY OF ERRONEOUSLY AWARDED COMPENSATION
POLICY.
(a) LISTING STANDARDS.—The Commission shall, by rule, direct

the national securities exchanges and national securities associations to prohibit the listing of any security of an issuer that does
not comply with the requirements of this section.
(b) RECOVERY OF FUNDS.—The rules of the Commission under
subsection (a) shall require each issuer to develop and implement
a policy providing—
(1) for disclosure of the policy of the issuer on incentivebased compensation that is based on financial information required to be reported under the securities laws; and
(2) that, in the event that the issuer is required to prepare
an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance
of the issuer with any financial reporting requirement under
the securities laws, the issuer will recover from any current or
former executive officer of the issuer who received incentivebased compensation (including stock options awarded as compensation) during the 3-year period preceding the date on
which the issuer is required to prepare an accounting restatement, based on the erroneous data, in [33] excess of what would
have been paid to the executive officer under the accounting
restatement.
33So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘compensation in’’.

101

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 11

(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 10D, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title IX, Sec. 954, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1904.)
TRADING BY MEMBERS OF EXCHANGES, BROKERS, AND DEALERS

SEC. 11. (a)(1) It shall be unlawful for any member of a national securities exchange to effect any transaction on such exchange for its own account, the account of an associated person, or
an account with respect to which it or an associated person thereof
exercises investment discretion: Provided, however, That this paragraph shall not make unlawful—
(A) any transaction by a dealer acting in the capacity of
market maker;
(B) any transaction for the account of an odd-lot dealer in
a security in which he is so registered;
(C) any stabilizing transaction effected in compliance with
rules under section 10(b) of this title to facilitate a distribution
of a security in which the member effecting such transaction
is participating;
(D) any bona fide arbitrage transaction, any bona fide
hedge transaction involving a long or short position in an equity security and a long or short position in a security entitling
the holder to acquire or sell such equity security, or any risk
arbitrage transaction in connection with a merger, acquisition,
tender offer, or similar transaction involving a recapitalization;
(E) any transaction for the account of a natural person, the
estate of a natural person, or a trust created by a natural person for himself or another natural person;
(F) any transaction to offset a transaction made in error;
(G) any other transaction for a member’s own account provided that (i) such member is primarily engaged in the business of underwriting and distributing securities issued by other
persons, selling securities to customers, and acting as broker,
or any one or more of such activities, and whose gross income
normally is derived principally from such business and related
activities and (ii) such transaction is effected in compliance
with rules of the Commission which, as a minimum, assure
that the transaction is not inconsistent with the maintenance
of fair and orderly markets and yields priority, parity, and
precedence in execution to orders for the account of persons
who are not members or associated with members of the exchange;
(H) any transaction for an account with respect to which
such member or an associated person thereof exercises investment discretion if such member—
(i) has obtained, from the person or persons authorized
to transact business for the account, express authorization
for such member or associated person to effect such transactions prior to engaging in the practice of effecting such
transactions;
(ii) furnishes the person or persons authorized to
transact business for the account with a statement at least
annually disclosing the aggregate compensation received

Sec. 11

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

102

by the exchange member in effecting such transactions;
and
(iii) complies with any rules the Commission has prescribed with respect to the requirements of clauses (i) and
(ii); and
(I) any other transaction of a kind which the Commission,
by rule, determines is consistent with the purposes of this
paragraph, the protection of investors, and the maintenance of
fair and orderly markets.
(2) The Commission, by rule, as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors, to
maintain fair and orderly markets, or to assure equal regulation of
exchange markets and markets occurring otherwise than on an exchange, may regulate or prohibit:
(A) transactions on a national securities exchange not unlawful under paragraph (1) of this subsection effected by any
member thereof for its own account (unless such member is
acting in the capacity of market maker or odd-lot dealer), the
account of an associated person, or an account with respect to
which such member or an associated person thereof exercises
investment discretion;
(B) transactions otherwise than on a national securities exchange effected by use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce by any member of a national securities exchange, broker, or dealer for the account of such
member, broker, or dealer (unless such member, broker, or
dealer is acting in the capacity of a market maker) [34] the account of an associated person, or an account with respect to
which such member, broker, or dealer or associated person
thereof exercises investment discretion; and
(C) transactions on a national securities exchange effected
by any broker or dealer not a member thereof for the account
of such broker or dealer (unless such broker or dealer is acting
in the capacity of market maker), the account of an associated
person, or an account with respect to which such broker or
dealer or associated person thereof exercises investment discretion.
(3) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection insofar as
they apply to transactions on a national securities exchange effected by a member thereof who was a member on February 1,
1978 shall not become effective until February 1, 1979. Nothing in
this paragraph shall be construed to impair or limit the authority
of the Commission to regulate or prohibit such transactions prior
to February 1, 1979, pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection.
(b) When not in contravention of such rules and regulations as
the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the
public interest and for the protection of investors, to maintain fair
and orderly markets, or to remove impediments to and perfect the
mechanism of a national market system, the rules of a national securities exchange may permit (1) a member to be registered as an
odd-lot dealer and as such to buy and sell for his own account so
far as may be reasonably necessary to carry on such odd-lot trans34So

in law. Probably should be followed by a comma.

103

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 11

actions, and (2) a member to be registered as a specialist. Under
the rules and regulations of the Commission a specialist may be
permitted to act as a broker and dealer or limited to acting as a
broker or dealer. It shall be unlawful for a specialist or an official
of the exchange to disclose information in regard to orders placed
with such specialist which is not available to all members of the
exchange, to any person other than an official of the exchange, a
representative of the Commission, or a specialist who may be acting for such specialist: Provided, however, That the Commission, by
rule, may require disclosure to all members of the exchange of all
orders placed with specialists, under such rules and regulations as
the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the
public interest or for the protection of investors. It shall also be unlawful for a specialist permitted to act as a broker and dealer to
effect on the exchange as broker any transaction except upon a
market or limited price order.
(c) If because of the limited volume of transactions effected on
an exchange, it is in the opinion of the Commission impracticable
and not necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the
protection of investors to apply any of the foregoing provisions of
this section or the rules and regulations thereunder, the Commission shall have power, upon application of the exchange and on a
showing that the rules of such exchange are otherwise adequate for
the protection of investors, to exempt such exchange and its members from any such provision or rules and regulations.
(d) It shall be unlawful for a member of a national securities
exchange who is both a dealer and a broker, or for any person who
both as a broker and a dealer transacts a business in securities
through the medium of a member or otherwise, to effect through
the use of any facility of a national securities exchange or of the
mails or of any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce,
or otherwise in the case of a member, (1) any transaction in connection with which, directly or indirectly, he extends or maintains
or arranges for the extension or maintenance of credit to or for a
customer on any security (other than an exempted security) which
was a part of a new issue in the distribution of which he participated as a member of a selling syndicate or group within thirty
days prior to such transaction: Provided, That credit shall not be
deemed extended by reason of a bona fide delayed delivery of (i)
any such security against full payment of the entire purchase price
thereof upon such delivery within thirty-five days after such purchase or (ii) any mortgage related security or any small business
related security against full payment of the entire purchase price
thereof upon such delivery within one hundred and eighty days
after such purchase, or within such shorter period as the Commission may prescribe by rule or regulation, or (2) any transaction
with respect to any security (other than an exempted security) unless, if the transaction is with a customer, he discloses to such customer in writing at or before the completion of the transaction
whether he is acting as a dealer for his own account, as a broker
for such customer, or as a broker for some other person.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 11, 48 Stat. 891; Aug. 10, 1954,
ch. 667, title II, Sec. 201, 68 Stat. 686; Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 6, June

Sec. 11A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

104

4, 1975, 89 Stat. 110; Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 18(a), May 21, 1978, 92
Stat. 275; Pub. L. 98-440, title I, Sec. 104, Oct. 3, 1984, 98 Stat.
1690; Pub. L. 103-68, Sec. 1, Aug. 11, 1993, 107 Stat. 691; Pub. L.
103-325, title II, Sec. 205, Sept. 23, 1994, 108 Stat. 2199.)
NATIONAL MARKET SYSTEM FOR SECURITIES; SECURITIES
INFORMATION PROCESSORS

SEC. 11A. (a)(1) The Congress finds that—
(A) The securities markets are an important national asset
which must be preserved and strengthened.
(B) New data processing and communications techniques
create the opportunity for more efficient and effective market
operations.
(C) It is in the public interest and appropriate for the protection of investors and the maintenance of fair and orderly
markets to assure—
(i) economically efficient execution of securities transactions;
(ii) fair competition among brokers and dealers, among
exchange markets, and between exchange markets and
markets other than exchange markets;
(iii) the availability to brokers, dealers, and investors
of information with respect to quotations for and transactions in securities;
(iv) the practicability of brokers executing investors’
orders in the best market; and
(v) an opportunity, consistent with the provisions of
clauses (i) and (iv) of this subparagraph, for investors’ orders to be executed without the participation of a dealer.
(D) The linking of all markets for qualified securities
through communication and data processing facilities will foster efficiency, enhance competition, increase the information
available to brokers, dealers, and investors, facilitate the offsetting of investors’ orders, and contribute to best execution of
such orders.
(2) The Commission is directed, therefore, having due regard
for the public interest, the protection of investors, and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, to use its authority under this
title to facilitate the establishment of a national market system for
securities (which may include subsystems for particular types of securities with unique trading characteristics) in accordance with the
findings and to carry out the objectives set forth in paragraph (1)
of this subsection. The Commission, by rule, shall designate the securities or classes of securities qualified for trading in the national
market system from among securities other than exempted securities. (Securities or classes of securities so designated hereinafter [35]
in this section referred to as ‘‘qualified securities’’.)
(3) The Commission is authorized in furtherance of the directive in paragraph (2) of this subsection—
(A) to create one or more advisory committees pursuant to
the Federal Advisory Committee Act (which shall be in addi35So

in law. Probably should be ‘‘are hereinafter’’.

105

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 11A

tion to the National Market Advisory Board established pursuant to subsection (d) of this section) and to employ one or more
outside experts;
(B) by rule or order, to authorize or require self-regulatory
organizations to act jointly with respect to matters as to which
they share authority under this title in planning, developing,
operating, or regulating a national market system (or a subsystem thereof) or one or more facilities thereof; and
(C) to conduct studies and make recommendations to the
Congress from time to time as to the possible need for modifications of the scheme of self-regulation provided for in this
title so as to adapt it to a national market system.
(b)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any securities information processor unless registered
in accordance with this subsection, directly or indirectly, to make
use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to perform the functions of a securities information processor. The Commission, by rule or order, upon its own motion or
upon application, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt any
securities information processor or class of securities information
processors or security or class of securities from any provision of
this section or the rules or regulations thereunder, if the Commission finds that such exemption is consistent with the public interest, the protection of investors, and the purposes of this section, including the maintenance of fair and orderly markets in securities
and the removal of impediments to and perfection of the mechanism of a national market system: Provided, however, That a securities information processor not acting as the exclusive processor of
any information with respect to quotations for or transactions in
securities is exempt from the requirement to register in accordance
with this subsection unless the Commission, by rule or order, finds
that the registration of such securities information processor is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or for the achievement of the purposes of this section.
(2) A securities information processor may be registered by filing with the Commission an application for registration in such
form as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe containing the address of its principal office, or offices, the names of the securities
and markets for which it is then acting and for which it proposes
to act as a securities information processor, and such other information and documents as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe
with regard to performance capability, standards and procedures
for the collection, processing, distribution, and publication of information with respect to quotations for and transactions in securities, personnel qualifications, financial condition, and such other
matters as the Commission determines to be germane to the provisions of this title and the rules and regulations thereunder, or necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this section.
(3) The Commission shall, upon the filing of an application for
registration pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection, publish
notice of the filing and afford interested persons an opportunity to
submit written data, views, and arguments concerning such application. Within ninety days of the date of the publication of such no-

Sec. 11A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

106

tice (or within such longer period as to which the applicant consents) the Commission shall—
(A) by order grant such registration, or
(B) institute proceedings to determine whether registration
should be denied. Such proceedings shall include notice of the
grounds for denial under consideration and opportunity for
hearing and shall be concluded within one hundred eighty days
of the date of publication of notice of the filing of the application for registration. At the conclusion of such proceedings the
Commission, by order, shall grant or deny such registration.
The Commission may extend the time for the conclusion of
such proceedings for up to sixty days if it finds good cause for
such extension and publishes its reasons for so finding or for
such longer periods as to which the applicant consents.
The Commission shall grant the registration of a securities information processor if the Commission finds that such securities information processor is so organized, and has the capacity, to be able
to assure the prompt, accurate, and reliable performance of its
functions as a securities information processor, comply with the
provisions of this title and the rules and regulations thereunder,
carry out its functions in a manner consistent with the purposes
of this section, and, insofar as it is acting as an exclusive processor,
operate fairly and efficiently. The Commission shall deny the registration of a securities information processor if the Commission
does not make any such finding.
(4) A registered securities information processor may, upon
such terms and conditions as the Commission deems necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors,
withdraw from registration by filing a written notice of withdrawal
with the Commission. If the Commission finds that any registered
securities information processor is no longer in existence or has
ceased to do business in the capacity specified in its application for
registration, the Commission, by order, shall cancel the registration.
(5)(A) If any registered securities information processor prohibits or limits any person in respect of access to services offered,
directly or indirectly, by such securities information processor, the
registered securities information processor shall promptly file notice thereof with the Commission. The notice shall be in such form
and contain such information as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the
protection of investors. Any prohibition or limitation on access to
services with respect to which a registered securities information
processor is required by this paragraph to file notice shall be subject to review by the Commission on its own motion, or upon application by any person aggrieved thereby filed within thirty days
after such notice has been filed with the Commission and received
by such aggrieved person, or within such longer period as the Commission may determine. Application to the Commission for review,
or the institution of review by the Commission on its own motion,
shall not operate as a stay of such prohibition or limitation, unless
the Commission otherwise orders, summarily or after notice and
opportunity for hearing on the question of a stay (which hearing
may consist solely of the submission of affidavits or presentation of

107

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 11A

oral arguments). The Commission shall establish for appropriate
cases an expedited procedure for consideration and determination
of the question of a stay.
(B) In any proceeding to review the prohibition or limitation of
any person in respect of access to services offered by a registered
securities information processor, if the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such prohibition or limitation
is consistent with the provisions of this title and the rules and regulations thereunder and that such person has not been discriminated against unfairly, the Commission, by order, shall dismiss the
proceeding. If the Commission does not make any such finding or
if it finds that such prohibition or limitation imposes any burden
on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the
purposes of this title, the Commission, by order, shall set aside the
prohibition or limitation and require the registered securities information processor to permit such person access to services offered
by the registered securities information processor.
(6) The Commission, by order, may censure or place limitations
upon the activities, functions, or operations of any registered securities information processor or suspend for a period not exceeding
twelve months or revoke the registration of any such processor, if
the Commission finds, on the record after notice and opportunity
for hearing, that such censure, placing of limitations, suspension,
or revocation is in the public interest, necessary or appropriate for
the protection of investors or to assure the prompt, accurate, or reliable performance of the functions of such securities information
processor, and that such securities information processor has violated or is unable to comply with any provision of this title or the
rules or regulations thereunder.
(c)(1) No self-regulatory organization, member thereof, securities information processor, broker, or dealer shall make use of the
mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to
collect, process, distribute, publish, or prepare for distribution or
publication any information with respect to quotations for or transactions in any security other than an exempted security, to assist,
participate in, or coordinate the distribution or publication of such
information, or to effect any transaction in, or to induce or attempt
to induce the purchase or sale of, any such security in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission shall prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the
protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes
of this title to—
(A) prevent the use, distribution, or publication of fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative information with respect to
quotations for and transactions in such securities;
(B) assure the prompt, accurate, reliable, and fair collection, processing, distribution, and publication of information
with respect to quotations for and transactions in such securities and the fairness and usefulness of the form and content
of such information;
(C) assure that all securities information processors may,
for purposes of distribution and publication, obtain on fair and
reasonable terms such information with respect to quotations
for and transactions in such securities as is collected, proc-

Sec. 11A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

108

essed, or prepared for distribution or publication by any exclusive processor of such information acting in such capacity;
(D) assure that all exchange members, brokers, dealers, securities information processors, and, subject to such limitations
as the Commission, by rule, may impose as necessary or appropriate for the protection of investors or maintenance of fair and
orderly markets, all other persons may obtain on terms which
are not unreasonably discriminatory such information with respect to quotations for and transactions in such securities as
is published or distributed by any self-regulatory organization
or securities information processor;
(E) assure that all exchange members, brokers, and dealers transmit and direct orders for the purchase or sale of qualified securities in a manner consistent with the establishment
and operation of a national market system; and
(F) assure equal regulation of all markets for qualified securities and all exchange members, brokers, and dealers effecting transactions in such securities.
(2) The Commission, by rule, as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, may
require any person who has effected the purchase or sale of any
qualified security by use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to report such purchase or sale to a
registered securities information processor, national securities exchange, or registered securities association and require such processor, exchange, or association to make appropriate distribution
and publication of information with respect to such purchase or
sale.
(3)(A) The Commission, by rule, is authorized to prohibit brokers and dealers from effecting transactions in securities registered
pursuant to section 12(b) otherwise than on a national securities
exchange, if the Commission finds, on the record after notice and
opportunity for hearing, that—
(i) as a result of transactions in such securities effected
otherwise than on a national securities exchange the fairness
or orderliness of the markets for such securities has been affected in a manner contrary to the public interest or the protection of investors;
(ii) no rule of any national securities exchange unreasonably impairs the ability of any dealer to solicit or effect transactions in such securities for his own account or unreasonably
restricts competition among dealers in such securities or between dealers acting in the capacity of market makers who are
specialists in such securities and such dealers who are not specialists in such securities, and
(iii) the maintenance or restoration of fair and orderly
markets in such securities may not be assured through other
lawful means under this title.
The Commission may conditionally or unconditionally exempt any
security or transaction or any class of securities or transactions
from any such prohibition if the Commission deems such exemption
consistent with the public interest, the protection of investors, and
the maintenance of fair and orderly markets.

109

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 11A

(B) For the purposes of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph,
the ability of a dealer to solicit or effect transactions in securities
for his own account shall not be deemed to be unreasonably impaired by any rule of an exchange fairly and reasonably prescribing
the sequence in which orders brought to the exchange must be executed or which has been adopted to effect compliance with a rule
of the Commission promulgated under this title.
(4) The Commission is directed to review any and all rules of
national securities exchanges which limit or condition the ability of
members to effect transactions in securities otherwise than on such
exchanges.
(5) No national securities exchange or registered securities association may limit or condition the participation of any member in
any registered clearing agency.
(6) [36] TICK SIZE.—
(A) STUDY AND REPORT.—The Commission shall conduct a study examining the transition to trading and
quoting securities in one penny increments, also known as
decimalization. The study shall examine the impact that
decimalization has had on the number of initial public offerings since its implementation relative to the period before its implementation. The study shall also examine the
impact that this change has had on liquidity for small and
middle capitalization company securities and whether
there is sufficient economic incentive to support trading
operations in these securities in penny increments. Not
later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Commission shall submit to Congress a report
on the findings of the study.
(B) DESIGNATION.—If the Commission determines that
the securities of emerging growth companies should be
quoted and traded using a minimum increment of greater
than $0.01, the Commission may, by rule not later than
180 days after the date of enactment of this paragraph,
designate a minimum increment for the securities of
emerging growth companies that is greater than $0.01 but
less than $0.10 for use in all quoting and trading of securities in any exchange or other execution venue.
(d)(1) Not later than one hundred eighty days after the date of
enactment of the Securities Acts Amendments of 1975, the Commission shall establish a National Market Advisory Board (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ‘‘Advisory Board’’) to be composed of fifteen members, not all of whom shall be from the same
geographical area of the United States, appointed by the Commission for a term specified by the Commission of not less than two
years or more than five years. The Advisory Board shall consist of
persons associated with brokers and dealers (who shall be a majority) and persons not so associated who are representative of the
public and, to the extent feasible, have knowledge of the securities
markets of the United States.
(2) It shall be the responsibility of the Advisory Board to formulate and furnish to the Commission its views on significant reg36Indentation

so in original.

Sec. 11A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

110

ulatory proposals made by the Commission or any self-regulatory
organization concerning the establishment, operation, and regulation of the markets for securities in the United States.
(3)(A) The Advisory Board shall study and make recommendations to the Commission as to the steps it finds appropriate to facilitate the establishment of a national market system. In so doing,
the Advisory Board shall assume the responsibilities of any advisory committee appointed to advise the Commission with respect to
the national market system which is in existence at the time of the
establishment of the Advisory Board.
(B) The Advisory Board shall study the possible need for modifications of the scheme of self-regulation provided for in this title
so as to adapt it to a national market system, including the need
for the establishment of a new self-regulatory organization (hereinafter in this section referred to as a ‘‘National Market Regulatory
Board’’ or ‘‘Regulatory Board’’) to administer the national market
system. In the event the Advisory Board determines a National
Market Regulatory Board should be established, it shall make recommendations as to:
(i) the point in time at which a Regulatory Board should
be established;
(ii) the composition of a Regulatory Board;
(iii) the scope of the authority of a Regulatory Board;
(iv) the relationship of a Regulatory Board to the Commission and to existing self-regulatory organizations; and
(v) the manner in which a Regulatory Board should be
funded.
The Advisory Board shall report to the Congress, on or before December 31, 1976, the results of such study and its recommendations, including such recommendations for legislation as it deems
appropriate.
(C) In carrying out its responsibilities under this paragraph,
the Advisory Board shall consult with self-regulatory organizations,
brokers, dealers, securities information processors, issuers, investors, representatives of Government agencies, and other persons interested or likely to participate in the establishment, operation, or
regulation of the national market system.
(e) NATIONAL MARKETS SYSTEM FOR SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS.—
(1) CONSULTATION AND COOPERATION REQUIRED.—With respect to security futures products, the Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall consult and cooperate so that, to the maximum extent practicable, their respective regulatory responsibilities may be fulfilled and the
rules and regulations applicable to security futures products
may foster a national market system for security futures products if the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission jointly determine that such a system would be
consistent with the congressional findings in subsection (a)(1).
In accordance with this objective, the Commission shall, at
least 15 days prior to the issuance for public comment of any
proposed rule or regulation under this section concerning security futures products, consult and request the views of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

111

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 12

(2) APPLICATION OF RULES BY ORDER OF CFTC.—No rule
adopted pursuant to this section shall be applied to any person
with respect to the trading of security futures products on an
exchange that is registered under section 6(g) unless the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has issued an order directing that such rule is applicable to such persons.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 11A, as added Pub. L. 94-29,
Sec. 7, June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 111; amended Pub. L. 98-620, title
IV, Sec. 402(14), Nov. 8, 1984, 98 Stat. 3358; Pub. L. 100-181, title
III, Sec. 313, 314, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1256; Pub. L. 106-554,
Sec. 1(a)(5) [title II, Sec. 206(c)], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763,
2763A-430; Pub. L. 112-106, title I, Sec. 106(b), Apr. 5, 2012, 126
Stat. 312.)
REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITIES

SEC. 12. (a) It shall be unlawful for any member, broker, or
dealer to effect any transaction in any security (other than an exempted security) on a national securities exchange unless a registration is effective as to such security for such exchange in accordance with the provisions of this title and the rules and regulations thereunder. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply
in respect of a security futures product traded on a national securities exchange.
(b) A security may be registered on a national securities exchange by the issuer filing an application with the exchange (and
filing with the Commission such duplicate originals thereof as the
Commission may require), which application shall contain—
(1) Such information, in such detail, as to the issuer and
any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by, or
under direct or indirect common control with, the issuer, and
any guarantor of the security as to principal or interest or
both, as the Commission may by rules and regulations require,
as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the
protection of investors, in respect of the following:
(A) the organization, financial structures, and nature
of the business;
(B) the terms, position, rights, and privileges of the
different classes of securities outstanding;
(C) the terms on which their securities are to be, and
during the preceding three years have been, offered to the
public or otherwise;
(D) the directors, officers, and underwriters, and each
security holder of record holding more than 10 per centum
of any class of any equity security of the issuer (other than
an exempted security), their remuneration and their interests in the securities of, and their material contracts with,
the issuer and any person directly or indirectly controlling
or controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control
with, the issuer;
(E) remuneration to others than directors and officers
exceeding $20,000 per annum;
(F) bonus and profit-sharing arrangements;

Sec. 12

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

112

(G) management and service contracts;
(H) options existing or to be created in respect of their
securities;
(I) material contracts, not made in the ordinary course
of business, which are to be executed in whole or in part
at or after the filing of the application or which were made
not more than two years before such filing, and every material patent or contract for a material patent right shall
be deemed a material contract;
(J) balance sheets for not more than the three preceding fiscal years, certified if required by the rules and
regulations of the Commission by a registered public accounting firm;
(K) profit and loss statements for not more than the
three preceding fiscal years, certified if required by the
rules and regulations of the Commission by a registered
public accounting firm; and
(L) any further financial statements which the Commission may deem necessary or appropriate for the protection of investors.
(2) Such copies of articles of incorporation, bylaws, trust
indentures, or corresponding documents by whatever name
known, underwriting arrangements, and other similar documents of, and voting trust agreements with respect to, the
issuer and any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with, the
issuer as the Commission may require as necessary or appropriate for the proper protection of investors and to insure fair
dealing in the security.
(3) Such copies of material contracts, referred to in paragraph (1)(I) above, as the Commission may require as necessary or appropriate for the proper protection of investors and
to insure fair dealing in the security.
(c) If in the judgment of the Commission any information required under subsection (b) of this section is inapplicable to any
specified class or classes of issuers, the Commission shall require
in lieu thereof the submission of such other information of comparable character as it may deem applicable to such class of
issuers.
(d) If the exchange authorities certify to the Commission that
the security has been approved by the exchange for listing and registration, the registration shall become effective thirty days after
the receipt of such certification by the Commission or within such
shorter period of time as the Commission may determine. A security registered with a national securities exchange may be withdrawn or stricken from listing and registration in accordance with
the rules of the exchange and, upon such terms as the Commission
may deem necessary to impose for the protection of investors, upon
application by the issuer or the exchange to the Commission;
whereupon the issuer shall be relieved from further compliance
with the provisions of this section and section 13 of this title and
any rules or regulations under such sections as to the securities so
withdrawn or stricken. An unissued security may be registered
only in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commis-

113

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 12

sion may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, the
Commission may by such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of
investors permit securities listed on any exchange at the time the
registration of such exchange as a national securities exchange becomes effective, to be registered for a period ending not later than
July 1, 1935, without complying with the provisions of this section.
(f)(1)(A) Notwithstanding the preceding subsections of this section, any national securities exchange, in accordance with the requirements of this subsection and the rules hereunder, may extend
unlisted trading privileges to—
(i) any security that is listed and registered on a national
securities exchange, subject to subparagraph (B); and
(ii) any security that is otherwise registered pursuant to
this section, or that would be required to be so registered except for the exemption from registration provided in subparagraph (B) or (G) of subsection (g)(2), subject to subparagraph
(E) of this paragraph.
(B) A national securities exchange may not extend unlisted
trading privileges to a security described in subparagraph (A)(i)
during such interval, if any, after the commencement of an initial
public offering of such security, as is or may be required pursuant
to subparagraph (C).
(C) Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of the
Unlisted Trading Privileges Act of 1994, the Commission shall prescribe, by rule or regulation, the duration of the interval referred
to in subparagraph (B), if any, as the Commission determines to be
necessary or appropriate for the maintenance of fair and orderly
markets, the protection of investors and the public interest, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this title. Until the earlier
of the effective date of such rule or regulation or 240 days after
such date of enactment, such interval shall begin at the opening of
trading on the day on which such security commences trading on
the national securities exchange with which such security is registered and end at the conclusion of the next day of trading.
(D) The Commission may prescribe, by rule or regulation such
additional procedures or requirements for extending unlisted trading privileges to any security as the Commission deems necessary
or appropriate for the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, the
protection of investors and the public interest, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this title.
(E) No extension of unlisted trading privileges to securities described in subparagraph (A)(ii) may occur except pursuant to a
rule, regulation, or order of the Commission approving such extension or extensions. In promulgating such rule or regulation or in
issuing such order, the Commission—
(i) shall find that such extension or extensions of unlisted
trading privileges is consistent with the maintenance of fair
and orderly markets, the protection of investors and the public
interest, and otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this
title;

Sec. 12

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

114

(ii) shall take account of the public trading activity in such
securities, the character of such trading, the impact of such extension on the existing markets for such securities, and the desirability of removing impediments to and the progress that
has been made toward the development of a national market
system; and
(iii) shall not permit a national securities exchange to extend unlisted trading privileges to such securities if any rule
of such national securities exchange would unreasonably impair the ability of a dealer to solicit or effect transactions in
such securities for its own account, or would unreasonably restrict competition among dealers in such securities or between
such dealers acting in the capacity of market makers who are
specialists and such dealers who are not specialists.
(F) An exchange may continue to extend unlisted trading privileges in accordance with this paragraph only if the exchange and
the subject security continue to satisfy the requirements for eligibility under this paragraph, including any rules and regulations
issued by the Commission pursuant to this paragraph, except that
unlisted trading privileges may continue with regard to securities
which had been admitted on such exchange prior to July 1, 1964,
notwithstanding the failure to satisfy such requirements. If unlisted trading privileges in a security are discontinued pursuant to
this subparagraph, the exchange shall cease trading in that security, unless the exchange and the subject security thereafter satisfy
the requirements of this paragraph and the rules issued hereunder.
(G) For purposes of this paragraph—
(i) a security is the subject of an initial public offering if—
(I) the offering of the subject security is registered
under the Securities Act of 1933; and
(II) the issuer of the security, immediately prior to filing the registration statement with respect to the offering,
was not subject to the reporting requirements of section 13
or 15(d) of this title; and
(ii) an initial public offering of such security commences at
the opening of trading on the day on which such security commences trading on the national securities exchange with which
such security is registered.
(2)(A) At any time within 60 days of commencement of trading
on an exchange of a security pursuant to unlisted trading privileges, the Commission may summarily suspend such unlisted trading privileges on the exchange. Such suspension shall not be reviewable under section 25 of this title and shall not be deemed to
be a final agency action for purposes of section 704 of title 5,
United States Code. Upon such suspension—
(i) the exchange shall cease trading in the security by the
close of business on the date of such suspension, or at such
time as the Commission may prescribe by rule or order for the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets, the protection of investors and the public interest, or otherwise in furtherance of
the purposes of this title; and
(ii) if the exchange seeks to extend unlisted trading privileges to the security, the exchange shall file an application to
reinstate its ability to do so with the Commission pursuant to

115

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 12

such procedures as the Commission may prescribe by rule or
order for the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, the protection of investors and the public interest, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this title.
(B) A suspension under subparagraph (A) shall remain in effect
until the Commission, by order, grants approval of an application
to reinstate, as described in subparagraph (A)(ii).
(C) A suspension under subparagraph (A) shall not affect the
validity or force of an extension of unlisted trading privileges in effect prior to such suspension.
(D) The Commission shall not approve an application by a national securities exchange to reinstate its ability to extend unlisted
trading privileges to a security unless the Commission finds, after
notice and opportunity for hearing, that the extension of unlisted
trading privileges pursuant to such application is consistent with
the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, the protection of investors and the public interest, and otherwise in furtherance of the
purposes of this title. If the application is made to reinstate unlisted trading privileges to a security described in paragraph
(1)(A)(ii), the Commission—
(i) shall take account of the public trading activity in such
security, the character of such trading, the impact of such extension on the existing markets for such a security, and the desirability of removing impediments to and the progress that
has been made toward the development of a national market
system; and
(ii) shall not grant any such application if any rule of the
national securities exchange making application under this
subsection would unreasonably impair the ability of a dealer to
solicit or effect transactions in such security for its own account, or would unreasonably restrict competition among dealers in such security or between such dealers acting in the capacity of marketmakers who are specialists and such dealers
who are not specialists.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the Commission shall by
rules and regulations suspend unlisted trading privileges in whole
or in part for any or all classes of securities for a period not exceeding twelve months, if it deems such suspension necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors or to
prevent evasion of the purposes of this title.
(4) On the application of the issuer of any security for which
unlisted trading privileges on any exchange have been continued or
extended pursuant to this subsection, or of any broker or dealer
who makes or creates a market for such security, or of any other
person having a bona fide interest in the question of termination
or suspension of such unlisted trading privileges, or on its own motion, the Commission shall by order terminate, or suspend for a period not exceeding twelve months, such unlisted trading privileges
for such security if the Commission finds, after appropriate notice
and opportunity for hearing, that such termination or suspension
is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(5) In any proceeding under this subsection in which appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing are required, notice of not

Sec. 12

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

116

less than ten days to the applicant in such proceeding, to the issuer
of the security involved, to the exchange which is seeking to continue or extend or has continued or extended unlisted trading privileges for such security, and to the exchange, if any, on which such
security is listed and registered, shall be deemed adequate notice,
and any broker or dealer who makes or creates a market for such
security, and any other person having a bona fide interest in such
proceeding, shall upon application be entitled to be heard.
(6) Any security for which unlisted trading privileges are continued or extended pursuant to this subsection shall be deemed to
be registered on a national securities exchange within the meaning
of this title. The powers and duties of the Commission under this
title shall be applicable to the rules of an exchange in respect to
any such security. The Commission may, by such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors, either unconditionally or upon specified terms and conditions, or for stated periods, exempt such securities from the operation of any provision of section 13, 14, or 16
of this title.
(g)(1) Every issuer which is engaged in interstate commerce, or
in a business affecting interstate commerce, or whose securities are
traded by use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of
interstate commerce shall—
(A) within 120 days after the last day of its first fiscal year
ended on which the issuer has total assets exceeding
$10,000,000 and a class of equity security (other than an exempted security) held of record by either—
(i) [37] 2,000 persons, or
(ii) [37] 500 persons who are not accredited investors (as
such term is defined by the Commission), and
(B) in the case of an issuer that is a bank or a bank holding company, as such term is defined in section 2 of the Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841), not later than
120 days after the last day of its first fiscal year ended after
the effective date of this subsection, on which the issuer has
total assets exceeding $10,000,000 and a class of equity security (other than an exempted security) held of record by 2,000
or more persons,
register such security by filing with the Commission a registration
statement (and such copies thereof as the Commission may require)
with respect to such security containing such information and documents as the Commission may specify comparable to that which is
required in an application to register a security pursuant to subsection (b) of this section. Each such registration statement shall
become effective sixty days after filing with the Commission or
within such shorter period as the Commission may direct. Until
such registration statement becomes effective it shall not be
deemed filed for the purposes of section 18 of this title. Any issuer
may register any class of equity security not required to be registered by filing a registration statement pursuant to the provisions
of this paragraph. The Commission is authorized to extend the date
37Indentation

so in original.

117

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 12

upon which any issuer or class of issuers is required to register a
security pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph.
(2) The provisions of this subsection shall not apply in respect
of—
(A) any security listed and registered on a national securities exchange.
(B) any security issued by an investment company registered pursuant to section 8 of the Investment Company Act
of 1940.
(C) any security, other than permanent stock, guaranty
stock, permanent reserve stock, or any similar certificate evidencing nonwithdrawable capital, issued by a savings and loan
association, building and loan association, cooperative bank,
homestead association, or similar institution, which is supervised and examined by State or Federal authority having supervision over any such institution.
(D) any security of an issuer organized and operated exclusively for religious, educational, benevolent, fraternal, charitable, or reformatory purposes and not for pecuniary profit,
and no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or individual; or any security of a
fund that is excluded from the definition of an investment company under section 3(c)(10)(B) of the Investment Company Act
of 1940.
(E) any security of an issuer which is a ‘‘cooperative association’’ as defined in the Agricultural Marketing Act, approved
June 15, 1929, as amended, or a federation of such cooperative
associations, if such federation possesses no greater powers or
purposes than cooperative associations so defined.
(F) any security issued by a mutual or cooperative organization which supplies a commodity or service primarily for the
benefit of its members and operates not for pecuniary profit,
but only if the security is part of a class issuable only to persons who purchase commodities or services from the issuer, the
security is transferable only to a successor in interest or occupancy of premises serviced or to be served by the issuer, and
no dividends are payable to the holder of the security.
(G) any security issued by an insurance company if all of
the following conditions are met:
(i) Such insurance company is required to and does file
an annual statement with the Commissioner of Insurance
(or other officer or agency performing a similar function)
of its domiciliary State, and such annual statement conforms to that prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or in the determination of such
State commissioner, officer or agency substantially conforms to that so prescribed.
(ii) Such insurance company is subject to regulation by
its domiciliary State of proxies, consents, or authorizations
in respect of securities issued by such company and such
regulation conforms to that prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
(iii) After July 1, 1966, the purchase and sales of securities issued by such insurance company by beneficial own-

Sec. 12

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

118

ers, directors, or officers of such company are subject to
regulation (including reporting) by its domiciliary State
substantially in the manner provided in section 16 of this
title.
(H) any interest or participation in any collective trust
funds maintained by a bank or in a separate account maintained by an insurance company which interest or participation
is issued in connection with (i) a stock-bonus, pension, or profit-sharing plan which meets the requirements for qualification
under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, [38] (ii)
an annuity plan which meets the requirements for deduction
of the employer’s contribution under section 404(a)(2) of such
Code, or (iii) a church plan, company, or account that is excluded from the definition of an investment company under
section 3(c)(14) of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(3) The Commission may by rules or regulations or, on its own
motion, after notice and opportunity for hearing, by order, exempt
from this subsection any security of a foreign issuer, including any
certificate of deposit for such a security, if the Commission finds
that such exemption is in the public interest and is consistent with
the protection of investors.
(4) Registration of any class of security pursuant to this subsection shall be terminated ninety days, or such shorter period as
the Commission may determine, after the issuer files a certification
with the Commission that the number of holders of record of such
class of security is reduced to less than 300 persons, or, in the case
of a bank or a bank holding company, as such term is defined in
section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C.
1841), 1,200 persons persons. [39] The Commission shall after notice
and opportunity for hearing deny termination of registration if it
finds that the certification is untrue. Termination of registration
shall be deferred pending final determination on the question of denial.
(5) For the purposes of this subsection the term ‘‘class’’ shall
include all securities of an issuer which are of substantially similar
character and the holders of which enjoy substantially similar
rights and privileges. The Commission may for the purpose of this
subsection define by rules and regulations the terms ‘‘total assets’’
and ‘‘held of record’’ as it deems necessary or appropriate in the
public interest or for the protection of investors in order to prevent
circumvention of the provisions of this subsection. For purposes of
this subsection, a security futures product shall not be considered
a class of equity security of the issuer of the securities underlying
the security futures product. For purposes of determining whether
an issuer is required to register a security with the Commission
pursuant to paragraph (1), the definition of ‘held of record’ shall
not include securities held by persons who received the securities
pursuant to an employee compensation plan in transactions exempted from the registration requirements of section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933.
38The Internal Revenue Code of 1954 was redesignated as the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
by Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095.
39So in original.

119

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 12

(6) [40] EXCLUSION FOR PERSONS HOLDING CERTAIN SECURIThe Commission shall, by rule, exempt, conditionally or
unconditionally, securities acquired pursuant to an offering
made under section 4(6) [41] of the Securities Act of 1933 from
the provisions of this subsection.
(h) The Commission may by rules and regulations, or upon application of an interested person, by order, after notice and opportunity for hearing, exempt in whole or in part any issuer or class
of issuers from the provisions of subsection (g) of this section or
from section 13, 14, or 15(d) or may exempt from section 16 any
officer, director, or beneficial owner of securities of any issuer, any
security of which is required to be registered pursuant to subsection (g) hereof, upon such terms and conditions and for such period as it deems necessary or appropriate, if the Commission finds,
by reason of the number of public investors, amount of trading interest in the securities, the nature and extent of the activities of
the issuer, income or assets of the issuer, or otherwise, that such
action is not inconsistent with the public interest or the protection
of investors. The Commission may, for the purposes of any of the
above-mentioned sections or subsections of this title, classify
issuers and prescribe requirements appropriate for each such class.
(i) In respect of any securities issued by banks and savings associations the deposits of which are insured in accordance with the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the powers, functions, and duties
vested in the Commission to administer and enforce sections
10A(m), 12, 13, 14(a), 14(c), 14(d), 14(f), and 16 of this Act, and sections 302, 303, 304, 306, 401(b), 404, 406, and 407 of the SarbanesOxley Act of 2002, (1) with respect to national banks and Federal
savings associations, the accounts of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation [42] are vested in the Comptroller of the Currency, (2) with respect to all other member banks
of the Federal Reserve System are vested in the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and (3) with respect to all
other insured banks and State savings associations, the accounts of
which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
are vested in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The
Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
shall have the power to make such rules and regulations as may
be necessary for the execution of the functions vested in them as
provided in this subsection. In carrying out their responsibilities
under this subsection, the agencies named in the first sentence of
this subsection shall issue substantially similar regulations to regulations and rules issued by the Commission under sections
10A(m), 12, 13, 14(a), 14(c), 14(d), 14(f) and 16 of this Act, and sections 302, 303, 304, 306, 401(b), 404, 406, and 407 of the SarbanesOxley Act of 2002, unless they find that implementation of substantially similar regulations with respect to insured banks and insured
institutions are not necessary or appropriate in the public interest
or for protection of investors, and publish such findings, and the
detailed reasons therefor, in the Federal Register. Such regulations
TIES.—

40Indentation

so in original.
should read ‘‘4(a(6)’’.
in original. Probably should be followed by a comma.

41Probably
42So

Sec. 12

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

120

of the above-named agencies, or the reasons for failure to publish
such substantially similar regulations to those of the Commission,
shall be published in the Federal Register within 120 days of the
date of enactment of this subsection, and, thereafter, within 60
days of any changes made by the Commission in its relevant regulations and rules.
(j) The Commission is authorized, by order, as it deems necessary or appropriate for the protection of investors to deny, to suspend the effective date of, to suspend for a period not exceeding
twelve months, or to revoke the registration of a security, if the
Commission finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for
hearing, that the issuer of such security has failed to comply with
any provision of this title or the rules and regulations thereunder.
No member of a national securities exchange, broker, or dealer
shall make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of
interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce the
purchase or sale of, any security the registration of which has been
and is suspended or revoked pursuant to the preceding sentence.
(k) TRADING SUSPENSIONS; EMERGENCY AUTHORITY.—
(1) TRADING SUSPENSIONS.—If in its opinion the public interest and the protection of investors so require, the Commission is authorized by order—
(A) summarily to suspend trading in any security
(other than an exempted security) for a period not exceeding 10 business days, and
(B) summarily to suspend all trading on any national
securities exchange or otherwise, in securities other than
exempted securities, for a period not exceeding 90 calendar
days.
The action described in subparagraph (B) shall not take effect
unless the Commission notifies the President of its decision
and the President notifies the Commission that the President
does not disapprove of such decision. If the actions described
in subparagraph (A) or (B) involve a security futures product,
the Commission shall consult with and consider the views of
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(2) EMERGENCY ORDERS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission, in an emergency,
may by order summarily take such action to alter, supplement, suspend, or impose requirements or restrictions with
respect to any matter or action subject to regulation by the
Commission or a self-regulatory organization under the securities laws, as the Commission determines is necessary
in the public interest and for the protection of investors—
(i) to maintain or restore fair and orderly securities markets (other than markets in exempted securities);
(ii) to ensure prompt, accurate, and safe clearance
and settlement of transactions in securities (other
than exempted securities); or
(iii) to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the substantial disruption by the emergency of—
(I) securities markets (other than markets in
exempted securities), investment companies, or

121

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 12

any other significant portion or segment of such
markets; or
(II) the transmission or processing of securities transactions (other than transactions in exempted securities).
(B) EFFECTIVE PERIOD.—An order of the Commission
under this paragraph shall continue in effect for the period
specified by the Commission, and may be extended. Except
as provided in subparagraph (C), an order of the Commission under this paragraph may not continue in effect for
more than 10 business days, including extensions.
(C) EXTENSION.—An order of the Commission under
this paragraph may be extended to continue in effect for
more than 10 business days if, at the time of the extension, the Commission finds that the emergency still exists
and determines that the continuation of the order beyond
10 business days is necessary in the public interest and for
the protection of investors to attain an objective described
in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of subparagraph (A). In no event
shall an order of the Commission under this paragraph
continue in effect for more than 30 calendar days.
(D) SECURITY FUTURES.—If the actions described in
subparagraph (A) involve a security futures product, the
Commission shall consult with and consider the views of
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(E) EXEMPTION.—In exercising its authority under this
paragraph, the Commission shall not be required to comply with the provisions of—
(i) section 19(c); or
(ii) section 553 of title 5, United States Code.
(3) TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY ACTIONS BY PRESIDENT.—
The President may direct that action taken by the Commission
under paragraph (1)(B) or paragraph (2) of this subsection
shall not continue in effect.
(4) COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS.—No member of a national
securities exchange, broker, or dealer shall make use of the
mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce
to effect any transaction in, or to induce the purchase or sale
of, any security in contravention of an order of the Commission
under this subsection unless such order has been stayed, modified, or set aside as provided in paragraph (5) of this subsection or has ceased to be effective upon direction of the President as provided in paragraph (3).
(5) LIMITATIONS ON REVIEW OF ORDERS.—An order of the
Commission pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to review only as provided in section 25(a) of this title. Review shall
be based on an examination of all the information before the
Commission at the time such order was issued. The reviewing
court shall not enter a stay, writ of mandamus, or similar relief unless the court finds, after notice and hearing before a
panel of the court, that the Commission’s action is arbitrary,
capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.

Sec. 12

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

122

(6) CONSULTATION.—Prior to taking any action described
in paragraph (1)(B), the Commission shall consult with and
consider the views of the Secretary of the Treasury, the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, unless such consultation
is impracticable in light of the emergency.
(7) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this subsection, the term
‘‘emergency’’ means—
(A) a major market disturbance characterized by or
constituting—
(i) sudden and excessive fluctuations of securities
prices generally, or a substantial threat thereof, that
threaten fair and orderly markets; or
(ii) a substantial disruption of the safe or efficient
operation of the national system for clearance and settlement of transactions in securities, or a substantial
threat thereof; or
(B) a major disturbance that substantially disrupts, or
threatens to substantially disrupt—
(i) the functioning of securities markets, investment companies, or any other significant portion or
segment of the securities markets; or
(ii) the transmission or processing of securities
transactions.
(l) It shall be unlawful for an issuer, any class of whose securities is registered pursuant to this section or would be required to
be so registered except for the exemption from registration provided by subsection (g)(2)(B) or (g)(2)(G) of this section, by the use
of any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, or of the
mails, to issue, either originally or upon transfer, any of such securities in a form or with a format which contravenes such rules and
regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of
transactions in securities. The provisions of this subsection shall
not apply to variable annuity contracts or variable life policies
issued by an insurance company or its separate accounts.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 12, 48 Stat. 892; May 27, 1936,
ch. 462, Sec. 1, 49 Stat. 1375; Aug. 10, 1954, ch. 667, title II, Sec.
202, 68 Stat. 686; Aug. 20, 1964, Pub. L. 88-467, Sec. 3, 78 Stat.
565; July 29, 1968, Pub. L. 90-439, Sec. 1, 82 Stat. 454; Dec. 14,
1970, Pub. L. 91-547, Sec. 28(c), 84 Stat. 1435; Oct. 28, 1974, Pub.
L. 93-495, title I, Sec. 105(b), 88 Stat. 1503; June 4, 1975, Pub. L.
94-29, Secs. 8, 9, 89 Stat. 117, 118; Oct. 22, 1986, Pub. L. 99-514,
Sec. 2, 100 Stat. 2095; Dec. 4, 1987, Pub. L. 100-181, title III, Sec.
314, 101 Stat. 1256; Aug. 9, 1989, Pub. L. 101-73, title VII, Sec.
744(u)(2), 103 Stat. 441; Oct. 16, 1990, Pub. L. 101-432, Sec. 2, 104
Stat. 963; Oct. 22, 1994, Pub. L. 103-389, Sec. 2, 108 Stat. 4081;
Dec. 8, 1995, Pub. L. 104-62, Sec. 4(d), 109 Stat. 685; Dec. 21, 2000,
Pub. L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5) [title II, Secs. 206(e), 208(b)(1), (2)],
114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-431, 2763A-435; Pub. L. 107-204, Sec.
3(b)(4), title II, Sec. 205(c)(1), July 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 749, 774;
Pub. L. 108-359, Sec. 1(c)(2), Oct. 25, 2004 118 Stat. 1666; Pub. L.
108-386, Sec. 8(f)(4), Oct. 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 2232; Pub. L. 108-458,

123

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 13

title VII, Sec. 7803(b)(1), (c), Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3862; Pub. L.
111-203, title III, Sec. 376(2), title IX, Sec. 986(a)(2), July, 22, 2010,
124 Stat. 1569, 1935; Pub. L. 112-106, title III, Sec. 303(a), title V,
Secs. 501, 502, title VI, Sec. 601(a), Apr. 5, 2012, 126 Stat. 321,
325, 326.)
PERIODICAL AND OTHER REPORTS

SEC. 13. (a) Every issuer of a security registered pursuant to
section 12 of this title shall file with the Commission, in accordance
with such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe
as necessary or appropriate for the proper protection of investors
and to insure fair dealing in the security—
(1) such information and documents (and such copies
thereof) as the Commission shall require to keep reasonably
current the information and documents required to be included
in or filed with an application or registration statement filed
pursuant to section 12, except that the Commission may not
require the filing of any material contract wholly executed before July 1, 1962.
(2) such annual reports (and such copies thereof), certified
if required by the rules and regulations of the Commission by
independent public accountants, and such quarterly reports
(and such copies thereof), as the Commission may prescribe.
Every issuer of a security registered on a national securities exchange shall also file a duplicate original of such information, documents, and reports with the exchange. In any registration statement, periodic report, or other reports to be filed with the Commission, an emerging growth company need not present selected financial data in accordance with section 229.301 of title 17, Code of
Federal Regulations, for any period prior to the earliest audited period presented in connection with its first registration statement
that became effective under this Act or the Securities Act of 1933
and, with respect to any such statement or reports, an emerging
growth company may not be required to comply with any new or
revised financial accounting standard until such date that a company that is not an issuer (as defined under section 2(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7201(a))) is required to comply
with such new or revised accounting standard, if such standard applies to companies that are not issuers.
(b)(1) The Commission may prescribe, in regard to reports
made pursuant to this title, the form or forms in which the required information shall be set forth, the items or details to be
shown in the balance sheet and the earnings statement, and the
methods to be followed in the preparation of reports, in the appraisal or valuation of assets and liabilities, in the determination
of depreciation and depletion, in the differentiation of recurring
and nonrecurring income, in the differentiation of investment and
operating income, and in the preparation, where the Commission
deems it necessary or desirable, of separate and/or consolidated
balance sheets or income accounts of any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by the issuer, or any person under
direct or indirect common control with the issuer; but in the case
of the reports of any person whose methods of accounting are pre-

Sec. 13

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

124

scribed under the provisions of any law of the United States, or any
rule or regulation thereunder, the rules and regulations of the
Commission with respect to reports shall not be inconsistent with
the requirements imposed by such law or rule or regulation in respect of the same subject matter (except that such rules and regulations of the Commission may be inconsistent with such requirements to the extent that the Commission determines that the public interest or the protection of investors so requires).
(2) Every issuer which has a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of this title and every issuer which is required
to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of this title shall—
(A) make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the issuer;
(B) devise and maintain a system of internal accounting
controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that—
(i) transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization;
(ii) transactions are recorded as necessary (I) to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria
applicable to such statements, and (II) to maintain accountability for assets;
(iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance
with management’s general or specific authorization; and
(iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared
with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences; and
(C) notwithstanding any other provision of law, pay the allocable share of such issuer of a reasonable annual accounting
support fee or fees, determined in accordance with section 109
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
(3)(A) With respect to matters concerning the national security
of the United States, no duty or liability under paragraph (2) of
this subsection shall be imposed upon any person acting in cooperation with the head of any Federal department or agency responsible for such matters if such act in cooperation with such head of
a department or agency was done upon the specific, written directive of the head of such department or agency pursuant to Presidential authority to issue such directives. Each directive issued
under this paragraph shall set forth the specific facts and circumstances with respect to which the provisions of this paragraph
are to be invoked. Each such directive shall, unless renewed in
writing, expire one year after the date of issuance.
(B) Each head of a Federal department or agency of the United
States who issues a directive pursuant to this paragraph shall
maintain a complete file of all such directives and shall, on October
1 of each year, transmit a summary of matters covered by such directives in force at any time during the previous year to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
(4) No criminal liability shall be imposed for failing to comply
with the requirements of paragraph (2) of this subsection except as
provided in paragraph (5) of this subsection.

125

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 13

(5) No person shall knowingly circumvent or knowingly fail to
implement a system of internal accounting controls or knowingly
falsify any book, record, or account described in paragraph (2).
(6) Where an issuer which has a class of securities registered
pursuant to section 12 of this title or an issuer which is required
to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of this title holds 50 per
centum or less of the voting power with respect to a domestic or
foreign firm, the provisions of paragraph (2) require only that the
issuer proceed in good faith to use its influence, to the extent reasonable under the issuer’s circumstances, to cause such domestic or
foreign firm to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting
controls consistent with paragraph (2). Such circumstances include
the relative degree of the issuer’s ownership of the domestic or foreign firm and the laws and practices governing the business operations of the country in which such firm is located. An issuer which
demonstrates good faith efforts to use such influence shall be conclusively presumed to have complied with the requirements of
paragraph (2).
(7) For the purpose of paragraph (2) of this subsection, the
terms ‘‘reasonable assurances’’ and ‘‘reasonable detail’’ mean such
level of detail and degree of assurance as would satisfy prudent officials in the conduct of their own affairs.
(c) If in the judgment of the Commission any report required
under subsection (a) is inapplicable to any specified class or classes
of issuers, the Commission shall require in lieu thereof the submission of such reports of comparable character as it may deem applicable to such class or classes of issuers.
(d)(1) Any person who, after acquiring directly or indirectly the
beneficial ownership of any equity security of a class which is registered pursuant to section 12 of this title, or any equity security
of an insurance company which would have been required to be so
registered except for the exemption contained in section 12(g)(2)(G)
of this title, or any equity security issued by a closed-end investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of
1940 or any equity security issued by a Native Corporation pursuant to section 37(d)(6) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,
or otherwise becomes or is deemed to become a beneficial owner of
any of the foregoing upon the purchase or sale of a security-based
swap that the Commission may define by rule, and is directly or
indirectly the beneficial owner of more than 5 per centum of such
class shall, within ten days after such acquisition or within such
shorter time as the Commission may establish by rule, file with the
Commission, a statement containing such of the following information, and such additional information, as the Commission may by
rules and regulations, prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the
public interest or for the protection of investors—
(A) the background, and identity, residence, and citizenship of, and the nature of such beneficial ownership by, such
person and all other persons by whom or on whose behalf the
purchases have been or are to be effected;
(B) the source and amount of the funds or other consideration used or to be used in making the purchases, and if any
part of the purchase price is represented or is to be represented by funds or other consideration borrowed or otherwise

Sec. 13

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

126

obtained for the purpose of acquiring, holding, or trading such
security, a description of the transaction and the names of the
parties thereto, except that where a source of funds is a loan
made in the ordinary course of business by a bank, as defined
in section 3(a)(6) of this title, if the person filing such statement so requests, the name of the bank shall not be made
available to the public;
(C) if the purpose of the purchases or prospective purchases is to acquire control of the business of the issuer of the
securities any plans or proposals which such persons may have
to liquidate such issuer, to sell its assets to or merge it with
any other persons, or to make any other major change in its
business or corporate structure;
(D) the number of shares of such security which are beneficially owned, and the number of shares concerning which
there is a right to acquire, directly or indirectly, by (i) such
person, and (ii) by each associate of such person, giving the
background, identity, residence, and citizenship of each such
associate; and
(E) information as to any contracts, arrangements, or understandings with any person with respect to any securities of
the issuer, including but not limited to transfer of any of the
securities, joint ventures, loan or option arrangements, puts or
calls, guaranties of loans, guaranties against loss or guaranties
of profits, division of losses or profits, or the giving or withholding of proxies, naming the persons with whom such contracts, arrangements, or understandings have been entered
into, and giving the details thereof.
(2) If any material change occurs in the facts set forth in the
statement filed with the Commission, an amendment shall be filed
with the Commission, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate
in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(3) When two or more persons act as a partnership, limited
partnership, syndicate, or other group for the purpose of acquiring,
holding, or disposing of securities of an issuer, such syndicate or
group shall be deemed a ‘‘person’’ for the purposes of this subsection.
(4) In determining, for purposes of this subsection, any percentage of a class of any security, such class shall be deemed to
consist of the amount of the outstanding securities of such class,
exclusive of any securities of such class held by or for the account
of the issuer or a subsidiary of the issuer.
(5) The Commission, by rule or regulation or by order, may
permit any person to file in lieu of the statement required by paragraph (1) of this subsection or the rules and regulations thereunder, a notice stating the name of such person, the number of
shares of any equity securities subject to paragraph (1) which are
owned by him, the date of their acquisition and such other information as the Commission may specify, if it appears to the Commission that such securities were acquired by such person in the ordinary course of his business and were not acquired for the purpose
of and do not have the effect of changing or influencing the control

127

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 13

of the issuer nor in connection with or as a participant in any
transaction having such purpose or effect.
(6) The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to—
(A) any acquisition or offer to acquire securities made or
proposed to be made by means of a registration statement
under the Securities Act of 1933;
(B) any acquisition of the beneficial ownership of a security
which, together with all other acquisitions by the same person
of securities of the same class during the preceding twelve
months, does not exceed 2 per centum of that class;
(C) any acquisition of an equity security by the issuer of
such security;
(D) any acquisition or proposed acquisition of a security
which the Commission, by rules or regulations or by order,
shall exempt from the provisions of this subsection as not entered into for the purpose of, and not having the effect of,
changing or influencing the control of the issuer or otherwise
as not comprehended within the purposes of this subsection.
(e)(1) It shall be unlawful for an issuer which has a class of
equity securities registered pursuant to section 12 of this title, or
which is a closed-end investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, to purchase any equity security
issued by it if such purchase is in contravention of such rules and
regulations as the Commission, in the public interest or for the protection of investors, may adopt (A) to define acts and practices
which are fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative, and (B) to prescribe means reasonably designed to prevent such acts and practices. Such rules and regulations may require such issuer to provide holders of equity securities of such class with such information
relating to the reasons for such purchase, the source of funds, the
number of shares to be purchased, the price to be paid for such securities, the method of purchase, and such additional information,
as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, or which the Commission
deems to be material to a determination whether such security
should be sold.
(2) For the purpose of this subsection, a purchase by or for the
issuer or any person controlling, controlled by, or under common
control with the issuer, or a purchase subject to control of the
issuer or any such person, shall be deemed to be a purchase by the
issuer. The Commission shall have power to make rules and regulations implementing this paragraph in the public interest and for
the protection of investors, including exemptive rules and regulations covering situations in which the Commission deems it unnecessary or inappropriate that a purchase of the type described in
this paragraph shall be deemed to be a purchase by the issuer for
purposes of some or all of the provisions of paragraph (1) of this
subsection.
(3) At the time of filing such statement as the Commission may
require by rule pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection, the
person making the filing shall pay to the Commission a fee at a
rate that, subject to paragraph (4), is equal to $92 per $1,000,000
of the value of securities proposed to be purchased. The fee shall
be reduced with respect to securities in an amount equal to any fee

Sec. 13

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

128

paid with respect to any securities issued in connection with the
proposed transaction under section 6(b) of the Securities Act of
1933, or the fee paid under that section shall be reduced in an
amount equal to the fee paid to the Commission in connection with
such transaction under this paragraph.
(4) [43] ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT.—For each fiscal year, the
Commission shall by order adjust the rate required by paragraph (3) for such fiscal year to a rate that is equal to the rate
(expressed in dollars per million) that is applicable under section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 for such fiscal year.
(5) [44] FEE COLLECTIONS.—Fees collected pursuant to this
subsection for fiscal year 2012 and each fiscal year thereafter
shall be deposited and credited as general revenue of the
Treasury and shall not be available for obligation.
(6) [45] EFFECTIVE DATE; PUBLICATION.—In exercising its
authority under this subsection, the Commission shall not be
required to comply with the provisions of section 553 of title
5, United States Code. An adjusted rate prescribed under paragraph (4) shall be published and take effect in accordance with
section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77f(b)).
(7) [46] PRO RATA APPLICATION.—The rates per $1,000,000
required by this subsection shall be applied pro rata to
amounts and balances of less than $1,000,000.
(f)(1) Every institutional investment manager which uses the
mails, or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce in
the course of its business as an institutional investment manager
and which exercises investment discretion with respect to accounts
holding equity securities of a class described in section 13(d)(1) of
this title or otherwise becomes or is deemed to become a beneficial
owner of any security of a class described in subsection (d)(1) upon
the purchase or sale of a security-based swap that the Commission
may define by rule, having an aggregate fair market value on the
last trading day in any of the preceding twelve months of at least
$100,000,000 or such lesser amount (but in no case less than
$10,000,000) as the Commission, by rule, may determine, shall file
reports with the Commission in such form, for such periods, and
at such times after the end of such periods as the Commission, by
rule, may prescribe, but in no event shall such reports be filed for
periods longer than one year or shorter than one quarter. Such reports shall include for each such equity security held on the last
day of the reporting period by accounts (in aggregate or by type as
the Commission, by rule, may prescribe) with respect to which the
institutional investment manager exercises investment discretion
(other than securities held in amounts which the Commission, by
rule, determines to be insignificant for purposes of this subsection),
the name of the issuer and the title, class, CUSIP number, number
of shares or principal amount, and aggregate fair market value of
each such security. Such reports may also include for accounts (in
aggregate or by type) with respect to which the institutional invest43Margin

so
so
so
46Margin so
44Margin
45Margin

in
in
in
in

law.
law.
law.
law.

129

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 13

ment manager exercises investment discretion such of the following
information as the Commission, by rule, prescribes—
(A) the name of the issuer and the title, class, CUSIP
number, number of shares or principal amount, and aggregate
fair market value or cost or amortized cost of each other security (other than an exempted security) held on the last day of
the reporting period by such accounts;
(B) the aggregate fair market value or cost or amortized
cost of exempted securities (in aggregate or by class) held on
the last day of the reporting period by such accounts;
(C) the number of shares of each equity security of a class
described in section 13(d)(1) of this title held on the last day
of the reporting period by such accounts with respect to which
the institutional investment manager possesses sole or shared
authority to exercise the voting rights evidenced by such securities;
(D) the aggregate purchases and aggregate sales during
the reporting period of each security (other than an exempted
security) effected by or for such accounts; and
(E) with respect to any transaction or series of transactions having a market value of at least $500,000 or such
other amount as the Commission, by rule, may determine, effected during the reporting period by or for such accounts in
any equity security of a class described in section 13(d)(1) of
this title—
(i) the name of the issuer and the title, class, and
CUSIP number of the security;
(ii) the number of shares or principal amount of the
security involved in the transaction;
(iii) whether the transaction was a purchase or sale;
(iv) the per share price or prices at which the transaction was effected;
(v) the date or dates of the transaction;
(vi) the date or dates of the settlement of the transaction;
(vii) the broker or dealer through whom the transaction was effected;
(viii) the market or markets in which the transaction
was effected; and
(ix) such other related information as the Commission,
by rule, may prescribe.
(2) [47] The Commission shall prescribe rules providing for
the public disclosure of the name of the issuer and the title,
class, CUSIP number, aggregate amount of the number of
short sales of each security, and any additional information determined by the Commission following the end of the reporting
period. At a minimum, such public disclosure shall occur every
month.
(3) The Commission, by rule or order, may exempt, conditionally or unconditionally, any institutional investment manager
or security or any class of institutional investment managers or se47Margin

so in law.

Sec. 13

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

130

curities from any or all of the provisions of this subsection or the
rules thereunder.
(4) The Commission shall make available to the public for a
reasonable fee a list of all equity securities of a class described in
section 13(d)(1) of this title, updated no less frequently than reports
are required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection. The Commission shall tabulate the information contained
in any report filed pursuant to this subsection in a manner which
will, in the view of the Commission, maximize the usefulness of the
information to other Federal and State authorities and the public.
Promptly after the filing of any such report, the Commission shall
make the information contained therein conveniently available to
the public for a reasonable fee in such form as the Commission, by
rule, may prescribe, except that the Commission, as it determines
to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, may delay or prevent public disclosure of any
such information in accordance with section 552 of title 5, United
States Code. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any such information identifying the securities held by the account of a natural person or an estate or trust (other than a business trust or
investment company) shall not be disclosed to the public.
(5) In exercising its authority under this subsection, the Commission shall determine (and so state) that its action is necessary
or appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors or to maintain fair and orderly markets or, in granting an exemption, that its action is consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes of this subsection. In exercising such authority the Commission shall take such steps as are within its power,
including consulting with the Comptroller General of the United
States, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the
appropriate regulatory agencies, Federal and State authorities
which, directly or indirectly, require reports from institutional investment managers of information substantially similar to that
called for by this subsection, national securities exchanges, and
registered securities associations, (A) to achieve uniform, centralized reporting of information concerning the securities holdings of
and transactions by or for accounts with respect to which institutional investment managers exercise investment discretion, and (B)
consistently with the objective set forth in the preceding subparagraph, to avoid unnecessarily duplicative reporting by, and minimize the compliance burden on, institutional investment managers.
Federal authorities which, directly or indirectly, require reports
from institutional investment managers of information substantially similar to that called for by this subsection shall cooperate
with the Commission in the performance of its responsibilities
under the preceding sentence. An institutional investment manager
which is a bank, the deposits of which are insured in accordance
with the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, shall file with the appropriate regulatory agency a copy of every report filed with the Commission pursuant to this subsection.
(6)(A) For purposes of this subsection the term ‘‘institutional
investment manager’’ includes any person, other than a natural
person, investing in or buying and selling securities for its own ac-

131

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 13

count, and any person exercising investment discretion with respect to the account of any other person.
(B) The Commission shall adopt such rules as it deems necessary or appropriate to prevent duplicative reporting pursuant to
this subsection by two or more institutional investment managers
exercising investment discretion with respect to the same
amount [48].
(g)(1) Any person who is directly or indirectly the beneficial
owner of more than 5 per centum of any security of a class described in subsection (d)(1) of this section or otherwise becomes or
is deemed to become a beneficial owner of any security of a class
described in subsection (d)(1) upon the purchase or sale of a security-based swap that the Commission may define by rule shall file
with the Commission a statement setting forth, in such form and
at such time as the Commission may, by rule, prescribe—
(A) such person’s identity, residence, and citizenship; and
(B) the number and description of the shares in which
such person has an interest and the nature of such interest.
(2) If any material change occurs in the facts set forth in the
statement filed with the Commission, an amendment shall be filed
with the Commission, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate
in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(3) When two or more persons act as a partnership, limited
partnership, syndicate, or other group for the purpose of acquiring,
holding, or disposing of securities of an issuer, such syndicate or
group shall be deemed a ‘‘person’’ for the purposes of this subsection.
(4) In determining, for purposes of this subsection, any percentage of a class of any security, such class shall be deemed to
consist of the amount of the outstanding securities of such class,
exclusive of any securities of such class held by or for the account
of the issuer or a subsidiary of the issuer.
(5) In exercising its authority under this subsection, the Commission shall take such steps as it deems necessary or appropriate
in the public interest or for the protection of investors (A) to
achieve centralized reporting of information regarding ownership,
(B) to avoid unnecessarily duplicative reporting by and minimize
the compliance burden on persons required to report, and (C) to
tabulate and promptly make available the information contained in
any report filed pursuant to this subsection in a manner which
will, in the view of the Commission, maximize the usefulness of the
information to other Federal and State agencies and the public.
(6) The Commission may, by rule or order, exempt, in whole
or in part, any person or class of persons from any or all of the reporting requirements of this subsection as it deems necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(h) LARGE TRADER REPORTING.—
(1) IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR LARGE TRADERS.—
For the purpose of monitoring the impact on the securities
markets of securities transactions involving a substantial volume or a large fair market value or exercise value and for the
48So

in law. Probably should be ‘‘account’’.

Sec. 13

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

132

purpose of otherwise assisting the Commission in the enforcement of this title, each large trader shall—
(A) provide such information to the Commission as the
Commission may by rule or regulation prescribe as necessary or appropriate, identifying such large trader and all
accounts in or through which such large trader effects such
transactions; and
(B) identify, in accordance with such rules or regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate, to any registered broker or dealer by or through
whom such large trader directly or indirectly effects securities transactions, such large trader and all accounts directly or indirectly maintained with such broker or dealer
by such large trader in or through which such transactions
are effected.
(2) RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR
BROKERS AND DEALERS.—Every registered broker or dealer
shall make and keep for prescribed periods such records as the
Commission by rule or regulation prescribes as necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this title,
with respect to securities transactions that equal or exceed the
reporting activity level effected directly or indirectly by or
through such registered broker or dealer of or for any person
that such broker or dealer knows is a large trader, or any person that such broker or dealer has reason to know is a large
trader on the basis of transactions in securities effected by or
through such broker or dealer. Such records shall be available
for reporting to the Commission, or any self-regulatory organization that the Commission shall designate to receive such reports, on the morning of the day following the day the transactions were effected, and shall be reported to the Commission
or a self-regulatory organization designated by the Commission
immediately upon request by the Commission or such a selfregulatory organization. Such records and reports shall be in
a format and transmitted in a manner prescribed by the Commission (including, but not limited to, machine readable form).
(3) AGGREGATION RULES.—The Commission may prescribe
rules or regulations governing the manner in which transactions and accounts shall be aggregated for the purpose of
this subsection, including aggregation on the basis of common
ownership or control.
(4) EXAMINATION OF BROKER AND DEALER RECORDS.—All
records required to be made and kept by registered brokers
and dealers pursuant to this subsection with respect to transactions effected by large traders are subject at any time, or
from time to time, to such reasonable periodic, special, or other
examinations by representatives of the Commission as the
Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this title.
(5) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED IN COMMISSION ACTIONS.—
In exercising its authority under this subsection, the Commission shall take into account—

133

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 13

(A) existing reporting systems;
(B) the costs associated with maintaining information
with respect to transactions effected by large traders and
reporting such information to the Commission or self-regulatory organizations; and
(C) the relationship between the United States and
international securities markets.
(6) EXEMPTIONS.—The Commission, by rule, regulation, or
order, consistent with the purposes of this title, may exempt
any person or class of persons or any transaction or class of
transactions, either conditionally or upon specified terms and
conditions or for stated periods, from the operation of this subsection, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
(7) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION TO LIMIT DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
Commission shall not be compelled to disclose any information
required to be kept or reported under this subsection. Nothing
in this subsection shall authorize the Commission to withhold
information from Congress, or prevent the Commission from
complying with a request for information from any other Federal department or agency requesting information for purposes
within the scope of its jurisdiction, or complying with an order
of a court of the United States in an action brought by the
United States or the Commission. For purposes of section 552
of title 5, United States Code, this subsection shall be considered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section
552.
(8) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection—
(A) the term ‘‘large trader’’ means every person who,
for his own account or an account for which he exercises
investment discretion, effects transactions for the purchase
or sale of any publicly traded security or securities by use
of any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce or
of the mails, or of any facility of a national securities exchange, directly or indirectly by or through a registered
broker or dealer in an aggregate amount equal to or in excess of the identifying activity level;
(B) the term ‘‘publicly traded security’’ means any equity security (including an option on individual equity securities, and an option on a group or index of such securities) listed, or admitted to unlisted trading privileges, on
a national securities exchange, or quoted in an automated
interdealer quotation system;
(C) the term ‘‘identifying activity level’’ means transactions in publicly traded securities at or above a level of
volume, fair market value, or exercise value as shall be
fixed from time to time by the Commission by rule or regulation, specifying the time interval during which such
transactions shall be aggregated;
(D) the term ‘‘reporting activity level’’ means transactions in publicly traded securities at or above a level of
volume, fair market value, or exercise value as shall be
fixed from time to time by the Commission by rule, regula-

Sec. 13

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

134

tion, or order, specifying the time interval during which
such transactions shall be aggregated; and
(E) the term ‘‘person’’ has the meaning given in section
3(a)(9) of this title and also includes two or more persons
acting as a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate, or
other group, but does not include a foreign central bank.
(i) ACCURACY OF FINANCIAL REPORTS.—Each financial report
that contains financial statements, and that is required to be prepared in accordance with (or reconciled to) generally accepted accounting principles under this title and filed with the Commission
shall reflect all material correcting adjustments that have been
identified by a registered public accounting firm in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and the rules and regulations of the Commission.
(j) OFF-BALANCE SHEET TRANSACTIONS.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
the Commission shall issue final rules providing that each annual
and quarterly financial report required to be filed with the Commission shall disclose all material off-balance sheet transactions,
arrangements, obligations (including contingent obligations), and
other relationships of the issuer with unconsolidated entities or
other persons, that may have a material current or future effect on
financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, capital resources, or significant components of revenues or expenses.
(k) PROHIBITION ON PERSONAL LOANS TO EXECUTIVES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for any issuer (as defined in section 2 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), directly
or indirectly, including through any subsidiary, to extend or
maintain credit, to arrange for the extension of credit, or to
renew an extension of credit, in the form of a personal loan to
or for any director or executive officer (or equivalent thereof)
of that issuer. An extension of credit maintained by the issuer
on the date of enactment of this subsection shall not be subject
to the provisions of this subsection, provided that there is no
material modification to any term of any such extension of
credit or any renewal of any such extension of credit on or
after that date of enactment.
(2) LIMITATION.—Paragraph (1) does not preclude any
home improvement and manufactured home loans (as that
term is defined in section 5 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act (12
U.S.C. 1464)), consumer credit (as defined in section 103 of the
Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1602)), or any extension of
credit under an open end credit plan (as defined in section 103
of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1602)), or a charge card
(as defined in section 127(c)(4)(e) of the Truth in Lending Act
(15 U.S.C. 1637(c)(4)(e)), or any extension of credit by a broker
or dealer registered under section 15 of this title to an employee of that broker or dealer to buy, trade, or carry securities, that is permitted under rules or regulations of the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System pursuant to section 7 of this title (other than an extension of credit that would
be used to purchase the stock of that issuer), that is—

135

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 13

(A) made or provided in the ordinary course of the consumer credit business of such issuer;
(B) of a type that is generally made available by such
issuer to the public; and
(C) made by such issuer on market terms, or terms
that are no more favorable than those offered by the issuer
to the general public for such extensions of credit.
(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION FOR CERTAIN LOANS.—Paragraph (1) does not apply to any loan made or maintained by
an insured depository institution (as defined in section 3 of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)), if the loan is
subject to the insider lending restrictions of section 22(h) of the
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 375b).
(l) REAL TIME ISSUER DISCLOSURES.—Each issuer reporting
under section 13(a) or 15(d) shall disclose to the public on a rapid
and current basis such additional information concerning material
changes in the financial condition or operations of the issuer, in
plain English, which may include trend and qualitative information
and graphic presentations, as the Commission determines, by rule,
is necessary or useful for the protection of investors and in the public interest.
(m) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF SECURITY-BASED SWAP TRANSACTION DATA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) DEFINITION OF REAL-TIME PUBLIC REPORTING.—In
this paragraph, the term ‘‘real-time public reporting’’
means to report data relating to a security-based swap
transaction, including price and volume, as soon as technologically practicable after the time at which the securitybased swap transaction has been executed.
(B) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this subsection is to authorize the Commission to make security-based swap
transaction and pricing data available to the public in such
form and at such times as the Commission determines appropriate to enhance price discovery.
(C) GENERAL RULE.—The Commission is authorized to
provide by rule for the public availability of security-based
swap transaction, volume, and pricing data as follows:
(i) With respect to those security-based swaps that
are subject to the mandatory clearing requirement described in section 3C(a)(1) (including those securitybased swaps that are excepted from the requirement
pursuant to section 3C(g)), the Commission shall require real-time public reporting for such transactions.
(ii) With respect to those security-based swaps
that are not subject to the mandatory clearing requirement described in section 3C(a)(1), but are cleared at
a registered clearing agency, the Commission shall require real-time public reporting for such transactions.
(iii) With respect to security-based swaps that are
not cleared at a registered clearing agency and which
are reported to a security-based swap data repository

Sec. 13

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

136

or the Commission under section 3C(a)(6), [49] the
Commission shall require real-time public reporting
for such transactions, in a manner that does not disclose the business transactions and market positions
of any person.
(iv) With respect to security-based swaps that are
determined to be required to be cleared under section
3C(b) but are not cleared, the Commission shall require real-time public reporting for such transactions.
(D) REGISTERED ENTITIES AND PUBLIC REPORTING.—
The Commission may require registered entities to publicly disseminate the security-based swap transaction and
pricing data required to be reported under this paragraph.
(E) RULEMAKING REQUIRED.—With respect to the rule
providing for the public availability of transaction and
pricing data for security-based swaps described in clauses
(i) and (ii) of subparagraph (C), the rule promulgated by
the Commission shall contain provisions—
(i) to ensure such information does not identify
the participants;
(ii) to specify the criteria for determining what
constitutes a large notional security-based swap transaction (block trade) for particular markets and contracts;
(iii) to specify the appropriate time delay for reporting large notional security-based swap transactions (block trades) to the public; and
(iv) that take into account whether the public disclosure will materially reduce market liquidity.
(F) TIMELINESS OF REPORTING.—Parties to a securitybased swap (including agents of the parties to a securitybased swap) shall be responsible for reporting securitybased swap transaction information to the appropriate registered entity in a timely manner as may be prescribed by
the Commission.
(G) REPORTING OF SWAPS TO REGISTERED SECURITYBASED SWAP DATA REPOSITORIES.—Each security-based
swap (whether cleared or uncleared) shall be reported to a
registered security-based swap data repository.
(H) REGISTRATION OF CLEARING AGENCIES.—A clearing
agency may register as a security-based swap data repository.
(2) SEMIANNUAL AND ANNUAL PUBLIC REPORTING OF AGGREGATE SECURITY-BASED SWAP DATA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with subparagraph
(B), the Commission shall issue a written report on a semiannual and annual basis to make available to the public
information relating to—
(i) the trading and clearing in the major securitybased swap categories; and
(ii) the market participants and developments in
new products.
49So

in original. Section 3C(a) does not contain a par. (6).

137

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 13

(B) USE; CONSULTATION.—In preparing a report under
subparagraph (A), the Commission shall—
(i) use information from security-based swap data
repositories and clearing agencies; and
(ii) consult with the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, the Bank for International Settlements,
and such other regulatory bodies as may be necessary.
(C) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.—The Commission
may, by rule, regulation, or order, delegate the public reporting responsibilities of the Commission under this paragraph in accordance with such terms and conditions as the
Commission determines to be appropriate and in the public interest.
(n) SECURITY-BASED SWAP DATA REPOSITORIES.—
(1) REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.—It shall be unlawful for
any person, unless registered with the Commission, directly or
indirectly, to make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to perform the functions of a
security-based swap data repository.
(2) INSPECTION AND EXAMINATION.—Each registered
security- based swap data repository shall be subject to inspection and examination by any representative of the Commission.
(3) COMPLIANCE WITH CORE PRINCIPLES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—To be registered, and maintain registration, as a security-based swap data repository, the security-based swap data repository shall comply with—
(i) the requirements and core principles described
in this subsection; and
(ii) any requirement that the Commission may impose by rule or regulation.
(B) REASONABLE DISCRETION OF SECURITY-BASED SWAP
DATA REPOSITORY.—Unless otherwise determined by the
Commission, by rule or regulation, a security-based swap
data repository described in subparagraph (A) shall have
reasonable discretion in establishing the manner in which
the security-based swap data repository complies with the
core principles described in this subsection.
(4) STANDARD SETTING.—
(A) DATA IDENTIFICATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with clause (ii),
the Commission shall prescribe standards that specify
the data elements for each security-based swap that
shall be collected and maintained by each registered
security-based swap data repository.
(ii) REQUIREMENT.—In carrying out clause (i), the
Commission shall prescribe consistent data element
standards applicable to registered entities and reporting counterparties.
(B) DATA COLLECTION AND MAINTENANCE.—The Commission shall prescribe data collection and data maintenance standards for security-based swap data repositories.
(C) COMPARABILITY.—The standards prescribed by the
Commission under this subsection shall be comparable to
the data standards imposed by the Commission on clearing

Sec. 13

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

138

agencies in connection with their clearing of security-based
swaps.
(5) DUTIES.—A security-based swap data repository shall—
(A) accept data prescribed by the Commission for each
security-based swap under subsection (b);
(B) confirm with both counterparties to the securitybased swap the accuracy of the data that was submitted;
(C) maintain the data described in subparagraph (A)
in such form, in such manner, and for such period as may
be required by the Commission;
(D)(i) provide direct electronic access to the Commission (or any designee of the Commission, including another
registered entity); and
(ii) provide the information described in subparagraph
(A) in such form and at such frequency as the Commission
may require to comply with the public reporting requirements set forth in subsection (m);
(E) at the direction of the Commission, establish automated systems for monitoring, screening, and analyzing
security-based swap data;
(F) maintain the privacy of any and all security-based
swap transaction information that the security-based swap
data repository receives from a security-based swap dealer,
counterparty, or any other registered entity; and
(G) on a confidential basis pursuant to section 24,
upon request, and after notifying the Commission of the
request, make available all data obtained by the securitybased swap data repository, including individual
counterparty trade and position data, to—
(i) each appropriate prudential regulator;
(ii) the Financial Stability Oversight Council;
(iii) the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
(iv) the Department of Justice; and
(v) any other person that the Commission determines to be appropriate, including—
(I) foreign financial supervisors (including foreign futures authorities);
(II) foreign central banks; and
(III) foreign ministries.
(H) CONFIDENTIALITY AND INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT.— Before the security-based swap data repository
may share information with any entity described in subparagraph (G)—
(i) the security-based swap data repository shall
receive a written agreement from each entity stating
that the entity shall abide by the confidentiality requirements described in section 24 relating to the information on security-based swap transactions that is
provided; and
(ii) each entity shall agree to indemnify the security-based swap data repository and the Commission
for any expenses arising from litigation relating to the
information provided under section 24.
(6) DESIGNATION OF CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER.—

139

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 13

(A) IN GENERAL.—Each security-based swap data repository shall designate an individual to serve as a chief
compliance officer.
(B) DUTIES.—The chief compliance officer shall—
(i) report directly to the board or to the senior officer of the security-based swap data repository;
(ii) review the compliance of the security-based
swap data repository with respect to the requirements
and core principles described in this subsection;
(iii) in consultation with the board of the securitybased swap data repository, a body performing a function similar to the board of the security-based swap
data repository, or the senior officer of the securitybased swap data repository, resolve any conflicts of interest that may arise;
(iv) be responsible for administering each policy
and procedure that is required to be established pursuant to this section;
(v) ensure compliance with this title (including
regulations) relating to agreements, contracts, or
transactions, including each rule prescribed by the
Commission under this section;
(vi) establish procedures for the remediation of
noncompliance issues identified by the chief compliance officer through any—
(I) compliance office review;
(II) look-back;
(III) internal or external audit finding;
(IV) self-reported error; or
(V) validated complaint; and
(vii) establish and follow appropriate procedures
for the handling, management response, remediation,
retesting, and closing of noncompliance issues.
(C) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with rules prescribed by the Commission, the chief compliance officer shall annually prepare and sign a report that contains a description of—
(I) the compliance of the security-based swap
data repository of the chief compliance officer with
respect to this title (including regulations); and
(II) each policy and procedure of the securitybased swap data repository of the chief compliance
officer (including the code of ethics and conflict of
interest policies of the security-based swap data
repository).
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—A compliance report under
clause (i) shall—
(I) accompany each appropriate financial report of the security-based swap data repository
that is required to be furnished to the Commission
pursuant to this section; and

Sec. 13

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

140

(II) include a certification that, under penalty
of law, the compliance report is accurate and complete.
(7) CORE PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE TO SECURITY-BASED SWAP
DATA REPOSITORIES.—
(A) ANTITRUST CONSIDERATIONS.—Unless necessary or
appropriate to achieve the purposes of this title, the swap
data repository shall not—
(i) adopt any rule or take any action that results
in any unreasonable restraint of trade; or
(ii) impose any material anticompetitive burden
on the trading, clearing, or reporting of transactions.
(B) GOVERNANCE ARRANGEMENTS.—Each securitybased swap data repository shall establish governance arrangements that are transparent—
(i) to fulfill public interest requirements; and
(ii) to support the objectives of the Federal Government, owners, and participants.
(C) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.—Each security-based
swap data repository shall—
(i) establish and enforce rules to minimize conflicts of interest in the decision-making process of the
security- based swap data repository; and
(ii) establish a process for resolving any conflicts
of interest described in clause (i).
(D) ADDITIONAL DUTIES DEVELOPED BY COMMISSION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Commission may develop 1
or more additional duties applicable to security-based
swap data repositories.
(ii) CONSIDERATION OF EVOLVING STANDARDS.—In
developing additional duties under subparagraph
(A), [50] the Commission may take into consideration
any evolving standard of the United States or the
international community.
(iii) ADDITIONAL DUTIES FOR COMMISSION DESIGNEES.— The Commission shall establish additional
duties for any registrant described in section
13(m)(2)(C) in order to minimize conflicts of interest,
protect data, ensure compliance, and guarantee the
safety and security of the security-based swap data repository.
(8) REQUIRED REGISTRATION FOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP
DATA REPOSITORIES.—Any person that is required to be registered as a security-based swap data repository under this
subsection shall register with the Commission, regardless of
whether that person is also licensed under the Commodity Exchange Act as a swap data repository.
(9) RULES.—The Commission shall adopt rules governing
persons that are registered under this subsection.
(o) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP.—For purposes of this section and
section 16, a person shall be deemed to acquire beneficial ownership of an equity security based on the purchase or sale of a secu50So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘clause (i),’’.

141

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 13

rity-based swap, only to the extent that the Commission, by rule,
determines after consultation with the prudential regulators and
the Secretary of the Treasury, that the purchase or sale of the security-based swap, or class of security-based swap, provides incidents of ownership comparable to direct ownership of the equity security, and that it is necessary to achieve the purposes of this section that the purchase or sale of the security-based swaps, or class
of security-based swap, be deemed the acquisition of beneficial ownership of the equity security.
(p) DISCLOSURES RELATING TO CONFLICT MINERALS ORIGINATING IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO.—
(1) REGULATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 270 days after the
date of the enactment of this subsection, the Commission
shall promulgate regulations requiring any person described in paragraph (2) to disclose annually, beginning
with the person’s first full fiscal year that begins after the
date of promulgation of such regulations, whether conflict
minerals that are necessary as described in paragraph
(2)(B), in the year for which such reporting is required, did
originate in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an
adjoining country and, in cases in which such conflict minerals did originate in any such country, submit to the
Commission a report that includes, with respect to the period covered by the report—
(i) a description of the measures taken by the person to exercise due diligence on the source and chain
of custody of such minerals, which measures shall include an independent private sector audit of such report submitted through the Commission that is conducted in accordance with standards established by
the Comptroller General of the United States, in accordance with rules promulgated by the Commission,
in consultation with the Secretary of State; and
(ii) a description of the products manufactured or
contracted to be manufactured that are not DRC conflict free (’’DRC conflict free’’ is defined to mean the
products that do not contain minerals that directly or
indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining
country), the entity that conducted the independent
private sector audit in accordance with clause (i), the
facilities used to process the conflict minerals, the
country of origin of the conflict minerals, and the efforts to determine the mine or location of origin with
the greatest possible specificity.
(B) CERTIFICATION.—The person submitting a report
under subparagraph (A) shall certify the audit described in
clause (i) of such subparagraph that is included in such report. Such a certified audit shall constitute a critical component of due diligence in establishing the source and
chain of custody of such minerals.
(C) UNRELIABLE DETERMINATION.—If a report required
to be submitted by a person under subparagraph (A) relies

Sec. 13

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

142

on a determination of an independent private sector audit,
as described under subparagraph (A)(i), or other due diligence processes previously determined by the Commission
to be unreliable, the report shall not satisfy the requirements of the regulations promulgated under subparagraph
(A)(i).
(D) DRC CONFLICT FREE.—For purposes of this paragraph, a product may be labeled as ‘‘DRC conflict free’’ if
the product does not contain conflict minerals that directly
or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country.
(E) INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC.—Each
person described under paragraph (2) shall make available
to the public on the Internet website of such person the information disclosed by such person under subparagraph
(A).
(2) PERSON DESCRIBED.—A person is described in this
paragraph if—
(A) the person is required to file reports with the Commission pursuant to paragraph (1)(A); and
(B) conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality
or production of a product manufactured by such person.
(3) REVISIONS AND WAIVERS.—The Commission shall revise
or temporarily waive the requirements described in paragraph
(1) if the President transmits to the Commission a determination that—
(A) such revision or waiver is in the national security
interest of the United States and the President includes
the reasons therefor; and
(B) establishes a date, not later than 2 years after the
initial publication of such exemption, on which such exemption shall expire.
(4) TERMINATION OF DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.—The requirements of paragraph (1) shall terminate on the date on
which the President determines and certifies to the appropriate
congressional committees, but in no case earlier than the date
that is one day after the end of the 5-year period beginning on
the date of the enactment of this subsection, that no armed
groups continue to be directly involved and benefitting from
commercial activity involving conflict minerals.
(5) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection, the
terms ‘‘adjoining country’’, ‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’, ‘‘armed group’’, and ‘‘conflict mineral’’ have the meaning
given those terms under section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(q) DISCLOSURE OF PAYMENTS BY RESOURCE EXTRACTION
ISSUERS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection—
(A) the term ‘‘commercial development of oil, natural
gas, or minerals’’ includes exploration, extraction, processing, export, and other significant actions relating to oil,
natural gas, or minerals, or the acquisition of a license for
any such activity, as determined by the Commission;

143

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 13

(B) the term ‘‘foreign government’’ means a foreign
government, a department, agency, or instrumentality of a
foreign government, or a company owned by a foreign government, as determined by the Commission;
(C) the term ‘‘payment’’—
(i) means a payment that is—
(I) made to further the commercial development of oil, natural gas, or minerals; and
(II) not de minimis; and
(ii) includes taxes, royalties, fees (including license
fees), production entitlements, bonuses, and other material benefits, that the Commission, consistent with
the guidelines of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (to the extent practicable), determines are part of the commonly recognized revenue
stream for the commercial development of oil, natural
gas, or minerals;
(D) the term ‘‘resource extraction issuer’’ means an
issuer that—
(i) is required to file an annual report with the
Commission; and
(ii) engages in the commercial development of oil,
natural gas, or minerals;
(E) the term ‘‘interactive data format’’ means an electronic data format in which pieces of information are identified using an interactive data standard; and
(F) the term ‘‘interactive data standard’’ means [51]
standardized list of electronic tags that mark information
included in the annual report of a resource extraction
issuer.
(2) DISCLOSURE.—
(A) INFORMATION REQUIRED.—Not later than 270 days
after the date of enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Commission
shall issue final rules that require each resource extraction
issuer to include in an annual report of the resource extraction issuer information relating to any payment made
by the resource extraction issuer, a subsidiary of the resource extraction issuer, or an entity under the control of
the resource extraction issuer to a foreign government or
the Federal Government for the purpose of the commercial
development of oil, natural gas, or minerals, including—
(i) the type and total amount of such payments
made for each project of the resource extraction issuer
relating to the commercial development of oil, natural
gas, or minerals; and
(ii) the type and total amount of such payments
made to each government.
(B) CONSULTATION IN RULEMAKING.—In issuing rules
under subparagraph (A), the Commission may consult with
any agency or entity that the Commission determines is
relevant.
51So

in law. The word ‘‘a’’ probably should appear.

Sec. 13

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

144

(C) INTERACTIVE DATA FORMAT.—The rules issued
under subparagraph (A) shall require that the information
included in the annual report of a resource extraction
issuer be submitted in an interactive data format.
(D) INTERACTIVE DATA STANDARD.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The rules issued under subparagraph (A) shall establish an interactive data standard
for the information included in the annual report of a
resource extraction issuer.
(ii) ELECTRONIC TAGS.—The interactive data
standard shall include electronic tags that identify, for
any payments made by a resource extraction issuer to
a foreign government or the Federal Government—
(I) the total amounts of the payments, by category;
(II) the currency used to make the payments;
(III) the financial period in which the payments were made;
(IV) the business segment of the resource extraction issuer that made the payments;
(V) the government that received the payments, and the country in which the government
is located;
(VI) the project of the resource extraction
issuer to which the payments relate; and
(VII) such other information as the Commission may determine is necessary or appropriate in
the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(E) INTERNATIONAL TRANSPARENCY EFFORTS.—To the
extent practicable, the rules issued under subparagraph
(A) shall support the commitment of the Federal Government to international transparency promotion efforts relating to the commercial development of oil, natural gas, or
minerals.
(F) EFFECTIVE DATE.—With respect to each resource
extraction issuer, the final rules issued under subparagraph (A) shall take effect on the date on which the resource extraction issuer is required to submit an annual
report relating to the fiscal year of the resource extraction
issuer that ends not earlier than 1 year after the date on
which the Commission issues final rules under subparagraph (A).
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—To the extent practicable, the Commission shall make available online, to the public, a compilation of the information required to be submitted under
the rules issued under paragraph (2)(A).
(B) OTHER INFORMATION.—Nothing in this paragraph
shall require the Commission to make available online information other than the information required to be submitted under the rules issued under paragraph (2)(A).

145

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 13

(4) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are authorized to be appropriated to the Commission such sums as may
be necessary to carry out this subsection.
(r) DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN ACTIVITIES RELATING TO IRAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each issuer required to file an annual or
quarterly report under subsection (a) shall disclose in that report the information required by paragraph (2) if, during the
period covered by the report, the issuer or any affiliate of the
issuer—
(A) knowingly engaged in an activity described in subsection (a) or (b) of section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act of
1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note);
(B) knowingly engaged in an activity described in subsection (c)(2) of section 104 of the Comprehensive Iran
Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22
U.S.C. 8513) or a transaction described in subsection (d)(1)
of that section;
(C) knowingly engaged in an activity described in section 105A(b)(2) of that Act; or
(D) knowingly conducted any transaction or dealing
with—
(i) any person the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to Executive Order
No. 13224 (66 Fed. Reg. 49079; relating to blocking
property and prohibiting transactions with persons
who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism);
(ii) any person the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to Executive Order
No. 13382 (70 Fed. Reg. 38567; relating to blocking of
property of weapons of mass destruction proliferators
and their supporters); or
(iii) any person or entity identified under section
560.304 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to the definition of the Government of Iran) without the specific authorization of a Federal department
or agency.
(2) INFORMATION REQUIRED.—If an issuer or an affiliate of
the issuer has engaged in any activity described in paragraph
(1), the issuer shall disclose a detailed description of each such
activity, including—
(A) the nature and extent of the activity;
(B) the gross revenues and net profits, if any, attributable to the activity; and
(C) whether the issuer or the affiliate of the issuer (as
the case may be) intends to continue the activity.
(3) NOTICE OF DISCLOSURES.—If an issuer reports under
paragraph (1) that the issuer or an affiliate of the issuer has
knowingly engaged in any activity described in that paragraph,
the issuer shall separately file with the Commission, concurrently with the annual or quarterly report under subsection
(a), a notice that the disclosure of that activity has been included in that annual or quarterly report that identifies the
issuer and contains the information required by paragraph (2).

Sec. 13

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

146

(4) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.—Upon receiving
a notice under paragraph (3) that an annual or quarterly report includes a disclosure of an activity described in paragraph
(1), the Commission shall promptly—
(A) transmit the report to—
(i) the President;
(ii) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the
Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives; and
(iii) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of
the Senate; and
(B) make the information provided in the disclosure
and the notice available to the public by posting the information on the Internet website of the Commission.
(5) INVESTIGATIONS.—Upon receiving a report under paragraph (4) that includes a disclosure of an activity described in
paragraph (1) (other than an activity described in subparagraph (D)(iii) of that paragraph), the President shall—
(A) initiate an investigation into the possible imposition of sanctions under the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996
(Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note), section 104 or
105A of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability,
and Divestment Act of 2010, an Executive order specified
in clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (1)(D), or any other provision of law relating to the imposition of sanctions with respect to Iran, as applicable; and
(B) not later than 180 days after initiating such an investigation, make a determination with respect to whether
sanctions should be imposed with respect to the issuer or
the affiliate of the issuer (as the case may be).
(6) SUNSET.—The provisions of this subsection shall terminate on the date that is 30 days after the date on which the
President makes the certification described in section 401(a) of
the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8551(a)).
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 13, 48 Stat. 894; Aug. 20, 1964,
Pub. L. 88-467, Sec. 4, 78 Stat. 569; July 29, 1968, Pub. L. 90-439,
Sec. 2, 82 Stat. 454; Dec. 22, 1970, Pub. L. 91-567, Sec. 1, 2, 84
Stat. 1497; June 4, 1975, Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 10, 89 Stat. 119; Feb.
5, 1976, Pub. L. 94-210, title III, Sec. 308(b), 90 Stat. 57; Dec. 19,
1977, Pub. L. 95-213, title I, Sec. 102, title II, Sec. 202, 203, 91
Stat. 1494, 1498, 1499; June 6, 1983, Pub. L. 98-38, Sec. 2(a), 97
Stat. 205; Dec. 4, 1987, Pub. L. 100-181, title III, Sec. 315, 316, 101
Stat. 1256; Feb. 3, 1988, Pub. L. 100-241, Sec. 12(d), 101 Stat.
1810; Aug. 23, 1988, Pub. L. 100-418, title V, Sec. 5002, 102 Stat.
1415; Oct. 16, 1990, Pub. L. 101-432, Sec. 3, 104 Stat. 964; Pub.
L. 107-123, Sec. 5, Jan. 16, 2002, 115 Stat. 2395; Pub. L. 107-204,
title I, Sec. 109(h), title IV, Secs. 401(a), 402(a), 409, July 30, 2002,
116 Stat. 771, 785, 787, 791; renumbered Sec. 109(i), Pub. L. 111203, title IX, Sec. 982(h)(3), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1930; Pub. L.
111-203, title VII, Secs. 763(i), 766(b), (c), (e), title IX, Secs.
929R(a), 929X(a), 985(b)(4), 991(b)(2), title XV, Secs. 1502(b), 1504,

147

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 13A

July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1779, 1799, 1866, 1870, 1933, 1952, 2213,
2220; Pub. L. 112-106, title I, Sec. 102(b)(2), Apr. 5, 2012, 126 Stat.
309; Pub. L. 112-158, title II, Sec. 219(a), Aug. 10, 2012, 126 Stat.
1235.)
SEC. 13A. REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING FOR CERTAIN SECURITY-BASED SWAPS.
(a) REQUIRED REPORTING OF SECURITY-BASED SWAPS NOT ACCEPTED BY ANY CLEARING AGENCY OR DERIVATIVES CLEARING ORGANIZATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each security-based swap that is not ac-

cepted for clearing by any clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization shall be reported to—
(A) a security-based swap data repository described in
section 13(n); or
(B) in the case in which there is no security-based
swap data repository that would accept the security-based
swap, to the Commission pursuant to this section within
such time period as the Commission may by rule or regulation prescribe.
(2) TRANSITION RULE FOR PREENACTMENT SECURITY-BASED
SWAPS.—
(A) SECURITY-BASED SWAPS ENTERED INTO BEFORE THE
DATE OF ENACTMENT OF THE WALL STREET TRANSPARENCY
AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2010.—Each security-based

swap entered into before the date of enactment of the Wall
Street Transparency and Accountability Act of 2010, the
terms of which have not expired as of the date of enactment of that Act, shall be reported to a registered securitybased swap data repository or the Commission by a date
that is not later than—
(i) 30 days after issuance of the interim final rule;
or
(ii) such other period as the Commission determines to be appropriate.
(B) COMMISSION RULEMAKING.—The Commission shall
promulgate an interim final rule within 90 days of the
date of enactment of this section providing for the reporting of each security-based swap entered into before the
date of enactment as referenced in subparagraph (A).
(C) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The reporting provisions described in this section shall be effective upon the date of
the enactment of this section.
(3) REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.—
(A) SECURITY-BASED SWAPS IN WHICH ONLY 1
COUNTERPARTY IS A SECURITY-BASED SWAP DEALER OR
MAJOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP PARTICIPANT.—With respect
to a security-based swap in which only 1 counterparty is
a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap
participant, the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall report the security-based
swap as required under paragraphs (1) and (2).
(B) SECURITY-BASED SWAPS IN WHICH 1 COUNTERPARTY
IS A SECURITY-BASED SWAP DEALER AND THE OTHER A

Sec. 14

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

148

MAJOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP PARTICIPANT.—With respect
to a security-based swap in which 1 counterparty is a security-based swap dealer and the other a major securitybased swap participant, the security-based swap dealer
shall report the security-based swap as required under
paragraphs (1) and (2).
(C) OTHER SECURITY-BASED SWAPS.—With respect to
any other security-based swap not described in subparagraph (A) or (B), the counterparties to the security-based
swap shall select a counterparty to report the securitybased swap as required under paragraphs (1) and (2).
(b) DUTIES OF CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS.—Any individual or entity
that enters into a security-based swap shall meet each requirement
described in subsection (c) if the individual or entity did not—
(1) clear the security-based swap in accordance with section 3C(a)(1); or
(2) have the data regarding the security-based swap accepted by a security-based swap data repository in accordance
with rules (including timeframes) adopted by the Commission
under this title.
(c) REQUIREMENTS.—An individual or entity described in subsection (b) shall—
(1) upon written request from the Commission, provide reports regarding the security-based swaps held by the individual or entity to the Commission in such form and in such
manner as the Commission may request; and
(2) maintain books and records pertaining to the securitybased swaps held by the individual or entity in such form, in
such manner, and for such period as the Commission may require, which shall be open to inspection by—
(A) any representative of the Commission;
(B) an appropriate prudential regulator;
(C) the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
(D) the Financial Stability Oversight Council; and
(E) the Department of Justice.
(d) IDENTICAL DATA.—In prescribing rules under this section,
the Commission shall require individuals and entities described in
subsection (b) to submit to the Commission a report that contains
data that is not less comprehensive than the data required to be
collected by security-based swap data repositories under this title.

(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 13A, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title VII, Sec. 766(a), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1797.)
PROXIES

SEC. 14. (a)(1) It shall be unlawful for any person, by the use
of the mails or by any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce or of any facility of a national securities exchange or otherwise, in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, to solicit or to permit the
use of his name to solicit any proxy or consent or authorization in

149

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 14

respect of any security (other than an exempted security) registered
pursuant to section 12 of this title.
(2) The rules and regulations prescribed by the Commission
under paragraph (1) may include—
(A) a requirement that a solicitation of proxy, consent, or
authorization by (or on behalf of) an issuer include a nominee
submitted by a shareholder to serve on the board of directors
of the issuer; and
(B) a requirement that an issuer follow a certain procedure
in relation to a solicitation described in subparagraph (A).
(b)(1) It shall be unlawful for any member of a national securities exchange, or any broker or dealer registered under this title,
or any bank, association, or other entity that exercises fiduciary
powers, in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, to give, or to refrain from
giving a proxy, consent, authorization, or information statement in
respect of any security registered pursuant to section 12 of this
title, or any security issued by an investment company registered
under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and carried for the account of a customer.
(2) With respect to banks, the rules and regulations prescribed
by the Commission under paragraph (1) shall not require the disclosure of the names of beneficial owners of securities in an account
held by the bank on the date of enactment of this paragraph unless
the beneficial owner consents to the disclosure. The provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply in the case of a bank which the
Commission finds has not made a good faith effort to obtain such
consent from such beneficial owners.
(c) Unless proxies, consents, or authorizations in respect of a
security registered pursuant to section 12 of this title, or a security
issued by an investment company registered under the Investment
Company Act of 1940, are solicited by or on behalf of the management of the issuer from the holders of record of such security in
accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed under subsection (a) of this section, prior to any annual or other meeting of
the holders of such security, such issuer shall, in accordance with
rules and regulations prescribed by the Commission, file with the
Commission and transmit to all holders of record of such security
information substantially equivalent to the information which
would be required to be transmitted if a solicitation were made, but
no information shall be required to be filed or transmitted pursuant to this subsection before July 1, 1964.
(d)(1) It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly,
by use of the mails or by any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce or of any facility of a national securities exchange
or otherwise, to make a tender offer for, or a request or invitation
for tenders of, any class of any equity security which is registered
pursuant to section 12 of this title, or any equity security of an insurance company which would have been required to be so registered except for the exemption contained in section 12(g)(2)(G) of
this title, or any equity security issued by a closed-end investment
company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, if,
after consummation thereof, such person would, directly or indi-

Sec. 14

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

150

rectly, be the beneficial owner of more than 5 per centum of such
class, unless at the time copies of the offer or request or invitation
are first published or sent or given to security holders such person
has filed with the Commission a statement containing such of the
information specified in section 13(d) of this title, and such additional information as the Commission may by rules and regulations
prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for
the protection of investors. All requests or invitations for tenders
or advertisements making a tender offer or requesting or inviting
tenders, of such a security shall be filed as a part of such statement
and shall contain such of the information contained in such statement as the Commission may by rules and regulations prescribe.
Copies of any additional material soliciting or requesting such tender offers subsequent to the initial solicitation or request shall contain such information as the Commission may by rules and regulations prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors, and shall be filed with the Commission not later than the time copies of such material are first published or sent or given to security holders. Copies of all statements,
in the form in which such material is furnished to security holders
and the Commission, shall be sent to the issuer not later than the
date such material is first published or sent or given to any security holders.
(2) When two or more persons act as a partnership, limited
partnership, syndicate, or other group for the purpose of acquiring,
holding, or disposing of securities of an issuer, such syndicate or
group shall be deemed a ‘‘person’’ for purposes of this subsection.
(3) In determining, for purposes of this subsection, any percentage of a class of any security, such class shall be deemed to
consist of the amount of the outstanding securities of such class,
exclusive of any securities of such class held by or for the account
of the issuer or a subsidiary of the issuer.
(4) Any solicitation or recommendation to the holders of such
a security to accept or reject a tender offer or request or invitation
for tenders shall be made in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(5) Securities deposited pursuant to a tender offer or request
or invitation for tenders may be withdrawn by or on behalf of the
depositor at any time until the expiration of seven days after the
time definitive copies of the offer or request or invitation are first
published or sent or given to security holders, and at any time
after sixty days from the date of the original tender offer or request
or invitation, except as the Commission may otherwise prescribe by
rules, regulations, or order as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(6) Where any person makes a tender offer, or request or invitation for tenders, for less than all the outstanding equity securities of a class, and where a greater number of securities is deposited pursuant thereto within ten days after copies of the offer or
request or invitation are first published or sent or given to security
holders than such person is bound or willing to take up and pay
for, the securities taken up shall be taken up as nearly as may be
pro rata, disregarding fractions, according to the number of securi-

151

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 14

ties deposited by each depositor. The provisions of this subsection
shall also apply to securities deposited within ten days after notice
of an increase in the consideration offered to security holders, as
described in paragraph (7), is first published or sent or given to security holders.
(7) Where any person varies the terms of a tender offer or request or invitation for tenders before the expiration thereof by increasing the consideration offered to holders of such securities,
such person shall pay the increased consideration to each security
holder whose securities are taken up and paid for pursuant to the
tender offer or request or invitation for tenders whether or not
such securities have been taken up by such person before the variation of the tender offer or request or invitation.
(8) The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any
offer for, or request or invitation for tenders of, any security—
(A) if the acquisition of such security, together with all
other acquisitions by the same person of securities of the same
class during the preceding twelve months, would not exceed 2
per centum of that class;
(B) by the issuer of such security; or
(C) which the Commission, by rules or regulations or by
order, shall exempt from the provisions of this subsection as
not entered into for the purpose of, and not having the effect
of, changing or influencing the control of the issuer or otherwise as not comprehended within the purposes of this subsection.
(e) It shall be unlawful for any person to make any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the
circumstances under which they are made, not misleading, or to
engage in any fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative acts or practices, in connection with any tender offer or request or invitation
for tenders, or any solicitation of security holders in opposition to
or in favor of any such offer, request, or invitation. The Commission shall, for the purposes of this subsection, by rules and regulations define, and prescribe means reasonably designed to prevent,
such acts and practices as are fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative.
(f) If, pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with the
person or persons acquiring securities in a transaction subject to
subsection (d) of this section or subsection (d) of section 13 of this
title, any persons are to be elected or designated as directors of the
issuer, otherwise than at a meeting of security holders, and the
persons so elected or designated will constitute a majority of the directors of the issuer, then, prior to the time any such person takes
office as a director, and in accordance with rules and regulations
prescribed by the Commission, the issuer shall file with the Commission, and transmit to all holders of record of securities of the
issuer who would be entitled to vote at a meeting for election of directors, information substantially equivalent to the information
which would be required by subsection (a) or (c) of this section to
be transmitted if such person or persons were nominees for election
as directors at a meeting of such security holders.

Sec. 14

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

152

(g)(1)(A) At the time of filing such preliminary proxy solicitation material as the Commission may require by rule pursuant to
subsection (a) of this section that concerns an acquisition, merger,
consolidation, or proposed sale or other disposition of substantially
all the assets of a company, the person making such filing, other
than a company registered under the Investment Company Act of
1940, shall pay to the Commission the following fees:
(i) for preliminary proxy solicitation material involving an
acquisition, merger, or consolidation, if there is a proposed payment of cash or transfer of securities or property to shareholders, a fee at a rate that, subject to paragraph (4), is equal
to $92 per $1,000,000 of such proposed payment, or of the
value of such securities or other property proposed to be transferred; and
(ii) for preliminary proxy solicitation material involving a
proposed sale or other disposition of substantially all of the assets of a company, a fee at a rate that, subject to paragraph
(4), is equal to $92 per $1,000,000 of the cash or of the value
of any securities or other property proposed to be received
upon such sale or disposition.
(B) The fee imposed under subparagraph (A) shall be reduced
with respect to securities in an amount equal to any fee paid to the
Commission with respect to such securities in connection with the
proposed transaction under section 6(b) of the Securities Act of
1933 (15 U.S.C. 77f(b)), or the fee paid under that section shall be
reduced in an amount equal to the fee paid to the Commission in
connection with such transaction under this subsection. Where two
or more companies involved in an acquisition, merger, consolidation, sale, or other disposition of substantially all the assets of a
company must file such proxy material with the Commission, each
shall pay a proportionate share of such fee.
(2) At the time of filing such preliminary information statement as the Commission may require by rule pursuant to subsection (c) of this section, the issuer shall pay to the Commission
the same fee as required for preliminary proxy solicitation material
under paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(3) At the time of filing such statement as the Commission may
require by rule pursuant to subsection (d)(1) of this section, the
person making the filing shall pay to the Commission a fee at a
rate that, subject to paragraph (4), is equal to $92 per $1,000,000
of the aggregate amount of cash or of the value of securities or
other property proposed to be offered. The fee shall be reduced with
respect to securities in an amount equal to any fee paid with respect to such securities in connection with the proposed transaction
under section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77f(b)),
or the fee paid under that section shall be reduced in an amount
equal to the fee paid to the Commission in connection with such
transaction under this subsection.
(4) [52] ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT.—For each fiscal year, the
Commission shall by order adjust the rate required by paragraphs (1) and (3) for such fiscal year to a rate that is equal
to the rate (expressed in dollars per million) that is applicable
52Margin

so in law.

153

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 14

under section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C.
77f(b)) for such fiscal year.
(5) [53] FEE COLLECTION.—Fees collected pursuant to this
subsection for fiscal year 2012 and each fiscal year thereafter
shall be deposited and credited as general revenue of the
Treasury and shall not be available for obligation.
(6) [54] REVIEW; EFFECTIVE DATE; PUBLICATION.—In exercising its authority under this subsection, the Commission
shall not be required to comply with the provisions of section
553 of title 5, United States Code. An adjusted rate prescribed
under paragraph (4) shall be published and take effect in accordance with section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15
U.S.C. 77f(b)).
(7) [55] PRO RATA APPLICATION.—The rates per $1,000,000
required by this subsection shall be applied pro rata to
amounts and balances of less than $1,000,000.
(8) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission may impose fees, charges, or prices for matters not involving
any acquisition, merger, consolidation, sale, or other disposition of
assets described in this subsection, as authorized by section 9701
of title 31, United States Code, or otherwise.
(h) PROXY SOLICITATIONS AND TENDER OFFERS IN CONNECTION
WITH LIMITED PARTNERSHIP ROLLUP TRANSACTIONS.—
(1) PROXY RULES TO CONTAIN SPECIAL PROVISIONS.—It shall
be unlawful for any person to solicit any proxy, consent, or authorization concerning a limited partnership rollup transaction,
or to make any tender offer in furtherance of a limited partnership rollup transaction, unless such transaction is conducted in
accordance with rules prescribed by the Commission under
subsections (a) and (d) as required by this subsection. Such
rules shall—
(A) permit any holder of a security that is the subject
of the proposed limited partnership rollup transaction to
engage in preliminary communications for the purpose of
determining whether to solicit proxies, consents, or authorizations in opposition to the proposed limited partnership
rollup transaction, without regard to whether any such
communication would otherwise be considered a solicitation of proxies, and without being required to file soliciting
material with the Commission prior to making that determination, except that—
(i) nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed to limit the application of any provision of this
title prohibiting, or reasonably designed to prevent,
fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative acts or practices under this title; and
(ii) any holder of not less than 5 percent of the
outstanding securities that are the subject of the proposed limited partnership rollup transaction who engages in the business of buying and selling limited
partnership interests in the secondary market shall be
53Margin
54Margin
55Margin

so in law.
so in law.
so in law.

Sec. 14

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

154

required to disclose such ownership interests and any
potential conflicts of interests in such preliminary
communications;
(B) require the issuer to provide to holders of the securities that are the subject of the limited partnership rollup
transaction such list of the holders of the issuer’s securities as the Commission may determine in such form and
subject to such terms and conditions as the Commission
may specify;
(C) prohibit compensating any person soliciting proxies, consents, or authorizations directly from security holders concerning such a limited partnership rollup transaction—
(i) on the basis of whether the solicited proxy, consent, or authorization either approves or disapproves
the proposed limited partnership rollup transaction; or
(ii) contingent on the approval, disapproval, or
completion of the limited partnership rollup transaction;
(D) set forth disclosure requirements for soliciting material distributed in connection with a limited partnership
rollup transaction, including requirements for clear, concise, and comprehensible disclosure with respect to—
(i) any changes in the business plan, voting rights,
form of ownership interest, or the compensation of the
general partner in the proposed limited partnership
rollup transaction from each of the original limited
partnerships;
(ii) the conflicts of interest, if any, of the general
partner;
(iii) whether it is expected that there will be a significant difference between the exchange values of the
limited partnerships and the trading price of the securities to be issued in the limited partnership rollup
transaction;
(iv) the valuation of the limited partnerships and
the method used to determine the value of the interests of the limited partners to be exchanged for the securities in the limited partnership rollup transaction;
(v) the differing risks and effects of the limited
partnership rollup transaction for investors in different limited partnerships proposed to be included,
and the risks and effects of completing the limited
partnership rollup transaction with less than all limited partnerships;
(vi) the statement by the general partner required
under subparagraph (E);
(vii) such other matters deemed necessary or appropriate by the Commission;
(E) require a statement by the general partner as to
whether the proposed limited partnership rollup transaction is fair or unfair to investors in each limited partnership, a discussion of the basis for that conclusion, and an
evaluation and a description by the general partner of al-

155

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 14

ternatives to the limited partnership rollup transaction,
such as liquidation;
(F) provide that, if the general partner or sponsor has
obtained any opinion (other than an opinion of counsel),
appraisal, or report that is prepared by an outside party
and that is materially related to the limited partnership
rollup transaction, such soliciting materials shall contain
or be accompanied by clear, concise, and comprehensible
disclosure with respect to—
(i) the analysis of the transaction, scope of review,
preparation of the opinion, and basis for and methods
of arriving at conclusions, and any representations
and undertakings with respect thereto;
(ii) the identity and qualifications of the person
who prepared the opinion, the method of selection of
such person, and any material past, existing, or contemplated relationships between the person or any of
its affiliates and the general partner, sponsor, successor, or any other affiliate;
(iii) any compensation of the preparer of such
opinion, appraisal, or report that is contingent on the
transaction’s approval or completion; and
(iv) any limitations imposed by the issuer on the
access afforded to such preparer to the issuer’s personnel, premises, and relevant books and records;
(G) provide that, if the general partner or sponsor has
obtained any opinion, appraisal, or report as described in
subparagraph (F) from any person whose compensation is
contingent on the transaction’s approval or completion or
who has not been given access by the issuer to its personnel and premises and relevant books and records, the
general partner or sponsor shall state the reasons therefor;
(H) provide that, if the general partner or sponsor has
not obtained any opinion on the fairness of the proposed
limited partnership rollup transaction to investors in each
of the affected partnerships, such soliciting materials shall
contain or be accompanied by a statement of such partner’s or sponsor’s reasons for concluding that such an opinion is not necessary in order to permit the limited partners
to make an informed decision on the proposed transaction;
(I) require that the soliciting material include a clear,
concise, and comprehensible summary of the limited partnership rollup transaction (including a summary of the
matters referred to in clauses (i) through (vii) of subparagraph (D) and a summary of the matter referred to in subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H)), with the risks of the limited
partnership rollup transaction set forth prominently in the
fore part thereof;
(J) provide that any solicitation or offering period with
respect to any proxy solicitation, tender offer, or information statement in a limited partnership rollup transaction
shall be for not less than the lesser of 60 calendar days or
the maximum number of days permitted under applicable
State law; and

Sec. 14

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

156

(K) contain such other provisions as the Commission
determines to be necessary or appropriate for the protection of investors in limited partnership rollup transactions.
(2) EXEMPTIONS.—The Commission may, consistent with
the public interest, the protection of investors, and the purposes of this title, exempt by rule or order any security or class
of securities, any transaction or class of transactions, or any
person or class of persons, in whole or in part, conditionally or
unconditionally, from the requirements imposed pursuant to
paragraph (1) or from the definition contained in paragraph
(4).
(3) EFFECT ON COMMISSION AUTHORITY.—Nothing in this
subsection limits the authority of the Commission under subsection (a) or (d) or any other provision of this title or precludes the Commission from imposing, under subsection (a) or
(d) or any other provision of this title, a remedy or procedure
required to be imposed under this subsection.
(4) DEFINITION OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP ROLLUP TRANSACTION.— Except as provided in paragraph (5), as used in this
subsection, the term ‘‘limited partnership rollup transaction’’
means a transaction involving the combination or reorganization of one or more limited partnerships, directly or indirectly,
in which—
(A) some or all of the investors in any of such limited
partnerships will receive new securities, or securities in
another entity, that will be reported under a transaction
reporting plan declared effective before the date of enactment of this subsection by the Commission under section
11A;
(B) any of the investors’ limited partnership securities
are not, as of the date of filing, reported under a transaction reporting plan declared effective before the date of
enactment of this subsection by the Commission under section 11A;
(C) investors in any of the limited partnerships involved in the transaction are subject to a significant adverse change with respect to voting rights, the term of existence of the entity, management compensation, or investment objectives; and
(D) any of such investors are not provided an option
to receive or retain a security under substantially the
same terms and conditions as the original issue.
(5) EXCLUSIONS FROM DEFINITION.—Notwithstanding paragraph (4), the term ‘‘limited partnership rollup transaction’’
does not include—
(A) a transaction that involves only a limited partnership or partnerships having an operating policy or practice
of retaining cash available for distribution and reinvesting
proceeds from the sale, financing, or refinancing of assets
in accordance with such criteria as the Commission determines appropriate;
(B) a transaction involving only limited partnerships
wherein the interests of the limited partners are repurchased, recalled, or exchanged in accordance with the

157

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 14

terms of the preexisting limited partnership agreements
for securities in an operating company specifically identified at the time of the formation of the original limited
partnership;
(C) a transaction in which the securities to be issued
or exchanged are not required to be and are not registered
under the Securities Act of 1933;
(D) a transaction that involves only issuers that are
not required to register or report under section 12, both
before and after the transaction;
(E) a transaction, except as the Commission may otherwise provide by rule for the protection of investors, involving the combination or reorganization of one or more
limited partnerships in which a non-affiliated party succeeds to the interests of a general partner or sponsor, if—
(i) such action is approved by not less than 66 2/
3 percent of the outstanding units of each of the participating limited partnerships; and
(ii) as a result of the transaction, the existing general partners will receive only compensation to which
they are entitled as expressly provided for in the preexisting limited partnership agreements; or
(F) a transaction, except as the Commission may otherwise provide by rule for the protection of investors, in
which the securities offered to investors are securities of
another entity that are reported under a transaction reporting plan declared effective before the date of enactment of this subsection by the Commission under section
11A, if—
(i) such other entity was formed, and such class of
securities was reported and regularly traded, not less
than 12 months before the date on which soliciting
material is mailed to investors; and
(ii) the securities of that entity issued to investors
in the transaction do not exceed 20 percent of the total
outstanding securities of the entity, exclusive of any
securities of such class held by or for the account of
the entity or a subsidiary of the entity.
(i) DISCLOSURE OF PAY VERSUS PERFORMANCE.—The Commission shall, by rule, require each issuer to disclose in any proxy or
consent solicitation material for an annual meeting of the shareholders of the issuer a clear description of any compensation required to be disclosed by the issuer under section 229.402 of title
17, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor thereto), including, for any issuer other than an emerging growth company, information that shows the relationship between executive compensation actually paid and the financial performance of the issuer, taking into account any change in the value of the shares of stock and
dividends of the issuer and any distributions. The disclosure under
this subsection may include a graphic representation of the information required to be disclosed.
(j) DISCLOSURE OF HEDGING BY EMPLOYEES AND DIRECTORS.—
The Commission shall, by rule, require each issuer to disclose in
any proxy or consent solicitation material for an annual meeting of

Sec. 14A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

158

the shareholders of the issuer whether any employee or member of
the board of directors of the issuer, or any designee of such employee or member, is permitted to purchase financial instruments
(including prepaid variable forward contracts, equity swaps, collars,
and exchange funds) that are designed to hedge or offset any decrease in the market value of equity securities—
(1) granted to the employee or member of the board of directors by the issuer as part of the compensation of the employee or member of the board of directors; or
(2) held, directly or indirectly, by the employee or member
of the board of directors.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 14, 48 Stat. 895; Aug. 20, 1964,
Pub. L. 88-467, Sec. 5, 78 Stat. 569; July 29, 1968, Pub. L. 90-439,
Sec. 3, 82 Stat. 455; Dec. 22, 1970, Pub. L. 91-567, Sec. 3-5, 84
Stat. 1497; June 6, 1983, Pub. L. 98-38, Sec. 2(b), 97 Stat. 205; Dec.
28, 1985, Pub. L. 99-222, Sec. 2, 99 Stat. 1737; Nov. 15, 1990, Pub.
L. 101-550, title III, Sec. 302, 104 Stat. 2721; Dec. 17, 1993, Pub.
L. 103-202, title III, Sec. 302(a), 107 Stat. 2359; Nov. 3, 1998, Pub.
L. 105-353, title III, Sec. 301(b)(7), 112 Stat. 3236; Pub. L. 107-123,
Sec. 6, Jan. 16, 2002, 115 Stat. 2396; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX,
Secs. 953(a), 955, 971(a), 991(b)(3), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1903,
1904, 1915, 1953; Pub. L. 112-106, title I, Sec. 102(a)(2), Apr. 5,
2012, 126 Stat. 309.)
SEC. 14A. SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
(a) SEPARATE RESOLUTION REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than once every 3

years, a proxy or consent or authorization for an annual or
other meeting of the shareholders for which the proxy solicitation rules of the Commission require compensation disclosure
shall include a separate resolution subject to shareholder vote
to approve the compensation of executives, as disclosed pursuant to section 229.402 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations,
or any successor thereto.
(2) FREQUENCY OF VOTE.—Not less frequently than once
every 6 years, a proxy or consent or authorization for an annual or other meeting of the shareholders for which the proxy
solicitation rules of the Commission require compensation disclosure shall include a separate resolution subject to shareholder vote to determine whether votes on the resolutions required under paragraph (1) will occur every 1, 2, or 3 years.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The proxy or consent or authorization for the first annual or other meeting of the shareholders
occurring after the end of the 6-month period beginning on the
date of enactment of this section shall include—
(A) the resolution described in paragraph (1); and
(B) a separate resolution subject to shareholder vote to
determine whether votes on the resolutions required under
paragraph (1) will occur every 1, 2, or 3 years.
(b) SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL OF GOLDEN PARACHUTE COMPENSATION.—

159

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 14A

(1) DISCLOSURE.—In any proxy or consent solicitation material (the solicitation of which is subject to the rules of the
Commission pursuant to subsection (a)) for a meeting of the
shareholders occurring after the end of the 6-month period beginning on the date of enactment of this section, at which
shareholders are asked to approve an acquisition, merger, consolidation, or proposed sale or other disposition of all or substantially all the assets of an issuer, the person making such
solicitation shall disclose in the proxy or consent solicitation
material, in a clear and simple form in accordance with regulations to be promulgated by the Commission, any agreements or
understandings that such person has with any named executive officers of such issuer (or of the acquiring issuer, if such
issuer is not the acquiring issuer) concerning any type of compensation (whether present, deferred, or contingent) that is
based on or otherwise relates to the acquisition, merger, consolidation, sale, or other disposition of all or substantially all
of the assets of the issuer and the aggregate total of all such
compensation that may (and the conditions upon which it may)
be paid or become payable to or on behalf of such executive officer.
(2) SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL.—Any proxy or consent or authorization relating to the proxy or consent solicitation material containing the disclosure required by paragraph (1) shall
include a separate resolution subject to shareholder vote to approve such agreements or understandings and compensation as
disclosed, unless such agreements or understandings have been
subject to a shareholder vote under subsection (a).
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The shareholder vote referred to
in subsections (a) and (b) shall not be binding on the issuer or the
board of directors of an issuer, and may not be construed—
(1) as overruling a decision by such issuer or board of directors;
(2) to create or imply any change to the fiduciary duties of
such issuer or board of directors;
(3) to create or imply any additional fiduciary duties for
such issuer or board of directors; or
(4) to restrict or limit the ability of shareholders to make
proposals for inclusion in proxy materials related to executive
compensation.
(d) DISCLOSURE OF VOTES.—Every institutional investment
manager subject to section 13(f) shall report at least annually how
it voted on any shareholder vote pursuant to subsections (a) and
(b), unless such vote is otherwise required to be reported publicly
by rule or regulation of the Commission.
(e) EXEMPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission may, by rule or order,
exempt any other issuer or class of issuers from the requirement under subsection (a) or (b). In determining whether to
make an exemption under this subsection, the Commission
shall take into account, among other considerations, whether

Sec. 14B

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

160

the requirements under subsections (a) and (b) disproportionately burdens [56] small issuers.
(2) TREATMENT OF EMERGING GROWTH COMPANIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—An emerging growth company shall
be exempt from the requirements of subsections (a) and
(b).
(B) COMPLIANCE AFTER TERMINATION OF EMERGING
GROWTH COMPANY TREATMENT.—An issuer that was an
emerging growth company but is no longer an emerging
growth company shall include the first separate resolution
described under subsection (a)(1) not later than the end
of—
(i) in the case of an issuer that was an emerging
growth company for less than 2 years after the date of
first sale of common equity securities of the issuer
pursuant to an effective registration statement under
the Securities Act of 1933, the 3-year period beginning
on such date; and
(ii) in the case of any other issuer, the 1-year period beginning on the date the issuer is no longer an
emerging growth company.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 14A, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title IX, Sec. 951, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1899; amended Pub. L.
112-106, title I, Sec. 102(a)(1), Apr. 5, 2012, 126 Stat. 308.)
SEC. 14B. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.

Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this
subsection [57], the Commission shall issue rules that require an
issuer to disclose in the annual proxy sent to investors the reasons
why the issuer has chosen—
(1) the same person to serve as chairman of the board of
directors and chief executive officer (or in equivalent positions);
or
(2) different individuals to serve as chairman of the board
of directors and chief executive officer (or in equivalent positions of the issuer).
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 14B, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title IX, Sec. 972, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1915.)
REGISTRATION AND REGULATION OF BROKERS AND DEALERS

SEC. 15. (a)(1) It shall be unlawful for any broker or dealer
which is either a person other than a natural person or a natural
person not associated with a broker or dealer which is a person
other than a natural person (other than such a broker or dealer
whose business is exclusively intrastate and who does not make
use of any facility of a national securities exchange) to make use
of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transactions in, or to induce or attempt to in56So
57So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘burden’’.
in original. Probably should be ‘‘section’’.

161

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15

duce the purchase or sale of, any security (other than an exempted
security or commercial paper, bankers’ acceptances, or commercial
bills) unless such broker or dealer is registered in accordance with
subsection (b) of this section.
(2) The Commission, by rule or order, as it deems consistent
with the public interest and the protection of investors, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt from paragraph (1) of this subsection any broker or dealer or class of brokers or dealers specified
in such rule or order.
(b)(1) A broker or dealer may be registered by filing with the
Commission an application for registration in such form and containing such information and documents concerning such broker or
dealer and any persons associated with such broker or dealer as
the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate
in the public interest or for the protection of investors. Within
forty-five days of the date of the filing of such application (or within such longer period as to which the applicant consents), the Commission shall—
(A) by order grant registration, or
(B) institute proceedings to determine whether registration
should be denied. Such proceedings shall include notice of the
grounds for denial under consideration and opportunity for
hearing and shall be concluded within one hundred twenty
days of the date of the filing of the application for registration.
At the conclusion of such proceedings, the Commission, by
order, shall grant or deny such registration. The Commission
may extend the time for conclusion of such proceedings for up
to ninety days if it finds good cause for such extension and
publishes its reasons for so finding or for such longer period as
to which the applicant consents.
The Commission shall grant such registration if the Commission
finds that the requirements of this section are satisfied. The order
granting registration shall not be effective until such broker or
dealer has become a member of a registered securities association,
or until such broker or dealer has become a member of a national
securities exchange, if such broker or dealer effects transactions
solely on that exchange, unless the Commission has exempted such
broker or dealer, by rule or order, from such membership. The
Commission shall deny such registration if it does not make such
a finding or if it finds that if the applicant were so registered, its
registration would be subject to suspension or revocation under
paragraph (4) of this subsection.
(2)(A) An application for registration of a broker or dealer to
be formed or organized may be made by a broker or dealer to which
the broker or dealer to be formed or organized is to be the successor. Such application, in such form as the Commission, by rule,
may prescribe, shall contain such information and documents concerning the applicant, the successor, and any persons associated
with the applicant or the successor, as the Commission, by rule,
may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors. The grant or denial of registration
to such an applicant shall be in accordance with the procedures set
forth in paragraph (1) of this subsection. If the Commission grants
such registration, the registration shall terminate on the forty-fifth

Sec. 15

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

162

day after the effective date thereof, unless prior thereto the successor shall, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the
Commission may prescribe, adopt the application for registration
as its own.
(B) Any person who is a broker or dealer solely by reason of
acting as a municipal securities dealer or municipal securities
broker, who so acts through a separately identifiable department or
division, and who so acted in such a manner on the date of enactment of the Securities Acts Amendments of 1975, may, in accordance with such terms and conditions as the Commission, by rule,
prescribes as necessary and appropriate in the public interest and
for the protection of investors, register such separately identifiable
department or division in accordance with this subsection. If any
such department or division is so registered, the department or division and not such person himself shall be the broker or dealer for
purposes of this title.
(C) Within six months of the date of the granting of registration to a broker or dealer, the Commission, or upon the authorization and direction of the Commission, a registered securities association or national securities exchange of which such broker or
dealer is a member, shall conduct an inspection of the broker or
dealer to determine whether it is operating in conformity with the
provisions of this title and the rules and regulations thereunder:
Provided, however, That the Commission may delay such inspection of any class of brokers or dealers for a period not to exceed
six months.
(3) Any provision of this title (other than section 5 and subsection (a) of this section) which prohibits any act, practice, or
course of business if the mails or any means or instrumentality of
interstate commerce is used in connection therewith shall also prohibit any such act, practice, or course of business by any registered
broker or dealer or any person acting on behalf of such a broker
or dealer, irrespective of any use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce in connection therewith.
(4) The Commission, by order, shall censure, place limitations
on the activities, functions, or operations of, suspend for a period
not exceeding twelve months, or revoke the registration of any
broker or dealer if it finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such censure, placing of limitations, suspension, or revocation is in the public interest and that such broker
or dealer, whether prior or subsequent to becoming such, or any
person associated with such broker or dealer, whether prior or subsequent to becoming so associated—
(A) has willfully made or caused to be made in any application for registration or report required to be filed with the
Commission or with any other appropriate regulatory agency
under this title, or in any proceeding before the Commission
with respect to registration, any statement which was at the
time and in the light of the circumstances under which it was
made false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or

163

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15

has omitted to state in any such application or report any material fact which is required to be stated therein. [58]
(B) has been convicted within ten years preceding the filing of any application for registration or at any time thereafter
of any felony or misdemeanor or of a substantially equivalent
crime by a foreign court of competent jurisdiction which the
Commission finds—
(i) involves the purchase or sale of any security, the
taking of a false oath, the making of a false report, bribery, perjury, burglary, any substantially equivalent activity however denominated by the laws of the relevant foreign government, or conspiracy to commit any such offense;
(ii) arises out of the conduct of the business of a
broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer municipal advisor,, [59] government securities broker, government securities dealer, investment adviser, bank, insurance company,
fiduciary, transfer agent, nationally recognized statistical
rating organization, foreign person performing a function
substantially equivalent to any of the above, or entity or
person required to be registered under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) or any substantially equivalent foreign statute or regulation;
(iii) involves the larceny, theft, robbery, extortion, forgery, counterfeiting, fraudulent concealment, embezzlement, fraudulent conversion, or misappropriation of funds,
or securities, or substantially equivalent activity however
denominated by the laws of the relevant foreign government; or
(iv) involves the violation of section 152, 1341, 1342, or
1343 or chapter 25 or 47 of title 18, United States Code,
or a violation of a substantially equivalent foreign statute. [60]
(C) is permanently or temporarily enjoined by order, judgment, or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction from acting as an investment adviser, underwriter, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer municipal advisor,, [61] government securities broker, government securities dealer, security-based
swap dealer, major security-based swap participant, transfer
agent, nationally recognized statistical rating organization, foreign person performing a function substantially equivalent to
any of the above, or entity or person required to be registered
under the Commodity Exchange Act or any substantially
equivalent foreign statute or regulation, or as an affiliated person or employee of any investment company, bank, insurance
company, foreign entity substantially equivalent to any of the
above, or entity or person required to be registered under the
Commodity Exchange Act or any substantially equivalent for58So in
colons.
59So in
60So in
colons.
61So in

law. The periods at the end of subparagraphs (A) through (E) probably should be semilaw. Probably should be ‘‘municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor,’’.
law. The periods at the end of subparagraphs (A) through (E) probably should be semilaw. Probably should be ‘‘municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor,’’.

Sec. 15

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

164

eign statute or regulation, or from engaging in or continuing
any conduct or practice in connection with any such activity,
or in connection with the purchase or sale of any security. [62]
(D) has willfully violated any provision of the Securities
Act of 1933, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Investment Company Act of 1940, the Commodity Exchange Act, this
title, the rules or regulations under any of such statutes, or the
rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, or is unable to comply with any such provision. [63]
(E) has willfully aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or procured the violation by any other person of any
provision of the Securities Act of 1933, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Investment Company Act of 1940, the
Commodity Exchange Act, this title, the rules or regulations
under any of such statutes, or the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, or has failed reasonably to supervise,
with a view to preventing violations of the provisions of such
statutes, rules, and regulations, another person who commits
such a violation, if such other person is subject to his supervision. For the purposes of this subparagraph (E) no person
shall be deemed to have failed reasonably to supervise any
other person, if—
(i) there have been established procedures, and a system for applying such procedures, which would reasonably
be expected to prevent and detect, insofar as practicable,
any such violation by such other person, and
(ii) such person has reasonably discharged the duties
and obligations incumbent upon him by reason of such procedures and system without reasonable cause to believe
that such procedures and system were not being complied
with. [64]
(F) is subject to any order of the Commission barring or
suspending the right of the person to be associated with a
broker, dealer, security-based swap dealer, or a major securitybased swap participant;
(G) has been found by a foreign financial regulatory authority to have—
(i) made or caused to be made in any application for
registration or report required to be filed with a foreign financial regulatory authority, or in any proceeding before a
foreign financial regulatory authority with respect to registration, any statement that was at the time and in the
light of the circumstances under which it was made false
or misleading with respect to any material fact, or has
omitted to state in any application or report to the foreign
financial regulatory authority any material fact that is required to be stated therein;
62So in law. The periods at the end of subparagraphs (A) through (E) probably should be semicolons.
63So in law. The periods at the end of subparagraphs (A) through (E) probably should be semicolons.
64So in law. The periods at the end of subparagraphs (A) through (E) probably should be semicolons.

165

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15

(ii) violated any foreign statute or regulation regarding
transactions in securities, or contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, traded on or subject to the rules
of a contract market or any board of trade;
(iii) aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or
procured the violation by any person of any provision of
any statutory provisions enacted by a foreign government,
or rules or regulations thereunder, empowering a foreign
financial regulatory authority regarding transactions in securities, or contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market or any board of trade, or has been found, by a foreign
financial regulatory authority, to have failed reasonably to
supervise, with a view to preventing violations of such
statutory provisions, rules, and regulations, another person who commits such a violation, if such other person is
subject to his supervision; or
(H) is subject to any final order of a State securities commission (or any agency or officer performing like functions),
State authority that supervises or examines banks, savings associations, or credit unions, State insurance commission (or
any agency or office performing like functions), an appropriate
Federal banking agency (as defined in section 3 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q))), or the National
Credit Union Administration, that—
(i) bars such person from association with an entity
regulated by such commission, authority, agency, or officer, or from engaging in the business of securities, insurance, banking, savings association activities, or credit
union activities; or
(ii) constitutes a final order based on violations of any
laws or regulations that prohibit fraudulent, manipulative,
or deceptive conduct.
(5) Pending final determination whether any registration
under this subsection shall be revoked, the Commission, by order,
may suspend such registration, if such suspension appears to the
Commission, after notice and opportunity for hearing, to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of
investors. Any registered broker or dealer may, upon such terms
and conditions as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate
in the public interest or for the protection of investors, withdraw
from registration by filing a written notice of withdrawal with the
Commission. If the Commission finds that any registered broker or
dealer is no longer in existence or has ceased to do business as a
broker or dealer, the Commission, by order, shall cancel the registration of such broker or dealer.
(6)(A) With respect to any person who is associated, who is
seeking to become associated, or, at the time of the alleged misconduct, who was associated or was seeking to become associated
with a broker or dealer, or any person participating, or, at the time
of the alleged misconduct, who was participating, in an offering of
any penny stock, the Commission, by order, shall censure, place
limitations on the activities or functions of such person, or suspend
for a period not exceeding 12 months, or bar any such person from

Sec. 15

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

166

being associated with a broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization, or from participating
in an offering of penny stock, if the Commission finds, on the
record after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that such censure, placing of limitations, suspension, or bar is in the public interest and that such person—
(i) has committed or omitted any act, or is subject to an
order or finding, enumerated in subparagraph (A), (D), or (E)
of paragraph (4) of this subsection;
(ii) has been convicted of any offense specified in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph (4) within 10 years of the commencement of the proceedings under this paragraph; or
(iii) is enjoined from any action, conduct, or practice specified in subparagraph (C) of such paragraph (4).
(B) It shall be unlawful—
(i) for any person as to whom an order under subparagraph (A) is in effect, without the consent of the Commission,
willfully to become, or to be, associated with a broker or dealer
in contravention of such order, or to participate in an offering
of penny stock in contravention of such order;
(ii) for any broker or dealer to permit such a person, without the consent of the Commission, to become or remain, a person associated with the broker or dealer in contravention of
such order, if such broker or dealer knew, or in the exercise of
reasonable care should have known, of such order; or
(iii) for any broker or dealer to permit such a person, without the consent of the Commission, to participate in an offering
of penny stock in contravention of such order, if such broker
or dealer knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care should
have known, of such order and of such participation.
(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘‘person participating in an offering of penny stock’’ includes any person acting as
any promoter, finder, consultant, agent, or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer, or issuer for purposes of
the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock. The Commission may, by rule or regulation, define such term to include other
activities, and may, by rule, regulation, or order, exempt any person or class of persons, in whole or in part, conditionally or unconditionally, from such term.
(7) No registered broker or dealer or government securities
broker or government securities dealer registered (or required to
register) under section 15C(a)(1)(A) shall effect any transaction in,
or induce the purchase or sale of, any security unless such broker
or dealer meets such standards of operational capability and such
broker or dealer and all natural persons associated with such
broker or dealer meet such standards of training, experience, competence, and such other qualifications as the Commission finds necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of
investors. The Commission shall establish such standards by rules
and regulations, which may—

167

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15

(A) specify that all or any portion of such standards shall
be applicable to any class of brokers and dealers and persons
associated with brokers and dealers;
(B) require persons in any such class to pass tests prescribed in accordance with such rules and regulations, which
tests shall, with respect to any class of partners, officers, or supervisory employees (which latter term may be defined by the
Commission’s rules and regulations and as so defined shall include branch managers of brokers or dealers) engaged in the
management of the broker or dealer, include questions relating
to bookkeeping, accounting, internal control over cash and securities, supervision of employees, maintenance of records, and
other appropriate matters; and
(C) provide that persons in any such class other than brokers and dealers and partners, officers, and supervisory employees of brokers or dealers, may be qualified solely on the
basis of compliance with such standards of training and such
other qualifications as the Commission finds appropriate.
The Commission, by rule, may prescribe reasonable fees and
charges to defray its costs in carrying out this paragraph, including, but not limited to, fees for any test administered by it or under
its direction. The Commission may cooperate with registered securities associations and national securities exchanges in devising
and administering tests and may require registered brokers and
dealers and persons associated with such brokers and dealers to
pass tests administered by or on behalf of any such association or
exchange and to pay such association or exchange reasonable fees
or charges to defray the costs incurred by such association or exchange in administering such tests.
(8) It shall be unlawful for any registered broker or dealer to
effect any transaction in, or induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any security (other than or [65] commercial paper,
bankers’ acceptances, or commercial bills), unless such broker or
dealer is a member of a securities association registered pursuant
to section 15A of this title or effects transactions in securities solely
on a national securities exchange of which it is a member.
(9) The Commission by rule or order, as it deems consistent
with the public interest and the protection of investors, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt from paragraph (8) of this subsection any broker or dealer or class of brokers or dealers specified
in such rule or order.
(10) For the purposes of determining whether a person is subject to a statutory disqualification under section 6(c)(2), 15A(g)(2),
or 17A(b)(4)(A) of this title, the term ‘‘Commission’’ in paragraph
(4)(B) of this subsection shall mean ‘‘exchange’’, ‘‘association’’, or
‘‘clearing agency’’, respectively.
(11) [66] BROKER/DEALER REGISTRATION WITH RESPECT TO
TRANSACTIONS IN SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS.—
(A) NOTICE REGISTRATION.—
(i) CONTENTS OF NOTICE.—Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), a broker or dealer required to reg65So

in law. The word ‘‘or’’ should not appear.
so in law.

66Margins

Sec. 15

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

168

ister only because it effects transactions in security futures products on an exchange registered pursuant to
section 6(g) may register for purposes of this section
by filing with the Commission a written notice in such
form and containing such information concerning such
broker or dealer and any persons associated with such
broker or dealer as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. A broker or dealer may not register under this paragraph unless that
broker or dealer is a member of a national securities
association registered under section 15A(k).
(ii) IMMEDIATE EFFECTIVENESS.—Such registration
shall be effective contemporaneously with the submission of notice, in written or electronic form, to the
Commission, except that such registration shall not be
effective if the registration would be subject to suspension or revocation under paragraph (4).
(iii) SUSPENSION.—Such registration shall be suspended immediately if a national securities association
registered pursuant to section 15A(k) of this title suspends the membership of that broker or dealer.
(iv) TERMINATION.—Such registration shall be terminated immediately if any of the above stated conditions for registration set forth in this paragraph are no
longer satisfied.
(B) EXEMPTIONS FOR REGISTERED BROKERS AND DEALERS.—A broker or dealer registered pursuant to the requirements of subparagraph (A) shall be exempt from the
following provisions of this title and the rules thereunder
with respect to transactions in security futures products:
(i) Section 8.
(ii) Section 11.
(iii) Subsections (c)(3) and (c)(5) of this section.
(iv) Section 15B.
(v) Section 15C.
(vi) Subsections (d), (e), (f ), (g), (h), and (i) [67] of
section 17.
(12) [68] EXEMPTION FOR SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCT EXCHANGE MEMBERS.—
(A) REGISTRATION EXEMPTION.—A natural person shall
be exempt from the registration requirements of this section if such person—
(i) is a member of a designated contract market
registered with the Commission as an exchange pursuant to section 6(g);
(ii) effects transactions only in securities on the
exchange of which such person is a member; and
(iii) does not directly accept or solicit orders from
public customers or provide advice to public customers
67Subsection (i) of section 17 was struck out and subsec. (j) was redesignated (i) by Pub. L.
111-203, title VI, Sec. 617(a), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1616.
68Margins so in law.

169

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15

in connection with the trading of security futures
products.
(B) OTHER EXEMPTIONS.—A natural person exempt
from registration pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall also
be exempt from the following provisions of this title and
the rules thereunder:
(i) Section 8.
(ii) Section 11.
(iii) Subsections (c)(3), (c)(5), and (e) of this section.
(iv) Section 15B.
(v) Section 15C.
(vi) Subsections (d), (e), (f ), (g), (h), and (i) [69] of
section 17.
(c)(1)(A) No broker or dealer shall make use of the mails or any
means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any
transaction in, or to induce or attempt to induce the purchase or
sale of, any security (other than commercial paper, bankers’ acceptances, or commercial bills), or any security-based swap agreement,
by means of any manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance.
(B) No broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer shall
make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce or attempt
to induce the purchase or sale of, any municipal security or any security-based swap agreement involving a municipal security by
means of any manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or
contrivance.
(C) No government securities broker or government securities
dealer shall make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality
of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce or
to attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any government security or any security-based swap agreement involving a government
security by means of any manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance.
(2)(A) No broker or dealer shall make use of the mails or any
means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any
transaction in, or to induce or attempt to induce the purchase or
sale of, any security (other than an exempted security or commercial paper, bankers’ acceptances, or commercial bills) otherwise
than on a national securities exchange of which it is a member, in
connection with which such broker or dealer engages in any fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative act or practice, or makes any fictitious quotation.
(B) No broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer shall
make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce or attempt
to induce the purchase or sale of, any municipal security in connection with which such broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer
engages in any fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative act or practice, or makes any fictitious quotation.
69Subsection (i) of section 17 was struck out and subsec. (j) was redesignated (i) by Pub. L.
111-203, title VI, Sec. 617(a), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1616.

Sec. 15

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

170

(C) No government securities broker or government securities
dealer shall make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality
of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any government security
in connection with which such government securities broker or government securities dealer engages in any fraudulent, deceptive, or
manipulative act or practice, or makes any fictitious quotation.
(D) The Commission shall, for the purposes of this paragraph,
by rules and regulations define, and prescribe means reasonably
designed to prevent, such acts and practices as are fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative and such quotations as are fictitious.
(E) The Commission shall, prior to adopting any rule or regulation under subparagraph (C), consult with and consider the views
of the Secretary of the Treasury and each appropriate regulatory
agency. If the Secretary of the Treasury or any appropriate regulatory agency comments in writing on a proposed rule or regulation
of the Commission under such subparagraph (C) that has been
published for comment, the Commission shall respond in writing to
such written comment before adopting the proposed rule. If the
Secretary of the Treasury determines, and notifies the Commission,
that such rule or regulation, if implemented, would, or as applied
does (i) adversely affect the liquidity or efficiency of the market for
government securities; or (ii) impose any burden on competition not
necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this section, the Commission shall, prior to adopting the proposed rule or
regulation, find that such rule or regulation is necessary and appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this section notwithstanding the Secretary’s determination.
(3)(A) No broker or dealer (other than a government securities
broker or government securities dealer, except a registered broker
or dealer) shall make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any security
(other than an exempted security (except a government security) or
commercial paper, bankers’ acceptances, or commercial bills) in
contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission
shall prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors to provide safeguards with respect to
the financial responsibility and related practices of brokers and
dealers including, but not limited to, the acceptance of custody and
use of customers’ securities and the carrying and use of customers’
deposits or credit balances. Such rules and regulations shall (A) require the maintenance of reserves with respect to customers’ deposits or credit balances, and (B) no later than September 1, 1975, establish minimum financial responsibility requirements for all brokers and dealers.
(B) Consistent with this title, the Commission, in consultation
with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, shall issue such
rules, regulations, or orders as are necessary to avoid duplicative
or conflicting regulations applicable to any broker or dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15(b) (except
paragraph (11) thereof ), that is also registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission pursuant to section 4f(a) of
the Commodity Exchange Act (except paragraph (2) thereof ), with

171

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15

respect to the application of: (i) the provisions of section 8, section
15(c)(3), and section 17 of this title and the rules and regulations
thereunder related to the treatment of customer funds, securities,
or property, maintenance of books and records, financial reporting,
or other financial responsibility rules, involving security futures
products; and (ii) similar provisions of the Commodity Exchange
Act and rules and regulations thereunder involving security futures
products.
(C) [70] Notwithstanding any provision of sections
2(a)(1)(C)(i) or 4d(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act
and the rules and regulations thereunder, and pursuant to
an exemption granted by the Commission under section 36
of this title or pursuant to a rule or regulation, cash and
securities may be held by a broker or dealer registered
pursuant to subsection (b)(1) and also registered as a futures commission merchant pursuant to section 4f(a)(1) of
the Commodity Exchange Act, in a portfolio margining account carried as a futures account subject to section 4d of
the Commodity Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, pursuant to a portfolio margining program approved by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and subject to subchapter IV of chapter 7 of title
11 of the United States Code and the rules and regulations
thereunder. The Commission shall consult with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to adopt rules to ensure that such transactions and accounts are subject to
comparable requirements to the extent practicable for
similar products.
(4) If the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for a
hearing, that any person subject to the provisions of section 12, 13,
14, or subsection (d) of section 15 of this title or any rule or regulation thereunder has failed to comply with any such provision, rule,
or regulation in any material respect, the Commission may publish
its findings and issue an order requiring such person, and any person who was a cause of the failure to comply due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to
the failure to comply, to comply, or to take steps to effect compliance, with such provision or such rule or regulation thereunder
upon such terms and conditions and within such time as the Commission may specify in such order.
(5) No dealer (other than a specialist registered on a national
securities exchange) acting in the capacity of market maker or otherwise shall make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any security
(other than an exempted security or a municipal security) in contravention of such specified and appropriate standards with respect
to dealing as the Commission, by rule, shall prescribe as necessary
or appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors, to maintain fair and orderly markets, or to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a national market system.
70Margins

so in law.

Sec. 15

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

172

Under the rules of the Commission a dealer in a security may be
prohibited from acting as broker in that security.
(6) No broker or dealer shall make use of the mails or any
means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any
transaction in, or to induce or attempt to induce the purchase or
sale of, any security (other than an exempted security, municipal
security, commercial paper, bankers’ acceptances, or commercial
bills) in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission shall prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors or to perfect or remove impediments to a national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions, with respect to the
time and method of, and the form and format of documents used
in connection with, making settlements of and payments for transactions in securities, making transfers and deliveries of securities,
and closing accounts. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed
(A) to affect the authority of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, pursuant to section 7 of this title, to prescribe
rules and regulations for the purpose of preventing the excessive
use of credit for the purchase or carrying of securities, or (B) to authorize the Commission to prescribe rules or regulations for such
purpose.
(7) In connection with any bid for or purchase of a government
security related to an offering of government securities by or on behalf of an issuer, no government securities broker, government securities dealer, or bidder for or purchaser of securities in such offering shall knowingly or willfully make any false or misleading
written statement or omit any fact necessary to make any written
statement made not misleading.
(8) PROHIBITION OF REFERRAL FEES.—No broker or dealer, or
person associated with a broker or dealer, may solicit or accept, directly or indirectly, remuneration for assisting an attorney in obtaining the representation of any person in any private action arising under this title or under the Securities Act of 1933.
(d) SUPPLEMENTARY AND PERIODIC INFORMATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each issuer which has filed a registration statement containing an undertaking which is or becomes
operative under this subsection as in effect prior to the date of
enactment of the Securities Acts Amendments of 1964, and
each issuer which shall after such date file a registration statement which has become effective pursuant to the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, shall file with the Commission, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission may
prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors, such supplementary and periodic information, documents, and reports as may be required
pursuant to section 13 of this title in respect of a security registered pursuant to section 12 of this title. The duty to file
under this subsection shall be automatically suspended if and
so long as any issue of securities of such issuer is registered
pursuant to section 12 of this title. The duty to file under this
subsection shall also be automatically suspended as to any fiscal year, other than the fiscal year within which such registration statement became effective, if, at the beginning of such fis-

173

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15

cal year, the securities of each class, other than any class of
asset-backed securities, to which the registration statement relates are held of record by less than 300 persons, or, in the
case of bank [71] or a bank holding company, as such term is
defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956
(12 U.S.C. 1841), 1,200 persons persons. [72] For the purposes
of this subsection, the term ‘‘class’’ shall be construed to include all securities of an issuer which are of substantially similar character and the holders of which enjoy substantially similar rights and privileges. The Commission may, for the purpose
of this subsection, define by rules and regulations the term
‘‘held of record’’ as it deems necessary or appropriate in the
public interest or for the protection of investors in order to prevent circumvention of the provisions of this subsection. Nothing in this subsection shall apply to securities issued by a foreign government or political subdivision thereof.
(2) ASSET-BACKED SECURITIES.—
(A) SUSPENSION OF DUTY TO FILE.—The Commission
may, by rule or regulation, provide for the suspension or
termination of the duty to file under this subsection for
any class of asset-backed security, on such terms and conditions and for such period or periods as the Commission
deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors.
(B) CLASSIFICATION OF ISSUERS.—The Commission
may, for purposes of this subsection, classify issuers and
prescribe requirements appropriate for each class of
issuers of asset- backed securities.
(e) NOTICES TO CUSTOMERS REGARDING SECURITIES LENDING.—
Every registered broker or dealer shall provide notice to its customers that they may elect not to allow their fully paid securities
to be used in connection with short sales. If a broker or dealer uses
a customer’s securities in connection with short sales, the broker
or dealer shall provide notice to its customer that the broker or
dealer may receive compensation in connection with lending the
customer’s securities. The Commission, by rule, as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest and for the protection
of investors, may prescribe the form, content, time, and manner of
delivery of any notice required under this paragraph.
(f) The Commission, by rule, as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors or
to assure equal regulation, may require any member of a national
securities exchange not required to register under section 15 of this
title and any person associated with any such member to comply
with any provision of this title (other than section 15(a)) or the
rules or regulations thereunder which by its terms regulates or
prohibits any act, practice, or course of business by a ‘‘broker or
dealer’’ or ‘‘registered broker or dealer’’ or a ‘‘person associated with
a broker or dealer,’’ respectively.
(g) Every registered broker or dealer shall establish, maintain,
and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed,
71So
72So

in original Probably should be preceded by ‘‘a’’.
in original.

Sec. 15

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

174

taking into consideration the nature of such broker’s or dealer’s
business, to prevent the misuse in violation of this title, or the
rules or regulations thereunder, of material, nonpublic information
by such broker or dealer or any person associated with such broker
or dealer. The Commission, as it deems necessary or appropriate
in the public interest or for the protection of investors, shall adopt
rules or regulations to require specific policies or procedures reasonably designed to prevent misuse in violation of this title (or the
rules or regulations thereunder) of material, nonpublic information.
(h) REQUIREMENTS FOR TRANSACTIONS IN PENNY STOCKS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No broker or dealer shall make use of
the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce or attempt to
induce the purchase or sale of, any penny stock by any customer except in accordance with the requirements of this subsection and the rules and regulations prescribed under this
subsection.
(2) RISK DISCLOSURE WITH RESPECT TO PENNY STOCKS.—
Prior to effecting any transaction in any penny stock, a broker
or dealer shall give the customer a risk disclosure document
that—
(A) contains a description of the nature and level of
risk in the market for penny stocks in both public offerings
and secondary trading;
(B) contains a description of the broker’s or dealer’s
duties to the customer and of the rights and remedies
available to the customer with respect to violations of such
duties or other requirements of Federal securities laws;
(C) contains a brief, clear, narrative description of a
dealer market, including ‘‘bid’’ and ‘‘ask’’ prices for penny
stocks and the significance of the spread between the bid
and ask prices;
(D) contains the toll free telephone number for inquiries on disciplinary actions established pursuant to section
15A(i) of this title;
(E) defines significant terms used in the disclosure
document or in the conduct of trading in penny stocks; and
(F) contains such other information, and is in such
form (including language, type size, and format), as the
Commission shall require by rule or regulation.
(3) COMMISSION RULES RELATING TO DISCLOSURE.—The
Commission shall adopt rules setting forth additional standards for the disclosure by brokers and dealers to customers of
information concerning transactions in penny stocks. Such
rules—
(A) shall require brokers and dealers to disclose to
each customer, prior to effecting any transaction in, and at
the time of confirming any transaction with respect to any
penny stock, in accordance with such procedures and
methods as the Commission may require consistent with
the public interest and the protection of investors—
(i) the bid and ask prices for penny stock, or such
other information as the Commission may, by rule, re-

175

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15

quire to provide customers with more useful and reliable information relating to the price of such stock;
(ii) the number of shares to which such bid and
ask prices apply, or other comparable information relating to the depth and liquidity of the market for
such stock; and
(iii) the amount and a description of any compensation that the broker or dealer and the associated
person thereof will receive or has received in connection with such transaction;
(B) shall require brokers and dealers to provide, to
each customer whose account with the broker or dealer
contains penny stocks, a monthly statement indicating the
market value of the penny stocks in that account or indicating that the market value of such stock cannot be determined because of the unavailability of firm quotes; and
(C) may, as the Commission finds necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, require brokers and dealers to disclose to customers
additional information concerning transactions in penny
stocks.
(4) EXEMPTIONS.—The Commission, as it determines consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors,
may by rule, regulation, or order exempt in whole or in part,
conditionally or unconditionally, any person or class of persons,
or any transaction or class of transactions, from the requirements of this subsection. Such exemptions shall include an exemption for brokers and dealers based on the minimal percentage of the broker’s or dealer’s commissions, commission-equivalents, and markups received from transactions in penny stocks.
(5) REGULATIONS.—It shall be unlawful for any person to
violate such rules and regulations as the Commission shall
prescribe in the public interest or for the protection of investors or to maintain fair and orderly markets—
(A) as necessary or appropriate to carry out this subsection; or
(B) as reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative acts and practices with respect to
penny stocks.
(i) LIMITATIONS ON STATE LAW.—
(1) CAPITAL, MARGIN, BOOKS AND RECORDS, BONDING, AND
REPORTS.— No law, rule, regulation, or order, or other administrative action of any State or political subdivision thereof shall
establish capital, custody, margin, financial responsibility,
making and keeping records, bonding, or financial or operational reporting requirements for brokers, dealers, municipal
securities dealers, government securities brokers, or government securities dealers that differ from, or are in addition to,
the requirements in those areas established under this title.
The Commission shall consult periodically the securities commissions (or any agency or office performing like functions) of
the States concerning the adequacy of such requirements as established under this title.
(2) FUNDING PORTALS.—

Sec. 15

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

176

(A) LIMITATION ON STATE LAWS.—Except as provided
in subparagraph (B), no State or political subdivision
thereof may enforce any law, rule, regulation, or other administrative action against a registered funding portal
with respect to its business as such.
(B) EXAMINATION AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.—
Subparagraph (A) does not apply with respect to the examination and enforcement of any law, rule, regulation, or administrative action of a State or political subdivision thereof in which the principal place of business of a registered
funding portal is located, provided that such law, rule, regulation, or administrative action is not in addition to or
different from the requirements for registered funding portals established by the Commission.
(C) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this paragraph, the
term ‘‘State’’ includes the District of Columbia and the territories of the United States.
(3) DE MINIMIS TRANSACTIONS BY ASSOCIATED PERSONS.—
No law, rule, regulation, or order, or other administrative action of any State or political subdivision thereof may prohibit
an associated person of a broker or dealer from effecting a
transaction described in paragraph (3) for a customer in such
State if—
(A) such associated person is not ineligible to register
with such State for any reason other than such a transaction;
(B) such associated person is registered with a registered securities association and at least one State; and
(C) the broker or dealer with which such person is associated is registered with such State.
(4) DESCRIBED TRANSACTIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A transaction is described in this
paragraph if—
(i) such transaction is effected—
(I) on behalf of a customer that, for 30 days
prior to the day of the transaction, maintained an
account with the broker or dealer; and
(II) by an associated person of the broker or
dealer—
(aa) to which the customer was assigned
for 14 days prior to the day of the transaction;
and
(bb) who is registered with a State in
which the customer was a resident or was
present for at least 30 consecutive days during the 1-year period prior to the day of the
transaction; or
(ii) the transaction is effected—
(I) on behalf of a customer that, for 30 days
prior to the day of the transaction, maintained an
account with the broker or dealer; and
(II) during the period beginning on the date
on which such associated person files an application for registration with the State in which the

177

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15

transaction is effected and ending on the earlier
of—
(aa) 60 days after the date on which the
application is filed; or
(bb) the date on which such State notifies
the associated person that it has denied the
application for registration or has stayed the
pendency of the application for cause.
(B) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—For purposes of subparagraph (A)(i)(II)—
(i) each of up to 3 associated persons of a broker
or dealer who are designated to effect transactions
during the absence or unavailability of the principal
associated person for a customer may be treated as an
associated person to which such customer is assigned;
and
(ii) if the customer is present in another State for
30 or more consecutive days or has permanently
changed his or her residence to another State, a transaction is not described in this paragraph, unless the
associated person of the broker or dealer files an application for registration with such State not later than
10 business days after the later of the date of the
transaction, or the date of the discovery of the presence of the customer in the other State for 30 or more
consecutive days or the change in the customer’s residence.
(j) [73] RULEMAKING TO EXTEND REQUIREMENTS TO NEW HYBRID
PRODUCTS.—
(1) CONSULTATION.—Prior to commencing a rulemaking
under this subsection, the Commission shall consult with and
seek the concurrence of the Board concerning the imposition of
broker or dealer registration requirements with respect to any
new hybrid product. In developing and promulgating rules
under this subsection, the Commission shall consider the views
of the Board, including views with respect to the nature of the
new hybrid product; the history, purpose, extent, and appropriateness of the regulation of the new product under the Federal banking laws; and the impact of the proposed rule on the
banking industry.
(2) LIMITATION.—The Commission shall not—
(A) require a bank to register as a broker or dealer
under this section because the bank engages in any transaction in, or buys or sells, a new hybrid product; or
(B) bring an action against a bank for a failure to comply with a requirement described in subparagraph (A),
unless the Commission has imposed such requirement by rule
or regulation issued in accordance with this section.
(3) CRITERIA FOR RULEMAKING.—The Commission shall not
impose a requirement under paragraph (2) of this subsection
with respect to any new hybrid product unless the Commission
determines that—
73Two

subsecs. (j) have been enacted.

Sec. 15

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

178

(A) the new hybrid product is a security; and
(B) imposing such requirement is necessary and appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors.
(4) CONSIDERATIONS.—In making a determination under
paragraph (3), the Commission shall consider—
(A) the nature of the new hybrid product; and
(B) the history, purpose, extent, and appropriateness
of the regulation of the new hybrid product under the Federal securities laws and under the Federal banking laws.
(5) OBJECTION TO COMMISSION REGULATION.—
(A) FILING OF PETITION FOR REVIEW.—The Board may
obtain review of any final regulation described in paragraph (2) in the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit by filing in such court, not
later than 60 days after the date of publication of the final
regulation, a written petition requesting that the regulation be set aside. Any proceeding to challenge any such
rule shall be expedited by the Court of Appeals.
(B) TRANSMITTAL OF PETITION AND RECORD.—A copy of
a petition described in subparagraph (A) shall be transmitted as soon as possible by the Clerk of the Court to an
officer or employee of the Commission designated for that
purpose. Upon receipt of the petition, the Commission
shall file with the court the regulation under review and
any documents referred to therein, and any other relevant
materials prescribed by the court.
(C) EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION.—On the date of the filing of the petition under subparagraph (A), the court has
jurisdiction, which becomes exclusive on the filing of the
materials set forth in subparagraph (B), to affirm and enforce or to set aside the regulation at issue.
(D) STANDARD OF REVIEW.—The court shall determine
to affirm and enforce or set aside a regulation of the Commission under this subsection, based on the determination
of the court as to whether—
(i) the subject product is a new hybrid product, as
defined in this subsection;
(ii) the subject product is a security; and
(iii) imposing a requirement to register as a
broker or dealer for banks engaging in transactions in
such product is appropriate in light of the history, purpose, and extent of regulation under the Federal securities laws and under the Federal banking laws, giving
deference neither to the views of the Commission nor
the Board.
(E) JUDICIAL STAY.—The filing of a petition by the
Board pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall operate as a judicial stay, until the date on which the determination of
the court is final (including any appeal of such determination).
(F) OTHER AUTHORITY TO CHALLENGE.—Any aggrieved
party may seek judicial review of the Commission’s rule-

179

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15

making under this subsection pursuant to section 25 of
this title.
(6) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection:
(A) NEW HYBRID PRODUCT.—The term ‘‘new hybrid
product’’ means a product that—
(i) was not subjected to regulation by the Commission as a security prior to the date of the enactment
of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act;
(ii) is not an identified banking product as such
term is defined in section 206 of such Act; and
(iii) is not an equity swap within the meaning of
section 206(a)(6) of such Act.
(B) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(j) [74] The authority of the Commission under this section with
respect to security-based swap agreements shall be subject to the
restrictions and limitations of section 3A(b) of this title.
(k) [75] REGISTRATION OR SUCCESSION TO A UNITED STATES
BROKER OR DEALER.—In determining whether to permit a foreign
person or an affiliate of a foreign person to register as a United
States broker or dealer, or succeed to the registration of a United
States broker or dealer, the Commission may consider whether, for
a foreign person, or an affiliate of a foreign person that presents
a risk to the stability of the United States financial system, the
home country of the foreign person has adopted, or made demonstrable progress toward adopting, an appropriate system of financial regulation to mitigate such risk.
(l) [76] TERMINATION OF A UNITED STATES BROKER OR DEALER.—For a foreign person or an affiliate of a foreign person that
presents such a risk to the stability of the United States financial
system, the Commission may determine to terminate the registration of such foreign person or an affiliate of such foreign person as
a broker or dealer in the United States, if the Commission determines that the home country of the foreign person has not adopted,
or made demonstrable progress toward adopting, an appropriate
system of financial regulation to mitigate such risk.
(k) [77] STANDARD OF CONDUCT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act or the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Commission may promulgate rules to provide that, with respect to a
broker or dealer, when providing personalized investment advice about securities to a retail customer (and such other customers as the Commission may by rule provide), the standard
of conduct for such broker or dealer with respect to such customer shall be the same as the standard of conduct applicable
to an investment adviser under section 211 of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940. The receipt of compensation based on
commission or other standard compensation for the sale of securities shall not, in and of itself, be considered a violation of
such standard applied to a broker or dealer. Nothing in this
74Two

subsecs.
subsecs.
subsecs.
77Two subsecs.
75Two
76Two

(j) have been enacted.
(k) and two subsecs. (l) have been enacted.
(k) and two subsecs. (l) have been enacted.
(k) and two subsecs. (l) have been enacted.

Sec. 15

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

180

section shall require a broker or dealer or registered representative to have a continuing duty of care or loyalty to the customer after providing personalized investment advice about securities.
(2) DISCLOSURE OF RANGE OF PRODUCTS OFFERED.—Where
a broker or dealer sells only proprietary or other limited range
of products, as determined by the Commission, the Commission
may by rule require that such broker or dealer provide notice
to each retail customer and obtain the consent or acknowledgment of the customer. The sale of only proprietary or other limited range of products by a broker or dealer shall not, in and
of itself, be considered a violation of the standard set forth in
paragraph (1).
(l) [78] OTHER MATTERS.—The Commission shall—
(1) facilitate the provision of simple and clear disclosures
to investors regarding the terms of their relationships with
brokers, dealers, and investment advisers, including any material conflicts of interest; and
(2) examine and, where appropriate, promulgate rules prohibiting or restricting certain sales practices, conflicts of interest, and compensation schemes for brokers, dealers, and investment advisers that the Commission deems contrary to the
public interest and the protection of investors.
(m) HARMONIZATION OF ENFORCEMENT.—The enforcement authority of the Commission with respect to violations of the standard
of conduct applicable to a broker or dealer providing personalized
investment advice about securities to a retail customer shall include—
(1) the enforcement authority of the Commission with respect to such violations provided under this Act; and
(2) the enforcement authority of the Commission with respect to violations of the standard of conduct applicable to an
investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
including the authority to impose sanctions for such violations,
and
the Commission shall seek to prosecute and sanction violators of
the standard of conduct applicable to a broker or dealer providing
personalized investment advice about securities to a retail customer under this Act to [79] same extent as the Commission prosecutes and sanctions violators of the standard of conduct applicable
to an investment advisor under the Investment Advisers Act of
1940.
(n) DISCLOSURES TO RETAIL INVESTORS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
the securities laws, the Commission may issue rules designating documents or information that shall be provided by a
broker or dealer to a retail investor before the purchase of an
investment product or service by the retail investor.
(2) CONSIDERATIONS.—In developing any rules under paragraph (1), the Commission shall consider whether the rules
78Two
79So

subsecs. (k) and two subsecs. (l) have been enacted.
in original. Probably should be followed by ‘‘the’’.

181

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15

will promote investor protection, efficiency, competition, and
capital formation.
(3) FORM AND CONTENTS OF DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION.—Any documents or information designated under a rule
promulgated under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) be in a summary format; and
(B) contain clear and concise information about—
(i) investment objectives, strategies, costs, and
risks; and
(ii) any compensation or other financial incentive
received by a broker, dealer, or other intermediary in
connection with the purchase of retail investment
products.
(o) AUTHORITY TO RESTRICT MANDATORY PRE-DISPUTE ARBITRATION.—The Commission, by rule, may prohibit, or impose conditions or limitations on the use of, agreements that require customers or clients of any broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer to arbitrate any future dispute between them arising under the
Federal securities laws, the rules and regulations thereunder, or
the rules of a self-regulatory organization if it finds that such prohibition, imposition of conditions, or limitations are in the public
interest and for the protection of investors.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 15, 48 Stat. 895; May 27, 1936,
ch. 462, Sec. 3, 49 Stat. 1377; June 25, 1938, ch. 677, Sec. 2, 52
Stat. 1075; Aug. 20, 1964, Pub. L. 88-467, Sec. 6, 78 Stat. 570; Dec.
30, 1970, Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 11(d), formerly Sec. 7(d), 84 Stat.
1653, renumbered Sec. 11(d), May 21, 1978, Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 9,
92 Stat. 260; June 4, 1975, Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 11, 89 Stat. 121;
Dec. 19, 1977, Pub. L. 95-213, title II, Sec. 204, 91 Stat. 1500; June
6, 1983, Pub. L. 98-38, Sec. 3(a), 97 Stat. 206; Aug. 10, 1984, Pub.
L. 98-376, Sec. 4, 6(b), 98 Stat. 1265; Oct. 28, 1986, Pub. L. 99-571,
title I, Sec. 102(e), (f), 100 Stat. 3218; Dec. 4, 1987, Pub. L. 100181, title III, Sec. 317, 101 Stat. 1256; Nov. 19, 1988, Pub. L. 100704, Sec. 3(b)(1), 102 Stat. 4679; Oct. 15, 1990, Pub. L. 101-429,
title V, Sec. 504(a), 505, 104 Stat. 952, 953; Nov. 15, 1990, Pub. L.
101-550, title II, Sec. 203(a), (c)(1), 104 Stat. 2715, 2718; Dec. 17,
1993, Pub. L. 103-202, title I, Sec. 105, 106(b)(2)(B), 109(b)(2), 110,
107 Stat. 2348, 2350, 2353; Dec. 22, 1995, Pub. L. 104-67, title I,
Sec. 103(a), 109 Stat. 756; Oct. 11, 1996, Pub. L. 104-290, title I,
Sec. 103(a), 110 Stat. 3420; Nov. 3, 1998, Pub. L. 105-353, title III,
Sec. 301(b)(8), 112 Stat. 3236; Nov. 12, 1999, Pub. L. 106-102, title
II, Sec. 205, 113 Stat. 1391; Dec. 21, 2000, Pub. L. 106-554, Sec.
1(a)(5)[title II, Secs. 203(a)(1), (b), 206(h), title III, Sec. 303(e), (f)],
114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-421, 2763A-422, 2763A-432, 2763A-454,
2763A-455; Pub. L. 107-204, title VI, Sec. 604(a), (c)(1)(B)(ii), July
30, 2002, 116 Stat. 795, 796; Pub. L. 109-291, Sec. 4(b)(1)(A), Sept.
29, 2006, 120 Stat. 1337; Pub. L. 111-203, title I, Sec. 173(c), title
VII, Secs. 713(a), 762(d)(4), 766(d), title IX, Secs. 913(g)(1), (h)(1),
919, 921(a), 925(a)(1), 929L(3), 929X(c), 942(a), 975(g), 985(b)(5)(A),
July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1440, 1646, 1761, 1799, 1828, 1829, 1837,
1841, 1850, 1861, 1870, 1896, 1923, 1933; Pub. L. 112-106, title III,
Sec. 305(d)(1), title VI, Sec. 601(b), Apr. 5, 2012, 126 Stat. 323,
326.)

Sec. 15A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

182

REGISTERED SECURITIES ASSOCIATIONS

SEC. 15A. (a) An association of brokers and dealers may be registered as a national securities association pursuant to subsection
(b), or as an affiliated securities association pursuant to subsection
(d), under the terms and conditions hereinafter provided in this
section and in accordance with the provisions of section 19(a) of
this title, by filing with the Commission an application for registration in such form as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe containing the rules of the association and such other information and
documents as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary
or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(b) An association of brokers and dealers shall not be registered as a national securities association unless the Commission
determines that—
(1) By reason of the number and geographical distribution
of its members and the scope of their transactions, such association will be able to carry out the purposes of this section.
(2) Such association is so organized and has the capacity
to be able to carry out the purposes of this title and to comply,
and (subject to any rule or order of the Commission pursuant
to section 17(d) or 19(g)(2) of this title) to enforce compliance
by its members and persons associated with its members, with
the provisions of this title, the rules and regulations thereunder, the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board, and the rules of the association.
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (g) of this section, the rules of the association provide that any registered
broker or dealer may become a member of such association and
any person may become associated with a member thereof.
(4) The rules of the association assure a fair representation
of its members in the selection of its directors and administration of its affairs and provide that one or more directors shall
be representative of issuers and investors and not be associated with a member of the association, broker, or dealer.
(5) The rules of the association provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees, and other charges among
members and issuers and other persons using any facility or
system which the association operates or controls.
(6) The rules of the association are designed to prevent
fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote
just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and
coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating
transactions in securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national
market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the
public interest; and are not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers, or dealers, to fix
minimum profits, to impose any schedule or fix rates of commissions, allowances, discounts, or other fees to be charged by
its members, or to regulate by virtue of any authority conferred

183

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15A

by this title matters not related to the purposes of this title or
the administration of the association.
(7) The rules of the association provide that (subject to any
rule or order of the Commission pursuant to section 17(d) or
19(g)(2) of this title) its members and persons associated with
its members shall be appropriately disciplined for violation of
any provision of this title, the rules or regulations thereunder,
the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, or the
rules of the association, by expulsion, suspension, limitation of
activities, functions, and operations, fine, censure, being suspended or barred from being associated with a member, or any
other fitting sanction.
(8) The rules of the association are in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (h) of this section, and, in general, provide a fair procedure for the disciplining of members and persons associated with members, the denial of membership to
any person seeking membership therein, the barring of any
person from becoming associated with a member thereof, and
the prohibition or limitation by the association of any person
with respect to access to services offered by the association or
a member thereof.
(9) The rules of the association do not impose any burden
on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of
the purposes of this title.
(10) The requirements of subsection (c), insofar as these
may be applicable, are satisfied.
(11) The rules of the association include provisions governing the form and content of quotations relating to securities
sold otherwise than on a national securities exchange which
may be distributed or published by any member or person associated with a member, and the persons to whom such
quotations may be supplied. Such rules relating to quotations
shall be designed to produce fair and informative quotations,
to prevent fictitious or misleading quotations, and to promote
orderly procedures for collecting, distributing, and publishing
quotations.
(12) The rules of the association to promote just and equitable principles of trade, as required by paragraph (6), include
rules to prevent members of the association from participating
in any limited partnership rollup transaction (as such term is
defined in paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 14(h)) unless such
transaction was conducted in accordance with procedures designed to protect the rights of limited partners, including—
(A) the right of dissenting limited partners to one of
the following:
(i) an appraisal and compensation;
(ii) retention of a security under substantially the
same terms and conditions as the original issue;
(iii) approval of the limited partnership rollup
transaction by not less than 75 percent of the outstanding securities of each of the participating limited
partnerships;
(iv) the use of a committee that is independent, as
determined in accordance with rules prescribed by the

Sec. 15A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

184

association, of the general partner or sponsor, that has
been approved by a majority of the outstanding securities of each of the participating partnerships, and that
has such authority as is necessary to protect the interest of limited partners, including the authority to hire
independent advisors, to negotiate with the general
partner or sponsor on behalf of the limited partners,
and to make a recommendation to the limited partners
with respect to the proposed transaction; or
(v) other comparable rights that are prescribed by
rule by the association and that are designed to protect dissenting limited partners;
(B) the right not to have their voting power unfairly
reduced or abridged;
(C) the right not to bear an unfair portion of the costs
of a proposed limited partnership rollup transaction that is
rejected; and
(D) restrictions on the conversion of contingent interests or fees into non-contingent interests or fees and restrictions on the receipt of a non-contingent equity interest
in exchange for fees for services which have not yet been
provided.
As used in this paragraph, the term ‘‘dissenting limited partner’’ means a person who, on the date on which soliciting material is mailed to investors, is a holder of a beneficial interest
in a limited partnership that is the subject of a limited partnership rollup transaction, and who casts a vote against the
transaction and complies with procedures established by the
association, except that for purposes of an exchange or tender
offer, such person shall file an objection in writing under the
rules of the association during the period in which the offer is
outstanding.
(13) The rules of the association prohibit the authorization
for quotation on an automated interdealer quotation system
sponsored by the association of any security designated by the
Commission as a national market system security resulting
from a limited partnership rollup transaction (as such term is
defined in paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 14(h)), unless such
transaction was conducted in accordance with procedures designed to protect the rights of limited partners, including—
(A) the right of dissenting limited partners to one of
the following:
(i) an appraisal and compensation;
(ii) retention of a security under substantially the
same terms and conditions as the original issue;
(iii) approval of the limited partnership rollup
transaction by not less than 75 percent of the outstanding securities of each of the participating limited
partnerships;
(iv) the use of a committee that is independent, as
determined in accordance with rules prescribed by the
association, of the general partner or sponsor, that has
been approved by a majority of the outstanding securities of each of the participating partnerships, and that

185

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15A

has such authority as is necessary to protect the interest of limited partners, including the authority to hire
independent advisors, to negotiate with the general
partner or sponsor on behalf of the limited partners,
and to make a recommendation to the limited partners
with respect to the proposed transaction; or
(v) other comparable rights that are prescribed by
rule by the association and that are designed to protect dissenting limited partners;
(B) the right not to have their voting power unfairly
reduced or abridged;
(C) the right not to bear an unfair portion of the costs
of a proposed limited partnership rollup transaction that is
rejected; and
(D) restrictions on the conversion of contingent interests or fees into non-contingent interests or fees and restrictions on the receipt of a non-contingent equity interest
in exchange for fees for services which have not yet been
provided.
As used in this paragraph, the term ‘‘dissenting limited partner’’ means a person who, on the date on which soliciting material is mailed to investors, is a holder of a beneficial interest
in a limited partnership that is the subject of a limited partnership rollup transaction, and who casts a vote against the
transaction and complies with procedures established by the
association, except that for purposes of an exchange or tender
offer, such person shall file an objection in writing under the
rules of the association during the period during which the
offer is outstanding.
(14) The rules of the association include provisions governing the sales, or offers of sales, of securities on the premises
of any military installation to any member of the Armed Forces
or a dependent thereof, which rules require—
(A) the broker or dealer performing brokerage services
to clearly and conspicuously disclose to potential investors—
(i) that the securities offered are not being offered
or provided by the broker or dealer on behalf of the
Federal Government, and that its offer is not sanctioned, recommended, or encouraged by the Federal
Government; and
(ii) the identity of the registered broker-dealer offering the securities;
(B) such broker or dealer to perform an appropriate
suitability determination, including consideration of costs
and knowledge about securities, prior to making a recommendation of a security to a member of the Armed
Forces or a dependent thereof; and
(C) that no person receive any referral fee or incentive
compensation in connection with a sale or offer of sale of
securities, unless such person is an associated person of a
registered broker or dealer and is qualified pursuant to the
rules of a self-regulatory organization.

Sec. 15A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

186

(15) The rules of the association provide that the association shall—
(A) request guidance from the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board in interpretation of the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board; and
(B) provide information to the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board about the enforcement actions and examinations of the association under section 15B(b)(2)(E),
so that the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board may—
(i) assist in such enforcement actions and examinations; and
(ii) evaluate the ongoing effectiveness of the rules
of the Board.
(c) The Commission may permit or require the rules of an association applying for registration pursuant to subsection (b) of this
section, to provide for the admission of an association registered as
an affiliated securities association pursuant to subsection (d) of this
section, to participation in said applicant association as an affiliate
thereof, under terms permitting such powers and responsibilities to
such affiliate, and under such other appropriate terms and conditions, as may be provided by the rules of said applicant association,
if such rules appear to the Commission to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors and
to carry out the purposes of this section. The duties and powers of
the Commission with respect to any national securities association
or any affiliated securities association shall in no way be limited
by reason of any such affiliation.
(d) An applicant association shall not be registered as an affiliated securities association unless it appears to the Commission
that—
(1) such association, notwithstanding that it does not satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (1) of subsection
(b) of this section, will, forthwith upon the registration thereof,
be admitted to affiliation with an association registered as a
national securities association pursuant to subsection (b) of
this section, in the manner and under the terms and conditions
provided by the rules of said national securities association in
accordance with subsection (c) of this section; and
(2) such association and its rules satisfy the requirements
set forth in paragraphs (2) to (10), inclusive, and paragraph
(12), [80] of subsection (b) of this section; except that in the case
of any such association any restrictions upon membership
therein of the type authorized by paragraph (3) of subsection
(b) of this section shall not be less stringent than in the case
of the national securities association with which such association is to be affiliated.
(e)(1) The rules of a registered securities association may provide that no member thereof shall deal with any nonmember professional (as defined in paragraph (2) of this subsection) except at
the same prices, for the same commissions or fees, and on the same
80Paragraph (12) of subsection (b) of this section was omitted in the general amendment of
subsec. (b) by Pub. L. 94-29, see par. (11) of subsec. (b). A new par. (12) was added by Pub.
L. 103-302, Sec. 303(a).

187

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15A

terms and conditions as are by such member accorded to the general public.
(2) For the purposes of this subsection, the term ‘‘nonmember
professional’’ shall include (A) with respect to transactions in securities other than municipal securities, any registered broker or
dealer who is not a member of any registered securities association,
except such a broker or dealer who deals exclusively in commercial
paper, bankers’ acceptances, and commercial bills, and (B) with respect to transactions in municipal securities, any municipal securities dealer (other than a bank or division or department of a bank)
who is not a member of any registered securities association and
any municipal securities broker who is not a member of any such
association.
(3) Nothing in this subsection shall be so construed or applied
as to prevent (A) any member of any registered securities association from granting to any other member of any registered securities
association any dealer’s discount, allowance, commission, or special
terms, in connection with the purchase or sale of securities, or (B)
any member of a registered securities association or any municipal
securities dealer which is a bank or a division or department of a
bank from granting to any member of any registered securities association or any such municipal securities dealer any dealer’s discount, allowance, commission, or special terms in connection with
the purchase or sale of municipal securities: Provided, however,
That the granting of any such discount, allowance, commission, or
special terms in connection with the purchase or sale of municipal
securities shall be subject to rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board adopted pursuant to section 15B(b)(2)(K) of this
title.
(f) Nothing in subsection (b)(6) or (b)(11) of this section shall
be construed to permit a registered securities association to make
rules concerning any transaction by a registered broker or dealer
in a municipal security.
(g)(1) A registered securities association shall deny membership to any person who is not a registered broker or dealer.
(2) A registered securities association may, and in cases in
which the Commission, by order, directs as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors shall,
deny membership to any registered broker or dealer, and bar from
becoming associated with a member any person, who is subject to
a statutory disqualification. A registered securities association shall
file notice with the Commission not less than thirty days prior to
admitting any registered broker or dealer to membership or permitting any person to become associated with a member, if the association knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care should have known,
that such broker or dealer or person was subject to a statutory disqualification. The notice shall be in such form and contain such information as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary
or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(3)(A) A registered securities association may deny membership to, or condition the membership of, a registered broker or dealer if (i) such broker or dealer does not meet such standards of financial responsibility or operational capability or such broker or

Sec. 15A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

188

dealer or any natural person associated with such broker or dealer
does not meet such standards of training, experience, and competence as are prescribed by the rules of the association or (ii) such
broker or dealer or person associated with such broker or dealer
has engaged and there is a reasonable likelihood he will again engage in acts or practices inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade. A registered securities association may examine and
verify the qualifications of an applicant to become a member and
the natural persons associated with such an applicant in accordance with procedures established by the rules of the association.
(B) A registered securities association may bar a natural person from becoming associated with a member or condition the association of a natural person with a member if such natural person
(i) does not meet such standards of training, experience, and competence as are prescribed by the rules of the association or (ii) has
engaged and there is a reasonable likelihood he will again engage
in acts or practices inconsistent with just and equitable principles
of trade. A registered securities association may examine and verify
the qualifications of an applicant to become a person associated
with a member in accordance with procedures established by the
rules of the association and require a natural person associated
with a member, or any class of such natural persons, to be registered with the association in accordance with procedures so established.
(C) A registered securities association may bar any person
from becoming associated with a member if such person does not
agree (i) to supply the association with such information with respect to its relationship and dealings with the member as may be
specified in the rules of the association and (ii) to permit examination of its books and records to verify the accuracy of any information so supplied.
(D) Nothing in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of this paragraph
shall be construed to permit a registered securities association to
deny membership to or condition the membership of, or bar any
person from becoming associated with or condition the association
of any person with, a broker or dealer that engages exclusively in
transactions in municipal securities.
(4) A registered securities association may deny membership to
a registered broker or dealer not engaged in a type of business in
which the rules of the association require members to be engaged:
Provided, however, That no registered securities association may
deny membership to a registered broker or dealer by reason of the
amount of such type of business done by such broker or dealer or
the other types of business in which he is engaged.
(h)(1) In any proceeding by a registered securities association
to determine whether a member or person associated with a member should be disciplined (other than a summary proceeding pursuant to paragraph (3) of this subsection) the association shall bring
specific charges, notify such member or person of, and give him an
opportunity to defend against, such charges, and keep a record. A
determination by the association to impose a disciplinary sanction
shall be supported by a statement setting forth—

189

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15A

(A) any act or practice in which such member or person associated with a member has been found to have engaged, or
which such member or person has been found to have omitted;
(B) the specific provision of this title, the rules or regulations thereunder, the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, or the rules of the association which any such
act or practice, or omission to act, is deemed to violate; and
(C) the sanction imposed and the reason therefor.
(2) In any proceeding by a registered securities association to
determine whether a person shall be denied membership, barred
from becoming associated with a member, or prohibited or limited
with respect to access to services offered by the association or a
member thereof (other than a summary proceeding pursuant to
paragraph (3) of this subsection), the association shall notify such
person of and give him an opportunity to be heard upon, the specific grounds for denial, bar, or prohibition or limitation under consideration and keep a record. A determination by the association to
deny membership, bar a person from becoming associated with a
member, or prohibit or limit a person with respect to access to
services offered by the association or a member thereof shall be
supported by a statement setting forth the specific grounds on
which the denial, bar, or prohibition or limitation is based.
(3) A registered securities association may summarily (A) suspend a member or person associated with a member who has been
and is expelled or suspended from any self-regulatory organization
or barred or suspended from being associated with a member of
any self-regulatory organization, (B) suspend a member who is in
such financial or operating difficulty that the association determines and so notifies the Commission that the member cannot be
permitted to continue to do business as a member with safety to
investors, creditors, other members, or the association, or (C) limit
or prohibit any person with respect to access to services offered by
the association if subparagraph (A) or (B) of this paragraph is applicable to such person or, in the case of a person who is not a
member, if the association determines that such person does not
meet the qualification requirements or other prerequisites for such
access and such person cannot be permitted to continue to have
such access with safety to investors, creditors, members, or the association. Any person aggrieved by any such summary action shall
be promptly afforded an opportunity for a hearing by the association in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (1) or (2) of this
subsection. The Commission, by order, may stay any such summary
action on its own motion or upon application by any person aggrieved thereby, if the Commission determines summarily or after
notice and opportunity for hearing (which hearing may consist solely of the submission of affidavits or presentation of oral arguments)
that such stay is consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors.
(i) OBLIGATION TO MAINTAIN REGISTRATION, DISCIPLINARY, AND
OTHER DATA.—
(1) MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM TO RESPOND TO INQUIRIES.—
A registered securities association shall—
(A) establish and maintain a system for collecting and
retaining registration information;

Sec. 15A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

190

(B) establish and maintain a toll-free telephone listing,
and a readily accessible electronic or other process, to receive and promptly respond to inquiries regarding—
(i) registration information on its members and
their associated persons; and
(ii) registration information on the members and
their associated persons of any registered national securities exchange that uses the system described in
subparagraph (A) for the registration of its members
and their associated persons; and
(C) adopt rules governing the process for making inquiries and the type, scope, and presentation of information to be provided in response to such inquiries in consultation with any registered national securities exchange
providing information pursuant to subparagraph (B)(ii).
(2) RECOVERY OF COSTS.—A registered securities association may charge persons making inquiries described in paragraph (1)(B), other than individual investors, reasonable fees
for responses to such inquiries.
(3) PROCESS FOR DISPUTED INFORMATION.—Each registered
securities association shall adopt rules establishing an administrative process for disputing the accuracy of information provided in response to inquiries under this subsection in consultation with any registered national securities exchange providing information pursuant to paragraph (1)(B)(ii).
(4) LIMITATION ON LIABILITY.—A registered securities association, or an exchange reporting information to such an association, shall not have any liability to any person for any actions taken or omitted in good faith under this subsection.
(5) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this subsection, the term
‘‘registration information’’ means the information reported in
connection with the registration or licensing of brokers and
dealers and their associated persons, including disciplinary actions, regulatory, judicial, and arbitration proceedings, and
other information required by law, or exchange or association
rule, and the source and status of such information.
(j) REGISTRATION FOR SALES OF PRIVATE SECURITIES OFFERINGS.—A registered securities association shall create a limited
qualification category for any associated person of a member who
effects sales as part of a primary offering of securities not involving
a public offering, pursuant to section 3(b), 4(2), [81] or 4(6) [82] of the
Securities Act of 1933 and the rules and regulations thereunder,
and shall deem qualified in such limited qualification category,
without testing, any bank employee who, in the six month period
preceding the date of the enactment of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act, engaged in effecting such sales.
(k) LIMITED PURPOSE NATIONAL SECURITIES ASSOCIATION.—
(1) REGULATION OF MEMBERS WITH RESPECT TO SECURITY
FUTURES PRODUCTS.—A futures association registered under
section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act shall be a registered national securities association for the limited purpose
81Probably
82Probably

should read ‘‘4(a)(2)’’.
should read ‘‘4(a)(6)’’.

191

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15A

of regulating the activities of members who are registered as
brokers or dealers in security futures products pursuant to section 15(b)(11).
(2) REQUIREMENTS FOR REGISTRATION.—Such a securities
association shall—
(A) be so organized and have the capacity to carry out
the purposes of the securities laws applicable to security
futures products and to comply, and (subject to any rule or
order of the Commission pursuant to section 19(g)(2)) to
enforce compliance by its members and persons associated
with its members, with the provisions of the securities
laws applicable to security futures products, the rules and
regulations thereunder, and its rules;
(B) have rules that—
(i) are designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and, in general, to protect
investors and the public interest, including rules governing sales practices and the advertising of security
futures products reasonably comparable to those of
other national securities associations registered pursuant to subsection (a) that are applicable to security futures products; and
(ii) are not designed to regulate by virtue of any
authority conferred by this title matters not related to
the purposes of this title or the administration of the
association;
(C) have rules that provide that (subject to any rule or
order of the Commission pursuant to section 19(g)(2)) its
members and persons associated with its members shall be
appropriately disciplined for violation of any provision of
the securities laws applicable to security futures products,
the rules or regulations thereunder, or the rules of the association, by expulsion, suspension, limitation of activities,
functions, and operations, fine, censure, being suspended
or barred from being associated with a member, or any
other fitting sanction; and
(D) have rules that ensure that members and natural
persons associated with members meet such standards of
training, experience, and competence necessary to effect
transactions in security futures products and are tested for
their knowledge of securities and security futures products.
(3) EXEMPTION FROM RULE CHANGE SUBMISSION.—Such a
securities association shall be exempt from submitting proposed rule changes pursuant to section 19(b) of this title, except that—
(A) the association shall file proposed rule changes related to higher margin levels, fraud or manipulation, recordkeeping, reporting, listing standards, or decimal pricing
for security futures products, sales practices for, advertising of, or standards of training, experience, competence,
or other qualifications for security futures products for persons who effect transactions in security futures products,

Sec. 15A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

192

or rules effectuating the association’s obligation to enforce
the securities laws pursuant to section 19(b)(7);
(B) the association shall file pursuant to sections
19(b)(1) and 19(b)(2) proposed rule changes related to margin, except for changes resulting in higher margin levels;
and
(C) the association shall file pursuant to section
19(b)(1) proposed rule changes that have been abrogated
by the Commission pursuant to section 19(b)(7)(C).
(4) OTHER EXEMPTIONS.—Such a securities association
shall be exempt from and shall not be required to enforce compliance by its members, and its members shall not, solely with
respect to their transactions effected in security futures products, be required to comply, with the following provisions of
this title and the rules thereunder:
(A) Section 8.
(B) Subsections (b)(1), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(5), (b)(8),
(b)(10), (b)(11), (b)(12), (b)(13), (c), (d), (e), (f ), (g), (h), and
(i) of this section.
(C) Subsections (d), (f), and (k) [83] of section 17.
(D) Subsections (a), (f), and (h) of section 19.
(l) Consistent with this title, each national securities association registered pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall issue
such rules as are necessary to avoid duplicative or conflicting rules
applicable to any broker or dealer registered with the Commission
pursuant to section 15(b) (except paragraph (11) thereof ), that is
also registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
pursuant to section 4f(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (except
paragraph (2) thereof ), with respect to the application of—
(1) rules of such national securities association of the type
specified in section 15(c)(3)(B) involving security futures products; and
(2) similar rules of national securities associations registered pursuant to subsection (k) of this section and national
securities exchanges registered pursuant to section 6(g) involving security futures products.
(m) PROCEDURES AND RULES FOR SECURITY FUTURE PRODUCTS.—A national securities association registered pursuant to subsection (a) shall, not later than 8 months after the date of the enactment of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, implement the procedures specified in section 6(h)(5)(A) of this title
and adopt the rules specified in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section 6(h)(5) of this title.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 15A, as added June 25, 1938,
ch. 677, Sec. 1, 52 Stat. 1070; amended Pub. L. 88-467, Sec. 7, Aug.
20, 1964, 78 Stat. 574; Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 12, June 4, 1975, 89
Stat. 127; Pub. L. 99-571, title I, Sec. 102(g), Oct. 28, 1986, 100
Stat. 3218; Pub. L. 101-429, title V, Sec. 509, Oct. 15, 1990, 104
Stat. 957; Pub. L. 103-202, title I, Sec. 106(b)(1), title III, Sec.
303(a), (c), Dec. 17, 1993, 107 Stat. 2350, 2364, 2366; Pub. L. 10683Subsection (k) of section 17 was redesignated (j) by Pub. L. 111-203, title VI, Sec. 617(a)(2),
July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1616.

193

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15B

102, title II, Sec. 203, Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1391; Pub. L. 106554, Sec. 1(a)(5) [title II, Sec. 203(c), 206(j), (k)(1)), Dec. 21, 2000,
114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-422, 2763A-433; Pub. L. 109-290, Secs. 5, 6,
Sept. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 1319, 1320; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec.
975(f), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1923.)
MUNICIPAL SECURITIES

SEC. 15B. (a)(1)(A) It shall be unlawful for any municipal securities dealer (other than one registered as a broker or dealer under
section 15 of this title) to make use of the mails or any means or
instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in,
or to induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any municipal security unless such municipal securities dealer is registered in accordance with this subsection.
(B) [84] It shall be unlawful for a municipal advisor to
provide advice to or on behalf of a municipal entity or obligated person with respect to municipal financial products
or the issuance of municipal securities, or to undertake a
solicitation of a municipal entity or obligated person, unless the municipal advisor is registered in accordance with
this subsection.
(2) A municipal securities dealer or municipal advisor may be
registered by filing with the Commission an application for registration in such form and containing such information and documents concerning such municipal securities dealer or municipal advisor and any person associated with such municipal securities
dealer or municipal advisor as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the
protection of investors. Within forty-five days of the date of the filing of such application (or within such longer period as to which
the applicant consents), the Commission shall—
(A) by order grant registration, or
(B) institute proceedings to determine whether registration
should be denied. Such proceedings shall include notice of the
grounds for denial under consideration and opportunity for
hearing and shall be concluded within one hundred twenty
days of the date of the filing of the application for registration.
At the conclusion of such proceedings the Commission, by
order, shall grant or deny such registration. The Commission
may extend the time for the conclusion of such proceedings for
up to ninety days if it finds good cause for such extension and
publishes its reasons for so finding or for such longer period as
to which the applicant consents.
The Commission shall grant the registration of a municipal securities dealer or municipal advisor if the Commission finds that the
requirements of this section are satisfied. The Commission shall
deny such registration if it does not make such a finding or if it
finds that if the applicant were so registered, its registration would
be subject to suspension or revocation under subsection (c) of this
section.
84Margin

so in law.

Sec. 15B

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

194

(3) Any provision of this title (other than section 5 or paragraph (1) of this subsection) which prohibits any act, practice, or
course of business if the mails or any means or instrumentality of
interstate commerce is used in connection therewith shall also prohibit any such act, practice, or course of business by any registered
municipal securities dealer or municipal advisor or any person acting on behalf of such municipal securities dealer or municipal advisor, irrespective of any use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce in connection therewith.
(4) The Commission, by rule or order, upon its own motion or
upon application, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt any
broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, or municipal advisor, or
class of brokers, dealers, municipal securities dealers, or municipal
advisors from any provision of this section or the rules or regulations thereunder, if the Commission finds that such exemption is
consistent with the public interest, the protection of investors, and
the purposes of this section.
(5) [85] No municipal advisor shall make use of the mails or
any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to provide advice to or on behalf of a municipal entity or obligated
person with respect to municipal financial products, the
issuance of municipal securities, or to undertake a solicitation
of a municipal entity or obligated person, in connection with
which such municipal advisor engages in any fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative act or practice.
(b)(1) The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall be
composed of 15 members, or such other number of members as
specified by rules of the Board pursuant to paragraph (2)(B),, [86]
which shall perform the duties set forth in this section. The members of the Board shall serve as members for a term of 3 years or
for such other terms as specified by rules of the Board pursuant
to paragraph (2)(B), and shall consist of (A) 8 individuals who are
independent of any municipal securities broker, municipal securities dealer, or municipal advisor, at least 1 of whom shall be representative of institutional or retail investors in municipal securities, at least 1 of whom shall be representative of municipal entities, and at least 1 of whom shall be a member of the public with
knowledge of or experience in the municipal industry (which members are hereinafter referred to as ‘‘public representatives’’); and
(B) 7 individuals who are associated with a broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, or municipal advisor, including at least 1 individual who is associated with and representative of brokers, dealers, or municipal securities dealers that are not banks or subsidiaries or departments or divisions of banks (which members are
hereinafter referred to as ‘‘broker-dealer representatives’’), at least
1 individual who is associated with and representative of municipal
securities dealers which are banks or subsidiaries or departments
or divisions of banks (which members are hereinafter referred to as
‘‘bank representatives’’), and at least 1 individual who is associated
with a municipal advisor (which members are hereinafter referred
to as ‘‘advisor representatives’’ and, together with the broker-dealer
85Margin
86So

so in law.
in original.

195

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15B

representatives and the bank representatives, are referred to as
‘‘regulated representatives’’). Each member of the board shall be
knowledgeable of matters related to the municipal securities markets. Prior to the expiration of the terms of office of the members
of the Board, an election shall be held under rules adopted by the
Board (pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(B) of this section) of the members to succeed such initial members.
(2) The Board shall propose and adopt rules to effect the purposes of this title with respect to transactions in municipal securities effected by brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers
and advice provided to or on behalf of municipal entities or obligated persons by brokers, dealers, municipal securities dealers, and
municipal advisors with respect to municipal financial products,
the issuance of municipal securities, and solicitations of municipal
entities or obligated persons undertaken by brokers, dealers, municipal securities dealers, and municipal advisors. The rules of the
Board, as a minimum, shall:
(A) provide that no municipal securities broker or municipal securities dealer shall effect any transaction in, or induce
or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any municipal security, and no broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, or
municipal advisor shall provide advice to or on behalf of a municipal entity or obligated person with respect to municipal financial products or the issuance of municipal securities, unless
such municipal securities broker or municipal securities dealer
meets such standards of operational capability and such municipal securities broker or municipal securities dealer and
every natural person associated with such municipal securities
broker or municipal securities dealer meets such standards of
training, experience, competence, and such other qualifications
as the Board finds necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors and municipal entities or
obligated persons. In connection with the definition and application of such standards the Board may—
(i) appropriately classify municipal securities brokers,
municipal securities dealers, and municipal advisors (taking into account relevant matters, including types of business done, nature of securities other than municipal securities sold, and character of business organization), and
persons associated with municipal securities brokers, municipal securities dealers, and municipal advisors;
(ii) specify that all or any portion of such standards
shall be applicable to any such class; and
(iii) require persons in any such class to pass tests administered in accordance with subsection (c)(7) of this section.
(B) establish fair procedures for the nomination and election of members of the Board and assure fair representation in
such nominations and elections of public representatives,
broker dealer representatives, bank representatives, and advisor representatives. Such rules—
(i) shall provide that the number of public representatives of the Board shall at all times exceed the total number of regulated representatives and that the membership

Sec. 15B

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

196

shall at all times be as evenly divided in number as possible between public representatives and regulated representatives;
(ii) shall specify the length or lengths of terms members shall serve;
(iii) may increase the number of members which shall
constitute the whole Board, provided that such number is
an odd number; and
(iv) shall establish requirements regarding the independence of public representatives.
(C) be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative
acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of
trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information
with respect to, and facilitating transactions in municipal securities and municipal financial products, to remove impediments
to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal securities and municipal financial products, and, in
general, to protect investors, municipal entities, obligated persons, and the public interest; and not be designed to permit
unfair discrimination among customers, municipal entities, obligated persons, municipal securities brokers, municipal securities dealers, or municipal advisors, to fix minimum profits, to
impose any schedule or fix rates of commissions, allowances,
discounts, or other fees to be charged by municipal securities
brokers, municipal securities dealers, or municipal advisors, to
regulate by virtue of any authority conferred by this title matters not related to the purpose of this title or the administration of the Board, or to impose any burden on competition not
necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this
title.
(D) if the Board deems appropriate, provide for the arbitration of claims, disputes, and controversies relating to transactions in municipal securities and advice concerning municipal financial products: Provided, however, that no person
other than a municipal securities broker, municipal securities
dealer, municipal advisor, or person associated with such a
municipal securities broker, municipal securities dealer, or municipal advisor may be compelled to submit to such arbitration
except at his instance and in accordance with section 29 of this
title.
(E) provide for the periodic examination in accordance with
subsection (c)(7) of this section of municipal securities brokers,
municipal securities dealers, and municipal advisors to determine compliance with applicable provisions of this title, the
rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the Board.
Such rules shall specify the minimum scope and frequency of
such examinations and shall be designed to avoid unnecessary
regulatory duplication or undue regulatory burdens for any
such municipal securities broker, municipal securities dealer,
or municipal advisor.
(F) include provisions governing the form and content of
quotations relating to municipal securities which may be distributed or published by any municipal securities broker, mu-

197

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15B

nicipal securities dealer, or person associated with such a municipal securities broker or municipal securities dealer, and the
persons to whom such quotations may be supplied. Such rules
relating to quotations shall be designed to produce fair and informative quotations, to prevent fictitious or misleading
quotations, and to promote orderly procedures for collecting,
distributing, and publishing quotations.
(G) prescribe records to be made and kept by municipal securities brokers, municipal securities dealers, and municipal
advisors and the periods for which such records shall be preserved.
(H) define the term ‘‘separately identifiable department or
division’’, as that term is used in section 3(a)(30) of this title,
in accordance with specified and appropriate standards to assure that a bank is not deemed to be engaged in the business
of buying and selling municipal securities through a separately
identifiable department or division unless such department or
division is organized and administered so as to permit independent examination and enforcement of applicable provisions
of this title, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the
rules of the Board. A separately identifiable department or division of a bank may be engaged in activities other than those
relating to municipal securities.
(I) provide for the operation and administration of the
Board, including the selection of a Chairman from among the
members of the Board, the compensation of the members of the
Board, and the appointment and compensation of such employees, attorneys, and consultants as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the Board’s functions under this section.
(J) provide that each municipal securities broker, municipal securities dealer, and municipal advisor shall pay to the
Board such reasonable fees and charges as may be necessary
or appropriate to defray the costs and expenses of operating
and administering the Board. Such rules shall specify the
amount of such fees and charges, which may include charges
for failure to submit to the Board, or to any information system
operated by the Board, within the prescribed timeframes, any
items of information or documents required to be submitted
under any rule issued by the Board.
(K) establish the terms and conditions under which any
broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer may sell, or prohibit any broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer from
selling, any part of a new issue of municipal securities to a related account of a broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer
during the underwriting period.
(L) [87] with respect to municipal advisors—
(i) prescribe means reasonably designed to prevent
acts, practices, and courses of business as are not consistent with a municipal advisor’s fiduciary duty to its
clients;
(ii) provide continuing education requirements for
municipal advisors;
87Margin

so in law.

Sec. 15B

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

198

(iii) provide professional standards; and
(iv) not impose a regulatory burden on small municipal advisors that is not necessary or appropriate in
the public interest and for the protection of investors,
municipal entities, and obligated persons, provided
that there is robust protection of investors against
fraud.
(3) [88] The Board, in conjunction with or on behalf of any
Federal financial regulator or self-regulatory organization,
may—
(A) establish information systems; and
(B) assess such reasonable fees and charges for the
submission of information to, or the receipt of information
from, such systems from any persons which systems may
be developed for the purposes of serving as a repository of
information from municipal market participants or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Board, a Federal
financial regulator, or a self-regulatory organization, except that the Board—
(i) may not charge a fee to municipal entities or
obligated persons to submit documents or other information to the Board or charge a fee to any person to
obtain, directly from the Internet site of the Board,
documents or information submitted by municipal entities, obligated persons, brokers, dealers, municipal
securities dealers, or municipal advisors, including
documents submitted under the rules of the Board or
the Commission; and
(ii) shall not be prohibited from charging commercially reasonable fees for automated subscriptionbased feeds or similar services, or for charging for
other data or document-based services customized
upon request of any person, made available to commercial enterprises, municipal securities market professionals, or the general public, whether delivered
through the Internet or any other means, that contain
all or part of the documents or information, subject to
approval of the fees by the Commission under section
19(b).
(4) [89] The Board may provide guidance and assistance in
the enforcement of, and examination for, compliance with the
rules of the Board to the Commission, a registered securities
association under section 15A, or any other appropriate regulatory agency, as applicable.
(5) [90] The Board, the Commission, and a registered securities association under section 15A, or the designees of the
Board, the Commission, or such association, shall meet not less
frequently than 2 times a year—
(A) to describe the work of the Board, the Commission,
and the registered securities association involving the regulation of municipal securities; and
88Margin
89Margin
90Margin

so in law.
so in law.
so in law.

199

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15B

(B) to share information about—
(i) the interpretation of the Board, the Commission, and the registered securities association of Board
rules; and
(ii) examination and enforcement of compliance
with Board rules.
(7) [91] Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or
limit the power of the Commission under this title.
(c)(1) No broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer shall
make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce or attempt
to induce the purchase or sale of, any municipal security, and no
broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, or municipal advisor
shall make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of
interstate commerce to provide advice to or on behalf of a municipal entity or obligated person with respect to municipal financial
products, the issuance of municipal securities, or to undertake a solicitation of a municipal entity or obligated person, in contravention
of any rule of the Board. A municipal advisor and any person associated with such municipal advisor shall be deemed to have a fiduciary duty to any municipal entity for whom such municipal advisor acts as a municipal advisor, and no municipal advisor may engage in any act, practice, or course of business which is not consistent with a municipal advisor’s fiduciary duty or that is in contravention of any rule of the Board.
(2) The Commission, by order, shall censure, place limitations
on the activities, functions, or operations, suspend for a period not
exceeding twelve months, or revoke the registration of any municipal securities dealer or municipal advisor, if it finds, on the record
after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such censure, placing
of limitations, denial, suspension, or revocation, is in the public interest and that such municipal securities dealer or municipal advisor has committed or omitted any act, or is subject to an order or
finding, enumerated in subparagraph (A), (D), (E), (H) [92], or (G) of
paragraph (4) of section 15(b) of this title, has been convicted of
any offense specified in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph (4)
within ten years of the commencement of the proceedings under
this paragraph, or is enjoined from any action, conduct, or practice
specified in subparagraph (C) or such paragraph (4).
(3) Pending final determination whether any registration
under this section shall be revoked, the Commission, by order, may
suspend such registration, if such suspension appears to the Commission, after notice and opportunity for hearing, to be necessary
or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors or municipal entities or obligated person. [93] Any registered
municipal securities dealer or municipal advisor may, upon such
terms and conditions as the Commission may deem necessary in
the public interest or for the protection of investors or municipal
entities or obligated person, withdraw from registration by filing a
written notice of withdrawal with the Commission. If the Commission finds that any registered municipal securities dealer or munic91So
92So
93So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘(6)’’.
in original. Reference to (H) probably should follow reference to (G).
in original. ‘‘Person’’ probably should be plural.

Sec. 15B

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

200

ipal advisor is no longer in existence or has ceased to do business
as a municipal securities dealer or municipal advisor, the Commission, by order, shall cancel the registration of such municipal securities dealer or municipal advisor.
(4) The Commission, by order, shall censure or place limitations on the activities or functions of any person associated, seeking to become associated, or, at the time of the alleged misconduct,
associated or seeking to become associated with a municipal securities dealer, or suspend for a period not exceeding 12 months or bar
any such person from being associated with a broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor,
transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization, if the Commission finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such censure, placing of limitations, suspension, or bar is in the public interest and that such person has
committed any act, or is subject to an order or finding, enumerated
in subparagraph (A), (D), (E), (H), or (G) of paragraph (4) of section
15(b) of this title, has been convicted of any offense specified in
subparagraph (B) of such paragraph (4) within 10 years of the commencement of the proceedings under this paragraph, or is enjoined
from any action, conduct, or practice specified in subparagraph (C)
of such paragraph (4). It shall be unlawful for any person as to
whom an order entered pursuant to this paragraph or paragraph
(5) of this subsection suspending or barring him from being associated with a municipal securities dealer is in effect willfully to become, or to be, associated with a municipal securities dealer without the consent of the Commission, and it shall be unlawful for any
municipal securities dealer to permit such a person to become, or
remain, a person associated with him without the consent of the
Commission, if such municipal securities dealer knew, or, in the exercise of reasonable care should have known, of such order.
(5) With respect to any municipal securities dealer for which
the Commission is not the appropriate regulatory agency, the appropriate regulatory agency for such municipal securities dealer
may sanction any such municipal securities dealer in the manner
and for the reasons specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection
and any person associated with such municipal securities dealer in
the manner and for the reasons specified in paragraph (4) of this
subsection. In addition, such appropriate regulatory agency may, in
accordance with section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
U.S.C. 1818), enforce compliance by such municipal securities dealer or any person associated with such municipal securities dealer
with the provisions of this section, section 17 of this title, the rules
of the Board, and the rules of the Commission pertaining to municipal securities dealers, persons associated with municipal securities
dealers, and transactions in municipal securities. For purposes of
the preceding sentence, any violation of any such provision shall
constitute adequate basis for the issuance of any order under section 8(b) or 8(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and the customers of any such municipal securities dealer shall be deemed to
be ‘‘depositors’’ as that term is used in section 8(c) of that Act.
Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to affect in any way
the powers of such appropriate regulatory agency to proceed

201

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15B

against such municipal securities dealer under any other provision
of law.
(6)(A) The Commission, prior to the entry of an order of investigation, or commencement of any proceedings, against any municipal securities dealer, or person associated with any municipal securities dealer, for which the Commission is not the appropriate
regulatory agency, for violation of any provision of this section, section 15(c)(1) or 15(c)(2) of this title, any rule or regulation under
any such section or any rule of the Board, shall (i) give notice to
the appropriate regulatory agency for such municipal securities
dealer of the identity of such municipal securities dealer or person
associated with such municipal securities dealer, the nature of and
basis for such proposed action, and whether the Commission is
seeking a monetary penalty against such municipal securities dealer or such associated person pursuant to section 21B of this title;
and (ii) consult with such appropriate regulatory agency concerning
the effect of such proposed action on sound banking practices and
the feasibility and desirability of coordinating such action with any
proceeding or proposed proceeding by such appropriate regulatory
agency against such municipal securities dealer or associated person.
(B) The appropriate regulatory agency for a municipal securities dealer (if other than the Commission), prior to the entry of an
order of investigation, or commencement of any proceedings,
against such municipal securities dealer or person associated with
such municipal securities dealer, for violation of any provision of
this section, the rules of the Board, or the rules or regulations of
the Commission pertaining to municipal securities dealers, persons
associated with municipal securities dealers, or transactions in municipal securities shall (i) give notice to the Commission of the
identity of such municipal securities dealer or person associated
with such municipal securities dealer and the nature of and basis
for such proposed action and (ii) consult with the Commission concerning the effect of such proposed action on the protection of investors or municipal entities or obligated person and the feasibility
and desirability of coordinating such action with any proceeding or
proposed proceeding by the Commission against such municipal securities dealer or associated person.
(C) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to impair or
limit (other than by the requirement of prior consultation) the
power of the Commission or the appropriate regulatory agency for
a municipal securities dealer to initiate any action of a class described in this paragraph or to affect in any way the power of the
Commission or such appropriate regulatory agency to initiate any
other action pursuant to this title or any other provision of law.
(7)(A) Tests required pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(A)(iii) of this
section shall be administered by or on behalf of and periodic examinations pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(E) of this section shall be conducted by—
(i) a registered securities association, in the case of municipal securities brokers and municipal securities dealers who
are members of such association;
(ii) the appropriate regulatory agency for any municipal securities broker or municipal securities dealer, in the case of all

Sec. 15B

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

202

other municipal securities brokers and municipal securities
dealers; and
(iii) [94] the Commission, or its designee, in the
case of municipal advisors.
(B) A registered securities association shall make a report of
any examination conducted pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(E) of this
section and promptly furnish the Commission a copy thereof and
any data supplied to it in connection with such examination. Subject to such limitations as the Commission, by rule, determines to
be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors or municipal entities or obligated person, the Commission shall, on request, make available to the Board a copy of
any report of an examination of a municipal securities broker or
municipal securities dealer made by or furnished to the Commission pursuant to this paragraph or section 17(c)(3) of this title.
(8) The Commission is authorized, by order, if in its opinion
such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for
the protection of investors, or otherwise, in furtherance of the purposes of this title, to remove from office or censure any person who
is, or at the time of the alleged violation or abuse was, a member
or employee of the Board, who, the Commission finds, on the record
after notice and opportunity for hearing, has willfully (A) violated
any provision of this title, the rules and regulations thereunder, or
the rules of the Board or (B) abused his authority.
(9)(A) [95] Fines collected by the Commission for violations
of the rules of the Board shall be equally divided between the
Commission and the Board.
(B) Fines collected by a registered securities association
under section 15A(7) [96] with respect to violations of the rules
of the Board shall be accounted for by such registered securities association separately from other fines collected under section 15A(7) and shall be allocated between such registered securities association and the Board, and such allocation shall require the registered securities association to pay to the Board
1⁄3 of all fines collected by the registered securities association
reasonably allocable to violations of the rules of the Board, or
such other portion of such fines as may be directed by the
Commission upon agreement between the registered securities
association and the Board.
(d)(1) Neither the Commission nor the Board is authorized
under this title, by rule or regulation, to require any issuer of municipal securities, directly or indirectly through a purchaser or prospective purchaser of securities from the issuer, to file with the
Commission or the Board prior to the sale of such securities by the
issuer any application, report, or document in connection with the
issuance, sale, or distribution of such securities.
(2) The Board is not authorized under this title to require any
issuer of municipal securities, directly or indirectly through a municipal securities broker, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, or otherwise, to furnish to the Board or to a purchaser or a
prospective purchaser of such securities any application, report,
94Margin

so in law.
so in law.
in original. Probably should be ‘‘15A(b)(7)’’.

95Margin
96So

203

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15B

document, or information with respect to such issuer: Provided,
however, That the Board may require municipal securities brokers
and municipal securities dealers or municipal advisors to furnish
to the Board or purchasers or prospective purchasers of municipal
securities applications, reports, documents, and information with
respect to the issuer thereof which is generally available from a
source other than such issuer. Nothing in this paragraph shall be
construed to impair or limit the power of the Commission under
any provision of this title.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section—
(1) the term ‘‘Board’’ means the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board established under subsection (b)(1);
(2) the term ‘‘guaranteed investment contract’’ includes
any investment that has specified withdrawal or reinvestment
provisions and a specifically negotiated or bid interest rate,
and also includes any agreement to supply investments on 2 or
more future dates, such as a forward supply contract;
(3) the term ‘‘investment strategies’’ includes plans or programs for the investment of the proceeds of municipal securities that are not municipal derivatives, guaranteed investment
contracts, and the recommendation of and brokerage of municipal escrow investments;
(4) the term ‘‘municipal advisor’’—
(A) means a person (who is not a municipal entity or
an employee of a municipal entity) that—
(i) provides advice to or on behalf of a municipal
entity or obligated person with respect to municipal financial products or the issuance of municipal securities, including advice with respect to the structure,
timing, terms, and other similar matters concerning
such financial products or issues; or
(ii) undertakes a solicitation of a municipal entity;
(B) includes financial advisors, guaranteed investment
contract brokers, third-party marketers, placement agents,
solicitors, finders, and swap advisors, if such persons are
described in any of clauses (i) through (iii) [97] of subparagraph (A); and
(C) does not include a broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer serving as an underwriter (as defined in
section 2(a)(11) of the Securities Act of 1933) (15 U.S.C.
77b(a)(11)), [98] any investment adviser registered under
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or persons associated
with such investment advisers who are providing investment advice, any commodity trading advisor registered
under the Commodity Exchange Act or persons associated
with a commodity trading advisor who are providing advice related to swaps, attorneys offering legal advice or
providing services that are of a traditional legal nature, or
engineers providing engineering advice;
97So

in original. Subpar. (A) does not contain a cl. (iii).
in original. Probably should be ‘‘(as defined in section 2(a)(11) of the Securities Act of
1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(11)),’’.
98So

Sec. 15B

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

204

(5) the term ‘‘municipal financial product’’ means municipal derivatives, guaranteed investment contracts, and investment strategies;
(6) the term ‘‘rules of the Board’’ means the rules proposed
and adopted by the Board under subsection (b)(2);
(7) the term ‘‘person associated with a municipal advisor’’
or ‘‘associated person of an advisor’’ means—
(A) any partner, officer, director, or branch manager of
such municipal advisor (or any person occupying a similar
status or performing similar functions);
(B) any other employee of such municipal advisor who
is engaged in the management, direction, supervision, or
performance of any activities relating to the provision of
advice to or on behalf of a municipal entity or obligated
person with respect to municipal financial products or the
issuance of municipal securities; and
(C) any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such municipal
advisor;
(8) the term ‘‘municipal entity’’ means any State, political
subdivision of a State, or municipal corporate instrumentality
of a State, including—
(A) any agency, authority, or instrumentality of the
State, political subdivision, or municipal corporate instrumentality;
(B) any plan, program, or pool of assets sponsored or
established by the State, political subdivision, or municipal
corporate instrumentality or any agency, authority, or instrumentality thereof; and
(C) any other issuer of municipal securities;
(9) the term ‘‘solicitation of a municipal entity or obligated
person’’ means a direct or indirect communication with a municipal entity or obligated person made by a person, for direct
or indirect compensation, on behalf of a broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, or investment adviser
(as defined in section 202 of the Investment Advisers Act of
1940) that does not control, is not controlled by, or is not under
common control with the person undertaking such solicitation
for the purpose of obtaining or retaining an engagement by a
municipal entity or obligated person of a broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, or municipal advisor for or in connection
with municipal financial products, the issuance of municipal
securities, or of an investment adviser to provide investment
advisory services to or on behalf of a municipal entity; and
(10) the term ‘‘obligated person’’ means any person, including an issuer of municipal securities, who is either generally or
through an enterprise, fund, or account of such person, committed by contract or other arrangement to support the payment of all or part of the obligations on the municipal securities to be sold in an offering of municipal securities.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 15B, as added June 4, 1975,
Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 13, 89 Stat. 131; amended June 6, 1983, Pub.
L. 98-38, Sec. 4, 97 Stat. 207; Dec. 4, 1987, Pub. L. 100-181, title

205

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15C

III, Secs. 318-320, 101 Stat. 1256, 1257; Oct. 15, 1990, Pub. L. 101429, title II, Sec. 205, 104 Stat. 941; Nov. 15, 1990, Pub. L. 101550, title II, Sec. 203(c)(1), 104 Stat. 2718; Nov. 3, 1998, Pub. L.
105-353, title III, Sec. 301(b)(9), 112 Stat. 3236; Pub. L. 107-204,
title VI, Sec. 604(c)(1)(B), July 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 796; Pub. L. 111203, title IX, Secs. 925(a)(2), 929F(a), 975(a)-(e), July 21, 2010, 124
Stat. 1850, 1853, 1915-1921.)
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES BROKERS AND DEALERS

SEC. 15C. (a)(1)(A) It shall be unlawful for any government securities broker or government securities dealer (other than a registered broker or dealer or a financial institution) to make use of
the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce
to effect any transaction in, or to induce or attempt to induce the
purchase or sale of, any government security unless such government securities broker or government securities dealer is registered
in accordance with paragraph (2) of this subsection.
(B)(i) It shall be unlawful for any government securities broker
or government securities dealer that is a registered broker or dealer or a financial institution to make use of the mails or any means
or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction
in, or to induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any
government security unless such government securities broker or
government securities dealer has filed with the appropriate regulatory agency written notice that it is a government securities
broker or government securities dealer. When such a government
securities broker or government securities dealer ceases to act as
such it shall file with the appropriate regulatory agency a written
notice that it is no longer acting as a government securities broker
or government securities dealer.
(ii) Such notices shall be in such form and contain such information concerning a government securities broker or government
securities dealer that is a financial institution and any persons associated with such government securities broker or government securities dealer as the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System shall, by rule, after consultation with each appropriate regulatory agency (including the Commission), prescribe as necessary
or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. Such notices shall be in such form and contain such information concerning a government securities broker or government securities dealer that is a registered broker or dealer and any persons associated with such government securities broker or government securities dealer as the Commission shall, by rule, prescribe
as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(iii) Each appropriate regulatory agency (other than the Commission) shall make available to the Commission the notices which
have been filed with it under this subparagraph, and the Commission shall maintain and make available to the public such notices
and the notices it receives under this subparagraph.
(2) A government securities broker or a government securities
dealer subject to the registration requirement of paragraph (1)(A)
of this subsection may be registered by filing with the Commission

Sec. 15C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

206

an application for registration in such form and containing such information and documents concerning such government securities
broker or government securities dealer and any persons associated
with such government securities broker or government securities
dealer as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
Within 45 days of the date of filing of such application (or within
such longer period as to which the applicant consents), the Commission shall—
(A) by order grant registration, or
(B) institute proceedings to determine whether registration
should be denied. Such proceedings shall include notice of the
grounds for denial under consideration and opportunity for
hearing and shall be concluded within 120 days of the date of
the filing of the application for registration. At the conclusion
of such proceedings, the Commission, by order, shall grant or
deny such registration. The Commission may extend the time
for the conclusion of such proceedings for up to 90 days if it
finds good cause for such extension and publishes its reasons
for so finding or for such longer period as to which the applicant consents.
The Commission shall grant the registration of a government securities broker or a government securities dealer if the Commission
finds that the requirements of this section are satisfied. The order
granting registration shall not be effective until such government
securities broker or government securities dealer has become a
member of a national securities exchange registered under section
6 of this title, or a securities association registered under section
15A of this title, unless the Commission has exempted such government securities broker or government securities dealer, by rule or
order, from such membership. The Commission shall deny such
registration if it does not make such a finding or if it finds that
if the applicant were so registered, its registration would be subject
to suspension or revocation under sub- section (c) of this section.
(3) Any provision of this title (other than section 5 or paragraph (1) of this subsection) which prohibits any act, practice, or
course of business if the mails or any means or instrumentality of
interstate commerce is used in connection therewith shall also prohibit any such act, practice, or course of business by any government securities broker or government securities dealer registered
or having filed notice under paragraph (1) of this subsection or any
person acting on behalf of such government securities broker or
government securities dealer, irrespective of any use of the mails
or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce in connection therewith.
(4) No government securities broker or government securities
dealer that is required to register under paragraph (1)(A) and that
is not a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation
shall effect any transaction in any security in contravention of such
rules as the Commission shall prescribe pursuant to this subsection
to assure that its customers receive complete, accurate, and timely
disclosure of the inapplicability of Securities Investor Protection
Corporation coverage to their accounts.

207

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15C

(5) The Secretary of the Treasury (hereinafter in this section
referred to as the ‘‘Secretary’’), by rule or order, upon the Secretary’s own motion or upon application, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt any government securities broker or government securities dealer, or class of government securities brokers or
government securities dealers, from any provision of subsection (a),
(b), or (d) of this section, other than subsection (d)(3), or the rules
thereunder, if the Secretary finds that such exemption is consistent
with the public interest, the protection of investors, and the purposes of this title.
(b)(1) The Secretary shall propose and adopt rules to effect the
purposes of this title with respect to transactions in government securities effected by government securities brokers and government
securities dealers as follows:
(A) Such rules shall provide safeguards with respect to the
financial responsibility and related practices of government securities brokers and government securities dealers including,
but not limited to, capital adequacy standards, the acceptance
of custody and use of customers’ securities, the carrying and
use of customers’ deposits or credit balances, and the transfer
and control of government securities subject to repurchase
agreements and in similar transactions.
(B) Such rules shall require every government securities
broker and government securities dealer to make reports to
and furnish copies of records to the appropriate regulatory
agency, and to file with the appropriate regulatory agency, annually or more frequently, a balance sheet and income statement certified by an independent public accountant, prepared
on a calendar or fiscal year basis, and such other financial
statements (which shall, as the Secretary specifies, be certified)
and information concerning its financial condition as required
by such rules.
(C) Such rules shall require records to be made and kept
by government securities brokers and government securities
dealers and shall specify the periods for which such records
shall be preserved.
(2) RISK ASSESSMENT FOR HOLDING COMPANY SYSTEMS.—
(A) OBLIGATIONS TO OBTAIN, MAINTAIN, AND REPORT INFORMATION.— Every person who is registered as a government securities broker or government securities dealer under this section shall obtain such information and make and keep such
records as the Secretary by rule prescribes concerning the registered person’s policies, procedures, or systems for monitoring
and controlling financial and operational risks to it resulting
from the activities of any of its associated persons, other than
a natural person. Such records shall describe, in the aggregate,
each of the financial and securities activities conducted by, and
customary sources of capital and funding of, those of its associated persons whose business activities are reasonably likely to
have a material impact on the financial or operational condition of such registered person, including its capital, its liquidity, or its ability to conduct or finance its operations. The Secretary, by rule, may require summary reports of such informa-

Sec. 15C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

208

tion to be filed with the registered person’s appropriate regulatory agency no more frequently than quarterly.
(B) AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—If,
as a result of adverse market conditions or based on reports
provided pursuant to subparagraph (A) of this paragraph or
other available information, the appropriate regulatory agency
reasonably concludes that it has concerns regarding the financial or operational condition of any government securities
broker or government securities dealer registered under this
section, such agency may require the registered person to
make reports concerning the financial and securities activities
of any of such person’s associated persons, other than a natural
person, whose business activities are reasonably likely to have
a material impact on the financial or operational condition of
such registered person. The appropriate regulatory agency, in
requiring reports pursuant to this subparagraph, shall specify
the information required, the period for which it is required,
the time and date on which the information must be furnished,
and whether the information is to be furnished directly to the
appropriate regulatory agency or to a self-regulatory organization with primary responsibility for examining the registered
person’s financial and operational condition.
(C) SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH RESPECT TO ASSOCIATED PERSONS SUBJECT TO FEDERAL BANKING AGENCY REGULATION.—
(i) COOPERATION IN IMPLEMENTATION.—In developing
and implementing reporting requirements pursuant to
subparagraph (A) of this paragraph with respect to associated persons subject to examination by or reporting requirements of a Federal banking agency, the Secretary
shall consult with and consider the views of each such
Federal banking agency. If a Federal banking agency comments in writing on a proposed rule of the Secretary under
this paragraph that has been published for comment, the
Secretary shall respond in writing to such written comment before adopting the proposed rule. The Secretary
shall, at the request of a Federal banking agency, publish
such comment and response in the Federal Register at the
time of publishing the adopted rule.
(ii) USE OF BANKING AGENCY REPORTS.—A registered
government securities broker or government securities
dealer shall be in compliance with any recordkeeping or reporting requirement adopted pursuant to subparagraph (A)
of this paragraph concerning an associated person that is
subject to examination by or reporting requirements of a
Federal banking agency if such government securities
broker or government securities dealer utilizes for such
recordkeeping or reporting requirement copies of reports
filed by the associated person with the Federal banking
agency pursuant to section 5211 of the Revised Statutes,
section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act, section 7(a) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act, section 10(b) of the Home
Owners’ Loan Act, or section 8 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The Secretary may, however, by rule
adopted pursuant to subparagraph (A), require any reg-

209

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15C

istered government securities broker or government securities dealer filing such reports with the appropriate regulatory agency to obtain, maintain, or report supplemental
information if the Secretary makes an explicit finding,
based on information provided by the appropriate regulatory agency, that such supplemental information is necessary to inform the appropriate regulatory agency regarding potential risks to such government securities broker or
government securities dealer. Prior to requiring any such
supplemental information, the Secretary shall first request
the Federal banking agency to expand its reporting requirements to include such information.
(iii) PROCEDURE FOR REQUIRING ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—Prior to making a request pursuant to subparagraph (B) of this paragraph for information with respect to
an associated person that is subject to examination by or
reporting requirements of a Federal banking agency, the
appropriate regulatory agency shall—
(I) notify such banking agency of the information
required with respect to such associated person; and
(II) consult with such agency to determine whether the information required is available from such
agency and for other purposes, unless the appropriate
regulatory agency determines that any delay resulting
from such consultation would be inconsistent with ensuring the financial and operational condition of the
government securities broker or government securities
dealer or the stability or integrity of the securities
markets.
(iv) EXCLUSION FOR EXAMINATION REPORTS.—Nothing
in this subparagraph shall be construed to permit the Secretary or an appropriate regulatory agency to require any
registered government securities broker or government securities dealer to obtain, maintain, or furnish any examination report of any Federal banking agency or any supervisory recommendations or analysis contained therein.
(v) CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION PROVIDED.—No
information provided to or obtained by an appropriate regulatory agency from any Federal banking agency pursuant
to a request under clause (iii) of this subparagraph regarding any associated person which is subject to examination
by or reporting requirements of a Federal banking agency
may be disclosed to any other person (other than a selfregulatory organization), without the prior written approval of the Federal banking agency. Nothing in this
clause shall authorize the Secretary or any appropriate
regulatory agency to withhold information from Congress,
or prevent the Secretary or any appropriate regulatory
agency from complying with a request for information from
any other Federal department or agency requesting the information for purposes within the scope of its jurisdiction,
or complying with an order of a court of the United States
in an action brought by the United States or the Commission.

Sec. 15C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

210

(vi) NOTICE TO BANKING AGENCIES CONCERNING FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONDITION CONCERNS.—The Sec-

retary or appropriate regulatory agency shall notify the
Federal banking agency of any concerns of the Secretary or
the appropriate regulatory agency regarding significant financial or operational risks resulting from the activities of
any government securities broker or government securities
dealer to any associated person thereof which is subject to
examination by or reporting requirements of the Federal
banking agency.
(vii) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this subparagraph,
the term ‘‘Federal banking agency’’ shall have the same
meaning as the term ‘‘appropriate Federal banking agency’’ in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
U.S.C. 1813(q)).
(D) EXEMPTIONS.—The Secretary by rule or order may exempt any person or class of persons, under such terms and
conditions and for such periods as the Secretary shall provide
in such rule or order, from the provisions of this paragraph,
and the rules thereunder. In granting such exemptions, the
Secretary shall consider, among other factors—
(i) whether information of the type required under this
paragraph is available from a supervisory agency (as defined in section 1101(6) of the Right to Financial Privacy
Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3401(6))), a State insurance commission or similar State agency, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, or a similar foreign regulator;
(ii) the primary business of any associated person;
(iii) the nature and extent of domestic or foreign regulation of the associated person’s activities;
(iv) the nature and extent of the registered person’s
securities transactions; and
(v) with respect to the registered person and its associated persons, on a consolidated basis, the amount and proportion of assets devoted to, and revenues derived from,
activities in the United States securities markets.
(E) CONFORMITY WITH REQUIREMENTS UNDER SECTION
17(H).—In exercising authority pursuant to subparagraph (A) of
this paragraph concerning information with respect to associated persons of government securities brokers and government
securities dealers who are also associated persons of registered
brokers or dealers reporting to the Commission pursuant to
section 17(h) of this title, the requirements relating to such associated persons shall conform, to the greatest extent practicable, to the requirements under section 17(h).
(F) AUTHORITY TO LIMIT DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.—
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary and
any appropriate regulatory agency shall not be compelled to
disclose any information required to be reported under this
paragraph, or any information supplied to the Secretary or any
appropriate regulatory agency by any domestic or foreign regulatory agency that relates to the financial or operational condition of any associated person of a registered government securities broker or a government securities dealer. Nothing in this

211

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15C

paragraph shall authorize the Secretary or any appropriate
regulatory agency to withhold information from Congress, or
prevent the Secretary or any appropriate regulatory agency
from complying with a request for information from any other
Federal department or agency requesting the information for
purposes within the scope of its jurisdiction, or complying with
an order of a court of the United States in an action brought
by the United States or the Commission. For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United States Code, this paragraph shall be
considered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such
section 552.
(3)(A) With respect to any financial institution that has filed
notice as a government securities broker or government securities
dealer or that is required to file notice under subsection (a)(1)(B),
the appropriate regulatory agency for such government securities
broker or government securities dealer may issue such rules and
regulations with respect to transactions in government securities
as may be necessary to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts
and practices and to promote just and equitable principles of trade.
If the Secretary of the Treasury determines, and notifies the appropriate regulatory agency, that such rule or regulation, if implemented, would, or as applied does (i) adversely affect the liquidity
or efficiency of the market for government securities; or (ii) impose
any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this section, the appropriate regulatory
agency shall, prior to adopting the proposed rule or regulation, find
that such rule or regulation is necessary and appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this section notwithstanding the Secretary’s determination.
(B) The appropriate regulatory agency shall consult with and
consider the views of the Secretary prior to approving or amending
a rule or regulation under this paragraph, except where the appropriate regulatory agency determines that an emergency exists requiring expeditious and summary action and publishes its reasons
therefor. If the Secretary comments in writing to the appropriate
regulatory agency on a proposed rule or regulation that has been
published for comment, the appropriate regulatory agency shall respond in writing to such written comment before approving the
proposed rule or regulation.
(C) In promulgating rules under this section, the appropriate
regulatory agency shall consider the sufficiency and appropriateness of then existing laws and rules applicable to government securities brokers, government securities dealers, and persons associated with government securities brokers and government securities
dealers.
(4) Rules promulgated and orders issued under this section
shall—
(A) be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative
acts and practices and to protect the integrity, liquidity, and
efficiency of the market for government securities, investors,
and the public interest; and
(B) not be designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, government securities brokers, or
government securities dealers, or to impose any burden on

Sec. 15C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

212

competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the
purposes of this title.
(5) In promulgating rules and issuing orders under this section, the Secretary—
(A) may appropriately classify government securities brokers and government securities dealers (taking into account
relevant matters, including types of business done, nature of
securities other than government securities purchased or sold,
and character of business organization) and persons associated
with government securities brokers and government securities
dealers;
(B) may determine, to the extent consistent with paragraph (2) of this subsection and with the public interest, the
protection of investors, and the purposes of this title, not to
apply, in whole or in part, certain rules under this section, or
to apply greater, lesser, or different standards, to certain classes of government securities brokers, government securities
dealers, or persons associated with government securities brokers or government securities dealers;
(C) shall consider the sufficiency and appropriateness of
then existing laws and rules applicable to government securities brokers, government securities dealers, and persons associated with government securities brokers and government securities dealers; and
(D) shall consult with and consider the views of the Commission and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, except where the Secretary determines that an emergency exists requiring expeditious or summary action and publishes its reasons for such determination.
(6) If the Commission or the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System comments in writing on a proposed rule of the Secretary that has been published for comment, the Secretary shall respond in writing to such written comment before approving the
proposed rule.
(7) No government securities broker or government securities
dealer shall make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality
of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce or
attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any government security
in contravention of any rule under this section.
(c)(1) With respect to any government securities broker or government securities dealer registered or required to register under
subsection (a)(1)(A) of this section—
(A) The Commission, by order, shall censure, place limitations on the activities, functions, or operations of, suspend for
a period not exceeding 12 months, or revoke the registration of
such government securities broker or government securities
dealer, if it finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for
hearing, that such censure, placing of limitations, suspension,
or revocation is in the public interest and that such government securities broker or government securities dealer, or any
person associated with such government securities broker or
government securities dealer (whether prior or subsequent to
becoming so associated), has committed or omitted any act, or
is subject to an order or finding, enumerated in subparagraph

213

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15C

(A), (D), (E), (H), or (G) of paragraph (4) of section 15(b) of this
title, has been convicted of any offense specified in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph (4) within 10 years of the commencement of the proceedings under this paragraph, or is enjoined from any action, conduct, or practice specified in subparagraph (C) of such paragraph (4).
(B) Pending final determination whether registration of
any government securities broker or government securities
dealer shall be revoked, the Commission, by order, may suspend such registration, if such suspension appears to the Commission, after notice and opportunity for hearing, to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. Any registered government securities broker
or registered government securities dealer may, upon such
terms and conditions as the Commission may deem necessary
in the public interest or for the protection of investors, withdraw from registration by filing a written notice of withdrawal
with the Commission. If the Commission finds that any registered government securities broker or registered government
securities dealer is no longer in existence or has ceased to do
business as a government securities broker or government securities dealer, the Commission, by order, shall cancel the registration of such government securities broker or government
securities dealer.
(C) The Commission, by order, shall censure or place limitations on the activities or functions of any person who is, or
at the time of the alleged misconduct was, associated or seeking to become associated with a government securities broker
or government securities dealer registered or required to register under subsection (a)(1)(A) of this section or suspend for
a period not exceeding 12 months or bar any such person from
being associated with such a government securities broker or
government securities dealer, if the Commission finds, on the
record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such censure, placing of limitations, suspension, or bar is in the public
interest and that such person has committed or omitted any
act, or is subject to an order or finding, enumerated in subparagraph (A), (D), (E), (H), or (G) of paragraph (4) of section
15(b) of this title, has been convicted of any offense specified
in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph (4) within 10 years of
the commencement of the proceedings under this paragraph, or
is enjoined from any action, conduct, or practice specified in
subparagraph (C) of such paragraph (4).
(2)(A) With respect to any government securities broker or government securities dealer which is not registered or required to
register under subsection (a)(1)(A) of this section, the appropriate
regulatory agency for such government securities broker or government securities dealer may, in the manner and for the reasons
specified in paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection, censure, place limitations on the activities, functions, or operations of, suspend for a
period not exceeding 12 months, or bar from acting as a government securities broker or government securities dealer any such
government securities broker or government securities dealer, and
may sanction any person associated, seeking to become associated,

Sec. 15C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

214

or, at the time of the alleged misconduct, associated or seeking to
become associated with such government securities broker or government securities dealer in the manner and for the reasons specified in paragraph (1)(C) of this subsection.
(B) In addition, where applicable, such appropriate regulatory
agency may, in accordance with section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818), section 5 of the Home Owners’ Loan
Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 1464), or section 407 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1730), enforce compliance by such government
securities broker or government securities dealer or any person associated, seeking to become associated, or, at the time of the alleged misconduct, associated or seeking to become associated with
such government securities broker or government securities dealer
with the provisions of this section and the rules thereunder.
(C) For purposes of subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, any
violation of any such provision shall constitute adequate basis for
the issuance of any order under section 8(b) or 8(c) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act, section 5(d)(2) or 5(d)(3) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act of 1933, or section 407(e) or 407(f) of the National
Housing Act, and the customers of any such government securities
broker or government securities dealer shall be deemed, respectively, ‘‘depositors’’ as that term is used in section 8(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, ‘‘savings account holders’’ as that term
is used in section 5(d)(3) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act of 1933,
or ‘‘insured members’’ as that term is used in section 407(f) of the
National Housing Act.
(D) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to affect in
any way the powers of such appropriate regulatory agency to proceed against such government securities broker or government securities dealer under any other provision of law.
(E) Each appropriate regulatory agency (other than the Commission) shall promptly notify the Commission after it has imposed
any sanction under this paragraph on a government securities
broker or government securities dealer, or a person associated with
a government securities broker or government securities dealer,
and the Commission shall maintain, and make available to the
public, a record of such sanctions and any sanctions imposed by it
under this subsection.
(3) It shall be unlawful for any person as to whom an order entered pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection suspending or barring him from being associated with a government
securities broker or government securities dealer is in effect willfully to become, or to be, associated with a government securities
broker or government securities dealer without the consent of the
appropriate regulatory agency, and it shall be unlawful for any government securities broker or government securities dealer to permit such a person to become, or remain, a person associated with
it without the consent of the appropriate regulatory agency, if such
government securities broker or government securities dealer
knew, or, in the exercise of reasonable care should have known, of
such order.
(d)(1) All records of a government securities broker or government securities dealer are subject at any time, or from time to
time, to such reasonable periodic, special, or other examinations by

215

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15C

representatives of the appropriate regulatory agency for such government securities broker or government securities dealer as such
appropriate regulatory agency deems necessary or appropriate in
the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in
furtherance of the purposes of this title.
(2) Information received by an appropriate regulatory agency,
the Secretary, or the Commission from or with respect to any government securities broker, government securities dealer, any person associated with a government securities broker or government
securities dealer, or any other person subject to this section or
rules promulgated thereunder, may be made available by the Secretary or the recipient agency to the Commission, the Secretary,
the Department of Justice, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, any appropriate regulatory agency, any self-regulatory organization, or any Federal Reserve Bank.
(3) GOVERNMENT SECURITIES TRADE RECONSTRUCTION.—
(A) FURNISHING RECORDS.—Every government securities
broker and government securities dealer shall furnish to the
Commission on request such records of government securities
transactions, including records of the date and time of execution of trades, as the Commission may require to reconstruct
trading in the course of a particular inquiry or investigation
being conducted by the Commission for enforcement or surveillance purposes. In requiring information pursuant to this paragraph, the Commission shall specify the information required,
the period for which it is required, the time and date on which
the information must be furnished, and whether the information is to be furnished directly to the Commission, to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or to an appropriate regulatory agency or self-regulatory organization with responsibility for examining the government securities broker or government securities dealer. The Commission may require that
such information be furnished in machine readable form notwithstanding any limitation in subparagraph (B). In utilizing
its authority to require information in machine readable form,
the Commission shall minimize the burden such requirement
may place on small government securities brokers and dealers.
(B) LIMITATION; CONSTRUCTION.—The Commission shall
not utilize its authority under this paragraph to develop regular reporting requirements, except that the Commission may
require information to be furnished under this paragraph as
frequently as necessary for particular inquiries or investigations for enforcement or surveillance purposes. This paragraph
shall not be construed as requiring, or as authorizing the Commission to require, any government securities broker or government securities dealer to obtain or maintain any information for purposes of this paragraph which is not otherwise
maintained by such broker or dealer in accordance with any
other provision of law or usual and customary business practice. The Commission shall, where feasible, avoid requiring any
information to be furnished under this paragraph that the
Commission may obtain from the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York.

Sec. 15C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

216

(C) PROCEDURES FOR REQUIRING INFORMATION.—At the
time the Commission requests any information pursuant to
subparagraph (A) with respect to any government securities
broker or government securities dealer for which the Commission is not the appropriate regulatory agency, the Commission
shall notify the appropriate regulatory agency for such government securities broker or government securities dealer and,
upon request, furnish to the appropriate regulatory agency any
information supplied to the Commission.
(D) CONSULTATION.—Within 90 days after the date of enactment of this paragraph, and annually thereafter, or upon
the request of any other appropriate regulatory agency, the
Commission shall consult with the other appropriate regulatory agencies to determine the availability of records that
may be required to be furnished under this paragraph and, for
those records available directly from the other appropriate regulatory agencies, to develop a procedure for furnishing such
records expeditiously upon the Commission’s request.
(E) EXCLUSION FOR EXAMINATION REPORTS.—Nothing in
this paragraph shall be construed so as to permit the Commission to require any government securities broker or government securities dealer to obtain, maintain, or furnish any examination report of any appropriate regulatory agency other
than the Commission or any supervisory recommendations or
analysis contained in any such examination report.
(F) AUTHORITY TO LIMIT DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.—
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission
and the appropriate regulatory agencies shall not be compelled
to disclose any information required or obtained under this
paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph shall authorize the Commission or any appropriate regulatory agency to withhold information from Congress, or prevent the Commission or any appropriate regulatory agency from complying with a request for
information from any other Federal department or agency requesting information for purposes within the scope of its jurisdiction, or from complying with an order of a court of the
United States in an action brought by the United States, the
Commission, or the appropriate regulatory agency. For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United States Code, this subparagraph shall be considered a statute described in subsection
(b)(3)(B) of such section 552.
(e)(1) It shall be unlawful for any government securities broker
or government securities dealer registered or required to register
with the Commission under subsection (a)(1)(A) to effect any transaction in, or induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of,
any government security, unless such government securities broker
or government securities dealer is a member of a national securities exchange registered under section 6 of this title or a securities
association registered under section 15A of this title.
(2) The Commission, after consultation with the Secretary, by
rule or order, as it deems consistent with the public interest and
the protection of investors, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt from paragraph (1) of this subsection any government securities broker or government securities dealer or class of government

217

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15C

securities brokers or government securities dealers specified in
such rule or order.
(f) LARGE POSITION REPORTING.—
(1) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—The Secretary may adopt
rules to require specified persons holding, maintaining, or controlling large positions in to-be-issued or recently issued Treasury securities to file such reports regarding such positions as
the Secretary determines to be necessary and appropriate for
the purpose of monitoring the impact in the Treasury securities market of concentrations of positions in Treasury securities and for the purpose of otherwise assisting the Commission
in the enforcement of this title, taking into account any impact
of such rules on the efficiency and liquidity of the Treasury securities market and the cost to taxpayers of funding the Federal debt. Unless otherwise specified by the Secretary, reports
required under this subsection shall be filed with the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, acting as agent for the Secretary.
Such reports shall, on a timely basis, be provided directly to
the Commission by the person with whom they are filed.
(2) RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS.—Rules under this subsection may require persons holding, maintaining, or controlling large positions in Treasury securities to make and keep for
prescribed periods such records as the Secretary determines
are necessary or appropriate to ensure that such persons can
comply with reporting requirements under this subsection.
(3) AGGREGATION RULES.—Rules under this subsection—
(A) may prescribe the manner in which positions and
accounts shall be aggregated for the purpose of this subsection, including aggregation on the basis of common
ownership or control; and
(B) may define which persons (individually or as a
group) hold, maintain, or control large positions.
(4) DEFINITIONAL AUTHORITY; DETERMINATION OF REPORTING THRESHOLD.—
(A) In prescribing rules under this subsection, the Secretary may, consistent with the purpose of this subsection,
define terms used in this subsection that are not otherwise
defined in section 3 of this title.
(B) Rules under this subsection shall specify—
(i) the minimum size of positions subject to reporting under this subsection, which shall be no less than
the size that provides the potential for manipulation
or control of the supply or price, or the cost of financing arrangements, of an issue or the portion thereof
that is available for trading;
(ii) the types of positions (which may include financing arrangements) to be reported;
(iii) the securities to be covered; and
(iv) the form and manner in which reports shall
be transmitted, which may include transmission in
machine readable form.
(5) EXEMPTIONS.—Consistent with the public interest and
the protection of investors, the Secretary by rule or order may
exempt in whole or in part, conditionally or unconditionally,

Sec. 15C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

218

any person or class of persons, or any transaction or class of
transactions, from the requirements of this subsection.
(6) LIMITATION ON DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary and the
Commission shall not be compelled to disclose any information
required to be kept or reported under this subsection. Nothing
in this subsection shall authorize the Secretary or the Commission to withhold information from Congress, or prevent the
Secretary or the Commission from complying with a request for
information from any other Federal department or agency requesting information for purposes within the scope of its jurisdiction, or from complying with an order of a court of the
United States in an action brought by the United States, the
Secretary, or the Commission. For purposes of section 552 of
title 5, United States Code, this paragraph shall be considered
a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section 552.
(g)(1) Nothing in this section except paragraph (2) of this subsection shall be construed to impair or limit the authority under
any other provision of law of the Commission, the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development,
and the Government National Mortgage Association.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the Commission shall not have any authority to make investigations of, require the filing of a statement by, or take any other action under
this title against a government securities broker or government securities dealer, or any person associated with a government securities broker or government securities dealer, for any violation or
threatened violation of the provisions of this section, other than
subsection (d)(3) [99] or the rules or regulations thereunder, unless
the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency for such government securities broker or government securities dealer. Nothing
in the preceding sentence shall be construed to limit the authority
of the Commission with respect to violations or threatened violations of any provision of this title other than this section (except
subsection (d)(3)), the rules or regulations under any such other
provision, or investigations pursuant to section 21(a)(2) of this title
to assist a foreign securities authority.
(h) EMERGENCY AUTHORITY.—The Secretary may, by order,
take any action with respect to a matter or action subject to regulation by the Secretary under this section, or the rules of the Secretary under this section, involving a government security or a
market therein (or significant portion or segment of that market),
that the Commission may take under section 12(k)(2) with respect
to transactions in securities (other than exempted securities) or a
market therein (or significant portion or segment of that market).
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 15C, as added Oct. 28, 1986,
Pub. L. 99-571, title I, Sec. 101, 100 Stat. 3208; amended Dec. 4,
1987, Pub. L. 100-181, title VIII, Sec. 801(a), 101 Stat. 1265; Aug.
9, 1989, Pub. L. 101-73, title VII, Sec. 744(u)(3), 103 Stat. 441; Oct.
99So

in law. Probably should be followed by a comma.

219

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15D

16, 1990, Pub. L. 101-432, Sec. 4(b), 104 Stat. 970; Nov. 15, 1990,
Pub. L. 101-550, title II, Sec. 203(c), 104 Stat. 2718; Dec. 17, 1993,
Pub. L. 103-202, title I, Sec. 102-104, 106(a), 108, 109(b)(1), (c), 107
Stat. 2345, 2346, 2349, 2351-2353; Nov. 3, 1998, Pub. L. 105-353,
title III, Sec. 301(b)(10), 112 Stat. 3236; Pub. L. 107-204, title VI,
Sec. 604(c)(1)(B), July 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 796; Pub. L. 108-458,
title VII, Sec. 7803(d), Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3863; Pub. L. 111203, title III, Sec. 376(3), title IX, Secs. 929F(b), 985(b)(6), July 21,
2010, 124 Stat. 1569, 1854, 1934.)
SEC. 15D. SECURITIES ANALYSTS AND RESEARCH REPORTS.
(a) ANALYST PROTECTIONS.—The Commission, or upon

the authorization and direction of the Commission, a registered securities
association or national securities exchange, shall have adopted, not
later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, rules
reasonably designed to address conflicts of interest that can arise
when securities analysts recommend equity securities in research
reports and public appearances, in order to improve the objectivity
of research and provide investors with more useful and reliable information, including rules designed—
(1) to foster greater public confidence in securities research, and to protect the objectivity and independence of securities analysts, by—
(A) restricting the prepublication clearance or approval
of research reports by persons employed by the broker or
dealer who are engaged in investment banking activities,
or persons not directly responsible for investment research,
other than legal or compliance staff;
(B) limiting the supervision and compensatory evaluation of securities analysts to officials employed by the
broker or dealer who are not engaged in investment banking activities; and
(C) requiring that a broker or dealer and persons employed by a broker or dealer who are involved with investment banking activities may not, directly or indirectly, retaliate against or threaten to retaliate against any securities analyst employed by that broker or dealer or its affiliates as a result of an adverse, negative, or otherwise unfavorable research report that may adversely affect the
present or prospective investment banking relationship of
the broker or dealer with the issuer that is the subject of
the research report, except that such rules may not limit
the authority of a broker or dealer to discipline a securities
analyst for causes other than such research report in accordance with the policies and procedures of the firm;
(2) to define periods during which brokers or dealers who
have participated, or are to participate, in a public offering of
securities as underwriters or dealers should not publish or otherwise distribute research reports relating to such securities or
to the issuer of such securities;
(3) to establish structural and institutional safeguards
within registered brokers or dealers to assure that securities
analysts are separated by appropriate informational partitions

Sec. 15D

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

220

within the firm from the review, pressure, or oversight of those
whose involvement in investment banking activities might potentially bias their judgment or supervision; and
(4) to address such other issues as the Commission, or
such association or exchange, determines appropriate.
(b) DISCLOSURE.—The Commission, or upon the authorization
and direction of the Commission, a registered securities association
or national securities exchange, shall have adopted, not later than
1 year after the date of enactment of this section, rules reasonably
designed to require each securities analyst to disclose in public appearances, and each registered broker or dealer to disclose in each
research report, as applicable, conflicts of interest that are known
or should have been known by the securities analyst or the broker
or dealer, to exist at the time of the appearance or the date of distribution of the report, including—
(1) the extent to which the securities analyst has debt or
equity investments in the issuer that is the subject of the appearance or research report;
(2) whether any compensation has been received by the
registered broker or dealer, or any affiliate thereof, including
the securities analyst, from the issuer that is the subject of the
appearance or research report, subject to such exemptions as
the Commission may determine appropriate and necessary to
prevent disclosure by virtue of this paragraph of material nonpublic information regarding specific potential future investment banking transactions of such issuer, as is appropriate in
the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors;
(3) whether an issuer, the securities of which are recommended in the appearance or research report, currently is,
or during the 1-year period preceding the date of the appearance or date of distribution of the report has been, a client of
the registered broker or dealer, and if so, stating the types of
services provided to the issuer;
(4) whether the securities analyst received compensation
with respect to a research report, based upon (among any other
factors) the investment banking revenues (either generally or
specifically earned from the issuer being analyzed) of the registered broker or dealer; and
(5) such other disclosures of conflicts of interest that are
material to investors, research analysts, or the broker or dealer
as the Commission, or such association or exchange, determines appropriate.
(c) LIMITATION.—Notwithstanding subsection (a) or any other
provision of law, neither the Commission nor any national securities association registered under section 15A may adopt or maintain any rule or regulation in connection with an initial public offering of the common equity of an emerging growth company—
(1) restricting, based on functional role, which associated
persons of a broker, dealer, or member of a national securities
association, may arrange for communications between a securities analyst and a potential investor; or
(2) restricting a securities analyst from participating in
any communications with the management of an emerging

221

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15E

growth company that is also attended by any other associated
person of a broker, dealer, or member of a national securities
association whose functional role is other than as a securities
analyst.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘securities analyst’’ means any associated person of a registered broker or dealer that is principally responsible for, and any associated person who reports directly or indirectly to a securities analyst in connection with, the preparation of the substance of a research report, whether or not any
such person has the job title of ‘‘securities analyst’’; and
(2) the term ‘‘research report’’ means a written or electronic communication that includes an analysis of equity securities of individual companies or industries, and that provides
information reasonably sufficient upon which to base an investment decision.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 15D, as added Pub. L. 107-204,
title V, Sec. 501(a), July 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 791; amended Pub. L.
112-106, title I, Sec. 105(b), Apr. 5, 2012, 126 Stat. 311.)
SEC. 15E. REGISTRATION OF NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS.
(a) REGISTRATION PROCEDURES.—
(1) APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A credit rating agency that elects to

be treated as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization for purposes of this title (in this section referred
to as the ‘‘applicant’’), shall furnish to the Commission an
application for registration, in such form as the Commission shall require, by rule or regulation issued in accordance with subsection (n), and containing the information
described in subparagraph (B).
(B) REQUIRED INFORMATION.—An application for registration under this section shall contain information regarding—
(i) credit ratings performance measurement statistics over short-term, mid-term, and long-term periods
(as applicable) of the applicant;
(ii) the procedures and methodologies that the applicant uses in determining credit ratings;
(iii) policies or procedures adopted and implemented by the applicant to prevent the misuse, in violation of this title (or the rules and regulations hereunder), of material, nonpublic information;
(iv) the organizational structure of the applicant;
(v) whether or not the applicant has in effect a
code of ethics, and if not, the reasons therefor;
(vi) any conflict of interest relating to the issuance
of credit ratings by the applicant;
(vii) the categories described in any of clauses (i)
through (v) of section 3(a)(62)(B) with respect to which
the applicant intends to apply for registration under
this section;

Sec. 15E

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

222

(viii) on a confidential basis, a list of the 20 largest issuers and subscribers that use the credit rating
services of the applicant, by amount of net revenues
received therefrom in the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of submission of the application;
(ix) on a confidential basis, as to each applicable
category of obligor described in any of clauses (i)
through (v) of section 3(a)(62)(B), written certifications
described in subparagraph (C), except as provided in
subparagraph (D); and
(x) any other information and documents concerning the applicant and any person associated with
such applicant as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(C) WRITTEN CERTIFICATIONS.—Written certifications
required by subparagraph (B)(ix)—
(i) shall be provided from not fewer than 10 qualified institutional buyers, none of which is affiliated
with the applicant;
(ii) may address more than one category of obligors described in any of clauses (i) through (v) of section 3(a)(62)(B);
(iii) shall include not fewer than 2 certifications
for each such category of obligor; and
(iv) shall state that the qualified institutional
buyer—
(I) meets the definition of a qualified institutional buyer under section 3(a)(64); and
(II) has used the credit ratings of the applicant for at least the 3 years immediately preceding the date of the certification in the subject
category or categories of obligors.
(D) EXEMPTION FROM CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—A
written certification under subparagraph (B)(ix) is not required with respect to any credit rating agency which has
received, or been the subject of, a no-action letter from the
staff of the Commission prior to August 2, 2006, stating
that such staff would not recommend enforcement action
against any broker or dealer that considers credit ratings
issued by such credit rating agency to be ratings from a
nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(E) LIMITATION ON LIABILITY OF QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYERS.—No qualified institutional buyer shall be
liable in any private right of action for any opinion or
statement expressed in a certification made pursuant to
subparagraph (B)(ix).
(2) REVIEW OF APPLICATION.—
(A) INITIAL DETERMINATION.—Not later than 90 days
after the date on which the application for registration is
furnished to the Commission under paragraph (1) (or within such longer period as to which the applicant consents)
the Commission shall—

223

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15E

(i) by order, grant such registration for ratings in
the subject category or categories of obligors, as described in clauses (i) through (v) of section 3(a)(62)(B);
or
(ii) institute proceedings to determine whether
registration should be denied.
(B) CONDUCT OF PROCEEDINGS.—
(i) CONTENT.—Proceedings referred to in subparagraph (A)(ii) shall—
(I) include notice of the grounds for denial
under consideration and an opportunity for hearing; and
(II) be concluded not later than 120 days after
the date on which the application for registration
is furnished to the Commission under paragraph
(1).
(ii) DETERMINATION.—At the conclusion of such
proceedings, the Commission, by order, shall grant or
deny such application for registration.
(iii) EXTENSION AUTHORIZED.—The Commission
may extend the time for conclusion of such proceedings for not longer than 90 days, if it finds good
cause for such extension and publishes its reasons for
so finding, or for such longer period as to which the
applicant consents.
(C) GROUNDS FOR DECISION.—The Commission shall
grant registration under this subsection—
(i) if the Commission finds that the requirements
of this section are satisfied; and
(ii) unless the Commission finds (in which case
the Commission shall deny such registration) that—
(I) the applicant does not have adequate financial and managerial resources to consistently
produce credit ratings with integrity and to materially comply with the procedures and methodologies disclosed under paragraph (1)(B) and with
subsections (g), (h), (i), and (j); or
(II) if the applicant were so registered, its registration would be subject to suspension or revocation under subsection (d).
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION.—Subject to section 24, the Commission shall, by rule, require a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, upon the granting of
registration under this section, to make the information and
documents submitted to the Commission in its completed application for registration, or in any amendment submitted
under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (b), publicly available
on its website, or through another comparable, readily accessible means, except as provided in clauses (viii) and (ix) of
paragraph (1)(B).
(b) UPDATE OF REGISTRATION.—
(1) UPDATE.—Each nationally recognized statistical rating
organization shall promptly amend its application for registration under this section if any information or document pro-

Sec. 15E

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

224

vided therein becomes materially inaccurate, except that a nationally recognized statistical rating organization is not required to amend—
(A) the information required to be filed under subsection (a)(1)(B)(i) by filing information under this paragraph, but shall amend such information in the annual
submission of the organization under paragraph (2) of this
subsection; or
(B) the certifications required to be provided under
subsection (a)(1)(B)(ix) by filing information under this
paragraph.
(2) CERTIFICATION.—Not later than 90 days after the end
of each calendar year, each nationally recognized statistical
rating organization shall file with the Commission an amendment to its registration, in such form as the Commission, by
rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public
interest or for the protection of investors—
(A) certifying that the information and documents in
the application for registration of such nationally recognized statistical rating organization (other than the certifications required under subsection (a)(1)(B)(ix)) continue to
be accurate; and
(B) listing any material change that occurred to such
information or documents during the previous calendar
year.
(c) ACCOUNTABILITY FOR RATINGS PROCEDURES.—
(1) AUTHORITY.—The Commission shall have exclusive authority to enforce the provisions of this section in accordance
with this title with respect to any nationally recognized statistical rating organization, if such nationally recognized statistical rating organization issues credit ratings in material contravention of those procedures relating to such nationally recognized statistical rating organization, including procedures relating to the prevention of misuse of nonpublic information and
conflicts of interest, that such nationally recognized statistical
rating organization—
(A) includes in its application for registration under
subsection (a)(1)(B)(ii); or
(B) makes and disseminates in reports pursuant to
section 17(a) or the rules and regulations thereunder.
(2) LIMITATION.—The rules and regulations that the Commission may prescribe pursuant to this title, as they apply to
nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, shall be
narrowly tailored to meet the requirements of this title applicable to nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, or any
other provision of law, neither the Commission nor any State
(or political subdivision thereof) may regulate the substance of
credit ratings or the procedures and methodologies by which
any nationally recognized statistical rating organization determines credit ratings. Nothing in this paragraph may be construed to afford a defense against any action or proceeding
brought by the Commission to enforce the antifraud provisions
of the securities laws.

225

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15E

(3) INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER PROCESSES FOR DETERMINING
CREDIT RATINGS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Each nationally recognized statistical rating organization shall establish, maintain, enforce,
and document an effective internal control structure governing the implementation of and adherence to policies,
procedures, and methodologies for determining credit ratings, taking into consideration such factors as the Commission may prescribe, by rule.
(B) ATTESTATION REQUIREMENT.—The Commission
shall prescribe rules requiring each nationally recognized
statistical rating organization to submit to the Commission
an annual internal controls report, which shall contain—
(i) a description of the responsibility of the management of the nationally recognized statistical rating
organization in establishing and maintaining an effective internal control structure under subparagraph
(A);
(ii) an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control structure of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
(iii) the attestation of the chief executive officer, or
equivalent individual, of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(d) CENSURE, DENIAL, OR SUSPENSION OF REGISTRATION; NOTICE AND HEARING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission, by order, shall censure,
place limitations on the activities, functions, or operations of,
suspend for a period not exceeding 12 months, or revoke the
registration of any nationally recognized statistical rating organization, or with respect to any person who is associated with,
who is seeking to become associated with, or, at the time of the
alleged misconduct, who was associated or was seeking to become associated with a nationally recognized statistical rating
organization, the Commission, by order, shall censure, place
limitations on the activities or functions of such person, suspend for a period not exceeding 1 year, or bar such person from
being associated with a nationally recognized statistical rating
organization, if the Commission finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such censure, placing of
limitations, suspension, bar or revocation is necessary for the
protection of investors and in the public interest and that such
nationally recognized statistical rating organization, or any
person associated with such an organization, whether prior to
or subsequent to becoming so associated—
(A) has committed or omitted any act, or is subject to
an order or finding, enumerated in subparagraph (A), (D),
(E), (H), or (G) of section 15(b)(4), has been convicted of
any offense specified in section 15(b)(4)(B), or is enjoined
from any action, conduct, or practice specified in subparagraph (C) of section 15(b)(4), during the 10-year period preceding the date of commencement of the proceedings under
this subsection, or at any time thereafter;

Sec. 15E

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

226

(B) has been convicted during the 10-year period preceding the date on which an application for registration is
filed with the Commission under this section, or at any
time thereafter, of—
(i) any crime that is punishable by imprisonment
for 1 or more years, and that is not described in section 15(b)(4)(B); or
(ii) a substantially equivalent crime by a foreign
court of competent jurisdiction;
(C) is subject to any order of the Commission barring
or suspending the right of the person to be associated with
a nationally recognized statistical rating organization;
(D) fails to file the certifications required under subsection (b)(2);
(E) fails to maintain adequate financial and managerial resources to consistently produce credit ratings with
integrity; [100]
(F) has failed reasonably to supervise, with a view to
preventing a violation of the securities laws, an individual
who commits such a violation, if the individual is subject
to the supervision of that person.
(2) SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION FOR PARTICULAR CLASS OF
SECURITIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission may temporarily
suspend or permanently revoke the registration of a nationally recognized statistical rating organization with respect to a particular class or subclass of securities, if the
Commission finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization does not have adequate financial
and managerial resources to consistently produce credit
ratings with integrity.
(B) CONSIDERATIONS.—In making any determination
under subparagraph (A), the Commission shall consider—
(i) whether the nationally recognized statistical
rating organization has failed over a sustained period
of time, as determined by the Commission, to produce
ratings that are accurate for that class or subclass of
securities; and
(ii) such other factors as the Commission may determine.
(e) TERMINATION OF REGISTRATION.—
(1) VOLUNTARY WITHDRAWAL.—A nationally recognized statistical rating organization may, upon such terms and conditions as the Commission may establish as necessary in the
public interest or for the protection of investors, withdraw from
registration by furnishing a written notice of withdrawal to the
Commission.
(2) COMMISSION AUTHORITY.—In addition to any other authority of the Commission under this title, if the Commission
finds that a nationally recognized statistical rating organization is no longer in existence or has ceased to do business as
100So

in original. Probably should be followed by ‘‘or’’.

227

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15E

a credit rating agency, the Commission, by order, shall cancel
the registration under this section of such nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(f) REPRESENTATIONS.—
(1) BAN ON REPRESENTATIONS OF SPONSORSHIP BY UNITED
STATES OR AGENCY THEREOF.—It shall be unlawful for any nationally recognized statistical rating organization to represent
or imply in any manner whatsoever that such nationally recognized statistical rating organization has been designated, sponsored, recommended, or approved, or that the abilities or qualifications thereof have in any respect been passed upon, by the
United States or any agency, officer, or employee thereof.
(2) BAN ON REPRESENTATION AS NRSRO OF UNREGISTERED
CREDIT RATING AGENCIES.—It shall be unlawful for any credit
rating agency that is not registered under this section as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization to state that
such credit rating agency is a nationally recognized statistical
rating organization registered under this title.
(3) STATEMENT OF REGISTRATION UNDER SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 PROVISIONS.—No provision of paragraph
(1) shall be construed to prohibit a statement that a nationally
recognized statistical rating organization is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization under this title, if such
statement is true in fact and if the effect of such registration
is not misrepresented.
(g) PREVENTION OF MISUSE OF NONPUBLIC INFORMATION.—
(1) ORGANIZATION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.—Each nationally recognized statistical rating organization shall establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of the
business of such nationally recognized statistical rating organization, to prevent the misuse in violation of this title, or the
rules or regulations hereunder, of material, nonpublic information by such nationally recognized statistical rating organization or any person associated with such nationally recognized
statistical rating organization.
(2) COMMISSION AUTHORITY.—The Commission shall issue
final rules in accordance with subsection (n) to require specific
policies or procedures that are reasonably designed to prevent
misuse in violation of this title (or the rules or regulations
hereunder) of material, nonpublic information.
(h) MANAGEMENT OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.—
(1) ORGANIZATION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.—Each nationally recognized statistical rating organization shall establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of the
business of such nationally recognized statistical rating organization and affiliated persons and affiliated companies thereof,
to address and manage any conflicts of interest that can arise
from such business.
(2) COMMISSION AUTHORITY.—The Commission shall issue
final rules in accordance with subsection (n) to prohibit, or require the management and disclosure of, any conflicts of interest relating to the issuance of credit ratings by a nationally

Sec. 15E

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

228

recognized statistical rating organization, including, without
limitation, conflicts of interest relating to—
(A) the manner in which a nationally recognized statistical rating organization is compensated by the obligor,
or any affiliate of the obligor, for issuing credit ratings or
providing related services;
(B) the provision of consulting, advisory, or other services by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, or any person associated with such nationally recognized statistical rating organization, to the obligor, or any
affiliate of the obligor;
(C) business relationships, ownership interests, or any
other financial or personal interests between a nationally
recognized statistical rating organization, or any person
associated with such nationally recognized statistical rating organization, and the obligor, or any affiliate of the obligor;
(D) any affiliation of a nationally recognized statistical
rating organization, or any person associated with such
nationally recognized statistical rating organization, with
any person that underwrites the securities or money market instruments that are the subject of a credit rating; and
(E) any other potential conflict of interest, as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(3) SEPARATION OF RATINGS FROM SALES AND MARKETING.—
(A) RULES REQUIRED.—The Commission shall issue
rules to prevent the sales and marketing considerations of
a nationally recognized statistical rating organization from
influencing the production of ratings by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(B) CONTENTS OF RULES.—The rules issued under subparagraph (A) shall provide for—
(i) exceptions for small nationally recognized statistical rating organizations with respect to which the
Commission determines that the separation of the production of ratings and sales and marketing activities
is not appropriate; and
(ii) suspension or revocation of the registration of
a nationally recognized statistical rating organization,
if the Commission finds, on the record, after notice
and opportunity for a hearing, that—
(I) the nationally recognized statistical rating
organization has committed a violation of a rule
issued under this subsection; and
(II) the violation of a rule issued under this
subsection affected a rating.
(4) LOOK-BACK REQUIREMENT.—
(A) REVIEW BY THE NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATION.—Each nationally recognized
statistical rating organization shall establish, maintain,
and enforce policies and procedures reasonably designed to
ensure that, in any case in which an employee of a person
subject to a credit rating of the nationally recognized sta-

229

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15E

tistical rating organization or the issuer, underwriter, or
sponsor of a security or money market instrument subject
to a credit rating of the nationally recognized statistical
rating organization was employed by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization and participated in
any capacity in determining credit ratings for the person
or the securities or money market instruments during the
1-year period preceding the date an action was taken with
respect to the credit rating, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization shall—
(i) conduct a review to determine whether any
conflicts of interest of the employee influenced the
credit rating; and
(ii) take action to revise the rating if appropriate,
in accordance with such rules as the Commission shall
prescribe.
(B) REVIEW BY COMMISSION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall conduct
periodic reviews of the policies described in subparagraph (A) and the implementation of the policies at
each nationally recognized statistical rating organization to ensure they are reasonably designed and implemented to most effectively eliminate conflicts of interest.
(ii) TIMING OF REVIEWS.—The Commission shall
review the code of ethics and conflict of interest policy
of each nationally recognized statistical rating organization—
(I) not less frequently than annually; and
(II) whenever such policies are materially
modified or amended.
(5) REPORT TO COMMISSION ON CERTAIN EMPLOYMENT TRANSITIONS.—
(A) REPORT REQUIRED.—Each nationally recognized
statistical rating organization shall report to the Commission any case such organization knows or can reasonably
be expected to know where a person associated with such
organization within the previous 5 years obtains employment with any obligor, issuer, underwriter, or sponsor of
a security or money market instrument for which the organization issued a credit rating during the 12-month period
prior to such employment, if such employee—
(i) was a senior officer of such organization;
(ii) participated in any capacity in determining
credit ratings for such obligor, issuer, underwriter, or
sponsor; or
(iii) supervised an employee described in clause
(ii).
(B) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE.—Upon receiving such a report, the Commission shall make such information publicly
available.
(i) PROHIBITED CONDUCT.—
(1) PROHIBITED ACTS AND PRACTICES.—The Commission
shall issue final rules in accordance with subsection (n) to pro-

Sec. 15E

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

230

hibit any act or practice relating to the issuance of credit ratings by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization
that the Commission determines to be unfair, coercive, or abusive, including any act or practice relating to—
(A) conditioning or threatening to condition the
issuance of a credit rating on the purchase by the obligor
or an affiliate thereof of other services or products, including pre- credit rating assessment products, of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization or any person associated with such nationally recognized statistical
rating organization;
(B) lowering or threatening to lower a credit rating on,
or refusing to rate, securities or money market instruments issued by an asset pool or as part of any assetbacked or mortgage-backed securities transaction, unless a
portion of the assets within such pool or part of such
transaction, as applicable, also is rated by the nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; or
(C) modifying or threatening to modify a credit rating
or otherwise departing from its adopted systematic procedures and methodologies in determining credit ratings,
based on whether the obligor, or an affiliate of the obligor,
purchases or will purchase the credit rating or any other
service or product of the nationally recognized statistical
rating organization or any person associated with such organization.
(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in paragraph (1), or
in any rules or regulations adopted thereunder, may be construed to modify, impair, or supersede the operation of any of
the antitrust laws (as defined in the first section of the Clayton
Act, except that such term includes section 5 of the Federal
Trade Commission Act, to the extent that such section 5 applies to unfair methods of competition).
(j) DESIGNATION OF COMPLIANCE OFFICER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each nationally recognized statistical
rating organization shall designate an individual responsible
for administering the policies and procedures that are required
to be established pursuant to subsections (g) and (h), and for
ensuring compliance with the securities laws and the rules and
regulations thereunder, including those promulgated by the
Commission pursuant to this section.
(2) LIMITATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph
(B), an individual designated under paragraph (1) may not,
while serving in the designated capacity—
(i) perform credit ratings;
(ii) participate in the development of ratings
methodologies or models;
(iii) perform marketing or sales functions; or
(iv) participate in establishing compensation levels, other than for employees working for that individual.
(B) EXCEPTION.—The Commission may exempt a small
nationally recognized statistical rating organization from

231

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15E

the limitations under this paragraph, if the Commission
finds that compliance with such limitations would impose
an unreasonable burden on the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(3) OTHER DUTIES.—Each individual designated under
paragraph (1) shall establish procedures for the receipt, retention, and treatment of—
(A) complaints regarding credit ratings, models, methodologies, and compliance with the securities laws and the
policies and procedures developed under this section; and
(B) confidential, anonymous complaints by employees
or users of credit ratings.
(4) COMPENSATION.—The compensation of each compliance
officer appointed under paragraph (1) shall not be linked to the
financial performance of the nationally recognized statistical
rating organization and shall be arranged so as to ensure the
independence of the officer’s judgment.
(5) ANNUAL REPORTS REQUIRED.—
(A) ANNUAL REPORTS REQUIRED.—Each individual designated under paragraph (1) shall submit to the nationally
recognized statistical rating organization an annual report
on the compliance of the nationally recognized statistical
rating organization with the securities laws and the policies and procedures of the nationally recognized statistical
rating organization that includes—
(i) a description of any material changes to the
code of ethics and conflict of interest policies of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
(ii) a certification that the report is accurate and
complete.
(B) SUBMISSION OF REPORTS TO THE COMMISSION.—
Each nationally recognized statistical rating organization
shall file the reports required under subparagraph (A) together with the financial report that is required to be submitted to the Commission under this section.
(k) STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION.—Each nationally
recognized statistical rating organization shall, on a confidential
basis, file with the Commission, at intervals determined by the
Commission, such financial statements, certified (if required by the
rules or regulations of the Commission) by an independent public
accountant, and information concerning its financial condition, as
the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate
in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(l) SOLE METHOD OF REGISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—On and after the effective date of this
section, a credit rating agency may only be registered as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization for any purpose in accordance with this section.
(2) PROHIBITION ON RELIANCE ON NO-ACTION RELIEF.—On
and after the effective date of this section—
(A) an entity that, before that date, received advice,
approval, or a no-action letter from the Commission or
staff thereof to be treated as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization pursuant to the Commission rule

Sec. 15E

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

232

at section 240.15c3-1 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, may represent itself or act as a nationally recognized
statistical rating organization only—
(i) during Commission consideration of the application, if such entity has filed an application for registration under this section; and
(ii) on and after the date of approval of its application for registration under this section; and
(B) the advice, approval, or no-action letter described
in subparagraph (A) shall be void.
(3) NOTICE TO OTHER AGENCIES.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of enactment of this section, the Commission
shall give notice of the actions undertaken pursuant to this
section to each Federal agency which employs in its rules and
regulations the term ’nationally recognized statistical rating
organization’ (as that term is used under Commission rule
15c3-1 (17 C.F.R. 240.15c3-1), as in effect on the date of enactment of this section).
(m) ACCOUNTABILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The enforcement and penalty provisions
of this title shall apply to statements made by a credit rating
agency in the same manner and to the same extent as such
provisions apply to statements made by a registered public accounting firm or a securities analyst under the securities laws,
and such statements shall not be deemed forward-looking
statements for the purposes of section 21E.
(2) RULEMAKING.—The Commission shall issue such rules
as may be necessary to carry out this subsection.
(n) REGULATIONS.—
(1) NEW PROVISIONS.—Such rules and regulations as are
required by this section or are otherwise necessary to carry out
this section, including the application form required under subsection (a)—
(A) shall be issued by the Commission in final form,
not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this
section; and
(B) shall become effective not later than 270 days after
the date of enactment of this section.
(2) REVIEW OF EXISTING REGULATIONS.—Not later than 270
days after the date of enactment of this section, the Commission shall—
(A) review its existing rules and regulations which employ the term ‘‘nationally recognized statistical rating organization’’ or ‘‘NRSRO’’; and
(B) amend or revise such rules and regulations in accordance with the purposes of this section, as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(o) NRSROS SUBJECT TO COMMISSION AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No provision of the laws of any State or
political subdivision thereof requiring the registration, licensing, or qualification as a credit rating agency or a nationally
recognized statistical rating organization shall apply to any nationally recognized statistical rating organization or person em-

233

ING

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15E

ployed by or working under the control of a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(2) LIMITATION.—Nothing in this subsection prohibits the
securities commission (or any agency or office performing like
functions) of any State from investigating and bringing an enforcement action with respect to fraud or deceit against any
nationally recognized statistical rating organization or person
associated with a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(p) REGULATION OF NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATORGANIZATIONS.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF CREDIT RATINGS.—
(A) OFFICE ESTABLISHED.—The Commission shall establish within the Commission an Office of Credit Ratings
(referred to in this subsection as the ‘‘Office’’) to administer
the rules of the Commission—
(i) with respect to the practices of nationally recognized statistical rating organizations in determining
ratings, for the protection of users of credit ratings
and in the public interest;
(ii) to promote accuracy in credit ratings issued by
nationally recognized statistical rating organizations;
and
(iii) to ensure that such ratings are not unduly influenced by conflicts of interest.
(B) DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE.—The head of the Office
shall be the Director, who shall report to the Chairman.
(2) STAFFING.—The Office established under this subsection shall be staffed sufficiently to carry out fully the requirements of this section. The staff shall include persons with
knowledge of and expertise in corporate, municipal, and structured debt finance.
(3) COMMISSION EXAMINATIONS.—
(A) ANNUAL EXAMINATIONS REQUIRED.—The Office
shall conduct an examination of each nationally recognized
statistical rating organization at least annually.
(B) CONDUCT OF EXAMINATIONS.—Each examination
under subparagraph (A) shall include a review of—
(i) whether the nationally recognized statistical
rating organization conducts business in accordance
with the policies, procedures, and rating methodologies
of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization;
(ii) the management of conflicts of interest by the
nationally recognized statistical rating organization;
(iii) implementation of ethics policies by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization;
(iv) the internal supervisory controls of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization;
(v) the governance of the nationally recognized
statistical rating organization;
(vi) the activities of the individual designated by
the nationally recognized statistical rating organization under subsection (j)(1);

Sec. 15E

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

234

(vii) the processing of complaints by the nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
(viii) the policies of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization governing the post- employment activities of former staff of the nationally
recognized statistical rating organization.
(C) INSPECTION REPORTS.—The Commission shall
make available to the public, in an easily understandable
format, an annual report summarizing—
(i) the essential findings of all examinations conducted under subparagraph (A), as deemed appropriate by the Commission;
(ii) the responses by the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations to any material regulatory
deficiencies identified by the Commission under clause
(i); and
(iii) whether the nationally recognized statistical
rating organizations have appropriately addressed the
recommendations of the Commission contained in previous reports under this subparagraph.
(4) RULEMAKING AUTHORITY.—The Commission shall—
(A) establish, by rule, fines, and other penalties applicable to any nationally recognized statistical rating organization that violates the requirements of this section and
the rules thereunder; and
(B) issue such rules as may be necessary to carry out
this section.
(q) TRANSPARENCY OF RATINGS PERFORMANCE.—
(1) RULEMAKING REQUIRED.—The Commission shall, by
rule, require that each nationally recognized statistical rating
organization publicly disclose information on the initial credit
ratings determined by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization for each type of obligor, security, and money
market instrument, and any subsequent changes to such credit
ratings, for the purpose of allowing users of credit ratings to
evaluate the accuracy of ratings and compare the performance
of ratings by different nationally recognized statistical rating
organizations.
(2) CONTENT.—The rules of the Commission under this
subsection shall require, at a minimum, disclosures that—
(A) are comparable among nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, to allow users of credit ratings to compare the performance of credit ratings across
nationally recognized statistical rating organizations;
(B) are clear and informative for investors having a
wide range of sophistication who use or might use credit
ratings;
(C) include performance information over a range of
years and for a variety of types of credit ratings, including
for credit ratings withdrawn by the nationally recognized
statistical rating organization;
(D) are published and made freely available by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, on an

235

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15E

easily accessible portion of its website, and in writing,
when requested;
(E) are appropriate to the business model of a nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
(F) each nationally recognized statistical rating organization include an attestation with any credit rating it
issues affirming that no part of the rating was influenced
by any other business activities, that the rating was based
solely on the merits of the instruments being rated, and
that such rating was an independent evaluation of the
risks and merits of the instrument.
(r) CREDIT RATINGS METHODOLOGIES.—The Commission shall
prescribe rules, for the protection of investors and in the public interest, with respect to the procedures and methodologies, including
qualitative and quantitative data and models, used by nationally
recognized statistical rating organizations that require each nationally recognized statistical rating organization—
(1) to ensure that credit ratings are determined using procedures and methodologies, including qualitative and quantitative data and models, that are—
(A) approved by the board of the nationally recognized
statistical rating organization, a body performing a function similar to that of a board; and
(B) in accordance with the policies and procedures of
the nationally recognized statistical rating organization for
the development and modification of credit rating procedures and methodologies;
(2) to ensure that when material changes to credit rating
procedures and methodologies (including changes to qualitative
and quantitative data and models) are made, that—
(A) the changes are applied consistently to all credit
ratings to which the changed procedures and methodologies apply;
(B) to the extent that changes are made to credit rating surveillance procedures and methodologies, the
changes are applied to then-current credit ratings by the
nationally recognized statistical rating organization within
a reasonable time period determined by the Commission,
by rule; and
(C) the nationally recognized statistical rating organization publicly discloses the reason for the change; and
(3) to notify users of credit ratings—
(A) of the version of a procedure or methodology, including the qualitative methodology or quantitative inputs,
used with respect to a particular credit rating;
(B) when a material change is made to a procedure or
methodology, including to a qualitative model or quantitative inputs;
(C) when a significant error is identified in a procedure or methodology, including a qualitative or quantitative model, that may result in credit rating actions;
and

Sec. 15E

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

236

(D) of the likelihood of a material change described in
subparagraph (B) resulting in a change in current credit
ratings.
(s) TRANSPARENCY OF CREDIT RATING METHODOLOGIES AND INFORMATION REVIEWED.—
(1) FORM FOR DISCLOSURES.—The Commission shall require, by rule, each nationally recognized statistical rating organization to prescribe a form to accompany the publication of
each credit rating that discloses—
(A) information relating to—
(i) the assumptions underlying the credit rating
procedures and methodologies;
(ii) the data that was relied on to determine the
credit rating; and
(iii) if applicable, how the nationally recognized
statistical rating organization used servicer or remittance reports, and with what frequency, to conduct
surveillance of the credit rating; and
(B) information that can be used by investors and
other users of credit ratings to better understand credit
ratings in each class of credit rating issued by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(2) FORMAT.—The form developed under paragraph (1)
shall—
(A) be easy to use and helpful for users of credit ratings to understand the information contained in the report;
(B) require the nationally recognized statistical rating
organization to provide the content described in paragraph
(3)(B) in a manner that is directly comparable across types
of securities; and
(C) be made readily available to users of credit ratings, in electronic or paper form, as the Commission may,
by rule, determine.
(3) CONTENT OF FORM.—
(A) QUALITATIVE CONTENT.—Each nationally recognized statistical rating organization shall disclose on the
form developed under paragraph (1)—
(i) the credit ratings produced by the nationally
recognized statistical rating organization;
(ii) the main assumptions and principles used in
constructing procedures and methodologies, including
qualitative methodologies and quantitative inputs and
assumptions about the correlation of defaults across
underlying assets used in rating structured products;
(iii) the potential limitations of the credit ratings,
and the types of risks excluded from the credit ratings
that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization does not comment on, including liquidity, market, and other risks;
(iv) information on the uncertainty of the credit
rating, including—

237

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15E

(I) information on the reliability, accuracy,
and quality of the data relied on in determining
the credit rating; and
(II) a statement relating to the extent to
which data essential to the determination of the
credit rating were reliable or limited, including—
(aa) any limits on the scope of historical
data; and
(bb) any limits in accessibility to certain
documents or other types of information that
would have better informed the credit rating;
(v) whether and to what extent third party due
diligence services have been used by the nationally
recognized statistical rating organization, a description
of the information that such third party reviewed in
conducting due diligence services, and a description of
the findings or conclusions of such third party;
(vi) a description of the data about any obligor,
issuer, security, or money market instrument that
were relied upon for the purpose of determining the
credit rating;
(vii) a statement containing an overall assessment
of the quality of information available and considered
in producing a rating for an obligor, security, or money
market instrument, in relation to the quality of information available to the nationally recognized statistical rating organization in rating similar issuances;
(viii) information relating to conflicts of interest of
the nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
(ix) such additional information as the Commission may require.
(B) QUANTITATIVE CONTENT.—Each nationally recognized statistical rating organization shall disclose on the
form developed under this subsection—
(i) an explanation or measure of the potential volatility of the credit rating, including—
(I) any factors that might lead to a change in
the credit ratings; and
(II) the magnitude of the change that a user
can expect under different market conditions;
(ii) information on the content of the rating, including—
(I) the historical performance of the rating;
and
(II) the expected probability of default and the
expected loss in the event of default;
(iii) information on the sensitivity of the rating to
assumptions made by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, including—
(I) 5 assumptions made in the ratings process
that, without accounting for any other factor,
would have the greatest impact on a rating if the
assumptions were proven false or inaccurate; and

Sec. 15E

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

238

(II) an analysis, using specific examples, of
how each of the 5 assumptions identified under
subclause (I) impacts a rating; [101]
(iv) such additional information as may be required by the Commission.
(4) DUE DILIGENCE SERVICES FOR ASSET-BACKED SECURITIES.—
(A) FINDINGS.—The issuer or underwriter of any assetbacked security shall make publicly available the findings
and conclusions of any third-party due diligence report obtained by the issuer or underwriter.
(B) CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.—In any case in which
third- party due diligence services are employed by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, an
issuer, or an underwriter, the person providing the due
diligence services shall provide to any nationally recognized statistical rating organization that produces a rating
to which such services relate, written certification, as provided in subparagraph (C).
(C) FORMAT AND CONTENT.—The Commission shall establish the appropriate format and content for the written
certifications required under subparagraph (B), to ensure
that providers of due diligence services have conducted a
thorough review of data, documentation, and other relevant information necessary for a nationally recognized
statistical rating organization to provide an accurate rating.
(D) DISCLOSURE OF CERTIFICATION.—The Commission
shall adopt rules requiring a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, at the time at which the nationally recognized statistical rating organization produces a
rating, to disclose the certification described in subparagraph (B) to the public in a manner that allows the public
to determine the adequacy and level of due diligence services provided by a third party.
(t) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, ORGANIZATION, AND MANAGEMENT OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.—
(1) BOARD OF DIRECTORS.—Each nationally recognized statistical rating organization shall have a board of directors.
(2) INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—At least 1⁄2 of the board of directors,
but not fewer than 2 of the members thereof, shall be independent of the nationally recognized statistical rating
agency. A portion of the independent directors shall include users of ratings from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(B) INDEPENDENCE DETERMINATION.—In order to be
considered independent for purposes of this subsection, a
member of the board of directors of a nationally recognized
statistical rating organization—
101So

in original. The word ‘‘and’’ probably should appear.

239

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15E

(i) may not, other than in his or her capacity as
a member of the board of directors or any committee
thereof—
(I) accept any consulting, advisory, or other
compensatory fee from the nationally recognized
statistical rating organization; or
(II) be a person associated with the nationally
recognized statistical rating organization or with
any affiliated company thereof; and
(ii) shall be disqualified from any deliberation involving a specific rating in which the independent
board member has a financial interest in the outcome
of the rating.
(C) COMPENSATION AND TERM.—The compensation of
the independent members of the board of directors of a nationally recognized statistical rating organization shall not
be linked to the business performance of the nationally
recognized statistical rating organization, and shall be arranged so as to ensure the independence of their judgment.
The term of office of the independent directors shall be for
a pre-agreed fixed period, not to exceed 5 years, and shall
not be renewable.
(3) DUTIES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS.—In addition to the
overall responsibilities of the board of directors, the board shall
oversee—
(A) the establishment, maintenance, and enforcement
of policies and procedures for determining credit ratings;
(B) the establishment, maintenance, and enforcement
of policies and procedures to address, manage, and disclose
any conflicts of interest;
(C) the effectiveness of the internal control system
with respect to policies and procedures for determining
credit ratings; and
(D) the compensation and promotion policies and practices of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(4) TREATMENT OF NRSRO SUBSIDIARIES.—If a nationally
recognized statistical rating organization is a subsidiary of a
parent entity, the board of the directors of the parent entity
may satisfy the requirements of this subsection by assigning to
a committee of such board of directors the duties under paragraph (3), if—
(A) at least 1⁄2 of the members of the committee (including the chairperson of the committee) are independent,
as defined in this section; and
(B) at least 1 member of the committee is a user of
ratings from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(5) EXCEPTION AUTHORITY.—If the Commission finds that
compliance with the provisions of this subsection present an
unreasonable burden on a small nationally recognized statistical rating organization, the Commission may permit the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to delegate
such responsibilities to a committee that includes at least one

Sec. 15F

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

240

individual who is a user of ratings of a nationally recognized
statistical rating organization.
(u) DUTY TO REPORT TIPS ALLEGING MATERIAL VIOLATIONS OF
LAW.—
(1) DUTY TO REPORT.—Each nationally recognized statistical rating organization shall refer to the appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities any information that the
nationally recognized statistical rating organization receives
from a third party and finds credible that alleges that an
issuer of securities rated by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization has committed or is committing a material violation of law that has not been adjudicated by a Federal or State court.
(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in paragraph (1)
may be construed to require a nationally recognized statistical
rating organization to verify the accuracy of the information
described in paragraph (1).
(v) INFORMATION FROM SOURCES OTHER THAN THE ISSUER.—In
producing a credit rating, a nationally recognized statistical rating
organization shall consider information about an issuer that the
nationally recognized statistical rating organization has, or receives
from a source other than the issuer or underwriter, that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization finds credible and
potentially significant to a rating decision.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 15E, as added Pub. L. 109-291,
Sec. 4(a), Sept. 29 2006, 120 Stat. 1329; amended Pub. L. 111-203,
title IX, Secs. 932(a), 933(a), 934, 935, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat.
1872, 1883, 1884.)
SEC. 15F. REGISTRATION AND REGULATION OF SECURITY-BASED
SWAP DEALERS AND MAJOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP PARTICIPANTS.
(a) REGISTRATION.—
(1) SECURITY-BASED SWAP DEALERS.—It shall be unlawful

for any person to act as a security-based swap dealer unless
the person is registered as a security-based swap dealer with
the Commission.
(2) MAJOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP PARTICIPANTS.—It shall
be unlawful for any person to act as a major security-based
swap participant unless the person is registered as a major
security- based swap participant with the Commission.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A person shall register as a securitybased swap dealer or major security-based swap participant by
filing a registration application with the Commission.
(2) CONTENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The application shall be made in
such form and manner as prescribed by the Commission,
and shall contain such information, as the Commission
considers necessary concerning the business in which the
applicant is or will be engaged.
(B) CONTINUAL REPORTING.—A person that is registered as a security-based swap dealer or major security-

241

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15F

based swap participant shall continue to submit to the
Commission reports that contain such information pertaining to the business of the person as the Commission
may require.
(3) EXPIRATION.—Each registration under this section shall
expire at such time as the Commission may prescribe by rule
or regulation.
(4) RULES.—Except as provided in subsections (d) and (e),
the Commission may prescribe rules applicable to securitybased swap dealers and major security-based swap participants, including rules that limit the activities of non-bank security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
(5) TRANSITION.—Not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of the Wall Street Transparency and Accountability
Act of 2010, the Commission shall issue rules under this section to provide for the registration of security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
(6) STATUTORY DISQUALIFICATION.—Except to the extent
otherwise specifically provided by rule, regulation, or order of
the Commission, it shall be unlawful for a security-based swap
dealer or a major security-based swap participant to permit
any person associated with a security-based swap dealer or a
major security-based swap participant who is subject to a statutory disqualification to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the security-based swap dealer or
major security-based swap participant, if the security-based
swap dealer or major security-based swap participant knew, or
in the exercise of reasonable care should have known, of the
statutory disqualification.
(c) DUAL REGISTRATION.—
(1) SECURITY-BASED SWAP DEALER.—Any person that is required to be registered as a security-based swap dealer under
this section shall register with the Commission, regardless of
whether the person also is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer.
(2) MAJOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP PARTICIPANT.—Any person that is required to be registered as a major security-based
swap participant under this section shall register with the
Commission, regardless of whether the person also is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a
major swap participant.
(d) RULEMAKING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall adopt rules for
persons that are registered as security-based swap dealers or
major security-based swap participants under this section.
(2) EXCEPTION FOR PRUDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission may not prescribe
rules imposing prudential requirements on security-based
swap dealers or major security-based swap participants for
which there is a prudential regulator.
(B) APPLICABILITY.—Subparagraph (A) does not limit
the authority of the Commission to prescribe rules as directed under this section.

Sec. 15F

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

242

(e) CAPITAL AND MARGIN REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) SECURITY-BASED SWAP DEALERS AND MAJOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP PARTICIPANTS THAT ARE BANKS.—Each
registered security- based swap dealer and major securitybased swap participant for which there is not a prudential
regulator shall meet such minimum capital requirements
and minimum initial and variation margin requirements
as the prudential regulator shall by rule or regulation prescribe under paragraph (2)(A).
(B) SECURITY-BASED SWAP DEALERS AND MAJOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP PARTICIPANTS THAT ARE NOT BANKS.—
Each registered security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant for which there is not a prudential regulator shall meet such minimum capital requirements and minimum initial and variation margin requirements as the Commission shall by rule or regulation
prescribe under paragraph (2)(B).
(2) RULES.—
(A) SECURITY-BASED SWAP DEALERS AND MAJOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP PARTICIPANTS THAT ARE BANKS.—The
prudential regulators, in consultation with the Commission
and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, shall
adopt rules for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants, with respect to their activities as a swap dealer or major swap participant, for which
there is a prudential regulator imposing—
(i) capital requirements; and
(ii) both initial and variation margin requirements
on all security-based swaps that are not cleared by a
registered clearing agency.
(B) SECURITY-BASED SWAP DEALERS AND MAJOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP PARTICIPANTS THAT ARE NOT BANKS.—The
Commission shall adopt rules for security-based swap dealers and major security- based swap participants, with respect to their activities as a swap dealer or major swap
participant, for which there is not a prudential regulator
imposing—
(i) capital requirements; and
(ii) both initial and variation margin requirements
on all swaps that are not cleared by a registered clearing agency.
(C) CAPITAL.—In setting capital requirements for a
person that is designated as a security-based swap dealer
or a major security-based swap participant for a single
type or single class or category of security-based swap or
activities, the prudential regulator and the Commission
shall take into account the risks associated with other
types of security-based swaps or classes of security-based
swaps or categories of security-based swaps engaged in
and the other activities conducted by that person that are
not otherwise subject to regulation applicable to that person by virtue of the status of the person.
(3) STANDARDS FOR CAPITAL AND MARGIN.—

243

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15F

(A) IN GENERAL.—To offset the greater risk to the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap
participant and the financial system arising from the use
of security-based swaps that are not cleared, the requirements imposed under paragraph (2) shall —
(i) help ensure the safety and soundness of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap
participant; and
(ii) be appropriate for the risk associated with the
non-cleared security-based swaps held as a securitybased swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
(B) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section shall
limit, or be construed to limit, the authority—
(I) of the Commission to set financial responsibility rules for a broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b) (except for section 15(b)(11)
thereof) in accordance with section 15(c)(3); or
(II) of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to set financial responsibility rules for a
futures commission merchant or introducing
broker registered pursuant to section 4f(a) of the
Commodity Exchange Act (except for section
4f(a)(3) thereof) in accordance with section 4f(b) of
the Commodity Exchange Act.
(ii) FUTURES COMMISSION MERCHANTS AND OTHER
DEALERS.—A futures commission merchant, introducing broker, broker, or dealer shall maintain sufficient capital to comply with the stricter of any applicable capital requirements to which such futures commission merchant, introducing broker, broker, or dealer is subject to under this title or the Commodity Exchange Act.
(C) MARGIN REQUIREMENTS.—In prescribing margin requirements under this subsection, the prudential regulator
with respect to security-based swap dealers and major
security- based swap participants that are depository institutions, and the Commission with respect to security-based
swap dealers and major security-based swap participants
that are not depository institutions shall permit the use of
noncash collateral, as the regulator or the Commission determines to be consistent with—
(i) preserving the financial integrity of markets
trading security-based swaps; and
(ii) preserving the stability of the United States financial system.
(D) COMPARABILITY OF CAPITAL AND MARGIN REQUIREMENTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The prudential regulators, the
Commission, and the Securities and Exchange Commission shall periodically (but not less frequently than
annually) consult on minimum capital requirements

Sec. 15F

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

244

and minimum initial and variation margin requirements.
(ii) COMPARABILITY.—The entities described in
clause (i) shall, to the maximum extent practicable, establish and maintain comparable minimum capital requirements and minimum initial and variation margin
requirements, including the use of noncash collateral,
for—
(I) security-based swap dealers; and
(II) major security-based swap participants.
(f) REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each registered security-based swap
dealer and major security-based swap participant—
(A) shall make such reports as are required by the
Commission, by rule or regulation, regarding the transactions and positions and financial condition of the registered security-based swap dealer or major security-based
swap participant;
(B)(i) for which there is a prudential regulator, shall
keep books and records of all activities related to the business as a security-based swap dealer or major securitybased swap participant in such form and manner and for
such period as may be prescribed by the Commission by
rule or regulation; and
(ii) for which there is no prudential regulator, shall
keep books and records in such form and manner and for
such period as may be prescribed by the Commission by
rule or regulation; and
(C) shall keep books and records described in subparagraph (B) open to inspection and examination by any representative of the Commission.
(2) RULES.—The Commission shall adopt rules governing
reporting and recordkeeping for security-based swap dealers
and major security-based swap participants.
(g) DAILY TRADING RECORDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each registered security-based swap
dealer and major security-based swap participant shall maintain daily trading records of the security-based swaps of the
registered security-based swap dealer and major security-based
swap participant and all related records (including related cash
or forward transactions) and recorded communications, including electronic mail, instant messages, and recordings of telephone calls, for such period as may be required by the Commission by rule or regulation.
(2) INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.—The daily trading
records shall include such information as the Commission shall
require by rule or regulation.
(3) COUNTERPARTY RECORDS.—Each registered securitybased swap dealer and major security-based swap participant
shall maintain daily trading records for each counterparty in
a manner and form that is identifiable with each securitybased swap transaction.
(4) AUDIT TRAIL.—Each registered security-based swap
dealer and major security-based swap participant shall main-

245

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15F

tain a complete audit trail for conducting comprehensive and
accurate trade reconstructions.
(5) RULES.—The Commission shall adopt rules governing
daily trading records for security-based swap dealers and
major security- based swap participants.
(h) BUSINESS CONDUCT STANDARDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each registered security-based swap
dealer and major security-based swap participant shall conform with such business conduct standards as prescribed in
paragraph (3) and as may be prescribed by the Commission by
rule or regulation that relate to—
(A) fraud, manipulation, and other abusive practices
involving security-based swaps (including security-based
swaps that are offered but not entered into);
(B) diligent supervision of the business of the registered security-based swap dealer and major securitybased swap participant;
(C) adherence to all applicable position limits; and
(D) such other matters as the Commission determines
to be appropriate.
(2) RESPONSIBILITIES WITH RESPECT TO SPECIAL ENTITIES.—
(A) ADVISING SPECIAL ENTITIES.—A security-based
swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that
acts as an advisor to [102] special entity regarding a security-based swap shall comply with the requirements of
paragraph (4) with respect to such special entity.
(B) ENTERING OF SECURITY-BASED SWAPS WITH RESPECT
TO SPECIAL ENTITIES.—A security-based swap dealer that
enters into or offers to enter into security-based swap with
a special entity shall comply with the requirements of
paragraph (5) with respect to such special entity.
(C) SPECIAL ENTITY DEFINED.—For purposes of this
subsection, the term ‘‘special entity’’ means—
(i) a Federal agency;
(ii) a State, State agency, city, county, municipality, or other political subdivision of a State or;
(iii) any employee benefit plan, as defined in section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002);
(iv) any governmental plan, as defined in section
3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002); or
(v) any endowment, including an endowment that
is an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(3) BUSINESS CONDUCT REQUIREMENTS.—Business conduct
requirements adopted by the Commission shall—
(A) establish a duty for a security-based swap dealer
or major security-based swap participant to verify that any
counterparty meets the eligibility standards for an eligible
contract participant;
102So

in original. Probably should be followed by ‘‘a’’.

Sec. 15F

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

246

(B) require disclosure by the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant to any
counterparty to the transaction (other than a securitybased swap dealer, major security-based swap participant,
security-based swap dealer, or major security-based swap
participant) of—
(i) information about the material risks and characteristics of the security-based swap;
(ii) any material incentives or conflicts of interest
that the security-based swap dealer or major securitybased swap participant may have in connection with
the security- based swap; and
(iii)(I) for cleared security-based swaps, upon the
request of the counterparty, receipt of the daily mark
of the transaction from the appropriate derivatives
clearing organization; and
(II) for uncleared security-based swaps, receipt of
the daily mark of the transaction from the securitybased swap dealer or the major security-based swap
participant;
(C) establish a duty for a security-based swap dealer
or major security-based swap participant to communicate
in a fair and balanced manner based on principles of fair
dealing and good faith; and
(D) establish such other standards and requirements
as the Commission may determine are appropriate in the
public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise
in furtherance of the purposes of this Act.
(4) SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP
DEALERS ACTING AS ADVISORS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for a securitybased swap dealer or major security-based swap participant—
(i) to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud any special entity or prospective customer who
is a special entity;
(ii) to engage in any transaction, practice, or
course of business that operates as a fraud or deceit
on any special entity or prospective customer who is a
special entity; or
(iii) to engage in any act, practice, or course of
business that is fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative.
(B) DUTY.—Any security-based swap dealer that acts
as an advisor to a special entity shall have a duty to act
in the best interests of the special entity.
(C) REASONABLE EFFORTS.—Any security-based swap
dealer that acts as an advisor to a special entity shall
make reasonable efforts to obtain such information as is
necessary to make a reasonable determination that any security-based swap recommended by the security-based
swap dealer is in the best interests of the special entity,
including information relating to—
(i) the financial status of the special entity;

247

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15F

(ii) the tax status of the special entity;
(iii) the investment or financing objectives of the
special entity; and
(iv) any other information that the Commission
may prescribe by rule or regulation.
(5) SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP
DEALERS AS COUNTERPARTIES TO SPECIAL ENTITIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Any security-based swap dealer or
major security-based swap participant that offers to or enters into a security-based swap with a special entity
shall—
(i) comply with any duty established by the Commission for a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, with respect to a
counterparty that is an eligible contract participant
within the meaning of subclause (I) or (II) of clause
(vii) of section 1a(18) of the Commodity Exchange Act,
that requires the security-based swap dealer or major
security- based swap participant to have a reasonable
basis to believe that the counterparty that is a special
entity has an independent representative that—
(I) has sufficient knowledge to evaluate the
transaction and risks;
(II) is not subject to a statutory disqualification;
(III) is independent of the security-based swap
dealer or major security-based swap participant;
(IV) undertakes a duty to act in the best interests of the counterparty it represents;
(V) makes appropriate disclosures;
(VI) will provide written representations to
the special entity regarding fair pricing and the
appropriateness of the transaction; and
(VII) in the case of employee benefit plans
subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security act [103] of 1974, is a fiduciary as defined in
section 3 of that Act (29 U.S.C. 1002); and
(ii) before the initiation of the transaction, disclose
to the special entity in writing the capacity in which
the security-based swap dealer is acting.
(B) COMMISSION AUTHORITY.—The Commission may
establish such other standards and requirements under
this paragraph as the Commission may determine are appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this
Act.
(6) RULES.—The Commission shall prescribe rules under
this subsection governing business conduct standards for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
(7) APPLICABILITY.—This subsection shall not apply with
respect to a transaction that is—
103So

in original. Probably should be capitalized.

Sec. 15F

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

248

(A) initiated by a special entity on an exchange or security-based swaps execution facility; and
(B) the security-based swap dealer or major securitybased swap participant does not know the identity of the
counterparty to the transaction.’’ [104]
(i) DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each registered security-based swap
dealer and major security-based swap participant shall conform with such standards as may be prescribed by the Commission, by rule or regulation, that relate to timely and accurate confirmation, processing, netting, documentation, and
valuation of all security- based swaps.
(2) RULES.—The Commission shall adopt rules governing
documentation standards for security-based swap dealers and
major security-based swap participants.
(j) DUTIES.—Each registered security-based swap dealer and
major security-based swap participant shall, at all times, comply
with the following requirements:
(1) MONITORING OF TRADING.—The security-based swap
dealer or major security-based swap participant shall monitor
its trading in security-based swaps to prevent violations of applicable position limits.
(2) RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES.—The security-based
swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall establish robust and professional risk management systems adequate for managing the day-to-day business of the securitybased swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
(3) DISCLOSURE OF GENERAL INFORMATION.—The securitybased swap dealer or major security-based swap participant
shall disclose to the Commission and to the prudential regulator for the security-based swap dealer or major securitybased swap participant, as applicable, information concerning—
(A) terms and conditions of its security-based swaps;
(B) security-based swap trading operations, mechanisms, and practices;
(C) financial integrity protections relating to securitybased swaps; and
(D) other information relevant to its trading in security-based swaps.
(4) ABILITY TO OBTAIN INFORMATION.—The security-based
swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall—
(A) establish and enforce internal systems and procedures to obtain any necessary information to perform any
of the functions described in this section; and
(B) provide the information to the Commission and to
the prudential regulator for the security-based swap dealer
or major security-based swap participant, as applicable, on
request.
(5) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.—The security-based swap
dealer and major security-based swap participant shall implement conflict- of-interest systems and procedures that—
104So

in original. The quotation marks probably should not appear.

249

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15F

(A) establish structural and institutional safeguards to
ensure that the activities of any person within the firm relating to research or analysis of the price or market for
any security-based swap or acting in a role of providing
clearing activities or making determinations as to accepting clearing customers are separated by appropriate informational partitions within the firm from the review, pressure, or oversight of persons whose involvement in pricing,
trading, or clearing activities might potentially bias their
judgment or supervision and contravene the core principles
of open access and the business conduct standards described in this title; and
(B) address such other issues as the Commission determines to be appropriate.
(6) ANTITRUST CONSIDERATIONS.—Unless necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of this title, the securitybased swap dealer or major security-based swap participant
shall not—
(A) adopt any process or take any action that results
in any unreasonable restraint of trade; or
(B) impose any material anticompetitive burden on
trading or clearing.
(7) RULES.—The Commission shall prescribe rules under
this subsection governing duties of security-based swap dealers
and major security-based swap participants.
(k) DESIGNATION OF CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each security-based swap dealer and
major security-based swap participant shall designate an individual to serve as a chief compliance officer.
(2) DUTIES.—The chief compliance officer shall—
(A) report directly to the board or to the senior officer
of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based
swap participant;
(B) review the compliance of the security-based swap
dealer or major security-based swap participant with respect to the security-based swap dealer and major securitybased swap participant requirements described in this section;
(C) in consultation with the board of directors, a body
performing a function similar to the board, or the senior
officer of the organization, resolve any conflicts of interest
that may arise;
(D) be responsible for administering each policy and
procedure that is required to be established pursuant to
this section;
(E) ensure compliance with this title (including regulations) relating to security-based swaps, including each rule
prescribed by the Commission under this section;
(F) establish procedures for the remediation of noncompliance issues identified by the chief compliance officer
through any—
(i) compliance office review;
(ii) look-back;
(iii) internal or external audit finding;

Sec. 15F

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

250

(iv) self-reported error; or
(v) validated complaint; and
(G) establish and follow appropriate procedures for the
handling, management response, remediation, retesting,
and closing of noncompliance issues.
(3) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with rules prescribed
by the Commission, the chief compliance officer shall annually prepare and sign a report that contains a description of—
(i) the compliance of the security-based swap dealer or major swap participant with respect to this title
(including regulations); and
(ii) each policy and procedure of the security-based
swap dealer or major security-based swap participant
of the chief compliance officer (including the code of
ethics and conflict of interest policies).
(B) REQUIREMENTS.—A compliance report under subparagraph (A) shall—
(i) accompany each appropriate financial report of
the security-based swap dealer or major security-based
swap participant that is required to be furnished to
the Commission pursuant to this section; and
(ii) include a certification that, under penalty of
law, the compliance report is accurate and complete.
(l) ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING AUTHORITY.—
(1) PRIMARY ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.—
(A) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION.—Except
as provided in subparagraph (B), (C), or (D), the Commission shall have primary authority to enforce subtitle B,
and the amendments made by subtitle B of the Wall Street
Transparency and Accountability Act of 2010, with respect
to any person.
(B) PRUDENTIAL REGULATORS.—The prudential regulators shall have exclusive authority to enforce the provisions of subsection (e) and other prudential requirements
of this title (including risk management standards), with
respect to security-based swap dealers or major securitybased swap participants for which they are the prudential
regulator.
(C) REFERRAL.—
(i) VIOLATIONS OF NONPRUDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS.—If the appropriate Federal banking agency for
security-based swap dealers or major security-based
swap participants that are depository institutions has
cause to believe that such security-based swap dealer
or major security-based swap participant may have engaged in conduct that constitutes a violation of the
nonprudential requirements of this section or rules
adopted by the Commission thereunder, the agency
may recommend in writing to the Commission that the
Commission initiate an enforcement proceeding as authorized under this title. The recommendation shall be

251

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15F

accompanied by a written explanation of the concerns
giving rise to the recommendation.
(ii) VIOLATIONS OF PRUDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS.—If
the Commission has cause to believe that a securitiesbased swap dealer or major securities-based swap participant that has a prudential regulator may have engaged in conduct that constitute [105] a violation of the
prudential requirements of subsection (e) or rules
adopted thereunder, the Commission may recommend
in writing to the prudential regulator that the prudential regulator initiate an enforcement proceeding as
authorized under this title. The recommendation shall
be accompanied by a written explanation of the concerns giving rise to the recommendation.
(D) BACKSTOP ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.—
(i) INITIATION OF ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDING BY
PRUDENTIAL REGULATOR.—If the Commission does not
initiate an enforcement proceeding before the end of
the 90-day period beginning on the date on which the
Commission receives a written report under subsection [106] (C)(i), the prudential regulator may initiate an enforcement proceeding.
(ii) INITIATION OF ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDING BY
COMMISSION.—If the prudential regulator does not initiate an enforcement proceeding before the end of the
90-day period beginning on the date on which the prudential regulator receives a written report under subsection (C)(ii), the Commission may initiate an enforcement proceeding.
(2) CENSURE, DENIAL, SUSPENSION; NOTICE AND HEARING.—
The Commission, by order, shall censure, place limitations on
the activities, functions, or operations of, or revoke the registration of any security-based swap dealer or major securitybased swap participant that has registered with the Commission pursuant to subsection (b) if the Commission finds, on the
record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such censure, placing of limitations, or revocation is in the public interest and that such security-based swap dealer or major securitybased swap participant, or any person associated with such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant effecting or involved in effecting transactions in securitybased swaps on behalf of such security-based swap dealer or
major security-based swap participant, whether prior or subsequent to becoming so associated—
(A) has committed or omitted any act, or is subject to
an order or finding, enumerated in subparagraph (A), (D),
or (E) of paragraph (4) of section 15(b);
(B) has been convicted of any offense specified in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph (4) within 10 years of the
commencement of the proceedings under this subsection;
105So
106So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘constitutes’’.
in original. Probably should be ‘‘subparagraph’’.

Sec. 15F

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

252

(C) is enjoined from any action, conduct, or practice
specified in subparagraph (C) of such paragraph (4);
(D) is subject to an order or a final order specified in
subparagraph (F) or (H), respectively, of such paragraph
(4); or
(E) has been found by a foreign financial regulatory
authority to have committed or omitted any act, or violated any foreign statute or regulation, enumerated in subparagraph (G) of such paragraph (4).
(3) ASSOCIATED PERSONS.—With respect to any person who
is associated, who is seeking to become associated, or, at the
time of the alleged misconduct, who was associated or was
seeking to become associated with a security-based swap dealer
or major security- based swap participant for the purpose of effecting or being involved in effecting security-based swaps on
behalf of such security-based swap dealer or major securitybased swap participant, the Commission, by order, shall censure, place limitations on the activities or functions of such
person, or suspend for a period not exceeding 12 months, or
bar such person from being associated with a security-based
swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, if the
Commission finds, on the record after notice and opportunity
for a hearing, that such censure, placing of limitations, suspension, or bar is in the public interest and that such person—
(A) has committed or omitted any act, or is subject to
an order or finding, enumerated in subparagraph (A), (D),
or (E) of paragraph (4) of section 15(b);
(B) has been convicted of any offense specified in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph (4) within 10 years of the
commencement of the proceedings under this subsection;
(C) is enjoined from any action, conduct, or practice
specified in subparagraph (C) of such paragraph (4);
(D) is subject to an order or a final order specified in
subparagraph (F) or (H), respectively, of such paragraph
(4); or
(E) has been found by a foreign financial regulatory
authority to have committed or omitted any act, or violated any foreign statute or regulation, enumerated in subparagraph (G) of such paragraph (4).
(4) UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.—It shall be unlawful—
(A) for any person as to whom an order under paragraph (3) is in effect, without the consent of the Commission, willfully to become, or to be, associated with a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant in contravention of such order; or
(B) for any security-based swap dealer or major
security- based swap participant to permit such a person,
without the consent of the Commission, to become or remain a person associated with the security-based swap
dealer or major security-based swap participant in contravention of such order, if such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant knew, or in

253

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15G

the exercise of reasonable care should have known, of such
order.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 15F, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title VII, Sec. 764(a), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1785.)
SEC. 15G. CREDIT RISK RETENTION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—

(1) the term ‘‘Federal banking agencies’’ means the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
(2) the term ‘‘insured depository institution’’ has the same
meaning as in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(12 U.S.C. 1813(c));
(3) the term ‘‘securitizer’’ means—
(A) an issuer of an asset-backed security; or
(B) a person who organizes and initiates an assetbacked securities transaction by selling or transferring assets, either directly or indirectly, including through an affiliate, to the issuer; and
(4) the term ‘‘originator’’ means a person who—
(A) through the extension of credit or otherwise, creates a financial asset that collateralizes an asset-backed
security; and
(B) sells an asset directly or indirectly to a securitizer.
(b) REGULATIONS REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 270 days after the date of
enactment of this section, the Federal banking agencies and
the Commission shall jointly prescribe regulations to require
any securitizer to retain an economic interest in a portion of
the credit risk for any asset that the securitizer, through the
issuance of an asset-backed security, transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party.
(2) RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES.—Not later than 270 days
after the date of the enactment of this section, the Federal
banking agencies, the Commission, the Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development, and the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, shall jointly prescribe regulations to require any
securitizer to retain an economic interest in a portion of the
credit risk for any residential mortgage asset that the
securitizer, through the issuance of an asset-backed security,
transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party.
(c) STANDARDS FOR REGULATIONS.—
(1) STANDARDS.—The regulations prescribed under subsection (b) shall—
(A) prohibit a securitizer from directly or indirectly
hedging or otherwise transferring the credit risk that the
securitizer is required to retain with respect to an asset;
(B) require a securitizer to retain—
(i) not less than 5 percent of the credit risk for
any asset—

Sec. 15G

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

254

(I) that is not a qualified residential mortgage
that is transferred, sold, or conveyed through the
issuance of an asset-backed security by the
securitizer; or
(II) that is a qualified residential mortgage
that is transferred, sold, or conveyed through the
issuance of an asset-backed security by the
securitizer, if 1 or more of the assets that
collateralize the asset-backed security are not
qualified residential mortgages; or
(ii) less than 5 percent of the credit risk for an
asset that is not a qualified residential mortgage that
is transferred, sold, or conveyed through the issuance
of an asset-backed security by the securitizer, if the
originator of the asset meets the underwriting standards prescribed under paragraph (2)(B);
(C) specify—
(i) the permissible forms of risk retention for purposes of this section;
(ii) the minimum duration of the risk retention required under this section; and
(iii) that a securitizer is not required to retain any
part of the credit risk for an asset that is transferred,
sold or conveyed through the issuance of an assetbacked security by the securitizer, if all of the assets
that collateralize the asset-backed security are qualified residential mortgages;
(D) apply, regardless of whether the securitizer is an
insured depository institution;
(E) with respect to a commercial mortgage, specify the
permissible types, forms, and amounts of risk retention
that would meet the requirements of subparagraph (B),
which in the determination of the Federal banking agencies and the Commission may include—
(i) retention of a specified amount or percentage of
the total credit risk of the asset;
(ii) retention of the first-loss position by a thirdparty purchaser that specifically negotiates for the
purchase of such first loss position, holds adequate financial resources to back losses, provides due diligence on all individual assets in the pool before the
issuance of the asset-backed securities, and meets the
same standards for risk retention as the Federal banking agencies and the Commission require of the
securitizer;
(iii) a determination by the Federal banking agencies and the Commission that the underwriting standards and controls for the asset are adequate; and
(iv) provision of adequate representations and
warranties and related enforcement mechanisms;
and [107]
107So

in original. The word ‘‘and’’ probably should not appear.

255

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15G

(F) establish appropriate standards for retention of an
economic interest with respect to collateralized debt obligations, securities collateralized by collateralized debt obligations, and similar instruments collateralized by other
asset-backed securities; and
(G) provide for—
(i) a total or partial exemption of any
securitization, as may be appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors;
(ii) a total or partial exemption for the
securitization of an asset issued or guaranteed by the
United States, or an agency of the United States, as
the Federal banking agencies and the Commission
jointly determine appropriate in the public interest
and for the protection of investors, except that, for
purposes of this clause, the Federal National Mortgage
Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation are not agencies of the United States;
(iii) a total or partial exemption for any assetbacked security that is a security issued or guaranteed
by any State of the United States, or by any political
subdivision of a State or territory, or by any public instrumentality of a State or territory that is exempt
from the registration requirements of the Securities
Act of 1933 by reason of section 3(a)(2) of that Act (15
U.S.C. 77c(a)(2)), or a security defined as a qualified
scholarship funding bond in section 150(d)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as may be appropriate
in the public interest and for the protection of investors; and
(iv) the allocation of risk retention obligations between a securitizer and an originator in the case of a
securitizer that purchases assets from an originator,
as the Federal banking agencies and the Commission
jointly determine appropriate.
(2) ASSET CLASSES.—
(A) ASSET CLASSES.—The regulations prescribed under
subsection (b) shall establish asset classes with separate
rules for securitizers of different classes of assets, including residential mortgages, commercial mortgages, commercial loans, auto loans, and any other class of assets that
the Federal banking agencies and the Commission deem
appropriate.
(B) CONTENTS.—For each asset class established under
subparagraph (A), the regulations prescribed under subsection (b) shall include underwriting standards established by the Federal banking agencies that specify the
terms, conditions, and characteristics of a loan within the
asset class that indicate a low credit risk with respect to
the loan.
(d) ORIGINATORS.—In determining how to allocate risk retention obligations between a securitizer and an originator under subsection (c)(1)(E)(iv), the Federal banking agencies and the Commission shall—

Sec. 15G

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

256

(1) reduce the percentage of risk retention obligations required of the securitizer by the percentage of risk retention obligations required of the originator; and
(2) consider—
(A) whether the assets sold to the securitizer have
terms, conditions, and characteristics that reflect low credit risk;
(B) whether the form or volume of transactions in
securitization markets creates incentives for imprudent
origination of the type of loan or asset to be sold to the
securitizer; and
(C) the potential impact of the risk retention obligations on the access of consumers and businesses to credit
on reasonable terms, which may not include the transfer
of credit risk to a third party.
(e) EXEMPTIONS, EXCEPTIONS, AND ADJUSTMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Federal banking agencies and the
Commission may jointly adopt or issue exemptions, exceptions,
or adjustments to the rules issued under this section, including
exemptions, exceptions, or adjustments for classes of institutions or assets relating to the risk retention requirement and
the prohibition on hedging under subsection (c)(1).
(2) APPLICABLE STANDARDS.—Any exemption, exception, or
adjustment adopted or issued by the Federal banking agencies
and the Commission under this paragraph shall—
(A) help ensure high quality underwriting standards
for the securitizers and originators of assets that are
securitized or available for securitization; and
(B) encourage appropriate risk management practices
by the securitizers and originators of assets, improve the
access of consumers and businesses to credit on reasonable
terms, or otherwise be in the public interest and for the
protection of investors.
(3) CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS AND PROGRAMS EXEMPT.—
(A) FARM CREDIT SYSTEM INSTITUTIONS.—Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the requirements of this section shall not apply to any loan or other
financial asset made, insured, guaranteed, or purchased by
any institution that is subject to the supervision of the
Farm Credit Administration, including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation.
(B) OTHER FEDERAL PROGRAMS.—This section shall not
apply to any residential, multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan asset, or securitization based directly or
indirectly on such an asset, which is insured or guaranteed
by the United States or an agency of the United States.
For purposes of this subsection, the Federal National
Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation, and the Federal home loan banks shall not be
considered an agency of the United States.
(4) EXEMPTION FOR QUALIFIED RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Federal banking agencies, the
Commission, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and the Director of the Federal Housing Finance

257

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 15G

Agency shall jointly issue regulations to exempt qualified
residential mortgages from the risk retention requirements
of this subsection.
(B) QUALIFIED RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE.—The Federal
banking agencies, the Commission, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency shall jointly define the term
‘‘qualified residential mortgage’’ for purposes of this subsection, taking into consideration underwriting and product features that historical loan performance data indicate
result in a lower risk of default, such as—
(i) documentation and verification of the financial
resources relied upon to qualify the mortgagor;
(ii) standards with respect to—
(I) the residual income of the mortgagor after
all monthly obligations;
(II) the ratio of the housing payments of the
mortgagor to the monthly income of the mortgagor;
(III) the ratio of total monthly installment
payments of the mortgagor to the income of the
mortgagor;
(iii) mitigating the potential for payment shock on
adjustable rate mortgages through product features
and underwriting standards;
(iv) mortgage guarantee insurance or other types
of insurance or credit enhancement obtained at the
time of origination, to the extent such insurance or
credit enhancement reduces the risk of default; and
(v) prohibiting or restricting the use of balloon
payments, negative amortization, prepayment penalties, interest-only payments, and other features that
have been demonstrated to exhibit a higher risk of
borrower default.
(C) LIMITATION ON DEFINITION.—The Federal banking
agencies, the Commission, the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development, and the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency in defining the term ‘‘qualified residential mortgage’’, as required by subparagraph (B), shall
define that term to be no broader than the definition
‘‘qualified mortgage’’ as the term is defined under section
129C(c)(2) [108] of the Truth in Lending Act, as amended by
the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, and regulations adopted thereunder.
(5) CONDITION FOR QUALIFIED RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE EXEMPTION.— The regulations issued under paragraph (4) shall
provide that an asset-backed security that is collateralized by
tranches of other asset-backed securities shall not be exempt
from the risk retention requirements of this subsection.
(6) CERTIFICATION.—The Commission shall require an
issuer to certify, for each issuance of an asset-backed security
collateralized exclusively by qualified residential mortgages,
108So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘129C(b)(2)’’.

Sec. 16

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

258

that the issuer has evaluated the effectiveness of the internal
supervisory controls of the issuer with respect to the process
for ensuring that all assets that collateralize the asset-backed
security are qualified residential mortgages.
(f) ENFORCEMENT.—The regulations issued under this section
shall be enforced by—
(1) the appropriate Federal banking agency, with respect
to any securitizer that is an insured depository institution; and
(2) the Commission, with respect to any securitizer that is
not an insured depository institution.
(g) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.—The authority of the Commission under this section shall be in addition to the authority of the
Commission to otherwise enforce the securities laws.
(h) AUTHORITY TO COORDINATE ON RULEMAKING.—The Chairperson of the Financial Stability Oversight Council shall coordinate
all joint rulemaking required under this section.
(i) EFFECTIVE DATE OF REGULATIONS.—The regulations issued
under this section shall become effective—
(1) with respect to securitizers and originators of assetbacked securities backed by residential mortgages, 1 year after
the date on which final rules under this section are published
in the Federal Register; and
(2) with respect to securitizers and originators of all other
classes of asset-backed securities, 2 years after the date on
which final rules under this section are published in the Federal Register.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 15G, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title IX, Sec. 941(b), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1891.)
SEC. 16. DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, AND PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS.
(a) DISCLOSURES REQUIRED.—
(1) DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, AND PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS
REQUIRED TO FILE.—Every person who is directly or indirectly

the beneficial owner of more than 10 percent of any class of
any equity security (other than an exempted security) which is
registered pursuant to section 12, or who is a director or an officer of the issuer of such security, shall file the statements required by this subsection with the Commission.
(2) TIME OF FILING.—The statements required by this subsection shall be filed—
(A) at the time of the registration of such security on
a national securities exchange or by the effective date of
a registration statement filed pursuant to section 12(g);
(B) within 10 days after he or she becomes such beneficial owner, director, or officer, or within such shorter
time as the Commission may establish by rule;
(C) if there has been a change in such ownership, or
if such person shall have purchased or sold a securitybased swap agreement involving such equity security, before the end of the second business day following the day
on which the subject transaction has been executed, or at
such other time as the Commission shall establish, by rule,

259

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 16

in any case in which the Commission determines that such
2-day period is not feasible.
(3) CONTENTS OF STATEMENTS.—A statement filed—
(A) under subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (2)
shall contain a statement of the amount of all equity securities of such issuer of which the filing person is the beneficial owner; and
(B) under subparagraph (C) of such paragraph shall
indicate ownership by the filing person at the date of filing, any such changes in such ownership, and such purchases and sales of the security-based swap agreements or
security-based swaps as have occurred since the most recent such filing under such subparagraph.
(4) ELECTRONIC FILING AND AVAILABILITY.—Beginning not
later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the SarbanesOxley Act of 2002—
(A) a statement filed under subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2) shall be filed electronically;
(B) the Commission shall provide each such statement
on a publicly accessible Internet site not later than the end
of the business day following that filing; and
(C) the issuer (if the issuer maintains a corporate
website) shall provide that statement on that corporate
website, not later than the end of the business day following that filing.
(b) For the purpose of preventing the unfair use of information
which may have been obtained by such beneficial owner, director,
or officer by reason of his relationship to the issuer, any profit realized by him from any purchase and sale, or any sale and purchase,
of any equity security of such issuer (other than an exempted security) or a security-based swap agreement involving any such equity
security within any period of less than six months, unless such security or security-based swap agreement was acquired in good faith
in connection with a debt previously contracted, shall inure to and
be recoverable by the issuer, irrespective of any intention on the
part of such beneficial owner, director, or officer in entering into
such transaction of holding the security or security-based swap
agreement purchased or of not repurchasing the security or security-based swap agreement sold for a period exceeding six months.
Suit to recover such profit may be instituted at law or in equity in
any court of competent jurisdiction by the issuer, or by the owner
of any security of the issuer in the name and in behalf of the issuer
if the issuer shall fail or refuse to bring such suit within sixty days
after request or shall fail diligently to prosecute the same thereafter; but no such suit shall be brought more than two years after
the date such profit was realized. This subsection shall not be construed to cover any transaction where such beneficial owner was
not such both at the time of the purchase and sale, or the sale and
purchase, of the security or security-based swap agreement or a security-based swap involved, or any transaction or transactions
which the Commission by rules and regulations may exempt as not
comprehended within the purpose of this subsection.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any such beneficial owner, director,
or officer, directly or indirectly, to sell any equity security of such

Sec. 17

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

260

issuer (other than an exempted security), if the person selling the
security or his principal (1) does not own the security sold, or (2)
if owning the security, does not deliver it against such sale within
twenty days thereafter, or does not within five days after such sale
deposit it in the mails or other usual channels of transportation;
but no person shall be deemed to have violated this subsection if
he proves that notwithstanding the exercise of good faith he was
unable to make such delivery or deposit within such time, or that
to do so would cause undue inconvenience or expense.
(d) The provisions of subsection (b) of this section shall not
apply to any purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, and the provisions of subsection (c) of this section shall not apply to any sale,
of an equity security not then or theretofore held by him in an investment account, by a dealer in the ordinary course of his business and incident to the establishment or maintenance by him of
a primary or secondary market (otherwise than on a national securities exchange or an exchange exempted from registration under
section 5 of this title) for such security. The Commission may, by
such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or appropriate in
the public interest, define and prescribe terms and conditions with
respect to securities held in an investment account and transactions made in the ordinary course of business and incident to the
establishment or maintenance of a primary or secondary market.
(e) The provisions of this section shall not apply to foreign or
domestic arbitrage transactions unless made in contravention of
such rules and regulations as the Commission may adopt in order
to carry out the purposes of this section.
(f) TREATMENT OF TRANSACTIONS IN SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS.—The provisions of this section shall apply to ownership of
and transactions in security futures products.
(g) The authority of the Commission under this section with respect to security-based swap agreements shall be subject to the restrictions and limitations of section 3A(b) of this title.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 16, 48 Stat. 896; Aug. 20, 1964,
Pub. L. 88-467, Sec. 8, 78 Stat. 579; Dec. 21, 2000, Pub. L. 106554, Sec. 1(a)(5)[title II, Sec. 208(b)(3), title III, Sec. 303(g), (h)],
114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-435, 2763A-455, 2763A-456; Pub. L. 107-204,
title IV, Sec. 403(a), July 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 788; Pub. L. 111-203,
title VII, Sec. 762(d)(5), title IX, Sec. 929R(b), July 21, 2010, 124
Stat. 1761, 1867.)
ACCOUNTS AND RECORDS, EXAMINATIONS OF EXCHANGES, MEMBERS,
AND OTHERS

SEC. 17. (a)(1) Every national securities exchange, member
thereof, broker or dealer who transacts a business in securities
through the medium of any such member, registered securities association, registered broker or dealer, registered municipal securities dealer municipal advisor,, [109] registered securities information
processor, registered transfer agent, nationally recognized statistical rating organization, and registered clearing agency and the
109So

in law. Probably should be ‘‘municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor,’’.

261

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 17

Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall make and keep for
prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof, and
make and disseminate such reports as the Commission, by rule,
prescribes as necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for
the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this title. Any report that a nationally recognized statistical rating organization is required by Commission rules under
this paragraph to make and disseminate to the Commission shall
be deemed furnished to the Commission.
(2) Every registered clearing agency shall also make and keep
for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof,
and make and disseminate such reports, as the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing agency, by rule, prescribes as necessary or appropriate for the safeguarding of securities and funds
in the custody or control of such clearing agency or for which it is
responsible.
(3) Every registered transfer agent shall also make and keep
for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof,
and make such reports as the appropriate regulatory agency for
such transfer agent, by rule, prescribes as necessary or appropriate
in furtherance of the purposes of section 17A of this title.
(b) RECORDS SUBJECT TO EXAMINATION.—
(1) PROCEDURES FOR COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES.—All records of persons described in subsection (a) of this
section are subject at any time, or from time to time, to such
reasonable periodic, special, or other examinations by representatives of the Commission and the appropriate regulatory
agency for such persons as the Commission or the appropriate
regulatory agency for such persons deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or
otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this title: Provided,
however, That the Commission shall, prior to conducting any
such examination of a—
(A) registered clearing agency, registered transfer
agent, or registered municipal securities dealer for which
it is not the appropriate regulatory agency, give notice to
the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing agency, transfer agent, or municipal securities dealer of such
proposed examination and consult with such appropriate
regulatory agency concerning the feasibility and desirability of coordinating such examination with examinations conducted by such appropriate regulatory agency
with a view to avoiding unnecessary regulatory duplication
or undue regulatory burdens for such clearing agency,
transfer agent, or municipal securities dealer; or
(B) broker or dealer registered pursuant to section
15(b)(11), exchange registered pursuant to section 6(g), or
national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(k), give notice to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission
of
such
proposed
examination
and
consults [110] with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission concerning the feasibility and desirability of co110So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘consult’’.

Sec. 17

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

262

ordinating such examination with examinations conducted
by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in order
to avoid unnecessary regulatory duplication or undue regulatory burdens for such broker or dealer or exchange.
(2) FURNISHING DATA AND REPORTS TO CFTC.—The Commission shall notify the Commodity Futures Trading Commission of any examination conducted of any broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b)(11), exchange registered pursuant to section 6(g), or national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(k) and, upon request, furnish
to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission any examination report and data supplied to, or prepared by, the Commission in connection with such examination.
(3) USE OF CFTC REPORTS.—Prior to conducting an examination under paragraph (1), the Commission shall use the reports of examinations, if the information available therein is
sufficient for the purposes of the examination, of—
(A) any broker or dealer registered pursuant to section
15(b)(11);
(B) exchange [111] registered pursuant to section 6(g);
or
(C) national [112] securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(k);
that is made by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
a national securities association registered pursuant to section
15A(k), or an exchange registered pursuant to section 6(g).
(4) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—
(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, the records of a broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b)(11), an exchange registered pursuant
to section 6(g), or a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(k) described in this subparagraph shall not be subject to routine periodic examinations by the Commission.
(B) Any recordkeeping rules adopted under this subsection for a broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b)(11), an exchange registered pursuant to section
6(g), or a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(k) shall be limited to records with respect to persons, accounts, agreements, contracts, and
transactions involving security futures products.
(C) [113] Nothing in the proviso in paragraph (1) shall
be construed to impair or limit (other than by the requirement of prior consultation) the power of the Commission
under this subsection to examine any clearing agency,
transfer agent, or municipal securities dealer or to affect
in any way the power of the Commission under any other
provision of this title or otherwise to inspect, examine, or
111So

in law. Probably should be preceded by ‘‘an’’.
in law. Probably should be preceded by ‘‘a’’.
compilation reflects the apparent intention with respect to the location and indentation of section 17(b)(4)(C) of this Act. See section 204(3) and (5) of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 (114 Stat. 2763A-424, 425), as enacted into law by section 1(a)(5) of Public
Law 106-554.
112So

113This

263

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 17

investigate any such clearing agency, transfer agent, or
municipal securities dealer.
(c)(1) Every clearing agency, transfer agent, and municipal securities dealer for which the Commission is not the appropriate
regulatory agency shall (A) file with the appropriate regulatory
agency for such clearing agency, transfer agent, or municipal securities dealer a copy of any application, notice, proposal, report, or
document filed with the Commission by reason of its being a clearing agency, transfer agent, or municipal securities dealer and (B)
file with the Commission a copy of any application, notice, proposal, report, or document filed with such appropriate regulatory
agency by reason of its being a clearing agency, transfer agent, or
municipal securities dealer. The Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board shall file with each agency enumerated in section 3(a)(34)(A)
of this title copies of every proposed rule change filed with the
Commission pursuant to section 19(b) of this title.
(2) The appropriate regulatory agency for a clearing agency,
transfer agent, or municipal securities dealer for which the Commission is not the appropriate regulatory agency shall file with the
Commission notice of the commencement of any proceeding and a
copy of any order entered by such appropriate regulatory agency
against any clearing agency, transfer agent, municipal securities
dealer, or person associated with a transfer agent or municipal securities dealer, and the Commission shall file with such appropriate regulatory agency, if any, notice of the commencement of any
proceeding and a copy of any order entered by the Commission
against the clearing agency, transfer agent, or municipal securities
dealer, or against any person associated with a transfer agent or
municipal securities dealer for which the agency is the appropriate
regulatory agency.
(3) The Commission and the appropriate regulatory agency for
a clearing agency, transfer agent, or municipal securities dealer for
which the Commission is not the appropriate regulatory agency
shall each notify the other and make a report of any examination
conducted by it of such clearing agency, transfer agent, or municipal securities dealer, and, upon request, furnish to the other a
copy of such report and any data supplied to it in connection with
such examination.
(4) The Commission or the appropriate regulatory agency may
specify that documents required to be filed pursuant to this subsection with the Commission or such agency, respectively, may be
retained by the originating clearing agency, transfer agent, or municipal securities dealer, or filed with another appropriate regulatory agency. The Commission or the appropriate regulatory agency (as the case may be) making such a specification shall continue
to have access to the document on request.
(d)(1) The Commission, by rule or order, as it deems necessary
or appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors, to foster cooperation and coordination among self-regulatory
organizations, or to remove impediments to and foster the development of a national market system and national system for the
clearance and settlement of securities transactions, may—
(A) with respect to any person who is a member of or participant in more than one self-regulatory organization, relieve

Sec. 17

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

264

any such self-regulatory organization of any responsibility
under this title (i) to receive regulatory reports from such person, (ii) to examine such person for compliance, or to enforce
compliance by such person, with specified provisions of this
title, the rules and regulations thereunder, and its own rules,
or (iii) to carry out other specified regulatory functions with respect to such person, and
(B) allocate among self-regulatory organizations the authority to adopt rules with respect to matters as to which, in
the absence of such allocation, such self-regulatory organizations share authority under this title.
In making any such rule or entering any such order, the Commission shall take into consideration the regulatory capabilities and
procedures of the self-regulatory organizations, availability of staff,
convenience of location, unnecessary regulatory duplication, and
such other factors as the Commission may consider germane to the
protection of investors, cooperation and coordination among selfregulatory organizations, and the development of a national market
system and a national system for the clearance and settlement of
securities transactions. The Commission, by rule or order, as it
deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest and for the
protection of investors, may require any self-regulatory organization relieved of any responsibility pursuant to this paragraph, and
any person with respect to whom such responsibility relates, to
take such steps as are specified in any such rule or order to notify
customers of, and persons doing business with, such person of the
limited nature of such self- regulatory organization’s responsibility
for such person’s acts, practices, and course of business.
(2) A self-regulatory organization shall furnish copies of any report of examination of any person who is a member of or a participant in such self-regulatory organization to any other self-regulatory organization of which such person is a member or in which
such person is a participant upon the request of such person, such
other self- regulatory organization, or the Commission.
(e)(1)(A) Every registered broker or dealer shall annually file
with the Commission a balance sheet and income statement certified by a [114] independent public accounting firm, or by a registered public accounting firm if the firm is required to be registered under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,, [115] prepared on a
calendar or fiscal year basis, and such other financial statements
(which shall, as the Commission specifies, be certified) and information concerning its financial condition as the Commission, by
rule may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(B) Every registered broker and dealer shall annually send to
its customers its certified balance sheet and such other financial
statements and information concerning its financial condition as
the Commission, by rule, may prescribe pursuant to subsection (a)
of this section.
(C) The Commission, by rule or order, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt any registered broker or dealer, or class of
114So
115So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘an’’.
in original.

265

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 17

such brokers or dealers, from any provision of this paragraph if the
Commission determines that such exemption is consistent with the
public interest and the protection of investors.
(2) The Commission, by rule, as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, may
prescribe the form and content of financial statements filed pursuant to this title and the accounting principles and accounting
standards used in their preparation.
(f)(1) Every national securities exchange, member thereof, registered securities association, broker, dealer, municipal securities
dealer, government securities broker, government securities dealer,
registered transfer agent, registered clearing agency, participant
therein, member of the Federal Reserve System, and bank whose
deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
shall—
(A) report to the Commission or other person designated
by the Commission and, in the case of securities issued pursuant to chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code, to the Secretary of the Treasury such information about securities that
are missing, lost, counterfeit, stolen, or cancelled, in such form
and within such time as the Commission, by rule, determines
is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors; such information shall be available on request for a reasonable fee, to any such exchange, member, association, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, transfer
agent, clearing agency, participant, member of the Federal Reserve System, or insured bank, and such other persons as the
Commission, by rule, designates; and
(B) make such inquiry with respect to information reported
pursuant to this subsection as the Commission, by rule, prescribes as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for
the protection of investors, to determine whether securities in
their custody or control, for which they are responsible, or in
which they are effecting, clearing, or settling a transaction
have been reported as missing, lost, counterfeit, stolen, cancelled, or reported in such other manner as the Commission,
by rule, may prescribe.
(2) Every member of a national securities exchange, broker,
dealer, registered transfer agent, registered clearing agency, registered securities information processor, national securities exchange, and national securities association shall require that each
of its partners, directors, officers, and employees be fingerprinted
and shall submit such fingerprints, or cause the same to be submitted, to the Attorney General of the United States for identification and appropriate processing. The Commission, by rule, may exempt from the provisions of this paragraph upon specified terms,
conditions, and periods, any class of partners, directors, officers, or
employees of any such member, broker, dealer, transfer agent,
clearing agency, securities information processor, national securities exchange, or national securities association, if the Commission
finds that such action is not inconsistent with the public interest
or the protection of investors. Notwithstanding any other provision
of law, in providing identification and processing functions, the Attorney General shall provide the Commission and self-regulatory

Sec. 17

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

266

organizations designated by the Commission with access to all
criminal history record information.
(3)(A) In order to carry out the authority under paragraph (1)
above, the Commission or its designee may enter into agreement
with the Attorney General to use the facilities of the National
Crime Information Center (’’NCIC’’) to receive, store, and disseminate information in regard to missing, lost, counterfeit, or stolen
securities and to permit direct inquiry access to NCIC’s file on such
securities for the financial community.
(B) In order to carry out the authority under paragraph (1) of
this subsection, the Commission or its designee and the Secretary
of the Treasury shall enter into an agreement whereby the Commission or its designee will receive, store, and disseminate information in the possession, and which comes into the possession, of the
Department of the Treasury in regard to missing, lost, counterfeit,
or stolen securities.
(4) In regard to paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), above insofar as
such paragraphs apply to any bank or member of the Federal Reserve System, the Commission may delegate its authority to:
(A) the Comptroller of the Currency as to national banks;
(B) the Federal Reserve Board in regard to any member of
the Federal Reserve System which is not a national bank; and
(C) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for any
State bank which is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation but which is not a member of the Federal Reserve
System.
(5) The Commission shall encourage the insurance industry to
require their insured to report expeditiously instances of missing,
lost, counterfeit, or stolen securities to the Commission or to such
other person as the Commission may, by rule, designate to receive
such information.
(g) Any broker, dealer, or other person extending credit who is
subject to the rules and regulations prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System pursuant to this title shall
make such reports to the Board as it may require as necessary or
appropriate to enable it to perform the functions conferred upon it
by this title. If any such broker, dealer, or other person shall fail
to make any such report or fail to furnish full information therein,
or, if in the judgment of the Board it is otherwise necessary, such
broker, dealer, or other person shall permit such inspections to be
made by the Board with respect to the business operations of such
broker, dealer, or other person as the Board may deem necessary
to enable it to obtain the required information.
(h) RISK ASSESSMENT FOR HOLDING COMPANY SYSTEMS.—
(1) OBLIGATIONS TO OBTAIN, MAINTAIN, AND REPORT INFORMATION.— Every person who is (A) a registered broker or dealer, or (B) a registered municipal securities dealer for which the
Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency, shall obtain
such information and make and keep such records as the Commission by rule prescribes concerning the registered person’s
policies, procedures, or systems for monitoring and controlling
financial and operational risks to it resulting from the activities of any of its associated persons, other than a natural person. Such records shall describe, in the aggregate, each of the

267

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 17

financial and securities activities conducted by, and the customary sources of capital and funding of, those of its associated
persons whose business activities are reasonably likely to have
a material impact on the financial or operational condition of
such registered person, including its net capital, its liquidity,
or its ability to conduct or finance its operations. The Commission, by rule, may require summary reports of such information to be filed with the Commission no more frequently than
quarterly.
(2) AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—If,
as a result of adverse market conditions or based on reports
provided to the Commission pursuant to paragraph (1) of this
subsection or other available information, the Commission reasonably concludes that it has concerns regarding the financial
or operational condition of (A) any registered broker or dealer,
or (B) any registered municipal securities dealer, government
securities broker, or government securities dealer for which the
Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency, the Commission may require the registered person to make reports concerning the financial and securities activities of any of such
person’s associated persons, other than a natural person,
whose business activities are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the financial or operational condition of such
registered person. The Commission, in requiring reports pursuant to this paragraph, shall specify the information required,
the period for which it is required, the time and date on which
the information must be furnished, and whether the information is to be furnished directly to the Commission or to a selfregulatory organization with primary responsibility for examining the registered person’s financial and operational condition.
(3) SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH RESPECT TO ASSOCIATED PERSONS SUBJECT TO FEDERAL BANKING AGENCY REGULATION.—
(A) COOPERATION IN IMPLEMENTATION.—In developing
and implementing reporting requirements pursuant to
paragraph (1) of this subsection with respect to associated
persons subject to examination by or reporting requirements of a Federal banking agency, the Commission shall
consult with and consider the views of each such Federal
banking agency. If a Federal banking agency comments in
writing on a proposed rule of the Commission under this
subsection that has been published for comment, the Commission shall respond in writing to such written comment
before adopting the proposed rule. The Commission shall,
at the request of the Federal banking agency, publish such
comment and response in the Federal Register at the time
of publishing the adopted rule.
(B) USE OF BANKING AGENCY REPORTS.—A registered
broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer shall be in
compliance with any recordkeeping or reporting requirement adopted pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection
concerning an associated person that is subject to examination by or reporting requirements of a Federal banking
agency if such broker, dealer, or municipal securities deal-

Sec. 17

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

268

er utilizes for such recordkeeping or reporting requirement
copies of reports filed by the associated person with the
Federal banking agency pursuant to section 5211 of the
Revised Statutes, section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act, section 7(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, section
10(b) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act, or section 8 of the
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The Commission may,
however, by rule adopted pursuant to paragraph (1), require any broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer filing such reports with the Commission to obtain, maintain,
or report supplemental information if the Commission
makes an explicit finding that such supplemental information is necessary to inform the Commission regarding potential risks to such broker, dealer, or municipal securities
dealer. Prior to requiring any such supplemental information, the Commission shall first request the Federal banking agency to expand its reporting requirements to include
such information.
(C) PROCEDURE FOR REQUIRING ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—Prior to making a request pursuant to paragraph
(2) of this subsection for information with respect to an associated person that is subject to examination by or reporting requirements of a Federal banking agency, the Commission shall—
(i) notify such agency of the information required
with respect to such associated person; and
(ii) consult with such agency to determine whether
the information required is available from such agency
and for other purposes, unless the Commission determines that any delay resulting from such consultation
would be inconsistent with ensuring the financial and
operational condition of the broker, dealer, municipal
securities dealer, government securities broker, or government securities dealer or the stability or integrity
of the securities markets.
(D) EXCLUSION FOR EXAMINATION REPORTS.—Nothing
in this subsection shall be construed to permit the Commission to require any registered broker or dealer, or any
registered municipal securities dealer, government securities broker, or government securities dealer for which the
Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency, to obtain, maintain, or furnish any examination report of any
Federal banking agency or any supervisory recommendations or analysis contained therein.
(E) CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION PROVIDED.—No
information provided to or obtained by the Commission
from any Federal banking agency pursuant to a request by
the Commission under subparagraph (C) of this paragraph
regarding any associated person which is subject to examination by or reporting requirements of a Federal banking
agency may be disclosed to any other person (other than
a self-regulatory organization), without the prior written
approval of the Federal banking agency. Nothing in this
subsection shall authorize the Commission to withhold in-

269

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 17

formation from Congress, or prevent the Commission from
complying with a request for information from any other
Federal department or agency requesting the information
for purposes within the scope of its jurisdiction, or complying with an order of a court of the United States in an
action brought by the United States or the Commission.
(F) NOTICE TO BANKING AGENCIES CONCERNING FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONDITION CONCERNS.—The Commission shall notify the Federal banking agency of any
concerns of the Commission regarding significant financial
or operational risks resulting from the activities of any
registered broker or dealer, or any registered municipal securities dealer, government securities broker, or government securities dealer for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency, to any associated person
thereof which is subject to examination by or reporting requirements of the Federal banking agency.
(G) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this paragraph, the
term ‘‘Federal banking agency’’ shall have the same meaning as the term ‘‘appropriate Federal bank agency’’ in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1813(q)).
(4) EXEMPTIONS.—The Commission by rule or order may
exempt any person or class of persons, under such terms and
conditions and for such periods as the Commission shall provide in such rule or order, from the provisions of this subsection, and the rules thereunder. In granting such exemptions, the Commission shall consider, among other factors—
(A) whether information of the type required under
this subsection is available from a supervisory agency (as
defined in section 1101(6) of the Right to Financial Privacy
Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3401(6))), a State insurance commission or similar State agency, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, or a similar foreign regulator;
(B) the primary business of any associated person;
(C) the nature and extent of domestic or foreign regulation of the associated person’s activities;
(D) the nature and extent of the registered person’s securities activities; and
(E) with respect to the registered person and its associated persons, on a consolidated basis, the amount and
proportion of assets devoted to, and revenues derived from,
activities in the United States securities markets.
(5) AUTHORITY TO LIMIT DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.—
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission
shall not be compelled to disclose any information required to
be reported under this subsection, or any information supplied
to the Commission by any domestic or foreign regulatory agency that relates to the financial or operational condition of any
associated person of a registered broker, dealer, government
securities broker, government securities dealer, or municipal
securities dealer. Nothing in this subsection shall authorize the
Commission to withhold information from Congress, or prevent
the Commission from complying with a request for information

Sec. 17

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

270

from any other Federal department or agency requesting the
information for purposes within the scope of its jurisdiction, or
complying with an order of a court of the United States in an
action brought by the United States or the Commission. For
purposes of section 552 of title 5, United States Code, this subsection shall be considered a statute described in subsection
(b)(3)(B) of such section 552. In prescribing regulations to carry
out the requirements of this sub- section, the Commission shall
designate information described in or obtained pursuant to
subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (3) of this subsection as
confidential information for purposes of section 24(b)(2) of this
title.
(i) AUTHORITY TO LIMIT DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission shall not
be compelled to disclose any information required to be reported
under subsection (h) or (i) [116] or any information supplied to the
Commission by any domestic or foreign regulatory agency that relates to the financial or operational condition of any associated person of a broker or dealer, investment bank holding company, or any
affiliate of an investment bank holding company. Nothing in this
subsection shall authorize the Commission to withhold information
from Congress, or prevent the Commission from complying with a
request for information from any other Federal department or
agency or any self-regulatory organization requesting the information for purposes within the scope of its jurisdiction, or complying
with an order of a court of the United States in an action brought
by the United States or the Commission. For purposes of section
552 of title 5, United States Code, this subsection shall be considered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section 552.
In prescribing regulations to carry out the requirements of this
subsection, the Commission shall designate information described
in or obtained pursuant to subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of subsection (i)(5) [116] as confidential information for purposes of section
24(b)(2) of this title.
(j) COORDINATION OF EXAMINING AUTHORITIES.—
(1) ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATION.—The Commission and
the examining authorities, through cooperation and coordination of examination and oversight activities, shall eliminate
any unnecessary and burdensome duplication in the examination process.
(2) COORDINATION OF EXAMINATIONS.—The Commission
and the examining authorities shall share such information,
including reports of examinations, customer complaint information, and other nonpublic regulatory information, as appropriate to foster a coordinated approach to regulatory oversight
of brokers and dealers that are subject to examination by more
than one examining authority.
(3) EXAMINATIONS FOR CAUSE.—At any time, any examining authority may conduct an examination for cause of any
broker or dealer subject to its jurisdiction.
(4) CONFIDENTIALITY.—
116Subsetion (i) of this section was repealed, and subsec. (j) was redesignated (i), by Pub. L.
111-203, Sec. 617(a).

271

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 17A

(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 24 shall apply to the sharing
of information in accordance with this subsection. The
Commission shall take appropriate action under section
24(c) to ensure that such information is not inappropriately disclosed.
(B) APPROPRIATE DISCLOSURE NOT PROHIBITED.—Nothing in this paragraph authorizes the Commission or any
examining authority to withhold information from the
Congress, or prevent the Commission or any examining
authority from complying with a request for information
from any other Federal department or agency requesting
the information for purposes within the scope of its jurisdiction, or complying with an order of a court of the United
States in an action brought by the United States or the
Commission.
(5) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this subsection, the term
‘‘examining authority’’ means a self-regulatory organization
registered with the Commission under this title (other than a
registered clearing agency) with the authority to examine, inspect, and otherwise oversee the activities of a registered
broker or dealer.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 17, 48 Stat. 897; Aug. 23, 1935,
ch. 614, Sec. 203(a), 49 Stat. 704; May 27, 1936, ch. 462, Sec. 4,
49 Stat. 1379; June 25, 1938, ch. 677, Sec. 5, 52 Stat. 1076; June
4, 1975, Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 14, 89 Stat. 137; Oct. 28, 1986, Pub.
L. 99-571, title I, Sec. 102(h), (i), 100 Stat. 3219; Dec. 4, 1987, Pub.
L. 100-181, title III, Sec. 321, title VIII, Sec. 801(b), 101 Stat. 1257,
1265; Oct. 16, 1990, Pub. L. 101-432, Sec. 4(a), 104 Stat. 966; Oct.
11, 1996, Pub. L. 104-290, title I, Sec. 108, 110 Stat. 3425; Nov. 3,
1998, Pub. L. 105-353, title III, Sec. 301(b)(5), 112 Stat. 3236; Nov.
12, 1999, Pub. L. 106-102, title II, Sec. 231(a), 113 Stat. 1402; Dec.
21, 2000, Pub. L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5)[title II, Sec. 204], 114 Stat.
2763, 2763A-424; Pub. L. 107-204, title II, Sec. 205(c)(2), July 30,
2002, 116 Stat. 774; Pub. L. 108-386, Sec. 8(f)(5), (6), Oct. 30, 2004,
118 Stat. 2232; Pub. L. 109-291, Sec. 5, Sept. 29, 2006, 120 Stat.
1338; Pub. L. 111-203, title VI, Sec. 617(a), title IX, Secs. 929D,
929S, 975(h), 982(e)(2), 985(b)(7), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1616,
1853, 1867, 1923, 1929, 1934.)
NATIONAL SYSTEM FOR CLEARANCE AND SETTLEMENT OF SECURITIES
TRANSACTIONS

SEC. 17A. (a)(1) The Congress finds that—
(A) The prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of
securities transactions, including the transfer of record ownership and the safeguarding of securities and funds related
thereto, are necessary for the protection of investors and persons facilitating transactions by and acting on behalf of investors.
(B) Inefficient procedures for clearance and settlement impose unnecessary costs on investors and persons facilitating
transactions by and acting on behalf of investors.

Sec. 17A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

272

(C) New data processing and communications techniques
create the opportunity for more efficient, effective, and safe
procedures for clearance and settlement.
(D) The linking of all clearance and settlement facilities
and the development of uniform standards and procedures for
clearance and settlement will reduce unnecessary costs and increase the protection of investors and persons facilitating
transactions by and acting on behalf of investors.
(2)(A) The Commission is directed, therefore, having due regard for the public interest, the protection of investors, the safeguarding of securities and funds, and maintenance of fair competition among brokers and dealers, clearing agencies, and transfer
agents, to use its authority under this title—
(i) to facilitate the establishment of a national system for
the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of transactions in securities (other than exempt securities); and
(ii) to facilitate the establishment of linked or coordinated
facilities for clearance and settlement of transactions in securities, securities options, contracts of sale for future delivery and
options thereon, and commodity options;
in accordance with the findings and to carry out the objectives set
forth in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(B) The Commission shall use its authority under this title to
assure equal regulation under this title of registered clearing agencies and registered transfer agents. In carrying out its responsibilities set forth in subparagraph (A)(ii) of this paragraph, the Commission shall coordinate with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and consult with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(b)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any clearing agency, unless registered in accordance
with this subsection, directly or indirectly, to make use of the mails
or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to perform
the functions of a clearing agency with respect to any security
(other than an exempted security). The Commission, by rule or
order, upon its own motion or upon application, may conditionally
or unconditionally exempt any clearing agency or security or any
class of clearing agencies or securities from any provisions of this
section or the rules or regulations thereunder, if the Commission
finds that such exemption is consistent with the public interest, the
protection of investors, and the purposes of this section, including
the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities
transactions and the safeguarding of securities and funds. A clearing agency or transfer agent shall not perform the functions of both
a clearing agency and a transfer agent unless such clearing agency
or transfer agent is registered in accordance with this subsection
and subsection (c) of this section.
(2) A clearing agency may be registered under the terms and
conditions hereinafter provided in this subsection and in accordance with the provisions of section 19(a) of this title, by filing with
the Commission an application for registration in such form as the
Commission, by rule, may prescribe containing the rules of the
clearing agency and such other information and documents as the
Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in

273

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 17A

the public interest or for the prompt and accurate clearance and
settlement of securities transactions.
(3) A clearing agency shall not be registered unless the Commission determines that—
(A) Such clearing agency is so organized and has the capacity to be able to facilitate the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and derivative
agreements, contracts, and transactions for which it is responsible, to safeguard securities and funds in its custody or control
or for which it is responsible, to comply with the provisions of
this title and the rules and regulations thereunder, to enforce
(subject to any rule or order of the Commission pursuant to
section 17(d) or 19(g)(2) of this title) compliance by its participants with the rules of the clearing agency, and to carry out
the purposes of this section.
(B) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (4) of this subsection, the rules of the clearing agency provide that any (i)
registered broker or dealer, (ii) other registered clearing agency, (iii) registered investment company, (iv) bank, (v) insurance
company, or (vi) other person or class of persons as the Commission, by rule, may from time to time designate as appropriate to the development of a national system or the prompt
and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions may become a participant in such clearing agency.
(C) The rules of the clearing agency assure a fair representation of its shareholders (or members) and participants in the
selection of its directors and administration of its affairs. (The
Commission may determine that the representation of participants is fair if they are afforded a reasonable opportunity to
acquire voting stock of the clearing agency, directly or indirectly, in reasonable proportion to their use of such clearing
agency.)
(D) The rules of the clearing agency provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees, and other charges
among its participants.
(E) The rules of the clearing agency do not impose any
schedule of prices, or fix rates or other fees, for services rendered by its participants.
(F) The rules of the clearing agency are designed to promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and, to the extent applicable, derivative
agreements, contracts, and transactions, to assure the safeguarding of securities and funds which are in the custody or
control of the clearing agency or for which it is responsible, to
foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in
the clearance and settlement of securities transactions, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a national
system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement
of securities transactions, and, in general, to protect investors
and the public interest; and are not designed to permit unfair
discrimination in the admission of participants or among participants in the use of the clearing agency, or to regulate by
virtue of any authority conferred by this title matters not re-

Sec. 17A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

274

lated to the purposes of this section or the administration of
the clearing agency.
(G) The rules of the clearing agency provide that (subject
to any rule or order of the Commission pursuant to section
17(d) or 19(g)(2) of this title) its participants shall be appropriately disciplined for violation of any provision of the rules
of the clearing agency by expulsion, suspension, limitation of
activities, functions, and operations, fine, censure, or any other
fitting sanction.
(H) The rules of the clearing agency are in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (5) of this subsection, and, in general, provide a fair procedure with respect to the disciplining
of participants, the denial of participation to any persons seeking participation therein, and the prohibition or limitation by
the clearing agency of any person with respect to access to
services offered by the clearing agency.
(I) The rules of the clearing agency do not impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance
of the purposes of this title.
(4)(A) A registered clearing agency may, and in cases in which
the Commission, by order, directs as appropriate in the public interest shall, deny participation to any person subject to a statutory
disqualification. A registered clearing agency shall file notice with
the Commission not less than thirty days prior to admitting any
person to participation, if the clearing agency knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care should have known, that such person was
subject to a statutory disqualification. The notice shall be in such
form and contain such information as the Commission, by rule,
may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors.
(B) A registered clearing agency may deny participation to, or
condition the participation of, any person if such person does not
meet such standards of financial responsibility, operational capability, experience, and competence as are prescribed by the rules of
the clearing agency. A registered clearing agency may examine and
verify the qualifications of an applicant to be a participant in accordance with procedures established by the rules of the clearing
agency.
(5)(A) In any proceeding by a registered clearing agency to determine whether a participant should be disciplined (other than a
summary proceeding pursuant to subparagraph (C) of this paragraph), the clearing agency shall bring specific charges, notify such
participant of, and give him an opportunity to defend against such
charges, and keep a record. A determination by the clearing agency
to impose a disciplinary sanction shall be supported by a statement
setting forth—
(i) any act or practice in which such participant has been
found to have engaged, or which such participant has been
found to have omitted;
(ii) the specific provisions of the rules of the clearing agency which any such act or practice, or omission to act, is deemed
to violate; and
(iii) the sanction imposed and the reasons therefor.

275

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 17A

(B) In any proceeding by a registered clearing agency to determine whether a person shall be denied participation or prohibited
or limited with respect to access to services offered by the clearing
agency, the clearing agency shall notify such person of, and give
him an opportunity to be heard upon, the specific grounds for denial or prohibition or limitation under consideration and keep a
record. A determination by the clearing agency to deny participation or prohibit or limit a person with respect to access to services
offered by the clearing agency shall be supported by a statement
setting forth the specific grounds on which the denial or prohibition
or limitation is based.
(C) A registered clearing agency may summarily suspend and
close the accounts of a participant who (i) has been and is expelled
or suspended from any self-regulatory organization, (ii) is in default
of any delivery of funds or securities to the clearing agency, or (iii)
is in such financial or operating difficulty that the clearing agency
determines and so notifies the appropriate regulatory agency for
such participant that such suspension and closing of accounts are
necessary for the protection of the clearing agency, its participants,
creditors, or investors. A participant so summarily suspended shall
be promptly afforded an opportunity for a hearing by the clearing
agency in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (A) of
this paragraph. The appropriate regulatory agency for such participant, by order, may stay any such summary suspension on its own
motion or upon application by any person aggrieved thereby, if
such appropriate regulatory agency determines summarily or after
notice and opportunity for hearing (which hearing may consist solely of the submission of affidavits or presentation of oral arguments)
that such stay is consistent with the public interest and protection
of investors.
(6) No registered clearing agency shall prohibit or limit access
by any person to services offered by any participant therein.
(7)(A) A clearing agency that is regulated directly or indirectly
by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission through its association with a designated contract market for security futures products that is a national securities exchange registered pursuant to
section 6(g), and that would be required to register pursuant to
paragraph (1) of this subsection only because it performs the functions of a clearing agency with respect to security futures products
effected pursuant to the rules of the designated contract market
with which such agency is associated, is exempted from the provisions of this section and the rules and regulations thereunder, except that if such a clearing agency performs the functions of a
clearing agency with respect to a security futures product that is
not cash settled, it must have arrangements in place with a registered clearing agency to effect the payment and delivery of the securities underlying the security futures product.
(B) Any clearing agency that performs the functions of a clearing agency with respect to security futures products must coordinate with and develop fair and reasonable links with any and all
other clearing agencies that perform the functions of a clearing
agency with respect to security futures products, in order to permit,

Sec. 17A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

276

as of the compliance date (as defined in section 6(h)(6)(C)) [117], security futures products to be purchased on one market and offset
on another market that trades such products.
(8) A registered clearing agency shall be permitted to provide
facilities for the clearance and settlement of any derivative agreements, contracts, or transactions that are excluded from the Commodity Exchange Act, subject to the requirements of this section
and to such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe
as necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection
of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this
title.
(c)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any transfer agent, unless registered in accordance
with this section, directly or indirectly, to make use of the mails
or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to perform
the function of a transfer agent with respect to any security registered under section 12 of this title or which would be required to
be registered except for the exemption from registration provided
by subsection (g)(2)(B) or (g)(2)(G) of that section. The appropriate
regulatory agency, by rule or order, upon its own motion or upon
application, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt any person or security or class of persons or securities from any provision
of this section or any rule or regulation prescribed under this section, if the appropriate regulatory agency finds (A) that such exemption is in the public interest and consistent with the protection
of investors and the purposes of this section, including the prompt
and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions
and the safeguarding of securities and funds, and (B) the Commission does not object to such exemption.
(2) A transfer agent may be registered by filing with the appropriate regulatory agency for such transfer agent an application for
registration in such form and containing such information and documents concerning such transfer agent and any persons associated
with the transfer agent as such appropriate regulatory agency may
prescribe as necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this section. Except as hereinafter provided, such registration shall become effective 45 days after receipt of such application
by such appropriate regulatory agency or within such shorter period of time as such appropriate regulatory agency may determine.
(3) The appropriate regulatory agency for a transfer agent, by
order, shall deny registration to, censure, place limitations on the
activities, functions, or operations of, suspend for a period not exceeding 12 months, or revoke the registration of such transfer
agent, if such appropriate regulatory agency finds, on the record
after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such denial, censure,
placing of limitations, suspension, or revocation is in the public interest and that such transfer agent, whether prior or subsequent
to becoming such, or any person associated with such transfer
agent, whether prior or subsequent to becoming so associated—
(A) has committed or omitted any act, or is subject to an
order or finding, enumerated in subparagraph (A), (D), (E), (H),
or (G) of paragraph (4) of section 15(b) of this title, has been
117So

in law. Probably should be section 6(h)(7)(C).

277

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 17A

convicted of any offense specified in subparagraph (B) of such
paragraph (4) within ten years of the commencement of the
proceedings under this paragraph, or is enjoined from any action, conduct, or practice specified in subparagraph (C) of such
paragraph (4); or
(B) is subject to an order entered pursuant to subparagraph (C) of paragraph (4) of this subsection barring or suspending the right of such person to be associated with a transfer agent.
(4)(A) Pending final determination whether any registration by
a transfer agent under this subsection shall be denied, the appropriate regulatory agency for such transfer agent, by order, may
postpone the effective date of such registration for a period not to
exceed fifteen days, but if, after notice and opportunity for hearing
(which may consist solely of affidavits and oral arguments), it shall
appear to such appropriate regulatory agency to be necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors
to postpone the effective date of such registration until final determination, such appropriate regulatory agency shall so order. Pending final determination whether any registration under this subsection shall be revoked, such appropriate regulatory agency, by
order, may suspend such registration, if such suspension appears
to such appropriate regulatory agency, after notice and opportunity
for hearing, to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors.
(B) A registered transfer agent may, upon such terms and conditions as the appropriate regulatory agency for such transfer
agent deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the
protection of investors, or in furtherance of the purposes of this section, withdraw from registration by filing a written notice of withdrawal with such appropriate regulatory agency. If such appropriate regulatory agency finds that any transfer agent for which it
is the appropriate regulatory agency, is no longer in existence or
has ceased to do business as a transfer agent, such appropriate regulatory agency, by order, shall cancel or deny the registration.
(C) The appropriate regulatory agency for a transfer agent, by
order, shall censure or place limitations on the activities or functions of any person associated, seeking to become associated, or, at
the time of the alleged misconduct, associated or seeking to become
associated with the transfer agent, or suspend for a period not exceeding 12 months or bar any such person from being associated
with any transfer agent, broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization, if the appropriate regulatory agency
finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that
such censure, placing of limitations, suspension, or bar is in the
public interest and that such person has committed or omitted any
act, or is subject to an order or finding, enumerated in subparagraph (A), (D), (E), (H), or (G) or [118] paragraph (4) of section 15(b)
of this title, has been convicted of any offense specified in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph (4) within ten years of the commencement of the proceedings under this paragraph, or is enjoined from
118So

in law. Probably should be ‘‘of’’.

Sec. 17A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

278

any action, conduct, or practice specified in subparagraph (C) of
such paragraph (4). It shall be unlawful for any person as to whom
such an order suspending or barring him from being associated
with a transfer agent is in effect willfully to become, or to be, associated with a transfer agent without the consent of the appropriate
regulatory agency that entered the order and the appropriate regulatory agency for that transfer agent. It shall be unlawful for any
transfer agent to permit such a person to become, or remain, a person associated with it without the consent of such appropriate regulatory agencies, if the transfer agent knew, or in the exercise of
reasonable care should have known, of such order. The Commission
may establish, by rule, procedures by which a transfer agent reasonably can determine whether a person associated or seeking to
become associated with it is subject to any such order, and may require, by rule, that any transfer agent comply with such procedures.
(d)(1) No registered clearing agency or registered transfer
agent shall, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity as clearing
agency or transfer agent in contravention of such rules and regulations (A) as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this title, or (B) as the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing agency or transfer
agent may prescribe as necessary or appropriate for the safeguarding of securities and funds.
(2) With respect to any clearing agency or transfer agent for
which the Commission is not the appropriate regulatory agency,
the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing agency or
transfer agent may, in accordance with section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818), enforce compliance by such
clearing agency or transfer agent with the provisions of this section, sections 17 and 19 of this title, and the rules and regulations
thereunder. For purposes of the preceding sentence, any violation
of any such provision shall constitute adequate basis for the
issuance of an order under section 8(b) or 8(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and the participants in any such clearing
agency and the persons doing business with any such transfer
agent shall be deemed to be ‘‘depositors’’ as that term is used in
section 8(c) of that Act.
(3)(A) With respect to any clearing agency or transfer agent for
which the Commission is not the appropriate regulatory agency,
the Commission and the appropriate regulatory agency for such
clearing agency or transfer agent shall consult and cooperate with
each other, and, as may be appropriate, with State banking authorities having supervision over such clearing agency or transfer
agent toward the end that, to the maximum extent practicable,
their respective regulatory responsibilities may be fulfilled and the
rules and regulations applicable to such clearing agency or transfer
agent may be in accord with both sound banking practices and a
national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. In accordance with this objective—
(i) the Commission and such appropriate regulatory agency
shall, at least fifteen days prior to the issuance for public comment of any proposed rule or regulation or adoption of any rule

279

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 17A

or regulation concerning such clearing agency or transfer
agent, consult and request the views of the other; and
(ii) such appropriate regulatory agency shall assume primary responsibility to examine and enforce compliance by such
clearing agency or transfer agent with the provisions of this
section and sections 17 and 19 of this title.
(B) Nothing in the preceding subparagraph or elsewhere in this
title shall be construed to impair or limit (other than by the requirement of notification) the Commission’s authority to make
rules under any provision of this title or to enforce compliance pursuant to any provision of this title by any clearing agency, transfer
agent, or person associated with a transfer agent with the provisions of this title and the rules and regulations thereunder.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair the authority of any State banking authority or other State or Federal
regulatory authority having jurisdiction over a person registered as
a clearing agency, transfer agent, or person associated with a
transfer agent, to make and enforce rules governing such person
which are not inconsistent with this title and the rules and regulations thereunder.
(5) A registered transfer agent may not, directly or indirectly,
engage in any activity in connection with the guarantee of a signature of an endorser of a security, including the acceptance or rejection of such guarantee, in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate
in the public interest, for the protection of investors, to facilitate
the equitable treatment of financial institutions which issue such
guarantees, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this
title.
(e) The Commission shall use its authority under this title to
end the physical movement of securities certificates in connection
with the settlement among brokers and dealers of transactions in
securities consummated by means of the mails or any means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce.
(f)(1) Notwithstanding any provision of State law, except as
provided in paragraph (3), if the Commission makes each of the
findings described in paragraph (2)(A), the Commission may adopt
rules concerning—
(A) the transfer of certificated or uncertificated securities
(other than government securities issued pursuant to chapter
31 of title 31, United States Code, or securities otherwise processed within a book-entry system operated by the Federal Reserve banks pursuant to a Federal book-entry regulation) or
limited interests (including security interests) therein; and
(B) rights and obligations of purchasers, sellers, owners,
lenders, borrowers, and financial intermediaries (including brokers, dealers, banks, and clearing agencies) involved in or affected by such transfers, and the rights of third parties whose
interests in such securities devolve from such transfers.
(2)(A) The findings described in this paragraph are findings by
the Commission that—
(i) such rule is necessary or appropriate for the protection
of investors or in the public interest and is reasonably designed

Sec. 17A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

280

to promote the prompt, accurate, and safe clearance and settlement of securities transactions;
(ii) in the absence of a uniform rule, the safe and efficient
operation of the national system for clearance and settlement
of securities transactions will be, or is, substantially impeded;
and
(iii) to the extent such rule will impair or diminish, directly or indirectly, rights of persons specified in paragraph
(1)(B) under State law concerning transfers of securities (or
limited interests therein), the benefits of such rule outweigh
such impairment or diminution of rights.
(B) In making the findings described in subparagraph (A), the
Commission shall give consideration to the recommendations of the
Advisory Committee established under paragraph (4), and it shall
consult with and consider the views of the Secretary of the Treasury and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. If
the Secretary of the Treasury objects, in writing, to any proposed
rule of the Commission on the basis of the Secretary’s view on the
issues described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subparagraph (A), the
Commission shall consider all feasible alternatives to the proposed
rule, and it shall not adopt any such rule unless the Commission
makes an explicit finding that the rule is the most practicable
method for achieving safe and efficient operation of the national
clearance and settlement system.
(3) Any State may, prior to the expiration of 2 years after the
Commission adopts a rule under this subsection, enact a statute
that specifically refers to this subsection and the specific rule
thereunder and establishes, prospectively from the date of enactment of the State statute, a provision that differs from that applicable under the Commission’s rule.
(4)(A) Within 90 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Commission shall (and at such times thereafter as the
Commission may determine, the Commission may), after consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System, establish an advisory committee
under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.). The
Advisory Committee shall be directed to consider and report to the
Commission on such matters as the Commission, after consultation
with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System, determines, including the areas, if
any, in which State commercial laws and related Federal laws concerning the transfer of certificated or uncertificated securities, limited interests (including security interests) in such securities, or
the creation or perfection of security interests in such securities do
not provide the necessary certainty, uniformity, and clarity for purchasers, sellers, owners, lenders, borrowers, and financial intermediaries concerning their respective rights and obligations.
(B) The Advisory Committee shall consist of 15 members, of
which—
(i) 11 shall be designated by the Commission in accordance
with the Federal Advisory Committee Act; and
(ii) 2 each shall be designated by the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System and the Secretary of the Treasury.

281

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 17A

(C) The Advisory Committee shall conduct its activities in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Within 6
months of its designation, or such longer time as the Commission
may designate, the Advisory Committee shall issue a report to the
Commission, and shall cause copies of that report to be delivered
to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Chairman of the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(g) [119] DUE DILIGENCE FOR THE DELIVERY OF DIVIDENDS, INTEREST, AND OTHER VALUABLE PROPERTY RIGHTS.—
(1) REVISION OF RULES REQUIRED.—The Commission shall
revise its regulations in section 240.17Ad-17 of title 17, Code
of Federal Regulations, as in effect on December 8, 1997, to extend the application of such section to brokers and dealers and
to provide for the following:
(A) A requirement that the paying agent provide a single written notification to each missing security holder
that the missing security holder has been sent a check
that has not yet been negotiated. The written notification
may be sent along with a check or other mailing subsequently sent to the missing security holder but must be
provided no later than 7 months after the sending of the
not yet negotiated check.
(B) An exclusion for paying agents from the notification requirements when the value of the not yet negotiated
check is less than $25.
(C) A provision clarifying that the requirements described in subparagraph (A) shall have no effect on State
escheatment laws.
(D) For purposes of such revised regulations—
(i) a security holder shall be considered a ‘‘missing
security holder’’ if a check is sent to the security holder and the check is not negotiated before the earlier of
the paying agent sending the next regularly scheduled
check or the elapsing of 6 months after the sending of
the not yet negotiated check; and
(ii) the term ‘‘paying agent’’ includes any issuer,
transfer agent, broker, dealer, investment adviser, indenture trustee, custodian, or any other person that
accepts payments from the issuer of a security and
distributes the payments to the holders of the security.
(2) RULEMAKING.—The Commission shall adopt such rules,
regulations, and orders necessary to implement this subsection
no later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection. In proposing such rules, the Commission shall seek to
minimize disruptions to current systems used by or on behalf
of paying agents to process payment to account holders and
avoid requiring multiple paying agents to send written notification to a missing security holder regarding the same not yet
negotiated check.
119Two

subsecs. (g) have been enacted.

Sec. 17A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

282

(g) [120] REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.—It shall be unlawful for
a clearing agency, unless registered with the Commission, directly
or indirectly to make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to perform the functions of a clearing
agency with respect to a security-based swap.
(h) VOLUNTARY REGISTRATION.—A person that clears agreements, contracts, or transactions that are not required to be cleared
under this title may register with the Commission as a clearing
agency.
(i) STANDARDS FOR CLEARING AGENCIES CLEARING SECURITYBASED SWAP TRANSACTIONS.—To be registered and to maintain registration as a clearing agency that clears security-based swap
transactions, a clearing agency shall comply with such standards
as the Commission may establish by rule. In establishing any such
standards, and in the exercise of its oversight of such a clearing
agency pursuant to this title, the Commission may conform such
standards or oversight to reflect evolving United States and international standards. Except where the Commission determines otherwise by rule or regulation, a clearing agency shall have reasonable discretion in establishing the manner in which it complies
with any such standards.
(j) RULES.—The Commission shall adopt rules governing persons that are registered as clearing agencies for security-based
swaps under this title.
(k) EXEMPTIONS.—The Commission may exempt, conditionally
or unconditionally, a clearing agency from registration under this
section for the clearing of security-based swaps if the Commission
determines that the clearing agency is subject to comparable, comprehensive supervision and regulation by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission or the appropriate government authorities in
the home country of the agency. Such conditions may include, but
are not limited to, requiring that the clearing agency be available
for inspection by the Commission and make available all information requested by the Commission.
(l) EXISTING DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND DERIVATIVE CLEARING ORGANIZATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A depository institution or derivative
clearing organization registered with the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act that
is required to be registered as a clearing agency under this section is deemed to be registered under this section solely for the
purpose of clearing security-based swaps to the extent that, before the date of enactment of this subsection—
(A) the depository institution cleared swaps as a multilateral clearing organization; or
(B) the derivative clearing organization cleared swaps
pursuant to an exemption from registration as a clearing
agency.
(2) CONVERSION OF DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS.—A depository institution to which this subsection applies may, by the
vote of the shareholders owning not less than 51 percent of the
voting interests of the depository institution, be converted into
120Two

subsecs. (g) have been enacted.

283

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 17B

a State corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or
similar legal form pursuant to a plan of conversion, if the conversion is not in contravention of applicable State law.
(3) SHARING OF INFORMATION.—The Commodity Futures
Trading Commission shall make available to the Commission,
upon request, all information determined to be relevant by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission regarding a derivatives clearing organization deemed to be registered with the
Commission under paragraph (1).
(m) MODIFICATION OF CORE PRINCIPLES.—The Commission
may conform the core principles established in this section to reflect evolving United States and international standards.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 17A, as added June 4, 1975,
Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 15, 89 Stat. 141; amended Dec. 4, 1987, Pub.
L. 100-181, title III, Sec. 322, 101 Stat. 1257; Oct. 15, 1990, Pub.
L. 101-429, title II, Sec. 206, 104 Stat. 941; Oct. 16, 1990, Pub. L.
101-432, Sec. 5, 104 Stat. 973; Nov. 15, 1990, Pub. L. 101-550, title
II, Sec. 203(c)(1), 104 Stat. 2718; Dec. 21, 2000, Pub. L. 106-554,
Sec. 1(a)(5)[title II, Sec. 206(d), 207], 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-431,
2763A-434; Pub. L. 107-204, title VI, Sec. 604(c)(1)(C), July 30,
2002, 116 Stat. 796; Pub. L. 111-203, title VII, Sec. 763(b), title IX,
Secs. 925(a)(3), 929W, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1768, 1851, 1869.)
AUTOMATED QUOTATION SYSTEMS FOR PENNY STOCKS

SEC. 17B. (a) FINDINGS.—The Congress finds that—
(1) the market for penny stocks suffers from a lack of reliable and accurate quotation and last sale information available
to investors and regulators;
(2) it is in the public interest and appropriate for the protection of investors and the maintenance of fair and orderly
markets to improve significantly the information available to
brokers, dealers, investors, and regulators with respect to
quotations for and transactions in penny stocks; and
(3) a fully implemented automated quotation system for
penny stocks would meet the information needs of investors
and market participants and would add visibility and regulatory and surveillance data to that market.
(b) MANDATE TO FACILITATE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AUTOMATED QUOTATION SYSTEMS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall facilitate the
widespread dissemination of reliable and accurate last sale and
quotation information with respect to penny stocks in accordance with the findings set forth in subsection (a), with a view
toward establishing, at the earliest feasible time, one or more
automated quotation systems that will collect and disseminate
information regarding all penny stocks.
(2) CHARACTERISTICS OF SYSTEMS.—Each such automated
quotation system shall—
(A) be operated by a registered securities association
or a national securities exchange in accordance with such
rules as the Commission and these entities shall prescribe;

Sec. 18

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

284

(B) collect and disseminate quotation and transaction
information;
(C) except as provided in subsection (c), provide bid
and ask quotations of participating brokers or dealers, or
comparably accurate and reliable pricing information,
which shall constitute firm bids or offers for at least such
minimum numbers of shares or minimum dollar amounts
as the Commission and the registered securities association or national securities exchange shall require; and
(D) provide for the reporting of the volume of penny
stock transactions, including last sale reporting, when the
volume reaches appropriate levels that the Commission
shall specify by rule or order.
(c) EXEMPTIVE AUTHORITY.—The Commission may, by rule or
order, grant such exemptions, in whole or in part, conditionally or
unconditionally, to any penny stock or class of penny stocks from
the requirements of subsection (b) as the Commission determines
to be consistent with the public interest, the protection of investors,
and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets.
(d) COMMISSION REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—The Commission
shall, in each of the first 5 annual reports (under section 23(b)(1)
of this title) submitted more than 12 months after the date of enactment of this section, include a description of the status of the
penny stock automated quotation system or systems required by
subsection (b). Such description shall include—
(1) a review of the development, implementation, and
progress of the project, including achievement of significant
milestones and current project schedule; and
(2) a review of the activities of registered securities associations and national securities exchanges in the development
of the system.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 17B, as added Pub. L. 101-429,
title V, Sec. 506, Oct. 15, 1990, 104 Stat. 955.)
LIABILITY FOR MISLEADING STATEMENTS

SEC. 18. (a) Any person who shall make or cause to be made
any statement in any application, report, or document filed pursuant to this title or any rule or regulation thereunder or any undertaking contained in a registration statement as provided in subsection (d) of section 15 of this title, which statement was at the
time and in the light of the circumstances under which it was
made false or misleading with respect to any material fact, shall
be liable to any person (not knowing that such statement was false
or misleading) who, in reliance upon such statement shall have
purchased or sold a security at a price which was affected by such
statement, for damages caused by such reliance, unless the person
sued shall prove that he acted in good faith and had no knowledge
that such statement was false or misleading. A person seeking to
enforce such liability may sue at law or in equity in any court of
competent jurisdiction. In any such suit the court may, in its discretion, require an undertaking for the payment of the costs of such

285

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 19

suit, and assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys’
fees, against either party litigant.
(b) Every person who becomes liable to make payment under
this section may recover contribution as in cases of contract from
any person who, if joined in the original suit, would have been liable to make the same payment.
(c) No action shall be maintained to enforce any liability created under this section unless brought within one year after the
discovery of the facts constituting the cause of action and within
three years after such cause of action accrued.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 18, 48 Stat. 897; May 27, 1936,
ch. 462, Sec. 5, 49 Stat. 1379.)
REGISTRATION, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND OVERSIGHT OF SELFREGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS

SEC. 19. (a)(1) The Commission shall, upon the filing of an application for registration as a national securities exchange, registered securities association, or registered clearing agency, pursuant to section 6, 15A, or 17A of this title, respectively, publish notice of such filing and afford interested persons an opportunity to
submit written data, views, and arguments concerning such application. Within ninety days of the date of publication of such notice
(or within such longer period as to which the applicant consents),
the Commission shall—
(A) by order grant such registration, or
(B) institute proceedings to determine whether registration
should be denied. Such proceedings shall include notice of the
grounds for denial under consideration and opportunity for
hearing and shall be concluded within one hundred eighty days
of the date of a publication of notice of the filing of the application for registration. At the conclusion of such proceedings the
Commission, by order, shall grant or deny such registration.
The Commission may extend the time for conclusion of such
proceedings for up to ninety days if it finds good cause for such
extension and publishes its reasons for so finding or for such
longer period as to which the applicant consents.
The Commission shall grant such registration if it finds that the
requirements of this title and the rules and regulations thereunder
with respect to the applicant are satisfied. The Commission shall
deny such registration if it does not make such finding.
(2) With respect to an application for registration filed by a
clearing agency for which the Commission is not the appropriate
regulatory agency—
(A) The Commission shall not grant registration prior to
the sixtieth day after the date of publication of notice of the filing of such application unless the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing agency has notified the Commission of
such appropriate regulatory agency’s determination that such
clearing agency is so organized and has the capacity to be able
to safeguard securities and funds in its custody or control or
for which it is responsible and that the rules of such clearing

Sec. 19

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

286

agency are designed to assure the safeguarding of such securities and funds.
(B) The Commission shall institute proceedings in accordance with paragraph (1)(B) of this subsection to determine
whether registration should be denied if the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing agency notifies the Commission
within sixty days of the date of publication of notice of the filing of such application of such appropriate regulatory agency’s
(i) determination that such clearing agency may not be so organized or have the capacity to be able to safeguard securities or
funds in its custody or control or for which it is responsible or
that the rules of such clearing agency may not be designed to
assure the safeguarding of such securities and funds and (ii)
reasons for such determination.
(C) The Commission shall deny registration if the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing agency notifies the
Commission prior to the conclusion of proceedings instituted in
accordance with paragraph (1)(B) of this subsection of such appropriate regulatory agency’s (i) determination that such clearing agency is not so organized or does not have the capacity
to be able to safeguard securities or funds in its custody or control or for which it is responsible or that the rules of such
clearing agency are not designed to assure the safeguarding of
such securities or funds and (ii) reasons for such determination.
(3) A self-regulatory organization may, upon such terms and
conditions as the Commission, by rule, deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, withdraw from registration by filing a written notice of withdrawal with
the Commission. If the Commission finds that any self-regulatory
organization is no longer in existence or has ceased to do business
in the capacity specified in its application for registration, the Commission, by order, shall cancel its registration. Upon the withdrawal of a national securities association from registration or the
cancellation, suspension, or revocation of the registration of a national securities association, the registration of any association affiliated therewith shall automatically terminate.
(b)(1) Each self-regulatory organization shall file with the Commission, in accordance with such rules as the Commission may prescribe, copies of any proposed rule or any proposed change in, addition to, or deletion from the rules of such self-regulatory organization (hereinafter in this subsection collectively referred to as a ‘‘proposed rule change’’) accompanied by a concise general statement of
the basis and purpose of such proposed rule change. The Commission shall, as soon as practicable after the date of the filing of any
proposed rule change, publish notice thereof together with the
terms of substance of the proposed rule change or a description of
the subjects and issues involved. The Commission shall give interested persons an opportunity to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning such proposed rule change. No proposed rule
change shall take effect unless approved by the Commission or otherwise permitted in accordance with the provisions of this subsection.

287

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 19

(2) [121] APPROVAL PROCESS.—
(A) APPROVAL PROCESS ESTABLISHED.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause (ii),
not later than 45 days after the date of publication of
a proposed rule change under paragraph (1), the Commission shall—
(I) by order, approve or disapprove the proposed rule change; or
(II) institute proceedings under subparagraph
(B) to determine whether the proposed rule
change should be disapproved.
(ii) EXTENSION OF TIME PERIOD.—The Commission
may extend the period established under clause (i) by
not more than an additional 45 days, if—
(I) the Commission determines that a longer
period is appropriate and publishes the reasons
for such determination; or
(II) the self-regulatory organization that filed
the proposed rule change consents to the longer
period.
(B) PROCEEDINGS.—
(i) NOTICE AND HEARING.—If the Commission does
not approve or disapprove a proposed rule change
under subparagraph (A), the Commission shall provide
to the self-regulatory organization that filed the proposed rule change—
(I) notice of the grounds for disapproval under
consideration; and
(II) opportunity for hearing, to be concluded
not later than 180 days after the date of publication of notice of the filing of the proposed rule
change.
(ii) ORDER OF APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subclause (II), not later than 180 days after the date
of publication under paragraph (1), the Commission shall issue an order approving or disapproving the proposed rule change.
(II) EXTENSION OF TIME PERIOD.—The Commission may extend the period for issuance under
clause (I) by not more than 60 days, if—
(aa) the Commission determines that a
longer period is appropriate and publishes the
reasons for such determination; or
(bb) the self-regulatory organization that
filed the proposed rule change consents to the
longer period.
(C) STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL AND DISAPPROVAL.—
(i) APPROVAL.—The Commission shall approve a
proposed rule change of a self-regulatory organization
if it finds that such proposed rule change is consistent
with the requirements of this title and the rules and
121Margins

so in law.

Sec. 19

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

288

regulations issued under this title that are applicable
to such organization.
(ii) DISAPPROVAL.—The Commission shall disapprove a proposed rule change of a self-regulatory organization if it does not make a finding described in
clause (i).
(iii) TIME FOR APPROVAL.—The Commission may
not approve a proposed rule change earlier than 30
days after the date of publication under paragraph (1),
unless the Commission finds good cause for so doing
and publishes the reason for the finding.
(D) RESULT OF FAILURE TO INSTITUTE OR CONCLUDE
PROCEEDINGS.—A proposed rule change shall be deemed to
have been approved by the Commission, if—
(i) the Commission does not approve or disapprove
the proposed rule change or begin proceedings under
subparagraph (B) within the period described in subparagraph (A); or
(ii) the Commission does not issue an order approving or disapproving the proposed rule change
under subparagraph (B) within the period described in
subparagraph (B)(ii).
(E) PUBLICATION DATE BASED ON FEDERAL REGISTER
PUBLISHING.—For purposes of this paragraph, if, after filing a proposed rule change with the Commission pursuant
to paragraph (1), a self-regulatory organization publishes a
notice of the filing of such proposed rule change, together
with the substantive terms of such proposed rule change,
on a publicly accessible website, the Commission shall
thereafter send the notice to the Federal Register for publication thereof under paragraph (1) within 15 days of the
date on which such website publication is made. If the
Commission fails to send the notice for publication thereof
within such 15 day period, then the date of publication
shall be deemed to be the date on which such website publication was made.
(F) RULEMAKING.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after the
date of enactment of the Investor Protection and Securities Reform Act of 2010, after consultation with
other regulatory agencies, the Commission shall promulgate rules setting forth the procedural requirements of the proceedings required under this paragraph.
(ii) NOTICE AND COMMENT NOT REQUIRED.—The
rules promulgated by the Commission under clause (i)
are not required to include republication of proposed
rule changes or solicitation of public comment.
(3)(A) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (2) of this
subsection, a proposed rule change shall take effect upon filing
with the Commission if designated by the self-regulatory organization as (i) constituting a stated policy, practice, or interpretation
with respect to the meaning, administration, or enforcement of an
existing rule of the self-regulatory organization, (ii) establishing or

289

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 19

changing a due, fee, or other charge imposed by the self-regulatory
organization on any person, whether or not the person is a member
of the self-regulatory organization, or (iii) concerned solely with the
administration of the self-regulatory organization or other matters
which the Commission, by rule, consistent with the public interest
and the purposes of this subsection, may specify as without the
provisions of such paragraph (2).
(B) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, a
proposed rule change may be put into effect summarily if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary for the protection of investors, the maintenance of fair and orderly markets,
or the safeguarding of securities or funds. Any proposed rule
change so put into effect shall be filed promptly thereafter in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(C) Any proposed rule change of a self-regulatory organization
which has taken effect pursuant to subparagraph (A) or (B) of this
paragraph may be enforced by such organization to the extent it is
not inconsistent with the provisions of this title, the rules and regulations thereunder, and applicable Federal and State law. At any
time within the 60-day period beginning on the date of filing of
such a proposed rule change in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (1), the Commission summarily may temporarily suspend the change in the rules of the self-regulatory organization
made thereby, if it appears to the Commission that such action is
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection
of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this
title. If the Commission takes such action, the Commission shall institute proceedings under paragraph (2)(B) to determine whether
the proposed rule should be approved or disapproved. Commission
action pursuant to this subparagraph shall not affect the validity
or force of the rule change during the period it was in effect and
shall not be reviewable under section 25 of this title, nor deemed
to be ‘‘final agency action’’ for purposes of section 704 of title 5,
United States Code.
(4) With respect to a proposed rule changed filed by a registered clearing agency for which the Commission is not the appropriate regulatory agency—
(A) The Commission shall not approve any such proposed
rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of the filing thereof unless the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing agency has notified the Commission of such appropriate regulatory agency’s determination
that the proposed rule change is consistent with the safeguarding of securities and funds in the custody or control of
such clearing agency or for which it is responsible.
(B) The Commission shall institute proceedings in accordance with paragraph (2)(B) of this subsection to determine
whether any such proposed rule change should be disapproved,
if the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing agency
notifies the Commission within thirty days of the date of publication of notice of the filing of the proposed rule change of such
appropriate regulatory agency’s (i) determination that the proposed rule change may be inconsistent with the safeguarding
of securities or funds in the custody or control of such clearing

Sec. 19

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

290

agency or for which it is responsible and (ii) reasons for such
determination.
(C) The Commission shall disapprove any such proposed
rule change if the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing agency notifies the Commission prior to the conclusion of
proceedings instituted in accordance with paragraph (2)(B) of
this subsection of such appropriate regulatory agency’s (i) determination that the proposed rule change is inconsistent with
the safeguarding of securities or funds in the custody or control
of such clearing agency or for which it is responsible and (ii)
reasons for such determination.
(D)(i) [122] The Commission shall order the temporary
suspension of any change in the rules of a clearing agency
made by a proposed rule change that has taken effect
under paragraph (3), if the appropriate regulatory agency
for the clearing agency notifies the Commission not later
than 30 days after the date on which the proposed rule
change was filed of—
(I) the determination by the appropriate regulatory agency that the rules of such clearing agency,
as so changed, may be inconsistent with the safeguarding of securities or funds in the custody or control of such clearing agency or for which it is responsible; and
(II) the reasons for the determination described in
subclause (I).
(ii) If the Commission takes action under clause (i),
the Commission shall institute proceedings under paragraph (2)(B) to determine if the proposed rule change
should be approved or disapproved.
(5) The Commission shall consult with and consider the views
of the Secretary of the Treasury prior to approving a proposed rule
filed by a registered securities association that primarily concerns
conduct related to transactions in government securities, except
where the Commission determines that an emergency exists requiring expeditious or summary action and publishes its reasons therefor. If the Secretary of the Treasury comments in writing to the
Commission on a proposed rule that has been published for comment, the Commission shall respond in writing to such written
comment before approving the proposed rule. If the Secretary of the
Treasury determines, and notifies the Commission, that such rule,
if implemented, would, or as applied does (i) adversely affect the
liquidity or efficiency of the market for government securities; or
(ii) impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate
in furtherance of the purposes of this section, the Commission
shall, prior to adopting the proposed rule, find that such rule is
necessary and appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this
section notwithstanding the Secretary’s determination.
(6) In approving rules described in paragraph (5), the Commission shall consider the sufficiency and appropriateness of then existing laws and rules applicable to government securities brokers,
122Margins

so in law.

291

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 19

government securities dealers, and persons associated with government securities brokers and government securities dealers.
(7) SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCT RULE CHANGES.—
(A) FILING REQUIRED.—A self-regulatory organization that
is an exchange registered with the Commission pursuant to
section 6(g) of this title or that is a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(k) of this title shall file
with the Commission, in accordance with such rules as the
Commission may prescribe, copies of any proposed rule change
or any proposed change in, addition to, or deletion from the
rules of such self- regulatory organization (hereinafter in this
paragraph collectively referred to as a ‘‘proposed rule change’’)
that relates to higher margin levels, fraud or manipulation,
recordkeeping, reporting, listing standards, or decimal pricing
for security futures products, sales practices for security futures products for persons who effect transactions in security
futures products, or rules effectuating such self-regulatory organization’s obligation to enforce the securities laws. Such proposed rule change shall be accompanied by a concise general
statement of the basis and purpose of such proposed rule
change. The Commission shall, upon the filing of any proposed
rule change, promptly publish notice thereof together with the
terms of substance of the proposed rule change or a description
of the subjects and issues involved. The Commission shall give
interested persons an opportunity to submit data, views, and
arguments concerning such proposed rule change.
(B) FILING WITH CFTC.—A proposed rule change filed with
the Commission pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be filed
concurrently with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Such proposed rule change may take effect upon filing of
a written certification with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission under section 5c(c) of the Commodity Exchange
Act, upon a determination by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission that review of the proposed rule change is not necessary, or upon approval of the proposed rule change by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(C) ABROGATION OF RULE CHANGES.—Any proposed rule
change of a self-regulatory organization that has taken effect
pursuant to subparagraph (B) may be enforced by such selfregulatory organization to the extent such rule is not inconsistent with the provisions of this title, the rules and regulations thereunder, and applicable Federal law. At any time
within 60 days of the date of the filing of a written certification
with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5c(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act, the date the Commodity Futures Trading Commission determines that review of
such proposed rule change is not necessary, or the date the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission approves such proposed rule change, the Commission, after consultation with the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, may summarily abrogate the proposed rule change and require that the proposed
rule change be refiled in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (1), if it appears to the Commission that such proposed rule change unduly burdens competition or efficiency,

Sec. 19

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

292

conflicts with the securities laws, or is inconsistent with the
public interest and the protection of investors. Commission action pursuant to the preceding sentence shall not affect the validity or force of the rule change during the period it was in
effect and shall not be reviewable under section 25 of this title
nor deemed to be a final agency action for purposes of section
704 of title 5, United States Code.
(D) REVIEW OF RESUBMITTED ABROGATED RULES.—
(i) PROCEEDINGS.—Within 35 days of the date of publication of notice of the filing of a proposed rule change that
is abrogated in accordance with subparagraph (C) and
refiled in accordance with paragraph (1), or within such
longer period as the Commission may designate up to 90
days after such date if the Commission finds such longer
period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so
finding or as to which the self- regulatory organization
consents, the Commission shall—
(I) by order approve such proposed rule change; or
(II) after consultation with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be
disapproved. Proceedings under subclause (II) shall include notice of the grounds for disapproval under consideration and opportunity for hearing and be concluded within 180 days after the date of publication of
notice of the filing of the proposed rule change. At the
conclusion of such proceedings, the Commission, by
order, shall approve or disapprove such proposed rule
change. The Commission may extend the time for conclusion of such proceedings for up to 60 days if the
Commission finds good cause for such extension and
publishes its reasons for so finding or for such longer
period as to which the self-regulatory organization
consents.
(ii) GROUNDS FOR APPROVAL.—The Commission shall
approve a proposed rule change of a self-regulatory organization under this subparagraph if the Commission finds
that such proposed rule change does not unduly burden
competition or efficiency, does not conflict with the securities laws, and is not inconsistent with the public interest
or the protection of investors. The Commission shall disapprove such a proposed rule change of a self-regulatory
organization if it does not make such finding. The Commission shall not approve any proposed rule change prior to
the 30th day after the date of publication of notice of the
filing thereof, unless the Commission finds good cause for
so doing and publishes its reasons for so finding.
(8) DECIMAL PRICING.—Not later than 9 months after the date
on which trading in any security futures product commences under
this title, all self-regulatory organizations listing or trading security futures products shall file proposed rule changes necessary to
implement decimal pricing of security futures products. The Commission may not require such rules to contain equal minimum increments in such decimal pricing.

293

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 19

(9) CONSULTATION WITH CFTC.—
(A) CONSULTATION REQUIRED.—The Commission shall consult with and consider the views of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission prior to approving or disapproving a proposed rule change filed by a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) or a national securities exchange subject to the provisions of subsection (a) that primarily concerns conduct related to transactions in security futures products, except where the Commission determines that
an emergency exists requiring expeditious or summary action
and publishes its reasons therefor.
(B) RESPONSES TO CFTC COMMENTS AND FINDINGS.—If the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission comments in writing
to the Commission on a proposed rule that has been published
for comment, the Commission shall respond in writing to such
written comment before approving or disapproving the proposed rule. If the Commodity Futures Trading Commission determines, and notifies the Commission, that such rule, if implemented or as applied, would—
(i) adversely affect the liquidity or efficiency of the
market for security futures products; or
(ii) impose any burden on competition not necessary or
appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this section,
the Commission shall, prior to approving or disapproving the
proposed rule, find that such rule is necessary and appropriate
in furtherance of the purposes of this section notwithstanding
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s determination.
(10) [123] RULE OF CONSTRUCTION RELATING TO FILING DATE
OF PROPOSED RULE CHANGES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this subsection, the
date of filing of a proposed rule change shall be deemed to
be the date on which the Commission receives the proposed rule change.
(B) EXCEPTION.—A proposed rule change has not been
received by the Commission for purposes of subparagraph
(A) if, not later than 7 business days after the date of receipt by the Commission, the Commission notifies the selfregulatory organization that such proposed rule change
does not comply with the rules of the Commission relating
to the required form of a proposed rule change, except that
if the Commission determines that the proposed rule
change is unusually lengthy and is complex or raises novel
regulatory issues, the Commission shall inform the selfregulatory organization of such determination not later
than 7 business days after the date of receipt by the Commission and, for the purposes of subparagraph (A), a proposed rule change has not been received by the Commission, if, not later than 21 days after the date of receipt by
the Commission, the Commission notifies the self- regulatory organization that such proposed rule change does
not comply with the rules of the Commission relating to
the required form of a proposed rule change.
123Two

pars. (10) of subsec. (b) have been enacted. Margins so in law.

Sec. 19

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

294

(10) [124] Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the time period
within which the Commission is required by order to approve
a proposed rule change or institute proceedings to determine
whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved is
stayed pending a determination by the Commission upon the
request of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or its
Chairman that the Commission issue a determination as to
whether a product that is the subject of such proposed rule
change is a security pursuant to section 718 of the Wall Street
Transparency and Accountability Act of 2010.
(c) The Commission, by rule, may abrogate, add to, and delete
from (hereinafter in this subsection collectively referred to as
‘‘amend’’) the rules of a self-regulatory organization (other than a
registered clearing agency) as the Commission deems necessary or
appropriate to insure the fair administration of the self-regulatory
organization, to conform its rules to requirements of this title and
the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to such organization, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this title, in the
following manner:
(1) The Commission shall notify the self-regulatory organization and publish notice of the proposed rulemaking in the
Federal Register. The notice shall include the text of the proposed amendment to the rules of the self-regulatory organization and a statement of the Commission’s reasons, including
any pertinent facts, for commencing such proposed rulemaking.
(2) The Commission shall give interested persons an opportunity for the oral presentation of data, views, and arguments,
in addition to an opportunity to make written submissions. A
transcript shall be kept of any oral presentation.
(3) A rule adopted pursuant to this subsection shall incorporate the text of the amendment to the rules of the self- regulatory organization and a statement of the Commission’s basis
for and purpose in so amending such rules. This statement
shall include an identification of any facts on which the Commission considers its determination so to amend the rules of
the self- regulatory agency to be based, including the reasons
for the Commission’s conclusions as to any of such facts which
were disputed in the rulemaking.
(4)(A) Except as provided in paragraphs (1) through (3) of
this subsection, rulemaking under this subsection shall be in
accordance with the procedures specified in section 553 of title
5, United States Code, for rulemaking not on the record.
(B) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to impair
or limit the Commission’s power to make, or to modify or alter
the procedures the Commission may follow in making, rules
and regulations pursuant to any other authority under this
title.
(C) Any amendment to the rules of a self-regulatory organization made by the Commission pursuant to this subsection
shall be considered for all purposes of this title to be part of
the rules of such self-regulatory organization and shall not be
considered to be a rule of the Commission.
124Two

pars. (10) of subsec. (b) have been enacted. Margins so in law.

295

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 19

(5) With respect to rules described in subsection (b)(5), the
Commission shall consult with and consider the views of the
Secretary of the Treasury before abrogating, adding to, and deleting from such rules, except where the Commission determines that an emergency exists requiring expeditious or summary action and publishes its reasons therefor.
(d)(1) If any self-regulatory organization imposes any final disciplinary sanction on any member thereof or participant therein,
denies membership or participation to any applicant, or prohibits
or limits any person in respect to access to services offered by such
organization or member thereof or if any self-regulatory organization (other than a registered clearing agency) imposes any final disciplinary sanction on any person associated with a member or bars
any person from becoming associated with a member, the self-regulatory organization shall promptly file notice thereof with the appropriate regulatory agency for the self-regulatory organization and
(if other than the appropriate regulatory agency for the self-regulatory organization) the appropriate regulatory agency for such
member, participant, applicant, or other person. The notice shall be
in such form and contain such information as the appropriate regulatory agency for the self-regulatory organization, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes
of this title.
(2) Any action with respect to which a self-regulatory organization is required by paragraph (1) of this subsection to file notice
shall be subject to review by the appropriate regulatory agency for
such member, participant, applicant, or other person, on its own
motion, or upon application by any person aggrieved thereby filed
within thirty days after the date such notice was filed with such
appropriate regulatory agency and received by such aggrieved person, or within such longer period as such appropriate regulatory
agency may determine. Application to such appropriate regulatory
agency for review, or the institution of review by such appropriate
regulatory agency on its own motion, shall not operate as a stay
of such action unless such appropriate regulatory agency otherwise
orders, summarily or after notice and opportunity for hearing on
the question of a stay (which hearing may consist solely of the submission of affidavits or presentation of oral arguments). Each appropriate regulatory agency shall establish for appropriate cases an
expedited procedure for consideration and determination of the
question of a stay.
(3) The provisions of this subsection shall apply to an exchange
registered pursuant to section 6(g) of this title or a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(k) of this title
only to the extent that such exchange or association imposes any
final disciplinary sanction for—
(A) a violation of the Federal securities laws or the rules
and regulations thereunder; or
(B) a violation of a rule of such exchange or association, as
to which a proposed change would be required to be filed under
section 19 of this title, except that, to the extent that the exchange or association rule violation relates to any account,
agreement, contract, or transaction, this subsection shall apply

Sec. 19

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

296

only to the extent such violation involves a security futures
product.
(e)(1) In any proceeding to review a final disciplinary sanction
imposed by a self-regulatory organization on a member thereof or
participant therein or a person associated with such a member,
after notice and opportunity for hearing (which hearing may consist solely of consideration of the record before the self-regulatory
organization and opportunity for the presentation of supporting
reasons to affirm, modify, or set aside the sanction)—
(A) if the appropriate regulatory agency for such member,
participant, or person associated with a member finds that
such member, participant, or person associated with a member
has engaged in such acts or practices, or has omitted such acts,
as the self- regulatory organization has found him to have engaged in or omitted, that such acts or practices, or omissions
to act, are in violation of such provisions of this title, the rules
or regulations thereunder, the rules of the self-regulatory organization, or, in the case of a registered securities association,
the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board as
have been specified in the determination of the self-regulatory
organization, and that such provisions are, and were applied in
a manner, consistent with the purposes of this title, such appropriate regulatory agency, by order, shall so declare and, as
appropriate, affirm the sanction imposed by the self-regulatory
organization, modify the sanction in accordance with paragraph (2) of this subsection, or remand to the self-regulatory
organization for further proceedings; or
(B) if such appropriate regulatory agency does not make
any such finding it shall, by order, set aside the sanction imposed by the self-regulatory organization and, if appropriate,
remand to the self-regulatory organization for further proceedings.
(2) If the appropriate regulatory agency for a member, participant, or person associated with a member, having due regard for
the public interest and the protection of investors, finds after a proceeding in accordance with paragraph (1) of this subsection that a
sanction imposed by a self-regulatory organization upon such member, participant, or person associated with a member imposes any
burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance
of the proposes of this title or is excessive or oppressive, the appropriate regulatory agency may cancel, reduce, or require the remission of such sanction.
(f) In any proceeding to review the denial of membership or
participation in a self-regulatory organization to any applicant, the
barring of any person from becoming associated with a member of
a self- regulatory organization, or the prohibition or limitation by
a self- regulatory organization of any person with respect to access
to services offered by the self-regulatory organization or any member thereof, if the appropriate regulatory agency for such applicant
or person, after notice and opportunity for hearing (which hearing
may consist solely of consideration of the record before the selfregulatory organization and opportunity for the presentation of
supporting reasons to dismiss the proceeding or set aside the action
of the self-regulatory organization) finds that the specific grounds

297

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 19

on which such denial, bar, or prohibition or limitation is based
exist in fact, that such denial, bar, or prohibition or limitation is
in accordance with the rules of the self-regulatory organization,
and that such rules are, and were applied in a manner, consistent
with the purposes of this title, such appropriate regulatory agency,
by order, shall dismiss the proceeding. If such appropriate regulatory agency does not make any such finding or if it finds that
such denial, bar, or prohibition or limitation imposes any burden
on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the
purposes of this title, such appropriate regulatory agency, by order,
shall set aside the action of the self-regulatory organization and require it to admit such applicant to membership or participation,
permit such person to become associated with a member, or grant
such person access to services offered by the self-regulatory organization or member thereof.
(g)(1) Every self-regulatory organization shall comply with the
provisions of this title, the rules and regulations thereunder, and
its own rules, and (subject to the provisions of section 17(d) of this
title, paragraph (2) of this subsection, and the rules thereunder)
absent reasonable justification or excuse enforce compliance—
(A) in the case of a national securities exchange, with such
provisions by its members and persons associated with its
members;
(B) in the case of a registered securities association, with
such provisions and the provisions of the rules of the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board by its members and persons associated with its members; and
(C) in the case of a registered clearing agency, with its own
rules by its participants.
(2) The Commission, by rule, consistent with the public interest, the protection of investors, and the other purposes of this title,
may relieve any self-regulatory organization of any responsibility
under this title to enforce compliance with any specified provision
of this title or the rules or regulations thereunder by any member
of such organization or person associated with such a member, or
any class of such members or persons associated with a member.
(h)(1) The appropriate regulatory agency for a self-regulatory
organization is authorized, by order, if in its opinion such action is
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection
of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this title
to suspend for a period not exceeding twelve months or revoke the
registration of such self-regulatory organization, or to censure or
impose limitations upon the activities, functions, and operations of
such self-regulatory organization, if such appropriate regulatory
agency finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such self-regulatory organization has violated or is unable
to comply with any provision of this title, the rules or regulations
thereunder, or its own rules or without reasonable justification or
excuse has failed to enforce compliance—
(A) in the case of a national securities exchange, with any
such provision by a member thereof or a person associated
with a member thereof;
(B) in the case of a registered securities association, with
any such provision or any provision of the rules of the Munic-

Sec. 19

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

298

ipal Securities Rulemaking Board by a member thereof or a
person associated with a member thereof; or
(C) in the case of a registered clearing agency, with any
provision of its own rules by a participant therein.
(2) The appropriate regulatory agency for a self-regulatory organization is authorized, by order, if in its opinion such action is
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection
of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this
title, to suspend for a period not exceeding twelve months or expel
from such self-regulatory organization any member thereof or participant therein, if such member or participant is subject to an
order of the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)(4) of this title
or if such appropriate regulatory agency finds, on the record after
notice and opportunity for hearing, that such member or participant has willfully violated or has effected any transaction for any
other person who, such member or participant had reason to believe, was violating with respect to such transaction—
(A) in the case of a national securities exchange, any provision of the Securities Act of 1933, the Investment Advisers Act
of 1940, the Investment Company Act of 1940, this title, or the
rules or regulations under any of such statutes;
(B) in the case of a registered securities association, any
provision of the Securities Act of 1933, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Investment Company Act of 1940, this
title, the rules or regulations under any of such statutes, or the
rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board; or
(C) in the case of a registered clearing agency, any provision of the rules of the clearing agency.
(3) The appropriate regulatory agency for a national securities
exchange or registered securities association is authorized, by
order, if in its opinion such action is necessary or appropriate in
the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in
furtherance of the purposes of this title, to suspend for a period not
exceeding twelve months or to bar any person from being associated with a member of such national securities exchange or registered securities association, if such person is subject to an order
of the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)(6) or if such appropriate regulatory agency finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such person has willfully violated or has
effected any transaction for any other person who, such person associated with a member had reason to believe, was violating with
respect to such transaction—
(A) in the case of a national securities exchange, any provision of the Securities Act of 1933, the Investment Advisers Act
of 1940, the Investment Company Act of 1940, this title, or the
rules or regulations under any of such statutes; or
(B) in the case of a registered securities association, any
provision of the Securities Act of 1933, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Investment Company Act of 1940, this
title, the rules or regulations under any of the statutes, or the
rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.
(4) The appropriate regulatory agency for a self-regulatory organization is authorized, by order, if in its opinion such action is
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection

299

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 20

of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this
title, to remove from office or censure any person who is, or at the
time of the alleged misconduct was, an officer or director of such
self-regulatory organization, if such appropriate regulatory agency
finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that
such person has willfully violated any provision of this title, the
rules or regulations thereunder, or the rules of such self-regulatory
organization, willfully abused his authority, or without reasonable
justification or excuse has failed to enforce compliance—
(A) in the case of a national securities exchange, with any
such provision by any member or person associated with a
member;
(B) in the case of a registered securities association, with
any such provision or any provision of the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board by any member or person associated with a member; or
(C) in the case of a registered clearing agency, with any
provision of the rules of the clearing agency by any participant.
(i) If a proceeding under subsection (h)(1) of this section results
in the suspension or revocation of the registration of a clearing
agency, the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing agency
may, upon notice to such clearing agency, apply to any court of
competent jurisdiction specified in section 21(d) or 27 of this title
for the appointment of a trustee. In the event of such an application, the court may, to the extent it deems necessary or appropriate, take exclusive jurisdiction of such clearing agency and the
records and assets thereof, wherever located; and the court shall
appoint the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing agency
or a person designated by such appropriate regulatory agency as
trustee with power to take possession and continue to operate or
terminate the operations of such clearing agency in an orderly
manner for the protection of participants and investors, subject to
such terms and conditions as the court may prescribe.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 19, 48 Stat. 898; Pub. L. 87-196,
Sept. 5, 1961, 75 Stat. 465; Pub. L. 87-561, July 27, 1962, 76 Stat.
247; Pub. L. 90-438, July 29, 1968, 82 Stat. 453; Pub. L. 91-94, Oct.
20, 1969, 83 Stat. 141; Pub. L. 91-410, Sept. 25, 1970, 84 Stat. 862;
Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 16, June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 146; Pub. L. 103-202,
title I, Sec. 106(c), Dec. 17, 1993, 107 Stat. 2350; Pub. L. 105-353,
title III, Sec. 301(b)(11), Nov. 3, 1998, 112 Stat. 3236; Pub. L. 106554, Sec. 1(a)(5) [title II, Sec. 202(b), (c)], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat.
2763, 2763A-418, 2763A-421; Pub. L. 111-203, title VII, Sec. 717(c),
title IX, Secs. 916, 929F(e), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1652, 1833,
1854.)
LIABILITY OF CONTROLLING PERSONS AND PERSONS WHO AID AND
ABET VIOLATIONS

SEC. 20. (a) Every person who, directly or indirectly, controls
any person liable under any provision of this title or of any rule
or regulation thereunder shall also be liable jointly and severally
with and to the same extent as such controlled person to any person to whom such controlled person is liable (including to the Com-

Sec. 20

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

300

mission in any action brought under paragraph (1) or (3) of section
21(d)), unless the controlling person acted in good faith and did not
directly or indirectly induce the act or acts constituting the violation or cause of action.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly,
to do any act or thing which it would be unlawful for such person
to do under the provisions of this title or any rule or regulation
thereunder through or by means of any other person.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any director or officer of, or any
owner of any securities issued by, any issuer required to file any
document, report, or information under this title or any rule or regulation thereunder without just cause to hinder, delay, or obstruct
the making or filing of any such document, report, or information.
(d) Wherever communicating, or purchasing or selling a security while in possession of, material nonpublic information would
violate, or result in liability to any purchaser or seller of the security under any provisions of this title, or any rule or regulation
thereunder, such conduct in connection with a purchase or sale of
a put, call, straddle, option, privilege [125] or security-based swap
agreement with respect to such security or with respect to a group
or index of securities including such security, shall also violate and
result in comparable liability to any purchaser or seller of that security under such provision, rule, or regulation.
(e) PROSECUTION OF PERSONS WHO AID AND ABET VIOLATIONS.—For purposes of any action brought by the Commission
under paragraph (1) or (3) of section 21(d), any person that knowingly or recklessly provides substantial assistance to another person in violation of a provision of this title, or of any rule or regulation issued under this title, shall be deemed to be in violation of
such provision to the same extent as the person to whom such assistance is provided.
(f) The authority of the Commission under this section with respect to security-based swap agreements shall be subject to the restrictions and limitations of section 3A(b) of this title.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 20, 48 Stat. 899; May 27, 1936,
ch. 462, Sec. 6, 49 Stat. 1379; Pub. L. 88-467, Sec. 9, Aug. 20, 1964,
78 Stat. 579; Pub. L. 98-376, Sec. 5, Aug. 10, 1984, 98 Stat. 1265;
Pub. L. 104-67, title I, Sec. 104, Dec. 22, 1995, 109 Stat. 757; Pub.
L. 105-353, title III, Sec. 301(b)(12), Nov. 3, 1998, 112 Stat. 3236;
Pub. L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5) [title II, Sec. 205(a)(3), title III, Sec.
303(i), (j)], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-426, 2763A-456;
Pub. L. 111-203, title VII, Sec. 762(d)(6), title IX, Secs. 929O,
929P(c), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1761, 1862, 1865.)

125Sections 205(a)(3) and 303(i) of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 (114
Stat. 2763A-426, 2763A-526), as enacted into law by section 1(a)(5) of Public Law 106-554, both
amended section 20(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Section 203(a)(3) amended section
20(d) by striking ‘‘, or privilege’’ and inserting ‘‘, privilege, or security future product’’. Section
303(i) amended section 20(d) to read in the form in which it appears in this compilation. Apparent intention of the combined amendments would be to insert references to both securities futures products and security-based swap agreements after the reference to ‘‘privilege’’.

301

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 20A

LIABILITY TO CONTEMPORANEOUS TRADERS FOR INSIDER TRADING

SEC. 20A. (a) PRIVATE RIGHTS OF ACTION BASED ON CONTEMPORANEOUS TRADING.—Any person who violates any provision of
this title or the rules or regulations thereunder by purchasing or
selling a security while in possession of material, non-public information shall be liable in an action in any court of competent jurisdiction to any person who, contemporaneously with the purchase or
sale of securities that is the subject of such violation, has purchased (where such violation is based on a sale of securities) or sold
(where such violation is based on a purchase of securities) securities of the same class.
(b) LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITY.—
(1) CONTEMPORANEOUS TRADING ACTIONS LIMITED TO PROFIT GAINED OR LOSS AVOIDED.—The total amount of damages imposed under subsection (a) shall not exceed the profit gained
or loss avoided in the transaction or transactions that are the
subject of the violation.
(2) OFFSETTING DISGORGEMENTS AGAINST LIABILITY.—The
total amount of damages imposed against any person under
subsection (a) shall be diminished by the amounts, if any, that
such person may be required to disgorge, pursuant to a court
order obtained at the instance of the Commission, in a proceeding brought under section 21(d) of this title relating to the
same transaction or transactions.
(3) CONTROLLING PERSON LIABILITY.—No person shall be
liable under this section solely by reason of employing another
person who is liable under this section, but the liability of a
controlling person under this section shall be subject to section
20(a) of this title.
(4) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—No action may be brought
under this section more than 5 years after the date of the last
transaction that is the subject of the violation.
(c) JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY FOR COMMUNICATING.—Any
person who violates any provision of this title or the rules or regulations thereunder by communicating material, nonpublic information shall be jointly and severally liable under subsection (a) with,
and to the same extent as, any person or persons liable under subsection (a) to whom the communication was directed.
(d) AUTHORITY NOT TO RESTRICT OTHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
RIGHTS OF ACTION.—Nothing in this section shall be construed to
limit or condition the right of any person to bring an action to enforce a requirement of this title or the availability of any cause of
action implied from a provision of this title.
(e) PROVISIONS NOT TO AFFECT PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS.—This
section shall not be construed to bar or limit in any manner any
action by the Commission or the Attorney General under any other
provision of this title, nor shall it bar or limit in any manner any
action to recover penalties, or to seek any other order regarding
penalties.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 20A, as added Pub. L. 100-704,
Sec. 5, Nov. 19, 1988, 102 Stat. 4680.)

Sec. 21

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

302

INVESTIGATIONS; INJUNCTIONS AND PROSECUTION OF OFFENSES

SEC. 21. (a)(1) The Commission may, in its discretion, make
such investigations as it deems necessary to determine whether
any person has violated, is violating, or is about to violate any provision of this title, the rules or regulations thereunder, the rules of
a national securities exchange or registered securities association of
which such person is a member or a person associated, or, as to
any act or practice, or omission to act, while associated with a
member, formerly associated with a member, the rules of a registered clearing agency in which such person is a participant, or,
as to any act or practice, or omission to act, while a participant,
was a participant, the rules of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board, of which such person is a registered public accounting firm, a person associated with such a firm, or, as to any
act, practice, or omission to act, while associated with such firm,
a person formerly associated with such a firm, or the rules of the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and may require or permit any person to file with it a statement in writing, under oath
or otherwise as the Commission shall determine, as to all the facts
and circumstances concerning the matter to be investigated. The
Commission is authorized in its discretion, to publish information
concerning any such violations, and to investigate any facts, conditions, practices, or matters which it may deem necessary or proper
to aid in the enforcement of such provisions, in the prescribing of
rules and regulations under this title, or in securing information to
serve as a basis for recommending further legislation concerning
the matters to which this title relates.
(2) On request from a foreign securities authority, the Commission may provide assistance in accordance with this paragraph if
the requesting authority states that the requesting authority is
conducting an investigation which it deems necessary to determine
whether any person has violated, is violating, or is about to violate
any laws or rules relating to securities matters that the requesting
authority administers or enforces. The Commission may, in its discretion, conduct such investigation as the Commission deems necessary to collect information and evidence pertinent to the request
for assistance. Such assistance may be provided without regard to
whether the facts stated in the request would also constitute a violation of the laws of the United States. In deciding whether to provide such assistance, the Commission shall consider whether (A)
the requesting authority has agreed to provide reciprocal assistance
in securities matters to the Commission; and (B) compliance with
the request would prejudice the public interest of the United
States.
(b) For the purpose of any such investigation, or any other proceeding under this title, any member of the Commission or any officer designated by it is empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance, take evidence,
and require the production of any books, papers, correspondence,
memoranda, or other records which the Commission deems relevant or material to the inquiry. Such attendance of witnesses and
the production of any such records may be required from any place

303

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21

in the United States or any State at any designated place of hearing.
(c) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena
issued to, any person, the Commission may invoke the aid of any
court of the United States within the jurisdiction of which such investigation or proceeding is carried on, or where such person resides or carries on business, in requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other records. And such court may issue an
order requiring such person to appear before the Commission or
member or officer designated by the Commission, there to produce
records, if so ordered, or to give testimony touching the matter
under investigation or in question; and any failure to obey such
order of the court may be punished by such court as a contempt
thereof. All process in any such case may be served in the judicial
district whereof such person is an inhabitant or wherever he may
be found. Any person who shall, without just cause, fail or refuse
to attend and testify or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce
books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other records, if in
his power so to do, in obedience to the subpoena of the Commission, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for
a term of not more than one year, or both.
(d)(1) Whenever it shall appear to the Commission that any
person is engaged or is about to engage in acts or practices constituting a violation of any provision of this title, the rules or regulations thereunder, the rules of a national securities exchange or registered securities association of which such person is a member or
a person associated with a member, the rules of a registered clearing agency in which such person is a participant, the rules of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, of which such person
is a registered public accounting firm or a person associated with
such a firm, or the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board, it may in its discretion bring an action in the proper district
court of the United States, the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia, or the United States courts of any territory
or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, to enjoin such acts or practices, and upon a proper showing a permanent
or temporary injunction or restraining order shall be granted without bond. The Commission may transmit such evidence as may be
available concerning such acts or practices as may constitute a violation of any provision of this title or the rules or regulations thereunder to the Attorney General, who may, in his discretion, institute
the necessary criminal proceedings under this title.
(2) AUTHORITY OF A COURT TO PROHIBIT PERSONS FROM SERVING AS OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS.—In any proceeding under paragraph (1) of this subsection, the court may prohibit, conditionally
or unconditionally, and permanently or for such period of time as
it shall determine, any person who violated section 10(b) of this
title or the rules or regulations thereunder from acting as an officer
or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered
pursuant to section 12 of this title or that is required to file reports
pursuant to section 15(d) of this title if the person’s conduct dem-

Sec. 21

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

304

onstrates unfitness to serve as an officer or director of any such
issuer.
(3) MONEY PENALTIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.—
(A) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.—Whenever it shall appear
to the Commission that any person has violated any provision
of this title, the rules or regulations thereunder, or a ceaseand-desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to section 21C of this title, other than by committing a violation subject to a penalty pursuant to section 21A, the Commission may
bring an action in a United States district court to seek, and
the court shall have jurisdiction to impose, upon a proper
showing, a civil penalty to be paid by the person who committed such violation.
(B) AMOUNT OF PENALTY.—
(i) FIRST TIER.—The amount of the penalty shall be determined by the court in light of the facts and circumstances. For each violation, the amount of the penalty
shall not exceed the greater of (I) $5,000 for a natural person or $50,000 for any other person, or (II) the gross
amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of
the violation.
(ii) SECOND TIER.—Notwithstanding clause (i), the
amount of penalty for each such violation shall not exceed
the greater of (I) $50,000 for a natural person or $250,000
for any other person, or (II) the gross amount of pecuniary
gain to such defendant as a result of the violation, if the
violation described in subparagraph (A) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a
regulatory requirement.
(iii) THIRD TIER.—Notwithstanding clauses (i) and (ii),
the amount of penalty for each such violation shall not exceed the greater of (I) $100,000 for a natural person or
$500,000 for any other person, or (II) the gross amount of
pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the violation, if—
(aa) the violation described in subparagraph (A)
involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or
reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and
(bb) such violation directly or indirectly resulted
in substantial losses or created a significant risk of
substantial losses to other persons.
(C) PROCEDURES FOR COLLECTION.—
(i) PAYMENT OF PENALTY TO TREASURY.—A penalty imposed under this section shall be payable into the Treasury
of the United States, except as otherwise provided in section 308 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and section 21F
of this title.
(ii) COLLECTION OF PENALTIES.—If a person upon
whom such a penalty is imposed shall fail to pay such penalty within the time prescribed in the court’s order, the
Commission may refer the matter to the Attorney General
who shall recover such penalty by action in the appropriate United States district court.

305

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21

(iii) REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE.—The actions authorized
by this paragraph may be brought in addition to any other
action that the Commission or the Attorney General is entitled to bring.
(iv) JURISDICTION AND VENUE.—For purposes of section
27 of this title, actions under this paragraph shall be actions to enforce a liability or a duty created by this title.
(D) SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO A VIOLATION OF A
CEASE-AND- DESIST ORDER.—In an action to enforce a ceaseand-desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to section 21C, each separate violation of such order shall be a separate offense, except that in the case of a violation through a
continuing failure to comply with the order, each day of the
failure to comply shall be deemed a separate offense.
(4) [126] PROHIBITION OF ATTORNEYS’ FEES PAID FROM COMMISSION DISGORGEMENT FUNDS.—Except as otherwise ordered
by the court upon motion by the Commission, or, in the case
of an administrative action, as otherwise ordered by the Commission, funds disgorged as the result of an action brought by
the Commission in Federal court, or as a result of any Commission administrative action, shall not be distributed as payment for attorneys’ fees or expenses incurred by private parties
seeking distribution of the disgorged funds.
(5) EQUITABLE RELIEF.—In any action or proceeding brought or
instituted by the Commission under any provision of the securities
laws, the Commission may seek, and any Federal court may grant,
any equitable relief that may be appropriate or necessary for the
benefit of investors.
(6) AUTHORITY OF A COURT TO PROHIBIT PERSONS FROM PARTICIPATING IN AN OFFERING OF PENNY STOCK.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In any proceeding under paragraph (1)
against any person participating in, or, at the time of the alleged misconduct who was participating in, an offering of
penny stock, the court may prohibit that person from participating in an offering of penny stock, conditionally or unconditionally, and permanently or for such period of time as the
court shall determine.
(B) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term
‘‘person participating in an offering of penny stock’’ includes
any person engaging in activities with a broker, dealer, or
issuer for purposes of issuing, trading, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of, any penny stock. The
Commission may, by rule or regulation, define such term to include other activities, and may, by rule, regulation, or order,
exempt any person or class of persons, in whole or in part, conditionally or unconditionally, from inclusion in such term.
(e) Upon application of the Commission the district courts of
the United States and the United States courts of any territory or
other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall
have jurisdiction to issue writs of mandamus, injunctions, and orders commanding (1) any person to comply with the provisions of
this title, the rules, regulations, and orders thereunder, the rules
126Indentation

so in original (Public Law 104-67; 109 Stat 756).

Sec. 21

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

306

of a national securities exchange or registered securities association
of which such person is a member or person associated with a
member, the rules of a registered clearing agency in which such
person is a participant, the rules of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, of which such person is a registered public accounting firm or a person associated with such a firm, the rules of
the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, or any undertaking
contained in a registration statement as provided in subsection (d)
of section 15 of this title, (2) any national securities exchange or
registered securities association to enforce compliance by its members and persons associated with its members with the provisions
of this title, the rules, regulations, and orders thereunder, and the
rules of such exchange or association, or (3) any registered clearing
agency to enforce compliance by its participants with the provisions
of the rules of such clearing agency.
(f) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the Commission shall not bring any action pursuant to subsection (d) or (e)
of this section against any person for violation of, or to command
compliance with, the rules of a self-regulatory organization or the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board unless it appears to
the Commission that (1) such self-regulatory organization or the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is unable or unwilling
to take appropriate action against such person in the public interest and for the protection of investors, or (2) such action is otherwise necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 1407(a) of title
28, United States Code, or any other provision of law, no action for
equitable relief instituted by the Commission pursuant to the securities laws shall be consolidated or coordinated with other actions
not brought by the Commission, even though such other actions
may involve common questions of fact, unless such consolidation is
consented to by the Commission.
(h)(1) The Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 shall apply
with respect to the Commission, except as otherwise provided in
this subsection.
(2) Notwithstanding section 1105 or 1107 of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978, the Commission may have access to
and obtain copies of, or the information contained in financial
records of a customer from a financial institution without prior notice to the customer upon an ex parte showing to an appropriate
United States district court that the Commission seeks such financial records pursuant to a subpoena issued in conformity with the
requirements of section 19(b) of the Securities Act of 1933, section
21(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, section 42(b) of the
Investment Company Act of 1940, or section 209(b) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and that the Commission has reason to
believe that—
(A) delay in obtaining access to such financial records, or
the required notice, will result in—
(i) flight from prosecution;
(ii) destruction of or tampering with evidence;
(iii) transfer of assets or records outside the territorial
limits of the United States;

307

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21

(iv) improper conversion of investor assets; or
(v) impeding the ability of the Commission to identify
or trace the source or disposition of funds involved in any
securities transaction;
(B) such financial records are necessary to identify or trace
the record or beneficial ownership interest in any security;
(C) the acts, practices or course of conduct under investigation involve—
(i) the dissemination of materially false or misleading
information concerning any security, issuer, or market, or
the failure to make disclosures required under the securities laws, which remain uncorrected; or
(ii) a financial loss to investors or other persons protected under the securities laws which remains substantially uncompensated; or
(D) the acts, practices or course of conduct under investigation—
(i) involve significant financial speculation in securities; or
(ii) endanger the stability of any financial or investment intermediary.
(3) Any application under paragraph (2) for a delay in notice
shall be made with reasonable specificity.
(4)(A) Upon a showing described in paragraph (2), the presiding judge or magistrate shall enter an ex parte order granting
the requested delay for a period not to exceed ninety days and an
order prohibiting the financial institution involved from disclosing
that records have been obtained or that a request for records has
been made.
(B) Extensions of the period of delay of notice provided in subparagraph (A) of up to ninety days each may be granted by the
court upon application, but only in accordance with this subsection
or section 1109(a), (b)(1), or (b)(2) of the Right to Financial Privacy
Act of 1978.
(C) Upon expiration of the period of delay of notification ordered under subparagraph (A) or (B), the customer shall be served
with or mailed a copy of the subpena insofar as it applies to the
customer together with the following notice which shall describe
with reasonable specificity the nature of the investigation for which
the Commission sought the financial records:
‘‘Records or information concerning your transactions which
are held by the financial institution named in the attached subpena
were supplied to the Securities and Exchange Commission on
(date). Notification was withheld pursuant to a determination by
the (title of court so ordering) under section 21(h) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 that (state reason). The purpose of the investigation or official proceeding was (state purpose).’’
(5) Upon application by the Commission, all proceedings pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (4) shall be held in camera and the
records thereof sealed until expiration of the period of delay or such
other date as the presiding judge or magistrate may permit.
(6) The Commission shall compile an annual tabulation of the
occasions on which the Commission used each separate subparagraph or clause of paragraph (2) of this subsection or the provisions

Sec. 21

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

308

of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 to obtain access to financial records of a customer and include it in its annual report
to the Congress. Section 1121(b) of the Right to Financial Privacy
Act of 1978 shall not apply with respect to the Commission.
(7)(A) Following the expiration of the period of delay of notification ordered by the court pursuant to paragraph (4) of this subsection, the customer may, upon motion, reopen the proceeding in
the district court which issued the order. If the presiding judge or
magistrate finds that the movant is the customer to whom the
records obtained by the Commission pertain, and that the Commission has obtained financial records or information contained therein in violation of this subsection, other than paragraph (1), it may
order that the customer be granted civil penalties against the Commission in an amount equal to the sum of—
(i) $100 without regard to the volume of records involved;
(ii) any out-of-pocket damages sustained by the customer
as a direct result of the disclosure; and
(iii) if the violation is found to have been willful, intentional, and without good faith, such punitive damages as the
court may allow, together with the costs of the action and reasonable attorney’s fees as determined by the court.
(B) Upon a finding that the Commission has obtained financial
records or information contained therein in violation of this subsection, other than paragraph (1), the court, in its discretion, may
also or in the alternative issue injunctive relief to require the Commission to comply with this subsection with respect to any subpena
which the Commission issues in the future for financial records of
such customer for purposes of the same investigation.
(C) Whenever the court determines that the Commission has
failed to comply with this subsection, other than paragraph (1), and
the court finds that the circumstances raise questions of whether
an officer or employee of the Commission acted in a willful and intentional manner and without good faith with respect to the violation, the Office of Personnel Management shall promptly initiate a
proceeding to determine whether disciplinary action is warranted
against the agent or employee who was primarily responsible for
the violation. After investigating and considering the evidence submitted, the Office of Personnel Management shall submit its findings and recommendations to the Commission and shall send copies of the findings and recommendations to the officer or employee
or his representative. The Commission shall take the corrective action that the Office of Personnel Management recommends.
(8) The relief described in paragraphs (7) and (10) shall be the
only remedies or sanctions available to a customer for a violation
of this subsection, other than paragraph (1), and nothing herein or
in the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 shall be deemed to
prohibit the use in any investigation or proceeding of financial
records, or the information contained therein, obtained by a subpena issued by the Commission. In the case of an unsuccessful action under paragraph (7), the court shall award the costs of the action and attorney’s fees to the Commission if the presiding judge
or magistrate finds that the customer’s claims were made in bad
faith.

309

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21

(9)(A) The Commission may transfer financial records or the
information contained therein to any government authority if the
Commission proceeds as a transferring agency in accordance with
section 1112 of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978, except
that the customer notice required under section 1112(b) or (c) of
such Act may be delayed upon a showing by the Commission, in
accordance with the procedure set forth in paragraphs (4) and (5),
that one or more of subparagraphs (A) through (D) of paragraph (2)
apply.
(B) The Commission may, without notice to the customer pursuant to section 1112 of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978,
transfer financial records or the information contained therein to a
State securities agency or to the Department of Justice. Financial
records or information transferred by the Commission to the Department of Justice or to a State securities agency pursuant to the
provisions of this subparagraph may be disclosed or used only in
an administrative, civil, or criminal action or investigation by the
Department of Justice or the State securities agency which arises
out of or relates to the acts, practices, or courses of conduct investigated by the Commission, except that if the Department of Justice or the State securities agency determines that the information
should be disclosed or used for any other purpose, it may do so if
it notifies the customer, except as otherwise provided in the Right
to Financial Privacy Act of 1978, within 30 days of its determination, or complies with the requirements of section 1109 of such Act
regarding delay of notice.
(10) Any government authority violating paragraph (9) shall be
subject to the procedures and penalties applicable to the Commission under paragraph (7)(A) with respect to a violation by the Commission in obtaining financial records.
(11) Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection, the
Commission may obtain financial records from a financial institution or transfer such records in accordance with provisions of the
Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978.
(12) Nothing in this subsection shall enlarge or restrict any
rights of a financial institution to challenge requests for records
made by the Commission under existing law. Nothing in this subsection shall entitle a customer to assert any rights of a financial
institution.
(13) Unless the context otherwise requires, all terms defined in
the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 which are common to
this subsection shall have the same meaning as in such Act.
(i) INFORMATION TO CFTC.—The Commission shall provide the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission with notice of the commencement of any proceeding and a copy of any order entered by
the Commission against any broker or dealer registered pursuant
to section 15(b)(11), any exchange registered pursuant to section
6(g), or any national securities association registered pursuant to
section 15A(k).
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 21, 48 Stat. 899; May 27, 1936,
ch. 462, Sec. 7, 49 Stat. 1379; Oct. 15, 1970, Pub. L. 91-452, title
II, Sec. 212, 84 Stat. 929; June 4, 1975, Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 17, 89
Stat. 154; Oct. 10, 1980, Pub. L. 96-433, Sec. 3, 4, 94 Stat. 1855,

Sec. 21A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

310

1858; Aug. 10, 1984, Pub. L. 98-376, Sec. 2, 98 Stat. 1264; Dec. 4,
1987, Pub. L. 100-181, title III, Sec. 323, 101 Stat. 1259; Nov. 19,
1988, Pub. L. 100-704, Sec. 3(a)(1), 6(b), 102 Stat. 4677, 4681; Oct.
15, 1990, Pub. L. 101- 429, title II, Sec. 201, 104 Stat. 935; Dec.
1, 1990, Pub. L. 101-650, title III, Sec. 321, 104 Stat. 5117; Dec.
22, 1995, Pub. L. 104-67, title I, Sec. 103(b)(2), 109 Stat. 756; Dec.
21, 2000, Pub. L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5)[title II, Sec. 205(a)(5)], 114
Stat. 2763, 2763A-426; Pub. L. 107-204, Sec. 3(b)(2), title III, Sec.
305(a)(1), (b), 308(d)(1), title VI, Sec. 603(a), July 30, 2002, 116
Stat. 749, 778, 779, 785, 794; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Secs.
923(b)(1), 929F(c), (d), (g)(2), 986(a)(3), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat.
1849, 1854, 1855, 1935.)
CIVIL PENALTIES FOR INSIDER TRADING

SEC. 21A. (a) AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE CIVIL PENALTIES.—
(1) JUDICIAL ACTIONS BY COMMISSION AUTHORIZED.—Whenever it shall appear to the Commission that any person has
violated any provision of this title or the rules or regulations
thereunder by purchasing or selling a security or securitybased swap agreement while in possession of material, nonpublic information in, or has violated any such provision by
communicating such information in connection with, a transaction on or through the facilities of a national securities exchange or from or through a broker or dealer, and which is not
part of a public offering by an issuer of securities other than
standardized options or security futures products, the Commission—
(A) may bring an action in a United States district
court to seek, and the court shall have jurisdiction to impose, a civil penalty to be paid by the person who committed such violation; and
(B) may, subject to subsection (b)(1), bring an action in
a United States district court to seek, and the court shall
have jurisdiction to impose, a civil penalty to be paid by
a person who, at the time of the violation, directly or indirectly controlled the person who committed such violation.
(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY FOR PERSON WHO COMMITTED VIOLATION.—The amount of the penalty which may be imposed on
the person who committed such violation shall be determined
by the court in light of the facts and circumstances, but shall
not exceed three times the profit gained or loss avoided as a
result of such unlawful purchase, sale, or communication.
(3) AMOUNT OF PENALTY FOR CONTROLLING PERSON.—The
amount of the penalty which may be imposed on any person
who, at the time of the violation, directly or indirectly controlled the person who committed such violation, shall be determined by the court in light of the facts and circumstances,
but shall not exceed the greater of $1,000,000, or three times
the amount of the profit gained or loss avoided as a result of
such controlled person’s violation. If such controlled person’s
violation was a violation by communication, the profit gained
or loss avoided as a result of the violation shall, for purposes
of this paragraph only, be deemed to be limited to the profit

311

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21A

gained or loss avoided by the person or persons to whom the
controlled person directed such communication.
(b) LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITY.—
(1) LIABILITY OF CONTROLLING PERSONS.—No controlling
person shall be subject to a penalty under subsection (a)(1)(B)
unless the Commission establishes that—
(A) such controlling person knew or recklessly disregarded the fact that such controlled person was likely to
engage in the act or acts constituting the violation and
failed to take appropriate steps to prevent such act or acts
before they occurred; or
(B) such controlling person knowingly or recklessly
failed to establish, maintain, or enforce any policy or procedure required under section 15(f) [127] of this title or section 204A of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and such
failure substantially contributed to or permitted the occurrence of the act or acts constituting the violation.
(2) ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON LIABILITY.—No person
shall be subject to a penalty under subsection (a) solely by reason of employing another person who is subject to a penalty
under such subsection, unless such employing person is liable
as a controlling person under paragraph (1) of this subsection.
Section 20(a) of this title shall not apply to actions under subsection (a) of this section.
(c) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.—the Commission, by such
rules, regulations, and orders as it considers necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, may
exempt, in whole or in part, either unconditionally or upon specific
terms and conditions, any person or transaction or class of persons
or transactions from this section.
(d) PROCEDURES FOR COLLECTION.—
(1) PAYMENT OF PENALTY TO TREASURY.—A penalty imposed under this section shall be payable into the Treasury of
the United States, except as otherwise provided in section 308
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and section 21F of this title.
(2) COLLECTION OF PENALTIES.—If a person upon whom
such a penalty is imposed shall fail to pay such penalty within
the time prescribed in the court’s order, the Commission may
refer the matter to the Attorney General who shall recover
such penalty by action in the appropriate United States district
court.
(3) REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE.—The actions authorized by
this section may be brought in addition to any other actions
that the Commission or the Attorney General are entitled to
bring.
(4) JURISDICTION AND VENUE.—For purposes of section 27
of this title, actions under this section shall be actions to enforce a liability or a duty created by this title.
(5) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—No action may be brought
under this section more than 5 years after the date of the purchase or sale. This section shall not be construed to bar or
127Section 15(f) was redesignated 15(g) by Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec. 929X(c)(1), July 21,
2010, 124 Stat. 1870.

Sec. 21A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

312

limit in any manner any action by the Commission or the Attorney General under any other provision of this title, nor shall
it bar or limit in any manner any action to recover penalties,
or to seek any other order regarding penalties, imposed in an
action commenced within 5 years of such transaction.
(e) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this section, ‘‘profit gained’’ or
‘‘loss avoided’’ is the difference between the purchase or sale price
of the security and the value of that security as measured by the
trading price of the security a reasonable period after public dissemination of the nonpublic information.
(f) The authority of the Commission under this section with respect to security-based swap agreements shall be subject to the restrictions and limitations of section 3A(b) of this title.
(g) DUTY OF MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF CONGRESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the rule of construction under
section 10 of the STOCK Act and solely for purposes of the insider trading prohibitions arising under this Act, including section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, each Member of Congress or employee of Congress owes a duty arising from a relationship of trust and confidence to the Congress, the United
States Government, and the citizens of the United States with
respect to material, nonpublic information derived from such
person’s position as a Member of Congress or employee of Congress or gained from the performance of such person’s official
responsibilities.
(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection—
(A) the term ‘‘Member of Congress’’ means a member
of the Senate or House of Representatives, a Delegate to
the House of Representatives, and the Resident Commissioner from Puerto Rico; and
(B) the term ‘‘employee of Congress’’ means—
(i) any individual (other than a Member of Congress), whose compensation is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate or the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives; and
(ii) any other officer or employee of the legislative
branch (as defined in section 109(11) of the Ethics in
Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 109(11))).
(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to impair or limit the construction of the existing antifraud provisions of the securities laws or the authority of the Commission under those provisions.
(h) DUTY OF OTHER FEDERAL OFFICIALS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the rule of construction under
section 10 of the STOCK Act and solely for purposes of the insider trading prohibitions arising under this Act, including section 10(b), and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, each executive branch
employee, each judicial officer, and each judicial employee owes
a duty arising from a relationship of trust and confidence to
the United States Government and the citizens of the United
States with respect to material, nonpublic information derived
from such person’s position as an executive branch employee,
judicial officer, or judicial employee or gained from the performance of such person’s official responsibilities.

313

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21B

(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection—
(A) the term ‘‘executive branch employee’’—
(i) has the meaning given the term ‘‘employee’’
under section 2105 of title 5, United States Code;
(ii) includes—
(I) the President;
(II) the Vice President; and
(III) an employee of the United States Postal
Service or the Postal Regulatory Commission;
(B) the term ‘‘judicial employee’’ has the meaning
given that term in section 109(8) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 109(8)); and
(C) the term ‘‘judicial officer’’ has the meaning given
that term under section 109(10) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 109(10)).
(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to impair or limit the construction of the existing antifraud provisions of the securities laws or the authority of the Commission under those provisions.
(i) PARTICIPATION IN INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS.—An individual described in section 101(f) of the Ethics in Government Act
of 1978 may not purchase securities that are the subject of an initial public offering (within the meaning given such term in section
12(f)(1)(G)(i)) in any manner other than is available to members of
the public generally.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 21A, as added Nov. 19, 1988,
Pub. L. 100-704, Sec. 3(a)(2), 102 Stat. 4677; amended Oct. 15,
1990, Pub. L. 101-429, title II, Sec. 202(b), 104 Stat. 938; Dec. 21,
2000, Pub. L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5)[title II, Sec. 205(a)(4), title III,
Sec. 303(k), (l),], 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-426, 2763A-456, 2763A-457;
Pub. L. 107-204, title III, Sec. 308(d)(2), July 30, 2002, 116 Stat.
785; Pub. L. 111-203, title VII, Sec. 762(d)(7), title IX, Sec.
923(b)(2), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1761, 1850; Pub. L. 112-105,
Secs. 4(b)(2), 9(b)(2)(B), 12, Apr. 4, 2012, 126 Stat. 292, 297, 300.)
CIVIL REMEDIES IN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS

SEC. 21B. (a) COMMISSION AUTHORITY TO ASSESS MONEY PENALTIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In any proceeding instituted pursuant to

sections 15(b)(4), 15(b)(6), 15D, 15B, 15C, 15E, or 17A of this
title against any person, the Commission or the appropriate
regulatory agency may impose a civil penalty if it finds, on the
record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such penalty is in the public interest and that such person—
(A) has willfully violated any provision of the Securities Act of 1933, the Investment Company Act of 1940, the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or this title, or the rules
or regulations thereunder, or the rules of the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board;
(B) has willfully aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or procured such a violation by any
other person;

Sec. 21B

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

314

(C) has willfully made or caused to be made in any application for registration or report required to be filed with
the Commission or with any other appropriate regulatory
agency under this title, or in any proceeding before the
Commission with respect to registration, any statement
which was, at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it was made, false or misleading
with respect to any material fact, or has omitted to state
in any such application or report any material fact which
is required to be stated therein; or
(D) has failed reasonably to supervise, within the
meaning of section 15(b)(4)(E) of this title, with a view to
preventing violations of the provisions of such statutes,
rules and regulations, another person who commits such a
violation, if such other person is subject to his supervision;
(2) CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS.—In any proceeding
instituted under section 21C against any person, the Commission may impose a civil penalty, if the Commission finds, on
the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such
person—
(A) is violating or has violated any provision of this
title, or any rule or regulation issued under this title; or
(B) is or was a cause of the violation of any provision
of this title, or any rule or regulation issued under this
title.
(b) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF PENALTY.—
(1) FIRST TIER.—The maximum amount of penalty for each
act or omission described in subsection (a) shall be $5,000 for
a natural person or $50,000 for any other person.
(2) SECOND TIER.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the
maximum amount of penalty for each such act or omission
shall be $50,000 for a natural person or $250,000 for any other
person if the act or omission described in subsection (a) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless
disregard of a regulatory requirement.
(3) THIRD TIER.—Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2),
the maximum amount of penalty for each such act or omission
shall be $100,000 for a natural person or $500,000 for any
other person if—
(A) the act or omission described in subsection (a) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and
(B) such act or omission directly or indirectly resulted
in substantial losses or created a significant risk of substantial losses to other persons or resulted in substantial
pecuniary gain to the person who committed the act or
omission.
(c) DETERMINATION OF PUBLIC INTEREST.—In considering under
this section whether a penalty is in the public interest, the Commission or the appropriate regulatory agency may consider—
(1) whether the act or omission for which such penalty is
assessed involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or
reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement;

315

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21B

(2) the harm to other persons resulting either directly or
indirectly from such act or omission;
(3) the extent to which any person was unjustly enriched,
taking into account any restitution made to persons injured by
such behavior;
(4) whether such person previously has been found by the
Commission, another appropriate regulatory agency, or a selfregulatory organization to have violated the Federal securities
laws, State securities laws, or the rules of a self-regulatory organization, has been enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction from violations of such laws or rules, or has been convicted
by a court of competent jurisdiction of violations of such laws
or of any felony or misdemeanor described in section
15(b)(4)(B) of this title;
(5) the need to deter such person and other persons from
committing such acts or omissions; and
(6) such other matters as justice may require.
(d) EVIDENCE CONCERNING ABILITY TO PAY.—In any proceeding
in which the Commission or the appropriate regulatory agency may
impose a penalty under this section, a respondent may present evidence of the respondent’s ability to pay such penalty. The Commission or the appropriate regulatory agency may, in its discretion,
consider such evidence in determining whether such penalty is in
the public interest. Such evidence may relate to the extent of such
person’s ability to continue in business and the collectability of a
penalty, taking into account any other claims of the United States
or third parties upon such person’s assets and the amount of such
person’s assets.
(e) AUTHORITY TO ENTER AN ORDER REQUIRING AN ACCOUNTING AND DISGORGEMENT.—In any proceeding in which the Commission or the appropriate regulatory agency may impose a penalty
under this section, the Commission or the appropriate regulatory
agency may enter an order requiring accounting and disgorgement,
including reasonable interest. The Commission is authorized to
adopt rules, regulations, and orders concerning payments to investors, rates of interest, periods of accrual, and such other matters
as it deems appropriate to implement this subsection.
(f) SECURITY-BASED SWAPS.—
(1) CLEARING AGENCY.—Any clearing agency that knowingly or recklessly evades or participates in or facilitates an
evasion of the requirements of section 3C shall be liable for a
civil money penalty in twice the amount otherwise available
for a violation of section 3C.
(2) SECURITY-BASED SWAP DEALER OR MAJOR SECURITYBASED SWAP PARTICIPANT.—Any security-based swap dealer or
major security- based swap participant that knowingly or recklessly evades or participates in or facilitates an evasion of the
requirements of section 3C shall be liable for a civil money
penalty in twice the amount otherwise available for a violation
of section 3C.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 21B, as added Oct. 15, 1990,
Pub. L. 101-429, title II, Sec. 202(a), 104 Stat. 937; amended Pub.
L. 107-204, title V, Sec. 501(b), July 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 793; Pub.

Sec. 21C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

316

L. 109-291, Sec. 4(b)(1)(B), Sept. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 1337; Pub. L.
111-203, title VII, Sec. 773, title IX, Sec. 929P(a)(2), July 21, 2010,
124 Stat. 1802, 1863.)
CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS

SEC. 21C. (a) AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION.—If the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that any person
is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision of this
title, or any rule or regulation thereunder, the Commission may
publish its findings and enter an order requiring such person, and
any other person that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation,
due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known
would contribute to such violation, to cease and desist from committing or causing such violation and any future violation of the
same provision, rule, or regulation. Such order may, in addition to
requiring a person to cease and desist from committing or causing
a violation, require such person to comply, or to take steps to effect
compliance, with such provision, rule, or regulation, upon such
terms and conditions and within such time as the Commission may
specify in such order. Any such order may, as the Commission
deems appropriate, require future compliance or steps to effect future compliance, either permanently or for such period of time as
the Commission may specify, with such provision, rule, or regulation with respect to any security, any issuer, or any other person.
(b) HEARING.—The notice instituting proceedings pursuant to
subsection (a) shall fix a hearing date not earlier than 30 days nor
later than 60 days after service of the notice unless an earlier or
a later date is set by the Commission with the consent of any respondent so served.
(c) TEMPORARY ORDER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Whenever the Commission determines
that the alleged violation or threatened violation specified in
the notice instituting proceedings pursuant to subsection (a), or
the continuation thereof, is likely to result in significant dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors,
or substantial harm to the public interest, including, but not
limited to, losses to the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, prior to the completion of the proceedings, the Commission may enter a temporary order requiring the respondent to
cease and desist from the violation or threatened violation and
to take such action to prevent the violation or threatened violation and to prevent dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public interest as the Commission deems appropriate pending completion
of such proceedings. Such an order shall be entered only after
notice and opportunity for a hearing, unless the Commission
determines that notice and hearing prior to entry would be impracticable or contrary to the public interest. A temporary
order shall become effective upon service upon the respondent
and, unless set aside, limited, or suspended by the Commission
or a court of competent jurisdiction, shall remain effective and
enforceable pending the completion of the proceedings.

317

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21C

(2) APPLICABILITY.—Paragraph (1) shall apply only to a respondent that acts, or, at the time of the alleged misconduct
acted, as a broker, dealer, investment adviser, investment company, municipal securities dealer, government securities
broker, government securities dealer, registered public accounting firm (as defined in section 2 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002), or transfer agent, or is, or was at the time of the alleged
misconduct, an associated person of, or a person seeking to become associated with, any of the foregoing.
(3) TEMPORARY FREEZE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—
(i) ISSUANCE OF TEMPORARY ORDER.—Whenever,
during the course of a lawful investigation involving
possible violations of the Federal securities laws by an
issuer of publicly traded securities or any of its directors, officers, partners, controlling persons, agents, or
employees, it shall appear to the Commission that it
is likely that the issuer will make extraordinary payments (whether compensation or otherwise) to any of
the foregoing persons, the Commission may petition a
Federal district court for a temporary order requiring
the issuer to escrow, subject to court supervision,
those payments in an interest-bearing account for 45
days.
(ii) STANDARD.—A temporary order shall be entered under clause (i), only after notice and opportunity for a hearing, unless the court determines that
notice and hearing prior to entry of the order would be
impracticable or contrary to the public interest.
(iii) EFFECTIVE PERIOD.—A temporary order issued
under clause (i) shall—
(I) become effective immediately;
(II) be served upon the parties subject to it;
and
(III) unless set aside, limited or suspended by
a court of competent jurisdiction, shall remain effective and enforceable for 45 days.
(iv) EXTENSIONS AUTHORIZED.—The effective period of an order under this subparagraph may be extended by the court upon good cause shown for not
longer than 45 additional days, provided that the combined period of the order shall not exceed 90 days.
(B) PROCESS ON DETERMINATION OF VIOLATIONS.—
(i) VIOLATIONS CHARGED.—If the issuer or other
person described in subparagraph (A) is charged with
any violation of the Federal securities laws before the
expiration of the effective period of a temporary order
under subparagraph (A) (including any applicable extension period), the order shall remain in effect, subject to court approval, until the conclusion of any legal
proceedings related thereto, and the affected issuer or
other person, shall have the right to petition the court
for review of the order.

Sec. 21C

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

318

(ii) VIOLATIONS NOT CHARGED.—If the issuer or
other person described in subparagraph (A) is not
charged with any violation of the Federal securities
laws before the expiration of the effective period of a
temporary order under subparagraph (A) (including
any applicable extension period), the escrow shall terminate at the expiration of the 45-day effective period
(or the expiration of any extension period, as applicable), and the disputed payments (with accrued interest) shall be returned to the issuer or other affected
person.
(d) REVIEW OF TEMPORARY ORDERS.—
(1) COMMISSION REVIEW.—At any time after the respondent has been served with a temporary cease-and-desist order
pursuant to subsection (c), the respondent may apply to the
Commission to have the order set aside, limited, or suspended.
If the respondent has been served with a temporary cease-anddesist order entered without a prior Commission hearing, the
respondent may, within 10 days after the date on which the
order was served, request a hearing on such application and
the Commission shall hold a hearing and render a decision on
such application at the earliest possible time.
(2) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—Within—
(A) 10 days after the date the respondent was served
with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered with a
prior Commission hearing, or
(B) 10 days after the Commission renders a decision
on an application and hearing under paragraph (1), with
respect to any temporary cease-and-desist order entered
without a prior Commission hearing,
the respondent may apply to the United States district court
for the district in which the respondent resides or has its principal place of business, or for the District of Columbia, for an
order setting aside, limiting, or suspending the effectiveness or
enforcement of the order, and the court shall have jurisdiction
to enter such an order. A respondent served with a temporary
cease- and-desist order entered without a prior Commission
hearing may not apply to the court except after hearing and
decision by the Commission on the respondent’s application
under paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(3) NO AUTOMATIC STAY OF TEMPORARY ORDER.—The commencement of proceedings under paragraph (2) of this subsection shall not, unless specifically ordered by the court, operate as a stay of the Commission’s order.
(4) EXCLUSIVE REVIEW.—Section 25 of this title shall not
apply to a temporary order entered pursuant to this section.
(e) AUTHORITY TO ENTER AN ORDER REQUIRING AN ACCOUNTING AND DISGORGEMENT.—In any cease-and-desist proceeding
under subsection (a), the Commission may enter an order requiring
accounting and disgorgement, including reasonable interest. The
Commission is authorized to adopt rules, regulations, and orders
concerning payments to investors, rates of interest, periods of accrual, and such other matters as it deems appropriate to implement this subsection.

319

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21D

(f) AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION TO PROHIBIT PERSONS FROM
SERVING AS OFFICERS OR DIRECTORS.—In any cease-and-desist proceeding under subsection (a), the Commission may issue an order
to prohibit, conditionally or unconditionally, and permanently or
for such period of time as it shall determine, any person who has
violated section 10(b) or the rules or regulations thereunder, from
acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12, or that is required to file
reports pursuant to section 15(d), if the conduct of that person
demonstrates unfitness to serve as an officer or director of any
such issuer.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 21C, as added Oct. 15, 1990,
Pub. L. 101-429, title II, Sec. 203, 104 Stat. 939; amended Pub. L.
107-204, Sec. 3(b)(3), title XI, Secs. 1103, 1105(a), July 30, 2002,
116 Stat. 749, 807, 809; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec. 985(b)(8),
July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1934.)
SEC. 21D. PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION.
(a) PRIVATE CLASS ACTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The provisions of

this subsection shall
apply in each private action arising under this title that is
brought as a plaintiff class action pursuant to the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure.
(2) CERTIFICATION FILED WITH COMPLAINT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Each plaintiff seeking to serve as a
representative party on behalf of a class shall provide a
sworn certification, which shall be personally signed by
such plaintiff and filed with the complaint, that—
(i) states that the plaintiff has reviewed the complaint and authorized its filing;
(ii) states that the plaintiff did not purchase the
security that is the subject of the complaint at the direction of plaintiff’s counsel or in order to participate
in any private action arising under this title;
(iii) states that the plaintiff is willing to serve as
a representative party on behalf of a class, including
providing testimony at deposition and trial, if necessary;
(iv) sets forth all of the transactions of the plaintiff in the security that is the subject of the complaint
during the class period specified in the complaint;
(v) identifies any other action under this title,
filed during the 3-year period preceding the date on
which the certification is signed by the plaintiff, in
which the plaintiff has sought to serve as a representative party on behalf of a class; and
(vi) states that the plaintiff will not accept any
payment for serving as a representative party on behalf of a class beyond the plaintiff’s pro rata share of
any recovery, except as ordered or approved by the
court in accordance with paragraph (4).

Sec. 21D

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

320

(B) NONWAIVER OF ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE.—The
certification filed pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall not
be construed to be a waiver of the attorney-client privilege.
(3) APPOINTMENT OF LEAD PLAINTIFF.—
(A) EARLY NOTICE TO CLASS MEMBERS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 20 days after the
date on which the complaint is filed, the plaintiff or
plaintiffs shall cause to be published, in a widely circulated national business-oriented publication or wire
service, a notice advising members of the purported
plaintiff class—
(I) of the pendency of the action, the claims
asserted therein, and the purported class period;
and
(II) that, not later than 60 days after the date
on which the notice is published, any member of
the purported class may move the court to serve
as lead plaintiff of the purported class.
(ii) MULTIPLE ACTIONS.—If more than one action
on behalf of a class asserting substantially the same
claim or claims arising under this title is filed, only
the plaintiff or plaintiffs in the first filed action shall
be required to cause notice to be published in accordance with clause (i).
(iii) ADDITIONAL NOTICES MAY BE REQUIRED UNDER
FEDERAL RULES.—Notice required under clause (i)
shall be in addition to any notice required pursuant to
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
(B) APPOINTMENT OF LEAD PLAINTIFF.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days after the
date on which a notice is published under subparagraph (A)(i), the court shall consider any motion made
by a purported class member in response to the notice,
including any motion by a class member who is not individually named as a plaintiff in the complaint or
complaints, and shall appoint as lead plaintiff the
member or members of the purported plaintiff class
that the court determines to be most capable of adequately representing the interests of class members
(hereafter in this paragraph referred to as the ‘‘most
adequate plaintiff’’) in accordance with this subparagraph.
(ii) CONSOLIDATED ACTIONS.—If more than one action on behalf of a class asserting substantially the
same claim or claims arising under this title has been
filed, and any party has sought to consolidate those
actions for pretrial purposes or for trial, the court
shall not make the determination required by clause
(i) until after the decision on the motion to consolidate
is rendered. As soon as practicable after such decision
is rendered, the court shall appoint the most adequate
plaintiff as lead plaintiff for the consolidated actions
in accordance with this paragraph.
(iii) REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTION.—

321

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21D

(I) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subclause (II), for
purposes of clause (i), the court shall adopt a presumption that the most adequate plaintiff in any
private action arising under this title is the person or group of persons that—
(aa) has either filed the complaint or
made a motion in response to a notice under
subparagraph (A)(i);
(bb) in the determination of the court, has
the largest financial interest in the relief
sought by the class; and
(cc) otherwise satisfies the requirements
of Rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
(II) REBUTTAL EVIDENCE.—The presumption
described in subclause (I) may be rebutted only
upon proof by a member of the purported plaintiff
class that the presumptively most adequate plaintiff—
(aa) will not fairly and adequately protect
the interests of the class; or
(bb) is subject to unique defenses that
render such plaintiff incapable of adequately
representing the class.
(iv) DISCOVERY.—For purposes of this subparagraph, discovery relating to whether a member or
members of the purported plaintiff class is the most
adequate plaintiff may be conducted by a plaintiff only
if the plaintiff first demonstrates a reasonable basis
for a finding that the presumptively most adequate
plaintiff is incapable of adequately representing the
class.
(v) SELECTION OF LEAD COUNSEL.—The most adequate plaintiff shall, subject to the approval of the
court, select and retain counsel to represent the class.
(vi) RESTRICTIONS ON PROFESSIONAL PLAINTIFFS.—
Except as the court may otherwise permit, consistent
with the purposes of this section, a person may be a
lead plaintiff, or an officer, director, or fiduciary of a
lead plaintiff, in no more than 5 securities class actions brought as plaintiff class actions pursuant to the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure during any 3-year period.
(4) RECOVERY BY PLAINTIFFS.—The share of any final judgment or of any settlement that is awarded to a representative
party serving on behalf of a class shall be equal, on a per share
basis, to the portion of the final judgment or settlement awarded to all other members of the class. Nothing in this paragraph
shall be construed to limit the award of reasonable costs and
expenses (including lost wages) directly relating to the representation of the class to any representative party serving on
behalf of a class.
(5) RESTRICTIONS ON SETTLEMENTS UNDER SEAL.—The
terms and provisions of any settlement agreement of a class

Sec. 21D

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

322

action shall not be filed under seal, except that on motion of
any party to the settlement, the court may order filing under
seal for those portions of a settlement agreement as to which
good cause is shown for such filing under seal. For purposes of
this paragraph, good cause shall exist only if publication of a
term or provision of a settlement agreement would cause direct
and substantial harm to any party.
(6) RESTRICTIONS ON PAYMENT OF ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND
EXPENSES.— Total attorneys’ fees and expenses awarded by the
court to counsel for the plaintiff class shall not exceed a reasonable percentage of the amount of any damages and prejudgment interest actually paid to the class.
(7) DISCLOSURE OF SETTLEMENT TERMS TO CLASS MEMBERS.—Any proposed or final settlement agreement that is
published or otherwise disseminated to the class shall include
each of the following statements, along with a cover page summarizing the information contained in such statements:
(A) STATEMENT OF PLAINTIFF RECOVERY.—The amount
of the settlement proposed to be distributed to the parties
to the action, determined in the aggregate and on an average per share basis.
(B) STATEMENT OF POTENTIAL OUTCOME OF CASE.—
(i) AGREEMENT ON AMOUNT OF DAMAGES.—If the
settling parties agree on the average amount of damages per share that would be recoverable if the plaintiff prevailed on each claim alleged under this title, a
statement concerning the average amount of such potential damages per share.
(ii) DISAGREEMENT ON AMOUNT OF DAMAGES.—If
the parties do not agree on the average amount of
damages per share that would be recoverable if the
plaintiff prevailed on each claim alleged under this
title, a statement from each settling party concerning
the issue or issues on which the parties disagree.
(iii) INADMISSIBILITY FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.—A
statement made in accordance with clause (i) or (ii)
concerning the amount of damages shall not be admissible in any Federal or State judicial action or administrative proceeding, other than an action or proceeding arising out of such statement.
(C) STATEMENT OF ATTORNEYS’ FEES OR COSTS
SOUGHT.—If any of the settling parties or their counsel intend to apply to the court for an award of attorneys’ fees
or costs from any fund established as part of the settlement, a statement indicating which parties or counsel intend to make such an application, the amount of fees and
costs that will be sought (including the amount of such
fees and costs determined on an average per share basis),
and a brief explanation supporting the fees and costs
sought. Such information shall be clearly summarized on
the cover page of any notice to a party of any proposed or
final settlement agreement.
(D) IDENTIFICATION OF LAWYERS’ REPRESENTATIVES.—
The name, telephone number, and address of one or more

323

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21D

representatives of counsel for the plaintiff class who will
be reasonably available to answer questions from class
members concerning any matter contained in any notice of
settlement published or otherwise disseminated to the
class.
(E) REASONS FOR SETTLEMENT.—A brief statement explaining the reasons why the parties are proposing the settlement.
(F) OTHER INFORMATION.—Such other information as
may be required by the court.
(8) SECURITY FOR PAYMENT OF COSTS IN CLASS ACTIONS.—
In any private action arising under this title that is certified
as a class action pursuant to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the court may require an undertaking from the attorneys
for the plaintiff class, the plaintiff class, or both, or from the
attorneys for the defendant, the defendant, or both, in such
proportions and at such times as the court determines are just
and equitable, for the payment of fees and expenses that may
be awarded under this subsection.
(9) ATTORNEY CONFLICT OF INTEREST.—If a plaintiff class
is represented by an attorney who directly owns or otherwise
has a beneficial interest in the securities that are the subject
of the litigation, the court shall make a determination of
whether such ownership or other interest constitutes a conflict
of interest sufficient to disqualify the attorney from representing the plaintiff class.
(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITIES FRAUD ACTIONS.—
(1) MISLEADING STATEMENTS AND OMISSIONS.—In any private action arising under this title in which the plaintiff alleges that the defendant—
(A) made an untrue statement of a material fact; or
(B) omitted to state a material fact necessary in order
to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading;
the complaint shall specify each statement alleged to have
been misleading, the reason or reasons why the statement is
misleading, and, if an allegation regarding the statement or
omission is made on information and belief, the complaint shall
state with particularity all facts on which that belief is formed.
(2) REQUIRED STATE OF MIND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph
(B), in any private action arising under this title in which
the plaintiff may recover money damages only on proof
that the defendant acted with a particular state of mind,
the complaint shall, with respect to each act or omission
alleged to violate this title, state with particularity facts
giving rise to a strong inference that the defendant acted
with the required state of mind.
(B) EXCEPTION.—In the case of an action for money
damages brought against a credit rating agency or a controlling person under this title, it shall be sufficient, for
purposes of pleading any required state of mind in relation
to such action, that the complaint state with particularity

Sec. 21D

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

324

facts giving rise to a strong inference that the credit rating
agency knowingly or recklessly failed—
(i) to conduct a reasonable investigation of the
rated security with respect to the factual elements relied upon by its own methodology for evaluating credit
risk; or
(ii) to obtain reasonable verification of such factual elements (which verification may be based on a
sampling technique that does not amount to an audit)
from other sources that the credit rating agency considered to be competent and that were independent of
the issuer and underwriter.
(3) MOTION TO DISMISS; STAY OF DISCOVERY.—
(A) DISMISSAL FOR FAILURE TO MEET PLEADING REQUIREMENTS.—In any private action arising under this
title, the court shall, on the motion of any defendant, dismiss the complaint if the requirements of paragraphs (1)
and (2) are not met.
(B) STAY OF DISCOVERY.—In any private action arising
under this title, all discovery and other proceedings shall
be stayed during the pendency of any motion to dismiss,
unless the court finds upon the motion of any party that
particularized discovery is necessary to preserve evidence
or to prevent undue prejudice to that party.
(C) PRESERVATION OF EVIDENCE.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—During the pendency of any stay
of discovery pursuant to this paragraph, unless otherwise ordered by the court, any party to the action with
actual notice of the allegations contained in the complaint shall treat all documents, data compilations (including electronically recorded or stored data), and
tangible objects that are in the custody or control of
such person and that are relevant to the allegations,
as if they were the subject of a continuing request for
production of documents from an opposing party under
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
(ii) SANCTION FOR WILLFUL VIOLATION.—A party
aggrieved by the willful failure of an opposing party to
comply with clause (i) may apply to the court for an
order awarding appropriate sanctions.
(D) CIRCUMVENTION OF STAY OF DISCOVERY.—Upon a
proper showing, a court may stay discovery proceedings in
any private action in a State court, as necessary in aid of
its jurisdiction, or to protect or effectuate its judgments, in
an action subject to a stay of discovery pursuant to this
paragraph.
(4) LOSS CAUSATION.—In any private action arising under
this title, the plaintiff shall have the burden of proving that
the act or omission of the defendant alleged to violate this title
caused the loss for which the plaintiff seeks to recover damages.
(c) SANCTIONS FOR ABUSIVE LITIGATION.—
(1) MANDATORY REVIEW BY COURT.—In any private action
arising under this title, upon final adjudication of the action,

325

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21D

the court shall include in the record specific findings regarding
compliance by each party and each attorney representing any
party with each requirement of Rule 11(b) of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure as to any complaint, responsive pleading, or
dispositive motion.
(2) MANDATORY SANCTIONS.—If the court makes a finding
under paragraph (1) that a party or attorney violated any requirement of Rule 11(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
as to any complaint, responsive pleading, or dispositive motion,
the court shall impose sanctions on such party or attorney in
accordance with Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Prior to making a finding that any party or attorney has
violated Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the
court shall give such party or attorney notice and an opportunity to respond.
(3) PRESUMPTION IN FAVOR OF ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND
COSTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs (B) and
(C), for purposes of paragraph (2), the court shall adopt a
presumption that the appropriate sanction—
(i) for failure of any responsive pleading or dispositive motion to comply with any requirement of
Rule 11(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure is
an award to the opposing party of the reasonable attorneys’ fees and other expenses incurred as a direct
result of the violation; and
(ii) for substantial failure of any complaint to comply with any requirement of Rule 11(b) of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure is an award to the opposing
party of the reasonable attorneys’ fees and other expenses incurred in the action.
(B) REBUTTAL EVIDENCE.—The presumption described
in subparagraph (A) may be rebutted only upon proof by
the party or attorney against whom sanctions are to be imposed that—
(i) the award of attorneys’ fees and other expenses
will impose an unreasonable burden on that party or
attorney and would be unjust, and the failure to make
such an award would not impose a greater burden on
the party in whose favor sanctions are to be imposed;
or
(ii) the violation of Rule 11(b) of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure was de minimis.
(C) SANCTIONS.—If the party or attorney against
whom sanctions are to be imposed meets its burden under
subparagraph (B), the court shall award the sanctions that
the court deems appropriate pursuant to Rule 11 of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
(d) DEFENDANT’S RIGHT TO WRITTEN INTERROGATORIES.—In
any private action arising under this title in which the plaintiff
may recover money damages, the court shall, when requested by a
defendant, submit to the jury a written interrogatory on the issue
of each such defendant’s state of mind at the time the alleged violation occurred.

Sec. 21D

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

326

(e) LIMITATION ON DAMAGES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), in
any private action arising under this title in which the plaintiff
seeks to establish damages by reference to the market price of
a security, the award of damages to the plaintiff shall not exceed the difference between the purchase or sale price paid or
received, as appropriate, by the plaintiff for the subject security and the mean trading price of that security during the 90day period beginning on the date on which the information correcting the misstatement or omission that is the basis for the
action is disseminated to the market.
(2) EXCEPTION.—In any private action arising under this
title in which the plaintiff seeks to establish damages by reference to the market price of a security, if the plaintiff sells or
repurchases the subject security prior to the expiration of the
90- day period described in paragraph (1), the plaintiff’s damages shall not exceed the difference between the purchase or
sale price paid or received, as appropriate, by the plaintiff for
the security and the mean trading price of the security during
the period beginning immediately after dissemination of information correcting the misstatement or omission and ending on
the date on which the plaintiff sells or repurchases the security.
(3) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this subsection, the
‘‘mean trading price’’ of a security shall be an average of the
daily trading price of that security, determined as of the close
of the market each day during the 90-day period referred to in
paragraph (1).
(f) PROPORTIONATE LIABILITY.—
(1) APPLICABILITY.—Nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to create, affect, or in any manner modify, the standard for liability associated with any action arising under the
securities laws.
(2) LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.—
(A) JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY.—Any covered person against whom a final judgment is entered in a private
action shall be liable for damages jointly and severally
only if the trier of fact specifically determines that such
covered person knowingly committed a violation of the securities laws.
(B) PROPORTIONATE LIABILITY.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph (A), a covered person against whom a final judgment is entered in a private action shall be liable solely for the portion of the judgment that corresponds to
the percentage of responsibility of that covered person,
as determined under paragraph (3).
(ii) RECOVERY BY AND COSTS OF COVERED PERSON.—In any case in which a contractual relationship
permits, a covered person that prevails in any private
action may recover the attorney’s fees and costs of that
covered person in connection with the action.
(3) DETERMINATION OF RESPONSIBILITY.—

327

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21D

(A) IN GENERAL.—In any private action, the court shall
instruct the jury to answer special interrogatories, or if
there is no jury, shall make findings, with respect to each
covered person and each of the other persons claimed by
any of the parties to have caused or contributed to the loss
incurred by the plaintiff, including persons who have entered into settlements with the plaintiff or plaintiffs, concerning—
(i) whether such person violated the securities
laws;
(ii) the percentage of responsibility of such person,
measured as a percentage of the total fault of all persons who caused or contributed to the loss incurred by
the plaintiff; and
(iii) whether such person knowingly committed a
violation of the securities laws.
(B) CONTENTS OF SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES OR FINDINGS.—The responses to interrogatories, or findings, as appropriate, under subparagraph (A) shall specify the total
amount of damages that the plaintiff is entitled to recover
and the percentage of responsibility of each covered person
found to have caused or contributed to the loss incurred by
the plaintiff or plaintiffs.
(C) FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION.—In determining the
percentage of responsibility under this paragraph, the trier
of fact shall consider—
(i) the nature of the conduct of each covered person found to have caused or contributed to the loss incurred by the plaintiff or plaintiffs; and
(ii) the nature and extent of the causal relationship between the conduct of each such person and the
damages incurred by the plaintiff or plaintiffs.
(4) UNCOLLECTIBLE SHARE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding paragraph (2)(B),
upon [128] motion made not later than 6 months after a
final judgment is entered in any private action, the court
determines that all or part of the share of the judgment
of the covered person is not collectible against that covered
person, and is also not collectible against a covered person
described in paragraph (2)(A), each covered person described in paragraph (2)(B) shall be liable for the
uncollectible share as follows:
(i) PERCENTAGE OF NET WORTH.—Each covered
person shall be jointly and severally liable for the
uncollectible share if the plaintiff establishes that—
(I) the plaintiff is an individual whose recoverable damages under the final judgment are
equal to more than 10 percent of the net worth of
the plaintiff; and
(II) the net worth of the plaintiff is equal to
less than $200,000.
128So

in law. Probably should be preceded by ‘‘if,’’.

Sec. 21D

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

328

(ii) OTHER PLAINTIFFS.—With respect to any plaintiff not described in subclauses (I) and (II) of clause (i),
each covered person shall be liable for the
uncollectible share in proportion to the percentage of
responsibility of that covered person, except that the
total liability of a covered person under this clause
may not exceed 50 percent of the proportionate share
of that covered person, as determined under paragraph (3)(B).
(iii) NET WORTH.—For purposes of this subparagraph, net worth shall be determined as of the date
immediately preceding the date of the purchase or sale
(as applicable) by the plaintiff of the security that is
the subject of the action, and shall be equal to the fair
market value of assets, minus liabilities, including the
net value of the investments of the plaintiff in real
and personal property (including personal residences).
(B) OVERALL LIMIT.—In no case shall the total payments required pursuant to subparagraph (A) exceed the
amount of the uncollectible share.
(C) COVERED PERSONS SUBJECT TO CONTRIBUTION.—A
covered person against whom judgment is not collectible
shall be subject to contribution and to any continuing liability to the plaintiff on the judgment.
(5) RIGHT OF CONTRIBUTION.—To the extent that a covered
person is required to make an additional payment pursuant to
paragraph (4), that covered person may recover contribution—
(A) from the covered person originally liable to make
the payment;
(B) from any covered person liable jointly and severally pursuant to paragraph (2)(A);
(C) from any covered person held proportionately liable pursuant to this paragraph who is liable to make the
same payment and has paid less than his or her proportionate share of that payment; or
(D) from any other person responsible for the conduct
giving rise to the payment that would have been liable to
make the same payment.
(6) NONDISCLOSURE TO JURY.—The standard for allocation
of damages under paragraphs (2) and (3) and the procedure for
reallocation of uncollectible shares under paragraph (4) shall
not be disclosed to members of the jury.
(7) SETTLEMENT DISCHARGE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A covered person who settles any
private action at any time before final verdict or judgment
shall be discharged from all claims for contribution
brought by other persons. Upon entry of the settlement by
the court, the court shall enter a bar order constituting the
final discharge of all obligations to the plaintiff of the settling covered person arising out of the action. The order
shall bar all future claims for contribution arising out of
the action—
(i) by any person against the settling covered person; and

329

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21D

(ii) by the settling covered person against any person, other than a person whose liability has been extinguished by the settlement of the settling covered
person.
(B) REDUCTION.—If a covered person enters into a settlement with the plaintiff prior to final verdict or judgment, the verdict or judgment shall be reduced by the
greater of—
(i) an amount that corresponds to the percentage
of responsibility of that covered person; or
(ii) the amount paid to the plaintiff by that covered person.
(8) CONTRIBUTION.—A covered person who becomes jointly
and severally liable for damages in any private action may recover contribution from any other person who, if joined in the
original action, would have been liable for the same damages.
A claim for contribution shall be determined based on the percentage of responsibility of the claimant and of each person
against whom a claim for contribution is made.
(9) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS FOR CONTRIBUTION.—In any
private action determining liability, an action for contribution
shall be brought not later than 6 months after the entry of a
final, nonappealable judgment in the action, except that an action for contribution brought by a covered person who was required to make an additional payment pursuant to paragraph
(4) may be brought not later than 6 months after the date on
which such payment was made.
(10) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection—
(A) a covered person ‘‘knowingly commits a violation of
the securities laws’’—
(i) with respect to an action that is based on an
untrue statement of material fact or omission of a material fact necessary to make the statement not misleading, if—
(I) that covered person makes an untrue
statement of a material fact, with actual knowledge that the representation is false, or omits to
state a fact necessary in order to make the statement made not misleading, with actual knowledge
that, as a result of the omission, one of the material representations of the covered person is false;
and
(II) persons are likely to reasonably rely on
that misrepresentation or omission; and
(ii) with respect to an action that is based on any
conduct that is not described in clause (i), if that covered person engages in that conduct with actual
knowledge of the facts and circumstances that make
the conduct of that covered person a violation of the
securities laws;
(B) reckless conduct by a covered person shall not be
construed to constitute a knowing commission of a violation of the securities laws by that covered person;
(C) the term ‘‘covered person’’ means—

Sec. 21E

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

330

(i) a defendant in any private action arising under
this title; or
(ii) a defendant in any private action arising
under section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, who is
an outside director of the issuer of the securities that
are the subject of the action; and
(D) the term ‘‘outside director’’ shall have the meaning
given such term by rule or regulation of the Commission.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 21D, as added and amended
Pub. L. 104-67, title I, Sec. 101(b), title II, Sec. 201(a), Dec. 22,
1995, 109 Stat. 743, 758; Pub. L. 105-353, title I, Sec. 101(b)(2),
title III, Sec. 301(b)(13), Nov. 3, 1998, 112 Stat. 3233, 3236; Pub.
L. 111-203, title IX, Sec. 933(b), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1883.)
SEC. 21E. APPLICATION OF SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS.
(a) APPLICABILITY.—This section shall apply only to a forward-

looking statement made by—
(1) an issuer that, at the time that the statement is made,
is subject to the reporting requirements of section 13(a) or section 15(d);
(2) a person acting on behalf of such issuer;
(3) an outside reviewer retained by such issuer making a
statement on behalf of such issuer; or
(4) an underwriter, with respect to information provided by
such issuer or information derived from information provided
by such issuer.
(b) EXCLUSIONS.—Except to the extent otherwise specifically
provided by rule, regulation, or order of the Commission, this section shall not apply to a forward-looking statement—
(1) that is made with respect to the business or operations
of the issuer, if the issuer—
(A) during the 3-year period preceding the date on
which the statement was first made—
(i) was convicted of any felony or misdemeanor described in clauses (i) through (iv) of section 15(b)(4)(B);
or
(ii) has been made the subject of a judicial or administrative decree or order arising out of a governmental action that—
(I) prohibits future violations of the antifraud
provisions of the securities laws;
(II) requires that the issuer cease and desist
from violating the antifraud provisions of the securities laws; or
(III) determines that the issuer violated the
antifraud provisions of the securities laws;
(B) makes the forward-looking statement in connection
with an offering of securities by a blank check company;
(C) issues penny stock;
(D) makes the forward-looking statement in connection
with a rollup transaction; or

331

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21E

(E) makes the forward-looking statement in connection
with a going private transaction; or
(2) that is—
(A) included in a financial statement prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
(B) contained in a registration statement of, or otherwise issued by, an investment company;
(C) made in connection with a tender offer;
(D) made in connection with an initial public offering;
(E) made in connection with an offering by, or relating
to the operations of, a partnership, limited liability company, or a direct participation investment program; or
(F) made in a disclosure of beneficial ownership in a
report required to be filed with the Commission pursuant
to section 13(d).
(c) SAFE HARBOR.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subsection (b), in
any private action arising under this title that is based on an
untrue statement of a material fact or omission of a material
fact necessary to make the statement not misleading, a person
referred to in subsection (a) shall not be liable with respect to
any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, if and
to the extent that—
(A) the forward-looking statement is—
(i) identified as a forward-looking statement, and
is accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements
identifying important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those in the forwardlooking statement; or
(ii) immaterial; or
(B) the plaintiff fails to prove that the forward-looking
statement—
(i) if made by a natural person, was made with actual knowledge by that person that the statement was
false or misleading; or
(ii) if made by a business entity; [129]was—
(I) made by or with the approval of an executive officer of that entity; and
(II) made or approved by such officer with actual knowledge by that officer that the statement
was false or misleading.
(2) ORAL FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS.—In the case of
an oral forward-looking statement made by an issuer that is
subject to the reporting requirements of section 13(a) or section
15(d), or by a person acting on behalf of such issuer, the requirement set forth in paragraph (1)(A) shall be deemed to be
satisfied—
(A) if the oral forward-looking statement is accompanied by a cautionary statement—
(i) that the particular oral statement is a forwardlooking statement; and
129So

in law. The semicolon probably should be a comma.

Sec. 21E

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

332

(ii) that the actual results might differ materially
from those projected in the forward-looking statement;
and
(B) if—
(i) the oral forward-looking statement is accompanied by an oral statement that additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results
to materially differ from those in the forward-looking
statement is contained in a readily available written
document, or portion thereof;
(ii) the accompanying oral statement referred to in
clause (i) identifies the document, or portion thereof,
that contains the additional information about those
factors relating to the forward-looking statement; and
(iii) the information contained in that written document is a cautionary statement that satisfies the
standard established in paragraph (1)(A).
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Any document filed with the Commission or generally disseminated shall be deemed to be readily
available for purposes of paragraph (2).
(4) EFFECT ON OTHER SAFE HARBORS.—The exemption provided for in paragraph (1) shall be in addition to any exemption that the Commission may establish by rule or regulation
under subsection (g).
(d) DUTY TO UPDATE.—Nothing in this section shall impose
upon any person a duty to update a forward-looking statement.
(e) DISPOSITIVE MOTION.—On any motion to dismiss based
upon subsection (c)(1), the court shall consider any statement cited
in the complaint and any cautionary statement accompanying the
forward-looking statement, which are not subject to material dispute, cited by the defendant.
(f) STAY PENDING DECISION ON MOTION.—In any private action
arising under this title, the court shall stay discovery (other than
discovery that is specifically directed to the applicability of the exemption provided for in this section) during the pendency of any
motion by a defendant for summary judgment that is based on the
grounds that—
(1) the statement or omission upon which the complaint is
based is a forward-looking statement within the meaning of
this section; and
(2) the exemption provided for in this section precludes a
claim for relief.
(g) EXEMPTION AUTHORITY.—In addition to the exemptions provided for in this section, the Commission may, by rule or regulation, provide exemptions from or under any provision of this title,
including with respect to liability that is based on a statement or
that is based on projections or other forward-looking information,
if and to the extent that any such exemption is consistent with the
public interest and the protection of investors, as determined by
the Commission.
(h) EFFECT ON OTHER AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.—Nothing in
this section limits, either expressly or by implication, the authority
of the Commission to exercise similar authority or to adopt similar
rules and regulations with respect to forward-looking statements

333

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21F

under any other statute under which the Commission exercises
rulemaking authority.
(i) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
(1) FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT.—The term ‘‘forwardlooking statement’’ means—
(A) a statement containing a projection of revenues,
income (including income loss), earnings (including earnings loss) per share, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure, or other financial items;
(B) a statement of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans or objectives
relating to the products or services of the issuer;
(C) a statement of future economic performance, including any such statement contained in a discussion and
analysis of financial condition by the management or in
the results of operations included pursuant to the rules
and regulations of the Commission;
(D) any statement of the assumptions underlying or
relating to any statement described in subparagraph (A),
(B), or (C);
(E) any report issued by an outside reviewer retained
by an issuer, to the extent that the report assesses a
forward- looking statement made by the issuer; or
(F) a statement containing a projection or estimate of
such other items as may be specified by rule or regulation
of the Commission.
(2) INVESTMENT COMPANY.—The term ‘‘investment company’’ has the same meaning as in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(3) GOING PRIVATE TRANSACTION.—The term ‘‘going private
transaction’’ has the meaning given that term under the rules
or regulations of the Commission issued pursuant to section
13(e).
(4) PERSON ACTING ON BEHALF OF AN ISSUER.—The term
‘‘person acting on behalf of an issuer’’ means any officer, director, or employee of such issuer.
(5) OTHER TERMS.—The terms ‘‘blank check company’’,
‘‘rollup transaction’’, ‘‘partnership’’, ‘‘limited liability company’’,
‘‘executive officer of an entity’’ and ‘‘direct participation investment program’’, have the meanings given those terms by rule
or regulation of the Commission.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 21E, as added Pub. L. 104-67,
title I, Sec. 102(b), Dec. 22, 1995, 109 Stat. 753.)
SEC. 21F. SECURITIES WHISTLEBLOWER INCENTIVES AND PROTECTION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section the following definitions shall

apply:
(1) COVERED JUDICIAL OR ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION.—The
term ‘‘covered judicial or administrative action’’ means any judicial or administrative action brought by the Commission

Sec. 21F

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

334

under the securities laws that results in monetary sanctions
exceeding $1,000,000.
(2) FUND.—The term ‘‘Fund’’ means the Securities and Exchange Commission Investor Protection Fund.
(3) ORIGINAL INFORMATION.—The term ‘‘original information’’ means information that—
(A) is derived from the independent knowledge or
analysis of a whistleblower;
(B) is not known to the Commission from any other
source, unless the whistleblower is the original source of
the information; and
(C) is not exclusively derived from an allegation made
in a judicial or administrative hearing, in a governmental
report, hearing, audit, or investigation, or from the news
media, unless the whistleblower is a source of the information.
(4) MONETARY SANCTIONS.—The term ‘‘monetary sanctions’’, when used with respect to any judicial or administrative action, means—
(A) any monies, including penalties, disgorgement, and
interest, ordered to be paid; and
(B) any monies deposited into a disgorgement fund or
other fund pursuant to section 308(b) of the SarbanesOxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7246(b)), as a result of such
action or any settlement of such action.
(5) RELATED ACTION.—The term ‘‘related action’’, when
used with respect to any judicial or administrative action
brought by the Commission under the securities laws, means
any judicial or administrative action brought by an entity described in subclauses (I) through (IV) of subsection (h)(2)(D)(i)
that is based upon the original information provided by a whistleblower pursuant to subsection (a) that led to the successful
enforcement of the Commission action.
(6) WHISTLEBLOWER.—The term ‘‘whistleblower’’ means
any individual who provides, or 2 or more individuals acting
jointly who provide, information relating to a violation of the
securities laws to the Commission, in a manner established, by
rule or regulation, by the Commission.
(b) AWARDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In any covered judicial or administrative
action, or related action, the Commission, under regulations
prescribed by the Commission and subject to subsection (c),
shall pay an award or awards to 1 or more whistleblowers who
voluntarily provided original information to the Commission
that led to the successful enforcement of the covered judicial or
administrative action, or related action, in an aggregate
amount equal to—
(A) not less than 10 percent, in total, of what has been
collected of the monetary sanctions imposed in the action
or related actions; and
(B) not more than 30 percent, in total, of what has
been collected of the monetary sanctions imposed in the action or related actions.

335

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21F

(2) PAYMENT OF AWARDS.—Any amount paid under paragraph (1) shall be paid from the Fund.
(c) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF AWARD; DENIAL OF
AWARD.—
(1) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF AWARD.—
(A) DISCRETION.—The determination of the amount of
an award made under subsection (b) shall be in the discretion of the Commission.
(B) CRITERIA.—In determining the amount of an
award made under subsection (b), the Commission—
(i) shall take into consideration—
(I) the significance of the information provided by the whistleblower to the success of the
covered judicial or administrative action;
(II) the degree of assistance provided by the
whistleblower and any legal representative of the
whistleblower in a covered judicial or administrative action;
(III) the programmatic interest of the Commission in deterring violations of the securities
laws by making awards to whistleblowers who
provide information that lead to the successful enforcement of such laws; and
(IV) such additional relevant factors as the
Commission may establish by rule or regulation;
and
(ii) shall not take into consideration the balance of
the Fund.
(2) DENIAL OF AWARD.—No award under subsection (b)
shall be made—
(A) to any whistleblower who is, or was at the time the
whistleblower acquired the original information submitted
to the Commission, a member, officer, or employee of—
(i) an appropriate regulatory agency;
(ii) the Department of Justice;
(iii) a self-regulatory organization;
(iv) the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board; or
(v) a law enforcement organization;
(B) to any whistleblower who is convicted of a criminal
violation related to the judicial or administrative action for
which the whistleblower otherwise could receive an award
under this section;
(C) to any whistleblower who gains the information
through the performance of an audit of financial statements required under the securities laws and for whom
such submission would be contrary to the requirements of
section 10A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15
U.S.C. 78j-1); or
(D) to any whistleblower who fails to submit information to the Commission in such form as the Commission
may, by rule, require.
(d) REPRESENTATION.—

Sec. 21F

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

336

(1) PERMITTED REPRESENTATION.—Any whistleblower who
makes a claim for an award under subsection (b) may be represented by counsel.
(2) REQUIRED REPRESENTATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Any whistleblower who anonymously makes a claim for an award under subsection (b)
shall be represented by counsel if the whistleblower anonymously submits the information upon which the claim is
based.
(B) DISCLOSURE OF IDENTITY.—Prior to the payment of
an award, a whistleblower shall disclose the identity of the
whistleblower and provide such other information as the
Commission may require, directly or through counsel for
the whistleblower.
(e) NO CONTRACT NECESSARY.—No contract with the Commission is necessary for any whistleblower to receive an award under
subsection (b), unless otherwise required by the Commission by
rule or regulation.
(f) APPEALS.—Any determination made under this section, including whether, to whom, or in what amount to make awards,
shall be in the discretion of the Commission. Any such determination, except the determination of the amount of an award if the
award was made in accordance with subsection (b), may be appealed to the appropriate court of appeals of the United States not
more than 30 days after the determination is issued by the Commission. The court shall review the determination made by the
Commission in accordance with section 706 of title 5, United States
Code.
(g) INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND.—
(1) FUND ESTABLISHED.—There is established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the ‘‘Securities
and
Exchange Commission Investor Protection Fund’’.
(2) USE OF FUND.—The Fund shall be available to the
Commission, without further appropriation or fiscal year limitation, for—
(A) paying awards to whistleblowers as provided in
subsection (b); and
(B) funding the activities of the Inspector General of
the Commission under section 4(i).
(3) DEPOSITS AND CREDITS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There shall be deposited into or
credited to the Fund an amount equal to—
(i) any monetary sanction collected by the Commission in any judicial or administrative action
brought by the Commission under the securities laws
that is not added to a disgorgement fund or other fund
under section 308 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(15 U.S.C. 7246) or otherwise distributed to victims of
a violation of the securities laws, or the rules and regulations thereunder, underlying such action, unless
the balance of the Fund at the time the monetary
sanction is collected exceeds $300,000,000;

337

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21F

(ii) any monetary sanction added to a
disgorgement fund or other fund under section 308 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7246) that
is not distributed to the victims for whom the Fund
was established, unless the balance of the
disgorgement fund at the time the determination is
made not to distribute the monetary sanction to such
victims exceeds $200,000,000; and
(iii) all income from investments made under
paragraph (4).
(B) ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS.—If the amounts deposited
into or credited to the Fund under subparagraph (A) are
not sufficient to satisfy an award made under subsection
(b), there shall be deposited into or credited to the Fund
an amount equal to the unsatisfied portion of the award
from any monetary sanction collected by the Commission
in the covered judicial or administrative action on which
the award is based.
(4) INVESTMENTS.—
(A) AMOUNTS IN FUND MAY BE INVESTED.—The Commission may request the Secretary of the Treasury to invest the portion of the Fund that is not, in the discretion
of the Commission, required to meet the current needs of
the Fund.
(B) ELIGIBLE INVESTMENTS.—Investments shall be
made by the Secretary of the Treasury in obligations of the
United States or obligations that are guaranteed as to
principal and interest by the United States, with maturities suitable to the needs of the Fund as determined by
the Commission on the record.
(C) INTEREST AND PROCEEDS CREDITED.—The interest
on, and the proceeds from the sale or redemption of, any
obligations held in the Fund shall be credited to the Fund.
(5) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—Not later than October 30 of
each fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this
subsection, the Commission shall submit to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, and the
Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives a report on—
(A) the whistleblower award program, established
under this section, including—
(i) a description of the number of awards granted;
and
(ii) the types of cases in which awards were granted during the preceding fiscal year;
(B) the balance of the Fund at the beginning of the
preceding fiscal year;
(C) the amounts deposited into or credited to the Fund
during the preceding fiscal year;
(D) the amount of earnings on investments made
under paragraph (4) during the preceding fiscal year;
(E) the amount paid from the Fund during the preceding fiscal year to whistleblowers pursuant to subsection
(b);

Sec. 21F

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

338

(F) the balance of the Fund at the end of the preceding
fiscal year; and
(G) a complete set of audited financial statements, including—
(i) a balance sheet;
(ii) income statement; and
(iii) cash flow analysis.
(h) PROTECTION OF WHISTLEBLOWERS.—
(1) PROHIBITION AGAINST RETALIATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—No employer may discharge, demote,
suspend, threaten, harass, directly or indirectly, or in any
other manner discriminate against, a whistleblower in the
terms and conditions of employment because of any lawful
act done by the whistleblower—
(i) in providing information to the Commission in
accordance with this section;
(ii) in initiating, testifying in, or assisting in any
investigation or judicial or administrative action of the
Commission based upon or related to such information; or
(iii) in making disclosures that are required or
protected under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15
U.S.C. 7201 et seq.), the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), including section 10A(m)
of such Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(m) [130]), section 1513(e) of
title 18, United States Code, and any other law, rule,
or regulation subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.
(B) ENFORCEMENT.—
(i) CAUSE OF ACTION.—An individual who alleges
discharge or other discrimination in violation of subparagraph (A) may bring an action under this subsection in the appropriate district court of the United
States for the relief provided in subparagraph (C).
(ii) SUBPOENAS.—A subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness at a trial or hearing conducted
under this section may be served at any place in the
United States.
(iii) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—An action under this subsection may not be brought—
(aa) more than 6 years after the date on
which the violation of subparagraph (A) occurred; or
(bb) more than 3 years after the date
when facts material to the right of action are
known or reasonably should have been known
by the employee alleging a violation of subparagraph (A).
(II) REQUIRED ACTION WITHIN 10 YEARS.— Notwithstanding subclause (I), an action under this
subsection may not in any circumstance be
130So

in original. Probably should be ‘‘78j-1(m)’’.

339

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 21F

brought more than 10 years after the date on
which the violation occurs.
(C) RELIEF.—Relief for an individual prevailing in an
action brought under subparagraph (B) shall include—
(i) reinstatement with the same seniority status
that the individual would have had, but for the discrimination;
(ii) 2 times the amount of back pay otherwise
owed to the individual, with interest; and
(iii) compensation for litigation costs, expert witness fees, and reasonable attorneys’ fees.
(2) CONFIDENTIALITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), the Commission and any officer or employee of the Commission shall not disclose any information, including information provided by a whistleblower to
the Commission, which could reasonably be expected to reveal the identity of a whistleblower, except in accordance
with the provisions of section 552a of title 5, United States
Code, unless and until required to be disclosed to a defendant or respondent in connection with a public proceeding
instituted by the Commission or any entity described in
subparagraph (C). For purposes of section 552 of title 5,
United States Code, this paragraph shall be considered a
statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section.
(B) EXEMPTED STATUTE.—For purposes of section 552
of title 5, United States Code, this paragraph shall be considered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such
section 552.
(C) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this section
is intended to limit, or shall be construed to limit, the ability of the Attorney General to present such evidence to a
grand jury or to share such evidence with potential witnesses or defendants in the course of an ongoing criminal
investigation.
(D) AVAILABILITY TO GOVERNMENT AGENCIES.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Without the loss of its status as
confidential in the hands of the Commission, all information referred to in subparagraph (A) may, in the
discretion of the Commission, when determined by the
Commission to be necessary to accomplish the purposes of this Act and to protect investors, be made
available to—
(I) the Attorney General of the United States;
(II) an appropriate regulatory authority;
(III) a self-regulatory organization;
(IV) a State attorney general in connection
with any criminal investigation;
(V) any appropriate State regulatory authority;
(VI) the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board;
(VII) a foreign securities authority; and
(VIII) a foreign law enforcement authority.

Sec. 22

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

340

(ii) CONFIDENTIALITY.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—Each of the entities described in subclauses (I) through (VI) of clause (i)
shall maintain such information as confidential in
accordance with the requirements established
under subparagraph (A).
(II) FOREIGN AUTHORITIES.—Each of the entities described in subclauses (VII) and (VIII) of
clause (i) shall maintain such information in accordance with such assurances of confidentiality
as the Commission determines appropriate.
(3) RIGHTS RETAINED.—Nothing in this section shall be
deemed to diminish the rights, privileges, or remedies of any
whistleblower under any Federal or State law, or under any
collective bargaining agreement.
(i) PROVISION OF FALSE INFORMATION.—A whistleblower shall
not be entitled to an award under this section if the whistleblower—
(1) knowingly and willfully makes any false, fictitious, or
fraudulent statement or representation; or
(2) uses any false writing or document knowing the writing
or document contains any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry.
(j) RULEMAKING AUTHORITY.—The Commission shall have the
authority to issue such rules and regulations as may be necessary
or appropriate to implement the provisions of this section consistent with the purposes of this section.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 21F, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title IX, Sec. 922(a), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1841.)
HEARINGS BY COMMISSION

SEC. 22. Hearings may be public and may be held before the
Commission, any member or members thereof, or any officer or officers of the Commission designated by it, and appropriate records
thereof shall be kept.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 22, 48 Stat. 901.)
RULES, REGULATIONS, AND ORDERS; ANNUAL REPORTS

SEC. 23. (a)(1) The Commission, the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System, and the other agencies enumerated in section 3(a)(34) of this title shall each have power to make such rules
and regulations as may be necessary or appropriate to implement
the provisions of this title for which they are responsible or for the
execution of the functions vested in them by this title, and may for
such purposes classify persons, securities, transactions, statements,
applications, reports, and other matters within their respective jurisdictions, and prescribe greater, lesser, or different requirements
for different classes thereof. No provision of this title imposing any
liability shall apply to any act done or omitted in good faith in con-

341

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 23

formity with a rule, regulation, or order of the Commission, the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, other agency
enumerated in section 3(a)(34) of this title, or any self-regulatory
organization, notwithstanding that such rule, regulation, or order
may thereafter be amended or rescinded or determined by judicial
or other authority to be invalid for any reason.
(2) The Commission and the Secretary of the Treasury, in making rules and regulations pursuant to any provisions of this title,
shall consider among other matters the impact any such rule or
regulation would have on competition. The Commission and the
Secretary of the Treasury shall not adopt any such rule or regulation which would impose a burden on competition not necessary or
appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this title. The Commission and the Secretary of the Treasury shall include in the
statement of basis and purpose incorporated in any rule or regulation adopted under this title, the reasons for the Commission’s or
the Secretary’s determination that any burden on competition imposed by such rule or regulation is necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this title.
(3) The Commission and the Secretary, in making rules and
regulations pursuant to any provision of this title, considering any
application for registration in accordance with section 19(a) of this
title, or reviewing any proposed rule change of a self-regulatory organization in accordance with section 19(b) of this title, shall keep
in a public file and make available for copying all written statements filed with the Commission and the Secretary and all written
communications between the Commission or the Secretary and any
person relating to the proposed rule, regulation, application, or proposed rule change: Provided, however, That the Commission and
the Secretary shall not be required to keep in a public file or make
available for copying any such statement or communication which
it may withhold from the public in accordance with the provisions
of section 552 of title 5, United States Code.
(b)(1) The Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, and the other agencies enumerated in section
3(a)(34) of this title shall each make an annual report to the Congress on its work for the preceding year, and shall include in each
such report whatever information, data, and recommendations for
further legislation it considers advisable with regard to matters
within its respective jurisdiction under this title.
(2) The appropriate regulatory agency for a self-regulatory organization shall include in its annual report to the Congress for
each fiscal year, a summary of its oversight activities under this
title with respect to such self-regulatory organization, including a
description of any examination conducted as part of such activities
of any organization, any material recommendation presented as
part of such activities to such organization for changes in its organization or rules, and any such action by such organization in response to any such recommendation.
(3) The appropriate regulatory agency for any class of municipal securities dealers shall include in its annual report to the Congress for each fiscal year a summary of its regulatory activities
pursuant to this title with respect to such municipal securities
dealers, including the nature of and reason for any sanction im-

Sec. 23

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

342

posed pursuant to this title against any such municipal securities
dealer.
(4) The Commission shall also include in its annual report to
the Congress for each fiscal year—
(A) a summary of the Commission’s oversight activities
with respect to self-regulatory organizations for which it is not
the appropriate regulatory agency, including a description of
any examination of any such organization, any material recommendation presented to any such organization for changes
in its organization or rules, and any action by any such organization in response to any such recommendations;
(B) a statement and analysis of the expenses and operations of each self-regulatory organization in connection with
the performance of its responsibilities under this title, for
which purpose data pertaining to such expenses and operations
shall be made available by such organization to the Commission at its request;
(C) the steps the Commission has taken and the progress
it has made toward ending the physical movement of the securities certificate in connection with the settlement of securities
transactions, and its recommendations, if any, for legislation to
eliminate the securities certificate;
(D) the number of requests for exemptions from provisions
of this title received, the number granted, and the basis upon
which any such exemption was granted;
(E) a summary of the Commission’s regulatory activities
with respect to municipal securities dealers for which it is not
the appropriate regulatory agency, including the nature of, and
reason for, any sanction imposed in proceedings against such
municipal securities dealers;
(F) a statement of the time elapsed between the filing of
reports pursuant to section 13(f) of this title and the public
availability of the information contained therein, the costs involved in the Commission’s processing of such reports and tabulating such information, the manner in which the Commission uses such information, and the steps the Commission has
taken and the progress it has made toward requiring such reports to be filed and such information to be made available to
the public in machine language;
(G) information concerning (i) the effects its rules and regulations are having on the viability of small brokers and dealers; (ii) its attempts to reduce any unnecessary reporting burden on such brokers and dealers; and (iii) its efforts to help to
assure the continued participation of small brokers and dealers
in the United States securities markets;
(H) a statement detailing its administration of the Freedom of Information Act, section 552 of title 5, United States
Code, including a copy of the report filed pursuant to subsection (d) of such section; and
(I) the steps that have been taken and the progress that
has been made in promoting the timely public dissemination
and availability for analytical purposes (on a fair, reasonable,
and nondiscriminatory basis) of information concerning government securities transactions and quotations, and its rec-

343

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 24

ommendations, if any, for legislation to assure timely dissemination of (i) information on transactions in regularly traded
government securities sufficient to permit the determination of
the prevailing market price for such securities, and (ii) reports
of the highest published bids and lowest published offers for
government securities (including the size at which persons are
willing to trade with respect to such bids and offers).
(c) The Commission, by rule, shall prescribe the procedure applicable to every case pursuant to this title of adjudication (as defined in section 551 of title 5, United States Code) not required to
be determined on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing. Such rules shall, as a minimum, provide that prompt notice
shall be given of any adverse action or final disposition and that
such notice and the entry of any order shall be accompanied by a
statement of written reasons.
(d) CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEDURES.—Within 1 year after the
date of enactment of this subsection, the Commission shall establish regulations providing for the expeditious conduct of hearings
and rendering of decisions under section 21C of this title, section
8A of the Securities Act of 1933, section 9(f) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940, and section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 23, 48 Stat. 901; Aug. 23, 1935,
ch. 614, Sec. 203(a), 49 Stat. 704; May 27, 1936, ch. 462, Sec. 8,
49 Stat. 1379; Pub. L. 88-467, Sec. 10, Aug. 20, 1964, 78 Stat. 580;
Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 18, June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 155; Pub. L. 99-571,
title I, Sec. 102(j), Oct. 28, 1986, 100 Stat. 3220; Pub. L. 100-181,
title III, Sec. 324, 325, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1259; Pub. L. 101429, title II, Sec. 204, Oct. 15, 1990, 104 Stat. 940; Pub. L. 103202, title I, Sec. 107, Dec. 17, 1993, 107 Stat. 2351; Pub. L. 109351, title IV, Sec. 401(a)(3), Oct. 13, 2006, 120 Stat. 1973; Pub. L.
111-203, title III, Sec. 376(4), July, 22, 2010, 124 Stat. 1569.)
PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION

SEC. 24. (a) For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United States
Code, the term ‘‘records’’ includes all applications, statements, reports, contracts, correspondence, notices, and other documents filed
with or otherwise obtained by the Commission pursuant to this
title or otherwise.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any member, officer, or employee
of the Commission to disclose to any person other than a member,
officer, or employee of the Commission, or to use for personal benefit, any information contained in any application, statement, report, contract, correspondence, notice, or other document filed with
or otherwise obtained by the Commission (1) in contravention of
the rules and regulations of the Commission under section 552 of
Title 5, United States Code, or (2) in circumstances where the Commission has determined pursuant to such rules to accord confidential treatment to such information.
(c) CONFIDENTIAL DISCLOSURES.—The Commission may, in its
discretion and upon a showing that such information is needed,
provide all ‘‘records’’ (as defined in subsection (a)) and other infor-

Sec. 24

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

344

mation in its possession to such persons, both domestic and foreign,
as the Commission by rule deems appropriate if the person receiving such records or information provides such assurances of confidentiality as the Commission deems appropriate.
(d) RECORDS OBTAINED FROM FOREIGN SECURITIES AUTHORITIES.—Except as provided in subsection (g), the Commission shall
not be compelled to disclose records obtained from a foreign securities authority if (1) the foreign securities authority has in good
faith determined and represented to the Commission that public
disclosure of such records would violate the laws applicable to that
foreign securities authority, and (2) the Commission obtains such
records pursuant to (A) such procedure as the Commission may authorize for use in connection with the administration or enforcement of the securities laws, or (B) a memorandum of understanding. For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United States Code,
this subsection shall be considered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section 552.
(e) FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT.—For purposes of section
552(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, (commonly referred to as
the Freedom of Information Act)—
(1) the Commission is an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions; and
(2) any entity for which the Commission is responsible for
regulating, supervising, or examining under this title is a financial institution.
(f) SHARING PRIVILEGED INFORMATION WITH OTHER AUTHORITIES.—
(1) PRIVILEGED INFORMATION PROVIDED BY THE COMMISSION.—The Commission shall not be deemed to have waived
any privilege applicable to any information by transferring
that information to or permitting that information to be used
by—
(A) any agency (as defined in section 6 of title 18,
United States Code);
(B) the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board;
(C) any self-regulatory organization;
(D) any foreign securities authority;
(E) any foreign law enforcement authority; or
(F) any State securities or law enforcement authority.
(2) NONDISCLOSURE OF PRIVILEGED INFORMATION PROVIDED
TO THE COMMISSION.—The Commission shall not be compelled
to disclose privileged information obtained from any foreign securities authority, or foreign law enforcement authority, if the
authority has in good faith determined and represented to the
Commission that the information is privileged.
(3) NONWAIVER OF PRIVILEGED INFORMATION PROVIDED TO
THE COMMISSION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Federal agencies, State securities
and law enforcement authorities, self-regulatory organizations, and the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board shall not be deemed to have waived any privilege
applicable to any information by transferring that information to or permitting that information to be used by the
Commission.

345

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 25

(B) EXCEPTION.—The provisions of subparagraph (A)
shall not apply to a self-regulatory organization or the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board with respect
to information used by the Commission in an action
against such organization.
(4) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection—
(A) the term ‘‘privilege’’ includes any work-product
privilege, attorney-client privilege, governmental privilege,
or other privilege recognized under Federal, State, or foreign law;
(B) the term ‘‘foreign law enforcement authority’’
means any foreign authority that is empowered under foreign law to detect, investigate or prosecute potential violations of law; and
(C) the term ‘‘State securities or law enforcement authority’’ means the authority of any State or territory that
is empowered under State or territory law to detect, investigate, or prosecute potential violations of law.
(g) SAVINGS PROVISIONS.—Nothing in this section shall—
(1) alter the Commission’s responsibilities under the Right
to Financial Privacy Act (12 U.S.C. 3401 et seq.), as limited by
section 21(h) of this Act, with respect to transfers of records
covered by such statutes, or
(2) authorize the Commission to withhold information from
the Congress or prevent the Commission from complying with
an order of a court of the United States in an action commenced by the United States or the Commission.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 24, 48 Stat. 901; Aug. 23, 1935,
ch. 614, Sec. 203(a), 49 Stat. 704; Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 19, June 4,
1975, 89 Stat. 158; Pub. L. 101-550, title II, Sec. 202(a), Nov. 15,
1990, 104 Stat. 2715; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Secs. 929I(a), 929K,
July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1857, 1860; Pub. L. 111-257, Sec. 1(a), Oct.
5, 2010, 124 Stat. 2646.)
COURT REVIEW OF ORDERS AND RULES

SEC. 25. (a)(1) A person aggrieved by a final order of the Commission entered pursuant to this title may obtain review of the
order in the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which
he resides or has his principal place of business, or for the District
of Columbia Circuit, by filing in such court, within sixty days after
the entry of the order, a written petition requesting that the order
be modified or set aside in whole or in part.
(2) A copy of the petition shall be transmitted forthwith by the
clerk of the court to a member of the Commission or an officer designated by the Commission for that purpose. Thereupon the Commission shall file in the court the record on which the order complained of is entered, as provided in section 2112 of title 28, United
States Code, and the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure.
(3) On the filing of the petition, the court has jurisdiction,
which becomes exclusive on the filing of the record, to affirm or
modify and enforce or to set aside the order in whole or in part.

Sec. 25

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

346

(4) The findings of the Commission as to the facts, if supported
by substantial evidence, are conclusive.
(5) If either party applies to the court for leave to adduce additional evidence and shows to the satisfaction of the court that the
additional evidence is material and that there was reasonable
ground for failure to adduce it before the Commission, the court
may remand the case to the Commission for further proceedings,
in whatever manner and on whatever conditions the court considers appropriate. If the case is remanded to the Commission, it
shall file in the court a supplemental record containing any new
evidence, any further or modified findings, and any new order.
(b)(1) A person adversely affected by a rule of the Commission
promulgated pursuant to section 6, 9(h)(2), 11, 11A, 15(c) (5) or (6),
15A, 17, 17A, or 19 of this title may obtain review of this rule in
the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which he resides or has his principal place of business or for the District of Columbia Circuit, by filing in such court, within sixty days after the
promulgation of the rule, a written petition requesting that the
rule be set aside.
(2) A copy of the petition shall be transmitted forthwith by the
clerk of the court to a member of the Commission or an officer designated for that purpose. Thereupon, the Commission shall file in
the court the rule under review and any documents referred to
therein, the Commission’s notice of proposed rulemaking and any
documents referred to therein, all written submissions and the
transcript of any oral presentations in the rulemaking, factual information not included in the foregoing that was considered by the
Commission in the promulgation of the rule or proffered by the
Commission as pertinent to the rule, the report of any advisory
committee received or considered by the Commission in the rulemaking, and any other materials prescribed by the court.
(3) On the filing of the petition, the court has jurisdiction,
which becomes exclusive on the filing of the materials set forth in
paragraph (2) of this subsection, to affirm and enforce or to set
aside the rule.
(4) The findings of the Commission as to the facts identified by
the Commission as the basis, in whole or in part, of the rule, if supported by substantial evidence, are conclusive. The court shall affirm and enforce the rule unless the Commission’s action in promulgating the rule is found to be arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of
discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law; contrary to constitutional right, power, privilege, or immunity; in excess of statutory jurisdiction, authority, or limitations, or short of statutory
right; or without observance of procedure required by law.
(5) If proceedings have been instituted under this subsection in
two or more courts of appeals with respect to the same rule, the
Commission shall file the materials set forth in paragraph (2) of
this subsection in that court in which a proceeding was first instituted. The other courts shall thereupon transfer all such proceedings to the court in which the materials have been filed. For
the convenience of the parties in the interest of justice that court
may thereafter transfer all the proceedings to any other court of
appeals.

347

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 25

(c)(1) No objection to an order or rule of the Commission, for
which review is sought under this section, may be considered by
the court unless it was urged before the Commission or there was
reasonable ground for failure to do so.
(2) The filing of a petition under this section does not operate
as a stay of the Commission’s order or rule. Until the court’s jurisdiction becomes exclusive, the Commission may stay its order or
rule pending judicial review if it finds that justice so requires. After
the filing of a petition under this section, the court, on whatever
conditions may be required and to the extent necessary to prevent
irreparable injury, may issue all necessary and appropriate process
to stay the order or rule or to preserve status or rights pending its
review; but (notwithstanding section 705 of title 5, United States
Code) no such process may be issued by the court before the filing
of the record or the materials set forth in subsection (b)(2) of this
section unless: (A) the Commission has denied a stay or failed to
grant requested relief, (B) a reasonable period has expired since
the filing of an application for a stay without a decision by the
Commission, or (C) there was reasonable ground for failure to
apply to the Commission.
(3) When the same order or rule is the subject of one or more
petitions for review filed under this section and an action for enforcement filed in a district court of the United States under section 21 (d) or (e) of this title, that court in which the petition or
the action is first filed has jurisdiction with respect to the order or
rule to the exclusion of any other court, and thereupon all such
proceedings shall be transferred to that court; but, for the convenience of the parties in the interest of justice, that court may thereafter transfer all the proceedings to any other court of appeals or
district court of the United States, whether or not a petition for review or an action for enforcement was originally filed in the transferee court. The scope of review by a district court under section
21 (d) or (e) of this title is in all cases the same as by a court of
appeals under this section.
(d)(1) For purposes of the preceding subsections of this section,
the term ‘‘Commission’’ includes the agencies enumerated in section 3(a)(34) of this title insofar as such agencies are acting pursuant to this title and the Secretary of the Treasury insofar as he is
acting pursuant to section 15C of this title.
(2) For purposes of subsection (a)(4) of this section and section
706 of title 5, United States Code, an order of the Commission pursuant to section 19(a) of this title denying registration to a clearing
agency for which the Commission is not the appropriate regulatory
agency or pursuant to section 19(b) of this title disapproving a proposed rule change by such a clearing agency shall be deemed to be
an order of the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing
agency insofar as such order was entered by reason of a determination by such appropriate regulatory agency pursuant to section
19(a)(2)(C) or 19(b)(4)(C) of this title that such registration or proposed rule change would be inconsistent with the safeguarding of
securities or funds.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 25, 48 Stat. 901; June 7, 1934,
ch. 426, 48 Stat. 926; June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 32(a), 62 Stat.

Sec. 26

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

348

991; May 24, 1949, ch. 139, Sec. 127, 63 Stat. 107; Pub. L. 85-791,
Sec. 10, Aug. 28, 1958, 72 Stat. 945; Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 20, June
4, 1975, 89 Stat. 158; Pub. L. 99-571, title I, Sec. 102(k), Oct. 28,
1986, 100 Stat. 3220; Pub. L. 101-432, Sec. 6(b), Oct. 16, 1990, 104
Stat. 975.)
UNLAWFUL REPRESENTATIONS

SEC. 26. No action or failure to act by the Commission or the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in the administration of this title shall be construed to mean that the particular
authority has in any way passed upon the merits of, or given approval to, any security or any transaction or transactions therein,
nor shall such action or failure to act with regard to any statement
or report filed with or examined by such authority pursuant to this
title or rules and regulations thereunder, be deemed a finding by
such authority that such statement or report is true and accurate
on its face or that it is not false or misleading. It shall be unlawful
to make, or cause to be made, to any prospective purchaser or seller of a security any representation that any such action or failure
to act by any such authority is to be so construed or has such effect.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 26, 48 Stat. 902; Pub. L. 105353, title III, Sec. 301(b)(5), Nov. 3, 1998, 112 Stat. 3236.)
JURISDICTION OF OFFENSES AND SUITS

SEC. 27. (a) IN GENERAL.—The district courts of the United
States and the United States courts of any Territory or other place
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall have exclusive
jurisdiction of violations of this title or the rules and regulations
thereunder, and of all suits in equity and actions at law brought
to enforce any liability or duty created by this title or the rules and
regulations thereunder. Any criminal proceeding may be brought in
the district wherein any act or transaction constituting the violation occurred. Any suit or action to enforce any liability or duty created by this title or rules and regulations thereunder, or to enjoin
any violation of such title or rules and regulations, may be brought
in any such district or in the district wherein the defendant is
found or is an inhabitant or transacts business, and process in such
cases may be served in any other district of which the defendant
is an inhabitant or wherever the defendant may be found. In any
action or proceeding instituted by the Commission under this title
in a United States district court for any judicial district, a subpoena issued to compel the attendance of a witness or the production of documents or tangible things (or both) at a hearing or trial
may be served at any place within the United States. Rule
45(c)(3)(A)(ii) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure shall not
apply to a subpoena issued under the preceding sentence. Judgments and decrees so rendered shall be subject to review as provided in sections 1254, 1291, 1292, and 1294 of title 28, United
States Code. No costs shall be assessed for or against the Commis-

349

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 28

sion in any proceeding under this title brought by or against it in
the Supreme Court or such other courts.
(b) EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.—The district courts of the
United States and the United States courts of any Territory shall
have jurisdiction of an action or proceeding brought or instituted
by the Commission or the United States alleging a violation of the
antifraud provisions of this title involving—
(1) conduct within the United States that constitutes significant steps in furtherance of the violation, even if the securities transaction occurs outside the United States and involves
only foreign investors; or
(2) conduct occurring outside the United States that has a
foreseeable substantial effect within the United States.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 27, 48 Stat. 902; June 25, 1936,
ch. 804, 49 Stat. 1921; June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 32(b), 62 Stat.
991; May 24, 1949, ch. 139, Sec. 127, 63 Stat. 107; Pub. L. 100-181,
title III, Sec. 326, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1259; Pub. L. 111-203,
title IX, Secs. 929E(b), 929P(b)(2), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1853,
1865.)
SPECIAL PROVISION RELATING TO STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS ON
PRIVATE CAUSES OF ACTION

SEC. 27A. (a) EFFECT ON PENDING CAUSES OF ACTION.—The
limitation period for any private civil action implied under section
10(b) of this Act that was commenced on or before June 19, 1991,
shall be the limitation period provided by the laws applicable in the
jurisdiction, including principles of retroactivity, as such laws existed on June 19, 1991.
(b) EFFECT ON DISMISSED CAUSES OF ACTION.—Any private
civil action implied under section 10(b) of this Act that was commenced on or before June 19, 1991—
(1) which was dismissed as time barred subsequent to
June 19, 1991, and
(2) which would have been timely filed under the limitation period provided by the laws applicable in the jurisdiction,
including principles of retroactivity, as such laws existed on
June 19, 1991,
shall be reinstated on motion by the plaintiff not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this section.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 27A, as added Pub. L. 102-242,
title IV, Sec. 476, Dec. 19, 1991, 105 Stat. 2387.)
EFFECT ON EXISTING LAW

SEC. 28. (a) LIMITATION ON JUDGMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No person permitted to maintain a suit
for damages under the provisions of this title shall recover,
through satisfaction of judgment in 1 or more actions, a total
amount in excess of the actual damages to that person on account of the act complained of. Except as otherwise specifically

Sec. 28

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

350

provided in this title, nothing in this title shall affect the jurisdiction of the securities commission (or any agency or officer
performing like functions) of any State over any security or
any person insofar as it does not conflict with the provisions
of this title or the rules and regulations under this title.
(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Except as provided in subsection (f), the rights and remedies provided by this title shall
be in addition to any and all other rights and remedies that
may exist at law or in equity.
(3) STATE BUCKET SHOP LAWS.—No State law which prohibits or regulates the making or promoting of wagering or
gaming contracts, or the operation of ‘‘bucket shops’’ or other
similar or related activities, shall invalidate—
(A) any put, call, straddle, option, privilege, or other
security subject to this title (except any security that has
a pari-mutuel payout or otherwise is determined by the
Commission, acting by rule, regulation, or order, to be appropriately subject to such laws), or apply to any activity
which is incidental or related to the offer, purchase, sale,
exercise, settlement, or closeout of any such security;
(B) any security-based swap between eligible contract
participants; or
(C) any security-based swap effected on a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(b).
(4) OTHER STATE PROVISIONS.—No provision of State law
regarding the offer, sale, or distribution of securities shall
apply to any transaction in a security-based swap or a security
futures product, except that this paragraph may not be construed as limiting any State antifraud law of general applicability. A security-based swap may not be regulated as an insurance contract under any provision of State law.
(b) Nothing in this title shall be construed to modify existing
law with regard to the binding effect (1) on any member of or participant in any self-regulatory organization of any action taken by
the authorities of such organization to settle disputes between its
members or participants, (2) on any municipal securities dealer or
municipal securities broker of any action taken pursuant to a procedure established by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
to settle disputes between municipal securities dealers and municipal securities brokers, or (3) of any action described in paragraph
(1) or (2) on any person who has agreed to be bound thereby.
(c) The stay, setting aside, or modification pursuant to section
19(e) of this title of any disciplinary sanction imposed by a selfregulatory organization on a member thereof, person associated
with a member, or participant therein, shall not affect the validity
or force of any action taken as a result of such sanction by the selfregulatory organization prior to such stay, setting aside, or modification: Provided, That such action is not inconsistent with the
provisions of this title or the rules or regulations thereunder. The
rights of any person acting in good faith which arise out of any
such action shall not be affected in any way by such stay, setting
aside, or modification.
(d) No State or political subdivision thereof shall impose any
tax on any change in beneficial or record ownership of securities ef-

351

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 28

fected through the facilities of a registered clearing agency or registered transfer agent or any nominee thereof or custodian therefor
or upon the delivery or transfer of securities to or through or receipt from such agency or agent or any nominee thereof or custodian therefor, unless such change in beneficial or record ownership
or such transfer or delivery or receipt would otherwise be taxable
by such State or political subdivision if the facilities of such registered clearing agency, registered transfer agent, or any nominee
thereof or custodian therefor were not physically located in the taxing State or political subdivision. No State or political subdivision
thereof shall impose any tax on securities which are deposited in
or retained by a registered clearing agency, registered transfer
agent, or any nominee thereof or custodian therefor, unless such
securities would otherwise be taxable by such State or political subdivision if the facilities of such registered clearing agency, registered transfer agent, or any nominee thereof or custodian therefor
were not physically located in the taxing State or political subdivision.
(e)(1) No person using the mails, or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, in the exercise of investment discretion with respect to an account shall be deemed to have acted unlawfully or to have breached a fiduciary duty under State or Federal law unless expressly provided to the contrary by a law enacted
by the Congress or any State subsequent to the date of enactment
of the Securities Acts Amendments of 1975 solely by reason of his
having caused the account to pay a member of an exchange, broker,
or dealer an amount of commission for effecting a securities transaction in excess of the amount of commission another member of
an exchange, broker, or dealer would have charged for effecting
that transaction, if such person determined in good faith that such
amount of commission was reasonable in relation to the value of
the brokerage and research services provided by such member,
broker, or dealer, viewed in terms of either that particular transaction or his overall responsibilities with respect to the accounts as
to which he exercises investment discretion. This subsection is exclusive and plenary insofar as conduct is covered by the foregoing,
unless otherwise expressly provided by contract: Provided, however, That nothing in this subsection shall be construed to impair
or limit the power of the Commission under any other provision of
this title or otherwise.
(2) A person exercising investment discretion with respect to
an account shall make such disclosure of his policies and practices
with respect to commissions that will be paid for effecting securities transactions, at such times and in such manner, as the appropriate regulatory agency, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(3) For purposes of this subsection a person provides brokerage
and research services insofar as he—
(A) furnishes advice, either directly or through publications or writings, as to the value of securities, the advisability
of investing in, purchasing, or selling securities, and the availability of securities or purchasers or sellers of securities;

Sec. 28

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

352

(B) furnishes analyses and reports concerning issuers, industries, securities, economic factors and trends, portfolio
strategy, and the performance of accounts; or
(C) effects securities transactions and performs functions
incidental thereto (such as clearance, settlement, and custody)
or required in connection therewith by rules of the Commission
or a self-regulatory organization of which such person is a
member or person associated with a member or in which such
person is a participant.
(4) The provisions of this subsection shall not apply with regard to securities that are security futures products.
(f) LIMITATIONS ON REMEDIES.—
(1) CLASS ACTION LIMITATIONS.—No covered class action
based upon the statutory or common law of any State or subdivision thereof may be maintained in any State or Federal
court by any private party alleging—
(A) a misrepresentation or omission of a material fact
in connection with the purchase or sale of a covered security; or
(B) that the defendant used or employed any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance in connection with
the purchase or sale of a covered security.
(2) REMOVAL OF COVERED CLASS ACTIONS.—Any covered
class action brought in any State court involving a covered security, as set forth in paragraph (1), shall be removable to the
Federal district court for the district in which the action is
pending, and shall be subject to paragraph (1).
(3) PRESERVATION OF CERTAIN ACTIONS.—
(A) ACTIONS UNDER STATE LAW OF STATE OF INCORPORATION.—
(i) ACTIONS PRESERVED.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1) or (2), a covered class action described in
clause (ii) of this subparagraph that is based upon the
statutory or common law of the State in which the
issuer is incorporated (in the case of a corporation) or
organized (in the case of any other entity) may be
maintained in a State or Federal court by a private
party.
(ii) PERMISSIBLE ACTIONS.—A covered class action
is described in this clause if it involves—
(I) the purchase or sale of securities by the
issuer or an affiliate of the issuer exclusively from
or to holders of equity securities of the issuer; or
(II) any recommendation, position, or other
communication with respect to the sale of securities of an issuer that—
(aa) is made by or on behalf of the issuer
or an affiliate of the issuer to holders of equity securities of the issuer; and
(bb) concerns decisions of such equity
holders with respect to voting their securities,
acting in response to a tender or exchange
offer, or exercising dissenters’ or appraisal
rights.

353

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 28

(B) STATE ACTIONS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, nothing in this subsection may
be construed to preclude a State or political subdivision thereof or a State pension plan from bringing an
action involving a covered security on its own behalf,
or as a member of a class comprised solely of other
States, political subdivisions, or State pension plans
that are named plaintiffs, and that have authorized
participation, in such action.
(ii) STATE PENSION PLAN DEFINED.—For purposes
of this subparagraph, the term ‘‘State pension plan’’
means a pension plan established and maintained for
its employees by the government of a State or political
subdivision thereof, or by any agency or instrumentality thereof.
(C) ACTIONS UNDER CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN ISSUERS AND INDENTURE TRUSTEES.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1) or (2), a covered class action that
seeks to enforce a contractual agreement between an
issuer and an indenture trustee may be maintained in a
State or Federal court by a party to the agreement or a
successor to such party.
(D) REMAND OF REMOVED ACTIONS.—In an action that
has been removed from a State court pursuant to paragraph (2), if the Federal court determines that the action
may be maintained in State court pursuant to this subsection, the Federal court shall remand such action to such
State court.
(4) PRESERVATION OF STATE JURISDICTION.—The securities
commission (or any agency or office performing like functions)
of any State shall retain jurisdiction under the laws of such
State to investigate and bring enforcement actions.
(5) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection, the following definitions shall apply:
(A) AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER.—The term ‘‘affiliate of
the issuer’’ means a person that directly or indirectly,
through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by or is under common control with, the issuer.
(B) COVERED CLASS ACTION.—The term ‘‘covered class
action’’ means—
(i) any single lawsuit in which—
(I) damages are sought on behalf of more than
50 persons or prospective class members, and
questions of law or fact common to those persons
or members of the prospective class, without reference to issues of individualized reliance on an
alleged misstatement or omission, predominate
over any questions affecting only individual persons or members; or
(II) one or more named parties seek to recover
damages on a representative basis on behalf of
themselves and other unnamed parties similarly
situated, and questions of law or fact common to

Sec. 29

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

354

those persons or members of the prospective class
predominate over any questions affecting only individual persons or members; or
(ii) any group of lawsuits filed in or pending in the
same court and involving common questions of law or
fact, in which—
(I) damages are sought on behalf of more than
50 persons; and
(II) the lawsuits are joined, consolidated, or
otherwise proceed as a single action for any purpose.
(C) EXCEPTION FOR DERIVATIVE ACTIONS.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (B), the term ‘‘covered class action’’
does not include an exclusively derivative action brought
by one or more shareholders on behalf of a corporation.
(D) COUNTING OF CERTAIN CLASS MEMBERS.—For purposes of this paragraph, a corporation, investment company, pension plan, partnership, or other entity, shall be
treated as one person or prospective class member, but
only if the entity is not established for the purpose of participating in the action.
(E) COVERED SECURITY.—The term ‘‘covered security’’
means a security that satisfies the standards for a covered
security specified in paragraph (1) or (2) of section 18(b) of
the Securities Act of 1933, at the time during which it is
alleged that the misrepresentation, omission, or manipulative or deceptive conduct occurred, except that such term
shall not include any debt security that is exempt from
registration under the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to
rules issued by the Commission under section 4(2) of that
Act.
(F) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to affect the discretion of a State
court in determining whether actions filed in such court
should be joined, consolidated, or otherwise allowed to proceed as a single action.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 28, 48 Stat. 903; Pub. L. 94-29,
Sec. 21, June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 160; Pub. L. 97-303, Sec. 4, Oct. 13,
1982, 96 Stat. 1409; Pub. L. 100-181, title III, Sec. 327-329, Dec.
4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1259; Pub. L. 104-290, title I, Sec. 103(b), Oct.
11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3422; Pub. L. 105-353, title I, Sec. 101(b)(1),
Nov. 3, 1998, 112 Stat. 3230; Pub. L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5) [title II,
Sec. 203(a)(2), 210], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-422,
2763A-436; Pub. L. 111-203, title VII, Sec. 767, July 21, 2010, 124
Stat. 1799.)
VALIDITY OF CONTRACTS

SEC. 29. (a) Any condition, stipulation, or provision binding any
person to waive compliance with any provision of this title or of
any rule or regulation thereunder, or of any rule of a self-regulatory organization, shall be void.

355

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 29

(b) Every contract made in violation of any provision of this
title or of any rule or regulation thereunder, and every contract (including any contract for listing a security on an exchange) heretofore or hereafter made, the performance of which involves the
violation of, or the continuance of any relationship or practice in
violation of, any provision of this title or any rule or regulation
thereunder, shall be void (1) as regards the rights of any person
who, in violation of any such provision, rule, or regulation, shall
have made or engaged in the performance of any such contract, and
(2) as regards the rights of any person who, not being a party to
such contract, shall have acquired any right thereunder with actual
knowledge of the facts by reason of which the making or performance of such contract was in violation of any such provision, rule,
or regulation: Provided, (A) That no contract shall be void by reason of this subsection because of any violation of any rule or regulation prescribed pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (c) of section 15 of this title, and (B) that no contract shall be deemed to
be void by reason of this subsection in any action maintained in reliance upon this subsection, by any person to or for whom any
broker or dealer sells, or from or for whom any broker or dealer
purchases, a security in violation of any rule or regulation prescribed pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (c) of section
15 of this title, unless such action is brought within one year after
the discovery that such sale or purchase involves such violation
and within three years after such violation. The Commission may,
in a rule or regulation prescribed pursuant to such paragraph (2)
of such section 15(c), designate such rule or regulation, or portion
thereof, as a rule or regulation, or portion thereof, a contract in violation of which shall not be void by reason of this subsection.
(c) Nothing in this title shall be construed (1) to affect the validity of any loan or extension of credit (or any extension or renewal thereof) made or of any lien created prior or subsequent to
the enactment of this title, unless at the time of the making of such
loan or extension of credit (or extension or renewal thereof) or the
creating of such lien, the person making such loan or extension of
credit (or extension or renewal thereof) or acquiring such lien shall
have actual knowledge of facts by reason of which the making of
such loan or extension of credit (or extension or renewal thereof)
or the acquisition of such lien is a violation of the provisions of this
title or any rule or regulation thereunder, or (2) to afford a defense
to the collection of any debt or obligation or the enforcement of any
lien by any person who shall have acquired such debt, obligation,
or lien in good faith for value and without actual knowledge of the
violation of any provision of this title or any rule or regulation
thereunder affecting the legality of such debt, obligation, or lien.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 29, 48 Stat. 903; June 25, 1938,
ch. 677, Sec. 3, 52 Stat. 1076; Pub. L. 101-429, title V, Sec. 507,
Oct. 15, 1990, 104 Stat. 956; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Secs. 927,
929T, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1852, 1867.)

Sec. 30

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

356

FOREIGN SECURITIES EXCHANGES

SEC. 30. (a) It shall be unlawful for any broker or dealer, directly or indirectly, to make use of the mails or of any means or
instrumentality of interstate commerce for the purpose of effecting
on an exchange not within or subject to the jurisdiction of the
United States, any transaction in any security the issuer of which
is a resident of, or is organized under the laws of, or has its principal place of business in, a place within or subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors or to
prevent the evasion of this title.
(b) The provisions of this title or of any rule or regulation
thereunder shall not apply to any person insofar as he transacts a
business in securities without the jurisdiction of the United States,
unless he transacts such business in contravention of such rules
and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or
appropriate to prevent the evasion of this title.
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—No provision of this title that
was added by the Wall Street Transparency and Accountability Act
of 2010, or any rule or regulation thereunder, shall apply to any
person insofar as such person transacts a business in securitybased swaps without the jurisdiction of the United States, unless
such person transacts such business in contravention of such rules
and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or
appropriate to prevent the evasion of any provision of this title that
was added by the Wall Street Transparency and Accountability Act
of 2010. This subsection shall not be construed to limit the jurisdiction of the Commission under any provision of this title, as in effect
prior to the date of enactment of the Wall Street Transparency and
Accountability Act of 2010.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 30, 48 Stat. 904; Pub. L. 111203, title VII, Sec. 772(b), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1802.)
PROHIBITED FOREIGN TRADE PRACTICES BY ISSUERS

SEC. 30A. (a) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for any issuer
which has a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of
this title or which is required to file reports under section 15(d) of
this title, or for any officer, director, employee, or agent of such
issuer or any stockholder thereof acting on behalf of such issuer,
to make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment,
promise to pay, or authorization of the payment of any money, or
offer, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to—
(1) any foreign official for purposes of—
(A)(i) influencing any act or decision of such foreign official in his official capacity, (ii) inducing such foreign official to do or omit to do any act in violation of the lawful
duty of such official, or (iii) securing any improper advantage; or

357

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 30A

(B) inducing such foreign official to use his influence
with a foreign government or instrumentality thereof to affect or influence any act or decision of such government or
instrumentality,
in order to assist such issuer in obtaining or retaining business
for or with, or directing business to, any person;
(2) any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office for purposes of—
(A)(i) influencing any act or decision of such party, official, or candidate in its or his official capacity, (ii) inducing such party, official, or candidate to do or omit to do an
act in violation of the lawful duty of such party, official, or
candidate, or (iii) securing any improper advantage; or
(B) inducing such party, official, or candidate to use its
or his influence with a foreign government or instrumentality thereof to affect or influence any act or decision of
such government or instrumentality,
in order to assist such issuer in obtaining or retaining business
for or with, or directing business to, any person; or
(3) any person, while knowing that all or a portion of such
money or thing of value will be offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, to any foreign political party or official thereof, or to any candidate for foreign political office, for purposes of—
(A)(i) influencing any act or decision of such foreign official, political party, party official, or candidate in his or
its official capacity, (ii) inducing such foreign official, political party, party official, or candidate to do or omit to do
any act in violation of the lawful duty of such foreign official, political party, party official, or candidate, or (iii) securing any improper advantage; or
(B) inducing such foreign official, political party, party
official, or candidate to use his or its influence with a foreign government or instrumentality thereof to affect or influence any act or decision of such government or instrumentality,
in order to assist such issuer in obtaining or retaining business
for or with, or directing business to, any person.
(b) EXCEPTION FOR ROUTINE GOVERNMENTAL ACTION.—Subsections (a) and (g) shall not apply to any facilitating or expediting
payment to a foreign official, political party, or party official the
purpose of which is to expedite or to secure the performance of a
routine governmental action by a foreign official, political party, or
party official.
(c) AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.—It shall be an affirmative defense
to actions under subsections (a) or (g) that—
(1) the payment, gift, offer, or promise of anything of value
that was made, was lawful under the written laws and regulations of the foreign official’s, political party’s, party official’s, or
candidate’s country; or
(2) the payment, gift, offer, or promise of anything of value
that was made, was a reasonable and bona fide expenditure,
such as travel and lodging expenses, incurred by or on behalf

Sec. 30A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

358

of a foreign official, party, party official, or candidate and was
directly related to—
(A) the promotion, demonstration, or explanation of
products or services; or
(B) the execution or performance of a contract with a
foreign government or agency thereof.
(d) GUIDELINES BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.—Not later than
one year after the date of the enactment of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act Amendments of 1988, the Attorney General, after
consultation with the Commission, the Secretary of Commerce, the
United States Trade Representative, the Secretary of State, and
the Secretary of the Treasury, and after obtaining the views of all
interested persons through public notice and comment procedures,
shall determine to what extent compliance with this section would
be enhanced and the business community would be assisted by further clarification of the preceding provisions of this section and
may, based on such determination and to the extent necessary and
appropriate, issue—
(1) guidelines describing specific types of conduct, associated with common types of export sales arrangements and
business contracts, which for purposes of the Department of
Justice’s present enforcement policy, the Attorney General determines would be in conformance with the preceding provisions of this section; and
(2) general precautionary procedures which issuers may
use on a voluntary basis to conform their conduct to the Department of Justice’s present enforcement policy regarding the
preceding provisions of this section.
The Attorney General shall issue the guidelines and procedures referred to in the preceding sentence in accordance with the provisions of subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code,
and those guidelines and procedures shall be subject to the provisions of chapter 7 of that title.
(e) OPINIONS OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.—(1) The Attorney
General, after consultation with appropriate departments and
agencies of the United States and after obtaining the views of all
interested persons through public notice and comment procedures,
shall establish a procedure to provide responses to specific inquiries
by issuers concerning conformance of their conduct with the Department of Justice’s present enforcement policy regarding the preceding provisions of this section. The Attorney General shall, within 30 days after receiving such a request, issue an opinion in response to that request. The opinion shall state whether or not certain specified prospective conduct would, for purposes of the Department of Justice’s present enforcement policy, violate the preceding provisions of this section. Additional requests for opinions
may be filed with the Attorney General regarding other specified
prospective conduct that is beyond the scope of conduct specified in
previous requests. In any action brought under the applicable provisions of this section, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that
conduct, which is specified in a request by an issuer and for which
the Attorney General has issued an opinion that such conduct is
in conformity with the Department of Justice’s present enforcement
policy, is in compliance with the preceding provisions of this sec-

359

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 30A

tion. Such a presumption may be rebutted by a preponderance of
the evidence. In considering the presumption for purposes of this
paragraph, a court shall weigh all relevant factors, including but
not limited to whether the information submitted to the Attorney
General was accurate and complete and whether it was within the
scope of the conduct specified in any request received by the Attorney General. The Attorney General shall establish the procedure
required by this paragraph in accordance with the provisions of
subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code, and that
procedure shall be subject to the provisions of chapter 7 of that
title.
(2) Any document or other material which is provided to, received by, or prepared in the Department of Justice or any other
department or agency of the United States in connection with a request by an issuer under the procedure established under paragraph (1), shall be exempt from disclosure under section 552 of title
5, United States Code, and shall not, except with the consent of the
issuer, be made publicly available, regardless of whether the Attorney General responds to such a request or the issuer withdraws
such request before receiving a response.
(3) Any issuer who has made a request to the Attorney General
under paragraph (1) may withdraw such request prior to the time
the Attorney General issues an opinion in response to such request.
Any request so withdrawn shall have no force or effect.
(4) The Attorney General shall, to the maximum extent practicable, provide timely guidance concerning the Department of Justice’s present enforcement policy with respect to the preceding provisions of this section to potential exporters and small businesses
that are unable to obtain specialized counsel on issues pertaining
to such provisions. Such guidance shall be limited to responses to
requests under paragraph (1) concerning conformity of specified
prospective conduct with the Department of Justice’s present enforcement policy regarding the preceding provisions of this section
and general explanations of compliance responsibilities and of potential liabilities under the preceding provisions of this section.
(f) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section:
(1)(A) The term ‘‘foreign official’’ means any officer or employee of a foreign government or any department, agency, or
instrumentality thereof, or of a public international organization, or any person acting in an official capacity for or on behalf of any such government or department, agency, or instrumentality, or for or on behalf of any such public international
organization.
(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term ‘‘public
international organization’’ means—
(i) an organization that is designated by Executive
order pursuant to section 1 of the International Organizations Immunities Act (22 U.S.C. 288); or
(ii) any other international organization that is designated by the President by Executive order for the purposes of this section, effective as of the date of publication
of such order in the Federal Register.
(2)(A) A person’s state of mind is ‘‘knowing’’ with respect
to conduct, a circumstance, or a result if—

Sec. 30A

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

360

(i) such person is aware that such person is engaging
in such conduct, that such circumstance exists, or that
such result is substantially certain to occur; or
(ii) such person has a firm belief that such circumstance exists or that such result is substantially certain to occur.
(B) When knowledge of the existence of a particular circumstance is required for an offense, such knowledge is established if a person is aware of a high probability of the existence
of such circumstance, unless the person actually believes that
such circumstance does not exist.
(3)(A) The term ‘‘routine governmental action’’ means only
an action which is ordinarily and commonly performed by a
foreign official in—
(i) obtaining permits, licenses, or other official documents to qualify a person to do business in a foreign country;
(ii) processing governmental papers, such as visas and
work orders;
(iii) providing police protection, mail pick-up and delivery, or scheduling inspections associated with contract performance or inspections related to transit of goods across
country;
(iv) providing phone service, power and water supply,
loading and unloading cargo, or protecting perishable products or commodities from deterioration; or
(v) actions of a similar nature.
(B) The term ‘‘routine governmental action’’ does not include any decision by a foreign official whether, or on what
terms, to award new business to or to continue business with
a particular party, or any action taken by a foreign official involved in the decisionmaking process to encourage a decision
to award new business to or continue business with a particular party.
(g) ALTERNATIVE JURISDICTION.—
(1) It shall also be unlawful for any issuer organized under
the laws of the United States, or a State, territory, possession,
or commonwealth of the United States or a political subdivision thereof and which has a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of this title or which is required to file reports under section 15(d) of this title, or for any United States
person that is an officer, director, employee, or agent of such
issuer or a stockholder thereof acting on behalf of such issuer,
to corruptly do any act outside the United States in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, or authorization of
the payment of any money, or offer, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any of the persons or entities set forth in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a) of this section for the purposes set forth therein, irrespective of whether such issuer or such officer, director, employee, agent, or stockholder makes use of the mails or any
means or instrumentality of interstate commerce in furtherance of such offer, gift, payment, promise, or authorization.

361

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 31

(2) As used in this subsection, the term ‘‘United States person’’ means a national of the United States (as defined in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1101)) or any corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock
company, business trust, unincorporated organization, or sole
proprietorship organized under the laws of the United States
or any State, territory, possession, or commonwealth of the
United States, or any political subdivision thereof.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 30A, as added Dec. 19, 1977,
Pub. L. 95-213, title I, Sec. 103(a), 91 Stat. 1495; amended Aug. 23,
1988, Pub. L. 100-418, title V, Sec. 5003(a), 102 Stat. 1415; Nov.
10, 1998, Pub. L. 105-366, Sec. 2(a)-(c), 112 Stat. 3302, 3303.)
SEC. 31. TRANSACTION FEES.
(a) RECOVERY OF COSTS OF

ANNUAL APPROPRIATION.—The
Commission shall, in accordance with this section, collect transaction fees and assessments that are designed to recover the costs
to the Government of the annual appropriation to the Commission
by Congress.
(b) EXCHANGE-TRADED SECURITIES.—Subject to subsection (j),
each national securities exchange shall pay to the Commission a
fee at a rate equal to $15 per $1,000,000 of the aggregate dollar
amount of sales of securities (other than bonds, debentures, other
evidences of indebtedness, security futures products, and options on
securities indexes (excluding a narrow-based security index)) transacted on such national securities exchange.
(c) OFF-EXCHANGE TRADES OF EXCHANGE REGISTERED AND
LAST-SALE- REPORTED SECURITIES.—Subject to subsection (j), each
national securities association shall pay to the Commission a fee at
a rate equal to $15 per $1,000,000 of the aggregate dollar amount
of sales transacted by or through any member of such association
otherwise than on a national securities exchange of securities
(other than bonds, debentures, other evidences of indebtedness, security futures products, and options on securities indexes (excluding a narrow-based security index)) registered on a national securities exchange or subject to prompt last sale reporting pursuant to
the rules of the Commission or a registered national securities association.
(d) ASSESSMENTS ON SECURITY FUTURES TRANSACTIONS.—Each
national securities exchange and national securities association
shall pay to the Commission an assessment equal to $0.009 for
each round turn transaction (treated as including one purchase and
one sale of a contract of sale for future delivery) on a security future traded on such national securities exchange or by or through
any member of such association otherwise than on a national securities exchange, except that for fiscal year 2007 and each succeeding fiscal year such assessment shall be equal to $0.0042 for
each such transaction.
(e) DATES FOR PAYMENTS.—The fees and assessments required
by subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this section shall be paid—
(1) on or before March 15, with respect to transactions and
sales occurring during the period beginning on the preceding

Sec. 31

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

362

September 1 and ending at the close of the preceding December 31; and
(2) on or before September 25, with respect to transactions
and sales occurring during the period beginning on the preceding January 1 and ending at the close of the preceding August 31.
(f) EXEMPTIONS.—The Commission, by rule, may exempt any
sale of securities or any class of sales of securities from any fee or
assessment imposed by this section, if the Commission finds that
such exemption is consistent with the public interest, the equal
regulation of markets and brokers and dealers, and the development of a national market system.
(g) PUBLICATION.—The Commission shall publish in the Federal Register notices of the fee or assessment rates applicable
under this section for each fiscal year not later than 30 days after
the date on which an Act making a regular appropriation to the
Commission for such fiscal year is enacted, together with any estimates or projections on which such fees are based.
(h) PRO RATA APPLICATION.—The rates per $1,000,000 required
by this section shall be applied pro rata to amounts and balances
of less than $1,000,000.
(i) DEPOSIT OF FEES.—
(1) OFFSETTING COLLECTIONS.—Fees collected pursuant to
subsections (b), (c), and (d) for any fiscal year—
(A) shall be deposited and credited as offsetting collections to the account providing appropriations to the Commission; and
(B) except as provided in subsection (k), shall not be
collected for any fiscal year except to the extent provided
in advance in appropriation Acts.
(2) GENERAL REVENUES PROHIBITED.—No fees collected
pursuant to subsections (b), (c), and (d) for fiscal year 2002 or
any succeeding fiscal year shall be deposited and credited as
general revenue of the Treasury.
(j) ADJUSTMENTS TO FEE RATES.—
(1) ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT.—Subject to subsections (i)(1)(B)
and (k), for each fiscal year, the Commission shall by order adjust each of the rates applicable under subsections (b) and (c)
for such fiscal year to a uniform adjusted rate that, when applied to the baseline estimate of the aggregate dollar amount
of sales for such fiscal year, is reasonably likely to produce aggregate fee collections under this section (including assessments collected under subsection (d) of this section) that are
equal to the regular appropriation to the Commission by Congress for such fiscal year.
(2) MID-YEAR ADJUSTMENT.—Subject to subsections (i)(1)(B)
and (k), for each fiscal year, the Commission shall determine,
by March 1 of such fiscal year, whether, based on the actual
aggregate dollar volume of sales during the first 5 months of
such fiscal year, the baseline estimate of the aggregate dollar
volume of sales used under paragraph (1) for such fiscal year
is reasonably likely to be 10 percent (or more) greater or less
than the actual aggregate dollar volume of sales for such fiscal
year. If the Commission so determines, the Commission shall

363

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 31

by order, no later than March 1, adjust each of the rates applicable under subsections (b) and (c) for such fiscal year to a uniform adjusted rate that, when applied to the revised estimate
of the aggregate dollar amount of sales for the remainder of
such fiscal year, is reasonably likely to produce aggregate fee
collections under this section (including fees collected during
such five-month period and assessments collected under subsection (d) of this section) that are equal to the regular appropriation to the Commission by Congress for such fiscal year. In
making such revised estimate, the Commission shall, after consultation with the Congressional Budget Office and the Office
of Management and Budget, use the same methodology required by subsection (l).
(3) REVIEW.—In exercising its authority under this subsection, the Commission shall not be required to comply with
the provisions of section 553 of title 5, United States Code. An
adjusted rate prescribed under paragraph (1) or (2) and published under subsection (g) shall not be subject to judicial review.
(4) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(A) ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT.—Subject to subsections
(i)(1)(B) and (k), an adjusted rate prescribed under paragraph (1) shall take effect on the later of—
(i) the first day of the fiscal year to which such
rate applies; or
(ii) 60 days after the date on which an Act making
a regular appropriation to the Commission for such
fiscal year is enacted.
(B) MID-YEAR ADJUSTMENT.—An adjusted rate prescribed under paragraph (2) shall take effect on April 1 of
the fiscal year to which such rate applies.
(k) LAPSE OF APPROPRIATION.—If on the first day of a fiscal
year a regular appropriation to the Commission has not been enacted, the Commission shall continue to collect (as offsetting collections) the fees and assessments under subsections (b), (c), and (d)
at the rate in effect during the preceding fiscal year, until 60 days
after the date such a regular appropriation is enacted.
(l) BASELINE ESTIMATE OF THE AGGREGATE DOLLAR AMOUNT OF
SALES.— The baseline estimate of the aggregate dollar amount of
sales for any fiscal year is the baseline estimate of the aggregate
dollar amount of sales of securities (other than bonds, debentures,
other evidences of indebtedness, security futures products, and options on securities indexes (excluding a narrow-based security
index)) to be transacted on each national securities exchange and
by or through any member of each national securities association
(otherwise than on a national securities exchange) during such fiscal year as determined by the Commission, after consultation with
the Congressional Budget Office and the Office of Management and
Budget, using the methodology required for making projections
pursuant to section 257 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985.
(m) TRANSMITTAL OF COMMISSION BUDGET REQUESTS.—
(1) BUDGET REQUIRED.—For fiscal year 2012, and each fiscal year thereafter, the Commission shall prepare and submit

Sec. 32

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

364

a budget to the President. Whenever the Commission submits
a budget estimate or request to the President or the Office of
Management and Budget, the Commission shall concurrently
transmit copies of the estimate or request to the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee
on Financial Services of the House of Representatives.
(2) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—The President shall submit
each budget submitted under paragraph (1) to Congress, in
unaltered form, together with the annual budget for the Administration submitted by the President.
(3) CONTENTS.—The Commission shall include in each
budget submitted under paragraph (1)—
(A) an itemization of the amount of funds necessary to
carry out the functions of the Commission.
(B) an amount to be designated as contingency funding to be used by the Commission to address unanticipated
needs; and
(C) a designation of any activities of the Commission
for which multi-year budget authority would be suitable.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 31, 48 Stat. 904; Mar. 17, 1944,
ch. 101, 58 Stat. 117; June 4, 1975, Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 22, 89 Stat.
162; Oct. 11, 1996, Pub. L. 104-290, title IV, Sec. 405(a), 110 Stat.
3442; Nov. 3, 1998, Pub. L. 105-353, title III, Sec. 301(b)(14), 112
Stat. 3236; Dec. 21, 2000, Pub. L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5)[title II, Sec.
206(f)], 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-432; Jan. 16, 2002, Pub. L. 107-123,
Secs. 2, 3, 115 Stat. 2390; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec. 991(a)(1),
(d)(1), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1950, 1954.)
PENALTIES

SEC. 32. (a) Any person who willfully violates any provision of
this title (other than section 30A), or any rule or regulation thereunder the violation of which is made unlawful or the observance of
which is required under the terms of this title, or any person who
willfully and knowingly makes, or causes to be made, any statement in any application, report, or document required to be filed
under this title or any rule or regulation thereunder or undertaking contained in a registration statement as provided in subsection (d) of section 15 of this title, or by any self-regulatory organization in connection with an application for membership or participation therein or to become associated with a member thereof,
which statement was false or misleading with respect to any material fact, shall upon conviction be fined not more than $5,000,000,
or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both, except that when
such person is a person other than a natural person, a fine not exceeding $25,000,000 may be imposed; but no person shall be subject to imprisonment under this section for the violation of any rule
or regulation if he proves that he had no knowledge of such rule
or regulation.
(b) Any issuer which fails to file information, documents, or reports required to be filed under subsection (d) of section 15 of this

365

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 34

title or any rule or regulation thereunder shall forfeit to the United
States the sum of $100 for each and every day such failure to file
shall continue. Such forfeiture, which shall be in lieu of any criminal penalty for such failure to file which might be deemed to arise
under subsection (a) of this section, shall be payable into the Treasury of the United States and shall be recoverable in a civil suit in
the name of the United States.
(c)(1)(A) Any issuer that violates subsection (a) or (g) of section
30A shall be fined not more than $2,000,000.
(B) Any issuer that violates subsection (a) or (g) of section 30A
shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $10,000 imposed
in an action brought by the Commission.
(2)(A) Any officer, director, employee, or agent of an issuer, or
stockholder acting on behalf of such issuer, who willfully violates
subsection (a) or (g) of section 30A of this title shall be fined not
more than $100,000, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
(B) Any officer, director, employee, or agent of an issuer, or
stockholder acting on behalf of such issuer, who violates subsection
(a) or (g) of section 30A of this title shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $10,000 imposed in an action brought by the
Commission.
(3) Whenever a fine is imposed under paragraph (2) upon any
officer, director, employee, agent, or stockholder of an issuer, such
fine may not be paid, directly or indirectly, by such issuer.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 32, 48 Stat. 904; May 27, 1936,
ch. 462, Sec. 9, 49 Stat. 1380; June 25, 1938, ch. 677, Sec. 4, 52
Stat. 1076; Aug. 20, 1964, Pub. L. 88-467, Sec. 11, 78 Stat. 580;
June 4, 1975, Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 23, 27(b), 89 Stat. 162, 163; Dec.
19, 1977, Pub. L. 95-213, title I, Sec. 103(b), 91 Stat. 1496; Aug.
10, 1984, Pub. L. 98-376, Sec. 3, 98 Stat. 1265; Aug. 23, 1988, Pub.
L. 100-418, title V, Sec. 5003(b), 102 Stat. 1419; Nov. 19, 1988,
Pub. L. 100-704, Sec. 4, 102 Stat. 4680; Nov. 10, 1998, Pub. L. 105366, Sec. 2(d), 112 Stat. 3303; Pub. L. 107-204, title XI, Sec. 1106,
July 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 810.)
SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS

SEC. 33. If any provision of this Act, or the application of such
provision to any person or circumstances, shall be held invalid, the
remainder of the Act, and the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 33, 48 Stat. 905.)
EFFECTIVE DATE

SEC. 34. This Act shall become effective on July 1, 1934, except
that sections 6 and 12 (b), (c), (d), and (e) shall become effective on
September 1, 1934; and sections 5, 7, 8, 9(a)(6), 10, 11, 12(a), 13,
14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 30 shall become effective on October 1,
1934.

Sec. 35

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

366

(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 34, 48 Stat. 905.)
SEC. 35. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

In addition to any other funds authorized to be appropriated
to the Commission, there are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out the functions, powers, and duties of the Commission—
(1) for fiscal year 2011, $1,300,000,000;
(2) for fiscal year 2012, $1,500,000,000;
(3) for fiscal year 2013, $1,750,000,000;
(4) for fiscal year 2014, $2,000,000,000; and
(5) for fiscal year 2015, $2,250,000,000.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 35, as added June 4, 1975, Pub.
L. 94-29, Sec. 24, 89 Stat. 162; amended Apr. 13, 1977, Pub. L. 9520, 91 Stat. 47; Dec. 19, 1977, Pub. L. 95-211, 91 Stat. 1492; Oct.
6, 1978, Pub. L. 95-425, Sec. 1, 92 Stat. 962; Oct. 21, 1980, Pub.
L. 96-477, title IV, Sec. 401, 94 Stat. 2291; Dec. 4, 1987, Pub. L.
100-181, title I, Sec. 101, 101 Stat. 1249; Nov. 19, 1988, Pub. L.
100-704, Sec. 8, 102 Stat. 4683; Nov. 15, 1990, Pub. L. 101-550,
title I, Sec. 102, 104 Stat. 2713; Oct. 11, 1996, Pub. L. 104-290, title
IV, Sec. 403, 110 Stat. 3441; Nov. 3, 1998, Pub. L. 105-353, title
II, Sec. 201, 112 Stat. 3233; Pub. L. 107-204, title VI, Sec. 601, July
30, 2002, 116 Stat. 793; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec. 991(c), July
21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1953.)
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE EDGAR SYSTEM

SEC. 35A. The Commission, by rule or regulation—
(1) shall provide that any information in the EDGAR system that is required to be disseminated by the contractor—
(A) may be sold or disseminated by the contractor only
pursuant to a uniform schedule of fees prescribed by the
Commission;
(B) may be obtained by a purchaser by direct interconnection with the EDGAR system;
(C) shall be equally available on equal terms to all
persons; and
(D) may be used, resold, or redisseminated by any person who has lawfully obtained such information without
restriction and without payment of additional fees or royalties; and
(2) shall require that persons, or classes of persons, required to make filings with the Commission submit such filings
in a form and manner suitable for entry into the EDGAR system and shall specify the date that such requirement is effective with respect to that person or class; except that the Commission may exempt persons or classes of persons, or filings or
classes of filings, from such rules or regulations in order to prevent hardships or to avoid imposing unreasonable burdens or
as otherwise may be necessary or appropriate.

367

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 37

(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 35A, as added Pub. L. 100-181,
title I, Sec. 102, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1249; amended Pub. L. 105353, title II, Sec. 202, Nov. 3, 1998, 112 Stat. 3234.)
SEC. 36. GENERAL EXEMPTIVE AUTHORITY.
(a) AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided

in subsection (b), but
notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the Commission, by rule, regulation, or order, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt any person, security, or transaction, or any
class or classes of persons, securities, or transactions, from any
provision or provisions of this title or of any rule or regulation
thereunder, to the extent that such exemption is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the
protection of investors.
(2) PROCEDURES.—The Commission shall, by rule or regulation, determine the procedures under which an exemptive
order under this section shall be granted and may, in its sole
discretion, decline to entertain any application for an order of
exemption under this section.
(b) LIMITATION.—The Commission may not, under this section,
exempt any person, security, or transaction, or any class or classes
of persons, securities, or transactions from section 15C or the rules
or regulations issued thereunder or (for purposes of section 15C
and the rules and regulations issued thereunder) from any definition in paragraph (42), (43), (44), or (45) of section 3(a).
(c) DERIVATIVES.—Unless the Commission is expressly authorized by any provision described in this subsection to grant exemptions, the Commission shall not grant exemptions, with respect to
amendments made by subtitle B of the Wall Street Transparency
and Accountability Act of 2010, with respect to paragraphs (65),
(66), (68), (69), (70), (71), (72), (73), (74), (75), (76), and (79) of section 3(a), and sections 10B(a), 10B(b), 10B(c), 13A, 15F, 17A(g),
17A(h), 17A(i), 17A(j), 17A(k), and 17A(l); provided that the Commission shall have exemptive authority under this title with respect to security-based swaps as to the same matters that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has under the Wall Street
Transparency and Accountability Act of 2010 with respect to
swaps, including under section 4(c) of the Commodity Exchange
Act.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 36, as added Pub. L. 104-290,
title I, Sec. 105(b), Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3424; amended Pub. L.
111-203, title VII, Sec. 772(a), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1801.)
SEC. 37. TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Commencing with the

issuance by the Tennessee Valley Authority of an annual report on Commission Form
10-K (or any successor thereto) for fiscal year 2006 and thereafter,
the Tennessee Valley Authority shall file with the Commission, in
accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission has
prescribed or may prescribe, such periodic, current, and supplementary information, documents, and reports as would be required

Sec. 38

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

368

pursuant to section 13 if the Tennessee Valley Authority were an
issuer of a security registered pursuant to section 12. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Tennessee Valley Authority
shall not be required to register any securities under this title, and
shall not be deemed to have registered any securities under this
title.
(b) LIMITED TREATMENT AS ISSUER.—Commencing with the
issuance by the Tennessee Valley Authority of an annual report on
Commission Form 10-K (or any successor thereto) for fiscal year
2006 and thereafter, the Tennessee Valley Authority shall be
deemed to be an issuer for purposes of section 10A, other than for
subsection (m)(1) or (m)(3) of section 10A. The Tennessee Valley
Authority shall not be required by this subsection to comply with
the rules issued by any national securities exchange or national securities association in response to rules issued by the Commission
pursuant to section 10A(m)(1).
(c) NO EFFECT ON TVA AUTHORITY.—Nothing in this section
shall be construed to diminish, impair, or otherwise affect the authority of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority
to carry out its statutory functions under the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 37, as added Pub. L. 108-447,
div. H, title V, Sec. 520(2), Dec. 8, 2004, 118 Stat. 3267.)
SEC. 38. FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION, FEDERAL
HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION, FEDERAL HOME
LOAN BANKS.
(a) FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION AND FEDERAL
HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION.—No class of equity securi-

ties of the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation shall be treated as an exempted
security for purposes of section 12, 13, 14, or 16.
(b) FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS.—
(1) REGISTRATION.—Each Federal Home Loan Bank shall
register a class of its common stock under section 12(g), not
later than 120 days after the date of enactment of the Federal
Housing Finance Regulatory Reform Act of 2008, and shall
thereafter maintain such registration and be treated for purposes of this title as an ‘‘issuer’’, the securities of which are required to be registered under section 12, regardless of the
number of members holding such stock at any given time.
(2) STANDARDS RELATING TO AUDIT COMMITTEES.—Each
Federal Home Loan Bank shall comply with the rules issued
by the Commission under section 10A(m).
(c) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
(1) FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK; MEMBER.—The terms ‘‘Federal Home Loan Bank’’ and ‘‘member’’, have the same meanings as in section 2 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act.
(2) FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION.—The term
‘‘Federal National Mortgage Association’’ means the corporation created by the Federal National Mortgage Association
Charter Act.

369

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 39

(3) FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION.—The
term ‘‘Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation’’ means the
corporation created by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 38, as added Pub. L. 110-289,
div. A, title I, Sec. 1112, July 30, 2008, 122 Stat. 2677.)
SEC. 39. INVESTOR ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established

within the Commission the Investor Advisory Committee (referred to in this
section as the ‘‘Committee’’).
(2) PURPOSE.—The Committee shall—
(A) advise and consult with the Commission on—
(i) regulatory priorities of the Commission;
(ii) issues relating to the regulation of securities
products, trading strategies, and fee structures, and
the effectiveness of disclosure;
(iii) initiatives to protect investor interest; and
(iv) initiatives to promote investor confidence and
the integrity of the securities marketplace; and
(B) submit to the Commission such findings and recommendations as the Committee determines are appropriate, including recommendations for proposed legislative
changes.
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The members of the Committee shall
be—
(A) the Investor Advocate;
(B) a representative of State securities commissions;
(C) a representative of the interests of senior citizens;
and
(D) not fewer than 10, and not more than 20, members
appointed by the Commission, from among individuals
who—
(i) represent the interests of individual equity and
debt investors, including investors in mutual funds;
(ii) represent the interests of institutional investors, including the interests of pension funds and registered investment companies;
(iii) are knowledgeable about investment issues
and decisions; and
(iv) have reputations of integrity.
(2) TERM.—Each member of the Committee appointed
under paragraph (1)(B) shall serve for a term of 4 years.
(3) MEMBERS NOT COMMISSION EMPLOYEES.—Members appointed under paragraph (1)(B) shall not be deemed to be employees or agents of the Commission solely because of membership on the Committee.
(c) CHAIRMAN; VICE CHAIRMAN; SECRETARY; ASSISTANT SECRETARY.—

Sec. 39

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

370

(1) IN GENERAL.—The members of the Committee shall
elect, from among the members of the Committee—
(A) a chairman, who may not be employed by an
issuer;
(B) a vice chairman, who may not be employed by an
issuer;
(C) a secretary; and
(D) an assistant secretary.
(2) TERM.—Each member elected under paragraph (1) shall
serve for a term of 3 years in the capacity for which the member was elected under paragraph (1).
(d) MEETINGS.—
(1) FREQUENCY OF MEETINGS.—The Committee shall
meet—
(A) not less frequently than twice annually, at the call
of the chairman of the Committee; and
(B) from time to time, at the call of the Commission.
(2) NOTICE.—The chairman of the Committee shall give
the members of the Committee written notice of each meeting,
not later than 2 weeks before the date of the meeting.
(e) COMPENSATION AND TRAVEL EXPENSES.—Each member of
the Committee who is not a full-time employee of the United States
shall—
(1) be entitled to receive compensation at a rate not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for a position at level V of the Executive Schedule under
section 5316 of title 5, United States Code, for each day during
which the member is engaged in the actual performance of the
duties of the Committee; and
(2) while away from the home or regular place of business
of the member in the performance of services for the Committee, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu
of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses
under section 5703(b) of title 5, United States Code.
(f) STAFF.—The Commission shall make available to the Committee such staff as the chairman of the Committee determines are
necessary to carry out this section.
(g) REVIEW BY COMMISSION.—The Commission shall—
(1) review the findings and recommendations of the Committee; and
(2) each time the Committee submits a finding or recommendation to the Commission, promptly issue a public
statement—
(A) assessing the finding or recommendation of the
Committee; and
(B) disclosing the action, if any, the Commission intends to take with respect to the finding or recommendation.
(h) COMMITTEE FINDINGS.—Nothing in this section shall require the Commission to agree to or act upon any finding or recommendation of the Committee.

371

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Sec. 39

(i) FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT.—The Federal Advisory
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply with respect to the
Committee and its activities.
(j) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There is authorized to
be appropriated to the Commission such sums as are necessary to
carry out this section.
(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, Sec. 39, as added Pub. L. 111-203,
title IX, Sec. 911, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1822.)

