FY 2017 Budget Request
by Program
Division of Enforcement	
Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations	
Division of Corporation Finance	
Division of Trading and Markets	
Division of Investment Management	
Division of Economic and Risk Analysis	
Office of the General Counsel	
Other Program Offices	
Office of the Chief Accountant	
Office of Investor Education and Advocacy	
Office of International Affairs	
Office of Administrative Law Judges	
Office of the Investor Advocate	
Office of Credit Ratings	
Office of Municipal Securities	
Agency Direction and Administrative Support	
Agency Direction	
Office of the Chief Operating Officer	
Office of the Ethics Counsel	
Office of Minority and Women Inclusion	
Office of Equal Employment Opportunity	
Office of the Inspector General	

58
63
68
70
75
79
82
84
85
87
89
92
93
95
97
99
100
104
116
117
120
122

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Division of Enforcement
FY 2015
Actual

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

498

		Regions
		 Total Full-Time Equivalents

529

547

833

847

888

1,331

1,376

1,435

$	310,073

$	345,343

$	371,509

Cost:
		 Salaries and Benefits
		 Non-Personnel Expenses
	

Total Costs

174,941

167,705

171,780

$	485,014

$	513,048

$	543,289

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

14

1,364

0

57

The SEC relies upon a vigorous enforcement program
in order to protect investors and instill confidence in the
integrity of the markets. The Division of Enforcement
(“Enforcement” or the “Division”) supports this mandate by
investigating potential violations of the securities laws and,
when appropriate, filing civil charges against wrongdoers
in Federal district court or in administrative proceedings.
Among other things, the Division can obtain monetary
penalties that punish wrongdoers and deter others from
committing similar violations; disgorgement of ill-gotten gains
that, along with monetary penalties, may be returned to
harmed investors; injunctions that prevent wrongdoers from
committing additional violations of the securities laws; and
bars that prevent wrongdoers from working in the industry
where they could otherwise victimize again.
In FY 2015, the Division of Enforcement achieved
significant results. The Division’s accomplishments include
groundbreaking actions spanning the spectrum of the
securities laws and reaching a wide range of registrants
and other market participants. In FY 2015 the SEC brought
a record 507 standalone actions for violations of the Federal
securities laws, as well as 300 delinquent filing and follow-on
proceedings, and obtained orders for a record $4.2 billion in

PAGE

  58

monetary sanctions. However, the SEC’s FY 2015 numbers
only tell a part of the story. The SEC’s actions in FY 2015
included a number of first-of-their-kind cases, included the
first action involving a private equity adviser for misallocating
broken deal expenses, an underwriter for pricing-related
fraud in the primary market for municipal securities, and
a “Big Three” credit rating agency for misrepresenting a
rating methodology.
Notwithstanding these results, the Division faces continued
challenges. Accordingly, the Division is requesting 52
additional positions in FY 2017. As described in more detail
below, the Division needs resources in each of three missioncritical functions. First, the Division needs sophisticated
technology tools to collect and analyze market data, as
well as staff to analyze that data; assess and triage tips,
complaints, and referrals; pursue whistleblower submissions;
and conduct preliminary inquiries of potential securities
law violations. Second, the Division needs to continue
devoting investigative resources to high-priority areas such
as accounting and reporting fraud, market structure, and
other areas. Third, to maximize the deterrent impact of
enforcement actions, the Division needs additional staff to
litigate the growing number of contested cases.

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Challenges Facing the Enforcement Program
The Division of Enforcement faces a number of key challenges
to its ability to effectively and efficiently prosecute violations
of the securities laws. Some of these are discussed below.
Fragmented and complex equity markets pose unique challenges
to Enforcement. In recent years, the securities markets have
grown increasingly complex and opaque, with a proliferation
of sophisticated tools and trading methods such as high
frequency trading, complex algorithmic trading, and
off-exchange trading venues. Unlawful trading strategies
are becoming increasingly complex and more difficult to
identify. The Division needs advanced analytical tools, as
well as staff to analyze data from these tools, to ensure it
keeps pace with this constantly evolving environment.
Data Analysis. Analysis of large datasets – including filings
and disclosures, trading data in equities, options, municipal
bonds, and other securities – is critical to effectively
identifying and investigating potential misconduct. The
Division expects that its improved information processing
and analysis is likely to yield additional case leads through
FY 2017. The Division needs commensurate staffing to
review, analyze, and pursue these leads.
The Division is filing more cases and conducting more trials.
The Division’s caseload is growing rapidly. FY 2015 saw
the most-ever standalone enforcement actions filed
(507) and a substantial increase in the number of trials as
compared to historical averages. As its litigation caseload
increases, the Division is incurring greater expenses for
experts, consultants, e-discovery, data loading, and
contractor support. The Division expects the current
trends in litigation activity and costs to continue, and needs
sufficient resources to ensure it can continue to effectively
prosecute violations of Federal securities laws, with the
credible capacity to continue taking complex cases to trial
if required to hold violators accountable.
Advanced technological capabilities are essential for effective
investigations. Each month, the Division receives seven
terabytes of electronic data in its investigations, and hosts
nearly 525 TB of data related to investigations and litigation.
The sheer volume of digital evidence requires ever-greater
storage and processing powers – as well as additional investigators to review that mass of information. Also, in today’s
society, there is an ever-expanding array of technological

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

options to conceal misconduct and encrypt the evidence
of wrongdoing. As a result, the Division will need additional
resources to effectively penetrate this changing landscape.
The Division prosecutes resource-intensive and highly technical
areas of misconduct. Certain high-priority areas of misconduct,
such as financial reporting matters, can be highly technical
and resource-intensive. Having adequate resources is vital to
uncovering the misconduct in a timely manner. The number
of financial reporting and issuer disclosure cases brought in
FY 2015 rose by 40 percent from the previous fiscal year as
the SEC increased its focus on this area. Absent additional
funds, the resources to conduct these types of investigations
will have to be drawn from other priority areas.
The Division takes in thousands of tips per year, generating a fresh
stream of case leads that deserve investigation. In FY 2015,
the Division received approximately 4,000 tips, complaints,
and referrals from whistleblowers. Whistleblowers can often
provide high-quality information that allows the Division to
more quickly and efficiently detect and investigate alleged
violations of the law. Individuals who voluntarily provide the
SEC with original information that leads to a successful
enforcement action resulting in monetary sanctions greater
than $1 million may be eligible to receive an award equal
to 10-30 percent of the monies collected. In FY 2015, the
Office of the Whistleblower received more tips than ever
before, handled and assessed the merit of more whistleblower
award claims than ever before, and recommended the award
of $37 million to whistleblowers. The Division anticipates
that these significant payments will further incentivize
whistleblowers to come forward and submit high quality tips.
In turn, the Division expects to initiate more investigations
and enforcement actions against violators.
The Division’s policy of requiring admissions of wrongdoing in
certain cases may require additional resources. In FY 2013, the
SEC changed its long-standing settlement policy, and now
requires admissions of misconduct in a discrete category
of cases where heightened accountability and acceptance
of responsibility by a defendant are appropriate and in the
public interest. By the end of FY 2015, the SEC had obtained
admissions in over 30 actions, and this trend is expected
to continue through FY 2017. Where admissions or other
acknowledgements of wrongdoing are critical, the SEC will
insist on them and, should defendants refuse, will litigate
those cases.

  59

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

The Division is committed to charging wrongdoing across the
spectrum of securities laws violations. The Division is tasked
with enforcing a wide variety of statutes and rules, some
applicable only to certain types of firms such as brokerdealers, and some, such as antifraud provisions, that apply
broadly to all market participants. The Division requires
additional resources in order to properly address this wide
range of violations and violators.

Proactive Enforcement Efforts
The Division continues to implement a range of initiatives
designed to help it identify hidden or emerging threats
to the markets, act quickly to halt misconduct and
minimize investor harm, and maximize deterrence. These
initiatives include:
•	 Addressing Violations Through Resource-Saving
Sweeps and Streamlined Investigations: The Division
is committed to pursuing violations of varying type
and severity. For example, in early FY 2016, the
SEC filed its third round of actions under its Rule
105 initiative. Rule 105 is an anti-manipulation rule
intended to prevent stock price manipulation by
prohibiting firms and individuals from participating in
public stock offerings after selling short those same
stocks. The third round of actions involved only six
violators, as opposed to 24 in the first round and 20
in the second, suggesting that the initiative is having
a strong deterrent effect on would-be violators.
•	 Leveraging Data Tools and Analysis to Detect and
Investigate Violations: The Division has filed a number
of cases filed during the past fiscal year where data
tools and analysis played a significant role in their
origin or investigation, a trend that Enforcement sees
continuing into the following fiscal year and beyond.
For example, during FY 2015, the SEC announced
fraud charges against an investment advisory firm
and its owner for fraudulently “cherry-picking”
winning options trades, with help from DERA staff
who conducted a statistical analysis to determine
whether the trades at issue could have resulted
from a coincidental or lucky combination of trades.
To continue to bring cases like these that rely on data
tools and analysis, the Division needs commensurate
technology and staff.

PAGE

  60

•	 Continued Focus on Market Structure, Exchanges, and
Broker-Dealers: As sophisticated trading technologies and
trading venues have proliferated, Enforcement is focused
on keeping pace with an ever-evolving marketplace.
As an example, during FY 2015, the Commission filed
significant cases against market participants – such as
exchanges, ATSs, and broker-dealers – for failures in
controls, failures to safeguard customer information, net
capital violations, and manipulative trading, including
the hacking and Avon manipulation cases.
•	 Advanced Relational Trading Enforcement Metrics
Investigation System (ARTEMIS): This initiative focuses
on the analysis of suspicious trading patterns and
relationships among multiple traders. ARTEMIS
combines about 10 billion equity and options trade
records from SEC and FINRA and uses advanced
analytics, created by Division staff, to rank trades
based on different metrics. ARTEMIS is helpful in
not only identifying new suspicious trades, but also
finding previously undetected traders who might be
involved in an existing investigation.

FY 2017 Request
The Division must be adequately staffed to address
increasingly complex financial products and transactions,
handle the increasing size and complexity of the securities
markets, identify emerging threats and take prompt action
to halt violations, and recover funds for the benefit of
harmed investors. For FY 2017, the Division is requesting
52 additional positions. The Division will use the additional
requested positions to support its three core functions –
intelligence analysis, investigation, and litigation – in the
following ways:
Processing and prioritizing intelligence is key to Enforcement’s
efforts: A strong intelligence analysis capacity is at the core
of an effective enforcement program. The Division receives
and analyzes approximately 15,000 tips, complaints, and
referrals a year, and expects this volume to expand in
the coming years. Additionally, the SEC will shortly begin
receiving security-based swaps (SBS) data, as mandated
by the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, the Division needs to
continue to bolster its capabilities to efficiently analyze
the information so that the most promising leads can be
handed off to investigative staff.

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

The Division also requires additional staff to conduct earlystage investigations known as “matters under inquiry”
that often arise from these tips, complaints, and referrals.
Accordingly, the Division is requesting 10 new positions in
FY 2017 to continue to develop its data analytics function,
its tips review function, and the staff to whom the most
promising tips, complaints, and referrals are sent for
further investigation.

critical to the SEC’s investor-protection efforts. Furthermore,
an increasing percentage of enforcement actions have been
filed as contested matters, as opposed to being fully settled
at the outset. Enforcement requests 12 new positions in
FY 2017 to reinforce its litigation operations nationwide.
This increased allocation will enable the SEC to litigate
any case where it believes admissions of wrongdoing are
appropriate under its new policy, if necessary.

Enforcement must act swiftly and decisively in investigating
misconduct: The Enforcement program requires increased
staffing to promptly detect complex frauds and other
difficult-to-detect misconduct, whether it occurs at
hedge funds, broker-dealers, or “boiler rooms”; respond
to misconduct in the changing equity markets related
to algorithmic trading and “dark pools”; and address
large-scale insider trading and stock manipulation. Since
2012, the Division’s caseload of ongoing investigations
has risen 14 percent, from 1,475 to a current level of
1,677. The number of investigations opened has also risen
considerably, up to 980 investigations in FY 2015, only
slightly less than the previous fiscal year, which represented
the highest number of new investigations in the last five
fiscal years. We expect this historically high level of new
matters to continue in FY 2016 and FY 2017.

The Division must continue to invest in technology: The
Enforcement program must continue to invest in new
technologies that make our investigative and litigation
staff more efficient and effective – while being mindful of
overall costs and the need to keep pace with the market:

Enforcement is seeking 30 new positions in FY 2017 to
reinforce its investigative function. These new positions
will help the Division continue progress on existing
investigations and handle its increasing caseload, while
quickly investigating and bringing emergency actions in
cases where investors’ money may dissipate if immediate
action is not taken. These new staff would be applied
to the areas posing the highest risk to investors and
the marketplace.
The Division’s ability to litigate its increased caseload is
mission critical: The Division handles an expansive and
sophisticated docket of litigation and trials, often against
well-funded defendants. Ensuring that appropriate
resources are devoted to these cases after they are filed is

•	 Enterprise Data Analytics Platform: The Division plans
to develop a centralized, dynamic, and crossorganization workspace for data analytics.
•	 eDiscovery: The Division’s investigations deal with
expanding amounts of data and new techniques,
and we must continue to modernize our eDiscovery
technologies and toolsets so we can better collect,
search, categorize, and review relevant materials.
•	 Forensics Lab: Robust enforcement requires advanced
data forensics resources, so it is critical that the
Division continue to build out its forensics lab.
•	 Knowledge Management: The Division will continue to
enhance its new intranet knowledge management
portal that provides staff with an easy to navigate, fully
searchable repository of content and standard templates.
Many of these technologies will have benefits for
divisions and offices across the SEC. Investments made
into eDiscovery, knowledge management, document
management, and analytical tools and analysis platforms
are readily shared agency-wide. The Division also will
continue working closely with other Federal regulators
and law enforcement to share investigative techniques,
technologies, and capabilities when appropriate.

  61

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

WORKLOAD DATA
FY 2015
Actual

Activity

FY 2016
Estimate2

FY 2017
Request2

Intelligence Analysis
Investor Tips and Complaints

15,319

15,525

15,525

1,153

1,175

1,210

293

300

310

980

1,000

1,030

1,677

1,710

1,760

732

757

789

Opened

645

655

665

Pending at End of Year

797

815

840

162

165

170

Pending at End of Year

1,743

1,780

1,835

Full-Time Equivalents

306

319

336

1,331

1,376

1,435

Matters Under Inquiry (MUIs) Opened
Full-Time Equivalents
Investigations
Opened
Ongoing at End of

Year1

Full-Time Equivalents
Proceedings
Administrative:

Civil Litigation:
Opened

Total Full-Time Equivalents

PAGE

1	

“Ongoing” investigations are those in which the investigation remains active. It excludes those that are open solely because they are in litigation; those in which the
SEC is seeking to collect assets and funds to satisfy outstanding judgments and debts owed to the SEC; those in which the SEC is distributing funds to harmed
investors; and those that are in some other post-litigation activity. “Ongoing” investigations also exclude those that are in the process of being closed.

2	

These estimates may be impacted by a number of factors beyond the Division’s control, including, but not limited to, increases in the complexity of proceedings;
higher than anticipated attrition rates; and the timing and amounts of the resources made available. Further, given the time required to bring on-board new staff
after hiring levels are approved, the full effect of FY 2016 and/or FY 2017 positions will not be realized until later years.

  62

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
FY 2015
Actual

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

206

233

257

		Regions

719

822

895

		 Total Full-Time Equivalents

925

1,055

1,152

$	213,304

$	242,693

$	266,087

Cost:
		 Salaries and Benefits
		 Non-Personnel Expenses
	

Total Costs

71,897

72,600

75,606

$	285,201

$	315,293

$	341,693

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

12

1,093

12

35

The Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
(OCIE) administers the SEC’s National Examination
Program (NEP). OCIE’s mission is to protect investors,
ensure market integrity and support responsible capital
formation through risk-focused strategies that: (1) improve
compliance; (2) prevent fraud; (3) monitor risk; and (4) inform
regulatory policy.
The additional resources being requested are essential for
OCIE to meet its objectives and fulfill the agency’s mission.
In particular, resources are needed to: (1) lessen the impact
of the disparity between the number of exam staff and
the growing number, size, and complexity of registered
firms, particularly in the investment management industry;
(2) examine new categories of regulated entities now
registered, or to be registered, as a result of the Dodd-Frank
and JOBS Acts; (3) enhance quantitative and data analytic
efforts; and (4) develop mechanisms to more effectively risk
target, monitor, and examine market participants.
OCIE requests an additional 127 positions to accomplish
these goals. Overall, OCIE’s risk-based program is designed
to focus resources on those firms and practices that pose the
greatest potential risk of violations that can harm investors
and the markets, and those entities that introduce significant

financial risks to the market. The following summarizes
key observations, issues, and challenges impacting the
examination program, all of which have influenced the
FY 2017 OCIE staffing request.
The breadth and complexity of the SEC-regulated securities
market is vast and growing: Overall, the size of the SEC
regulated community continues to dwarf the size of the
current examination program. OCIE anticipates that at
the beginning of FY 2017 it will oversee over 26,000
market participants, including approximately 12,500
investment advisers with nearly $70 trillion in assets under
management, approximately 850 investment company
complexes managing nearly 11,000 mutual funds and
Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), over 4,000 broker-dealers
with more than 163,000 branch offices, more than 800
municipal advisors, 18 national securities exchanges, and
over 400 transfer agents. OCIE will also oversee at least
eight entities that provide clearing agency functions, four of
which have been deemed systemically important, as well as
the PCAOB, MSRB, SIPC, and FINRA. Additionally, several
new registrant categories, including security-based swap
execution facilities, security-based swap data repositories,
security-based swap dealers, and funding portals will

  63

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

likely be subject to OCIE examinations and will require
additional resources
Exam coverage of the securities market remains limited: The staff
examined approximately 10 percent of registered investment
advisers in FY 2015 but roughly 40 percent of all registered
investment advisers have never been examined. Significant
additional resources are critical to the examination program in
order to improve the examination coverage of these advisers.
With respect to broker-dealers, the program is supplemented
by self-regulated organizations (SRO) oversight. Although
together the SEC and SROs examined at least a portion of the
activities of approximately 50 percent of broker-dealers during
FY 2015, regulators are examining well below one percent of
the approximately 163,000 branch offices each year.
Increases in the regulatory population and complex new products
and lines of business complicate oversight: The largest increase
in registered entities has occurred among investment
advisers. A decade ago, there were approximately 9,000
investment advisers managing $28 trillion in assets. OCIE
projects these figures will grow to 12,500 advisers managing
over $70 trillion in assets in FY 2017. But the increase in
the number of advisers and the amount of assets are not
the only factors necessitating more resources. NEP staff
also faces the challenges of increased use of new and
complex products by both investment advisers and brokerdealers, the increasing use of technology in areas such as
high-frequency and algorithmic trading, and the growth of
complex “families” of financial services companies with both
broker-dealer and investment adviser affiliates.
Legislative changes are having a significant impact on the
examination program: Additional staffing is needed to address
responsibilities added by various legislative changes. For
example, the registration of municipal advisors has added
responsibility for hundreds of additional registrants with
increasingly complex business lines. Other provisions in the
Dodd-Frank and JOBS Acts, such as those directing the
Commission to create a regulatory regime for the securitybased swap market and those addressing new fundraising
mechanisms, such as general solicitation and crowdfunding,
will require additional staff resources in FY 2017 in order for
OCIE to effectively carry out its expanded responsibilities.
Independent reviews have highlighted insufficient examination
resources and recommended additional funding: In the last
several years, a number of studies and reports have identified

PAGE

  64

inadequate resources as being a significant impediment to
examination program effectiveness. For example, a 2015
IMF review noted that the SEC’s “resources to conduct
examinations [of investment advisers] are limited.” Likewise,
the SEC’s Office of the Inspector General stated in 2009
that “OCIE’s staff resources have not kept pace with the
growth in the number of registered investment advisers,”
and “we strongly encourage OCIE and the Commission
to make available the necessary resources to ensure
that OCIE is better able to select investment advisers
and investment companies for examination and better
equipped to conduct comprehensive examinations of
these entities.” In addition, the SEC’s Office of the Investor
Advocate in June 2014 stated in a report to Congress
that the “SEC needs additional resources to bolster its
examination program.”
In light of the limited resources currently available to the
examination program and the existing challenges, the Office
is requesting 127 additional positions, which it intends to use
to address the issues identified above, including increasing
examination coverage of investment advisers, addressing
new responsibilities under the Dodd-Frank and JOBS Acts,
and other program improvements.

FY 2017 Request
The 127 requested positions for the National Examinations
Program would be used for the following key areas of focus:

Investment Adviser/Investment Company
Examination Program
The SEC plans to dedicate 102 positions to improving
coverage and implementing enhancements to the
examinations program pertaining to investment advisers
and investment companies. As stated above, the number
of registered investment advisers and their assets under
management has grown steadily over the last decade,
while staff resources have not kept pace with the growing
responsibilities. We expect the industry growth to continue
through FY 2016 and FY 2017, so that by FY 2017, OCIE
estimates that there will be nearly 20-25 investment advisers
per examiner. With the additional resources requested, the
staff will continue efforts to improve overall coverage of
investment advisers, including an emphasis on the nearly
40 percent of advisers that have never been examined.

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Without these additional resources, it is likely that the
coverage level of investment advisers cannot rise much
above a range of 10 percent annually.
These requested positions also will be used to help improve
coverage of investment fund complexes, which will be
critically important given their increasing complexity. These
resources will aid the NEP in addressing factors such as
offerings of “alternative” investment strategies; significant
growth in certain types of funds, including ETFs; and the
relative riskiness of certain funds, including fixed income
funds that may be impacted by rising interest rates. OCIE is
undertaking an exercise to review the allocation of resources
across its program areas with a goal of reallocating staff to
examinations of investment advisors. This review is currently
in the formative stages and will include an assessment of
the potential impact of proposed reallocation.

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

area in order to evaluate compliance and the resulting impact
to capital formation and investor protection. Further, the
Volcker rule will present resource issues for broker-dealer
oversight given the complexity and wide-ranging impact on
broker-dealer operations and the efforts to coordinate with
other financial regulators.
Finally, while the number of registered broker-dealers has
decreased somewhat, in part due to consolidation in the
industry, the number of broker-dealer branch offices has
increased to more than 163,000. The SEC and SROs do not
have sufficient resources to examine an adequate portion
of these offices. Branch office activities are significant since
they are a main point of contact with retail customers and
present risks such as remote supervision. In light of these
risks, OCIE intends to continue to dedicate resources to
this area.

Broker-Dealer Examination Program

Clearance and Settlement Examination Program

The broker-dealer examination program continues to have
significant and expanding responsibilities and 10 additional
positions are being requested in order to hire expertise
necessary to supplement existing staff and address new
areas of responsibility. For example, resources in this program
will be used for examinations of recently registered municipal
advisors. By FY 2017, the SEC estimates that more than
800 entities will be registered as municipal advisors. OCIE
will utilize a portion of the additional resources requested to
examine and monitor these new registrants for compliance
with recently and soon-to-be adopted rules.

Overall, five additional positions are being requested to
enhance and expand the oversight of clearing agencies,
security-based swap data repositories, and transfer
agents. In recent years, both the scope and number of
clearing agencies required to be examined by the SEC have
grown. Examinations of these entities are complex and time
consuming and require particular expertise.

The requested positions will also be used to cover several
new categories of security-based swap market participants
that will be required to register with the Commission, including
security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap
participants. In order to effectively implement the related
Dodd-Frank Act provisions, OCIE is requesting additional
positions in FY 2017 in order to conduct inspections of these
newly registered market participants, provide information
to relevant Commission personnel, and coordinate efforts
with other regulators.
OCIE also expects to enhance exam procedures and
techniques in FY 2017 in response to recent regulatory
requirements. For example, as regulations related to
crowdfunding offerings become effective, the program will
need to devote additional resources and expertise to this

The SEC is required to conduct examinations, on at least
an annual basis, of securities clearing agencies that are
designated as “systemically important” and for which it is
the supervisory agency. These examinations are conducted
in consultation with the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System. In addition, as security-based swap data
repositories become registrants, additional staff will be
needed to perform periodic examinations of those entities.
These requested positions will help OCIE build a dedicated
team of derivatives and clearing specialists that will be able
to conduct cross-sector examinations of clearing agencies,
collaborate and respond to requests for assistance from
the Division of Trading and Markets and other regulators,
and enhance the NEP’s clearing and credit default swap/
derivatives expertise.
The additional positions also will help OCIE conduct riskbased, cause, and special examinations of transfer agents,
including joint examinations with Federal banking regulators.
The staff will review the services offered by transfer agents

  65

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

that are beyond their traditional transfer agent functions
(such as stock plan administration), and review transfer
agents’ safeguarding of customer information and custody
of shareholder funds.

Market Oversight Examination Program
Self-regulatory organizations (SROs) are critical to the SEC’s
oversight of the markets. In FY 2017, OCIE will conduct
risk-based inspections of national securities exchanges,
enhanced reviews of FINRA, and risk focused exams
of FINRA District Offices. Further, security-based swap
execution facilities (SEFs) are expected to be subject to
examination in FY 2017, requiring additional examination
staff. To fulfill these needs, OCIE would devote three
additional positions to this area.

Additional Significant Examination Program Efforts
OCIE also requires additional staffing to continue other
significant program-wide efforts, including its Technology
Controls Program (TCP), outreach initiatives and specialized
working groups as described further below.
Technology Controls Program (TCP): Technology has increased
the complexity, interconnectedness, and speed of
transactions, and continues to challenge market participants
and regulators. In FY 2017, OCIE’s TCP will conduct risk
targeted exams of Regulation Systems Compliance and
Integrity Entities (SCI entities), to evaluate whether they
have written policies and procedures reasonably designed
to ensure the capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability,
and security of their SCI systems. OCIE also will seek to
enhance cyber-security examinations by working with the
Department of Treasury, National Security Agency, and the
Department of Homeland Security. To adequately fulfill the
above obligations, TCP would need to hire a significant
number of information technology security professionals with
specialized experiences and skills. Three additional positions
are requested to further enhance the work of the TCP.
Office of Managing Executive (OME) and Office of Chief
Counsel: OME supports the NEP through risk analysis
and surveillance, registration, training, human capital, and
information technology initiatives. Significantly, the Office of
Risk Analysis and Surveillance within OME will continue to
improve the risk targeting of firms and activities by helping to
monitor and assess risks of all registered entities. Meanwhile,

PAGE

  66

OCIE’s Office of Chief Counsel will continue to provide legal
and other interpretative advice to the program while also
overseeing the examination program’s internal compliance
program. Four additional positions are requested in FY 2017
to support the functions of these groups.
Other Significant Initiatives: In FY 2017, OCIE will continue to
improve its surveillance and risk assessment functions. This
includes performing thousands of preliminary risk reviews
that help to focus the program’s limited resources on firms
and industry practices posing the greatest risk to investors
and the markets. OCIE anticipates that improvements in
risk assessment and surveillance activities, combined with
other initiatives aimed at incentivizing whistleblowers and
improving the agency’s tracking and monitoring of tips,
complaints, and referrals, will necessitate more time spent on
conducting examinations of the identified higher risk entities.
OCIE also will continue its monitoring program focused
on large and complex firms that may pose significant risk
to the various markets and to their customers, due to
their size, complexity, and connectivity with other large
firms and financial institutions. This program is designed
to ensure we have an accurate and timely understanding
of the key risks and controls of these firms, and to help
facilitate effective, targeted examinations.
OCIE is also continuing the deployment of specialized
teams focusing on particular market issues that directly
affect investors and the functioning of the markets. OCIE
will work to broaden the expertise and knowledge of these
teams, enabling them to better identify, monitor, and assess
the impact of certain risks on the industry.
In FY 2017, OCIE will continue efforts aimed at encouraging
stronger industry compliance programs. These efforts
include conducting OCIE’s Compliance Outreach programs,
which provide information and resources for compliance
personnel of registered entities, issuing public reports and
Risk Alerts, and speaking at conferences concerning areas
of regulatory interest.

Developing Technology and Data Analytics
As technology continues to evolve and alter the way entities
conduct business, it is imperative that the examination
program make appropriate investments to keep pace and to
more effectively conduct its activities. Continued investment

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

in a multi-year technology and analytics plan is critically
important to the success of OCIE’s programs. Several of
the key initiatives in this area for FY 2017 and beyond are
discussed below.
Data and Quantitative Analytics: The examination program
will continue to focus resources on developing tools that
will help analyze large amounts of data and generate alerts
and exception reports focused on high risk activities and
registered entities that require additional follow-up by the
staff. These tools also will improve risk assessment and
surveillance efforts by providing the staff with a greater
ability to monitor for trends and emerging fraud risks,
ultimately enabling the staff to allocate SEC resources
more effectively.

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Continued Development of Comprehensive Examination Platform:
In FY 2017, OCIE will continue to improve and enhance
a comprehensive program tracking and examination
management system. The system provides examiners with a
complete repository of exam related information that allows
the staff to conduct exams more effectively and analyze
trends across the program.
Improvements to IT Infrastructure: In FY 2017, the examination
program will continue to focus on identifying and acquiring
additional tools and technologies that can be utilized in
risk assessment efforts, examinations, and other related
initiatives. The examination program will work with the
Office of Information Technology to develop and maintain
an appropriate technological infrastructure for this data, so
that it can be easily accessed, analyzed, and disseminated.

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate1

FY 2017
Request1

Investment Adviser Examinations

1,221

1,365

1,550

Investment Company Examinations (includes administrators)

137

135

125

Broker-Dealer Examinations

484

535

548

Transfer Agent Examinations

53

55

55

Municipal Advisor Examinations

50

62

62

Market Oversight Inspections

21

45

45

Technology Controls Program Inspections

20

100

115

6

9

7

925

1,055

1,152

Clearing Agency Examinations
Total Full-Time Equivalents

1	

These estimates may be impacted by a number of factors beyond the Office’s control, including, but not limited to, increases in the complexity of firm’s being
examined; higher than anticipated attrition rates; and the timing and amounts of the resources made available. Further, given the time required to bring on-board
new staff after hiring levels are approved, the full effect of FY 2016 and/or FY 2017 positions will not be realized until later years.

  67

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Division of Corporation Finance
FY 2015
Actual

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

463

485

498

$	105,636

$	116,099

$	122,325

31,169

30,689

31,091

$	136,805

$	146,788

$	153,416

Cost:
		 Salaries and Benefits
		 Non-Personnel Expenses
	

Total Costs

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

85

5

373

35

In support of the Commission’s mission to protect investors,
maintain fair, orderly and efficient markets, and facilitate
capital formation, the Division of Corporation Finance (CF)
seeks to ensure that investors have access to material
information in order to make informed investment decisions
when a company offers its securities to the public and
on an ongoing basis as companies continue to provide
information to the marketplace. Through its selective
review program, CF reviews company filings and provides
comments to address possible material noncompliance with
disclosure and accounting requirements under the Federal
securities laws and to enhance investor protection. CF also
makes recommendations to the Commission for new or
revised rules relating to the disclosure requirements for
reporting companies, and provides interpretive assistance
to companies on SEC rules and forms.

Filing Review Activities
In FY 2017, CF will continue its regular and systematic
review of reporting companies, reviewing company
reports representing a substantial portion of total market
capitalization. As in past years, CF anticipates exceeding
the minimum review requirement of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002. CF selectively reviews filings, including
registration statements, other transactional filings, and

PAGE

  68

ongoing reports made under the Securities Act of 1933 and
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to monitor and enhance
compliance with disclosure and accounting requirements.
These filings include those of new issuers and companies
already reporting under the Exchange Act. In conducting
disclosure reviews, CF concentrates its review resources on
critical disclosures that appear to conflict with Commission
rules or applicable accounting standards or that appear to
be materially deficient in explanation or clarity.

Rulemaking and Interpretive Advice
CF recommends new rules, or amendments to existing
rules, to the Commission to improve investor protection
and facilitate capital formation, at times in response
to statutory mandates. CF also provides interpretive
guidance to companies, investors, and their advisors
through issuance of staff legal and accounting bulletins,
updates to the Division’s financial reporting manual,
no-action and interpretive letters, compliance and
disclosure interpretations on the Commission’s website,
and responses to telephone and email inquiries. During
FY 2017, CF will continue to assist the Commission, as
needed, with implementing any remaining rules mandated
by the Dodd-Frank Act and JOBS Act. CF will also assist
the Commission in finalizing the study of the Commission’s

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

disclosure rules required by the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation (FAST) Act, enacted in December 2015,
and in developing recommendations arising out of that
study for new or revised rules. In FY 2017, CF will also
provide assistance and interpretive guidance to small
businesses and other market participants related to the
Commission’s 2015 rules that allow for expanded access
to capital through crowdfunding and under Regulation A.

FY 2017 Request
The Division requests four additional positions in FY 2017
to meet its goals and to enhance its role in promoting
full, fair, and timely disclosure of information for investors.
The new positions will enable CF to strengthen its core
disclosure review program and meet any increased

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

workload in capital raising or transactional filings resulting
from changing market conditions, additional emerging
growth companies confidentially submitting registration
statements for non-public review, and additional small
business Regulation A filings resulting from the Commission’s
2015 rules changes. The new positions will also enable
CF to fully support the Commission’s rulemaking priorities,
including improving the effectiveness of reporting company
disclosure and implementing recommendations resulting
from the Regulation S-K study required by the FAST Act of
2015. Finally, the new positions will enable CF to respond
to anticipated increases in requests for assistance and
interpretive guidance from small businesses, investors,
and their representatives related to the rules adopted by
the Commission in 2015 to allow for expanded access
to capital through crowdfunding and under Regulation A.

WORKLOAD DATA
FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

4,480

4,480

4,480

IPO 1933 Act

595

595

595

New 1934 Act

125

125

125

New Issuer Reviews1

720

720

720

5,200

5,200

5,200

No-Action Letters/Interpretive Requests

125

125

125

No-Action Letters (Shareholder Proposals)

325

320

320

463

485

498

Activity
Review
Reporting Company Reviews
Number of New Issuer Reviews

Total Reviews
Rulemaking and Interpretive
General Advice and Coordination

Total Full-Time Equivalents

1	

Because of uncertain market and economic conditions, the Division does not project any growth in the level of transactional filings for future periods. Transactional
filings above the projected levels could result in an increase in review time and a reduced number of reviews of reporting companies for the year.

  69

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Division of Trading and Markets
FY 2015
Actual

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

243

264

276

$	57,024

$	63,874

$	68,343

18,103

16,546

16,966

$	75,127

$	80,420

$	85,309

Cost:	
		 Salaries and Benefits
		 Non-Personnel Expenses
	

Total Costs

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

132

69

75

0

The mission of the Division of Trading and Markets (TM,
or the Division) is to establish and maintain standards for
fair, orderly, and efficient markets, while fostering investor
protection and confidence in the markets. To meet the
mission requirements, TM has five functions, each
focused on a specific part of the markets. These include
Broker-Dealer Finance/Broker-Dealer Risk (OBDF/OBDR),
Chief Counsel (OCC), Clearance and Settlement (OCS),
Derivatives Policy and Trading Practices (ODPTP), and
Market Supervision (OMS). In addition, the Division has
two groups serving in supporting functions: the Office
of Analytics and Research (OAR) and the Office of the
Managing Executive (OME).
Overall, TM supervises the major market participants
in the U.S. securities markets, including 18 securities
exchanges (equities and options), 84 alternative trading
systems (ATSs), over 4,000 broker-dealers, six active
clearing agencies, over 400 transfer agents, FINRA, and
securities information processors. The Division also works
closely with the Office of Municipal Securities to supervise
the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) and
municipal advisors.
The scope of the Division’s supervisory responsibilities
is expected to continue to increase. Since FY 2006, the
number of exchanges registered with the Commission

PAGE

  70

has doubled to 18. In FY 2016 and FY 2017, the Division
expects to review and process registration applications
by up to four more entities seeking exchange registration.
The Division also anticipates that up to three new clearing
agencies will register with the Commission, as well as a
significant number of new registrants under the DoddFrank Act and the JOBS Act once registration requirements
established by those laws are implemented.
The Division is responsible for more than 30 separate
rulemaking initiatives under the Dodd-Frank Act. Many
of these rulemakings are the first step in new ongoing
supervisory and regulatory functions for the Division
that will extend into FY 2017. These initiatives and
functions include:
•	 Registration and regulation of security-based swap
data repositories (SDRs), SBSDs, MSBSPs, and swap
execution facilities;
•	 Regulatory reporting and public dissemination of
security-based swap data;
•	 Mandatory clearing of security-based swaps;
•	 Application of security-based swap rules to crossborder activities and persons engaged in those
activities;

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•	 Expanded regulation and supervision of clearing
agencies; and
•	 Ongoing implementation of final rules restricting certain
proprietary trading activities of broker-dealers under
the Volcker Rule, including interagency coordination
of interpretations, examinations, and enforcement of
the rules.
The JOBS Act also provided for “crowdfunding” brokers
and funding portals, creating a need for implementation
and oversight in conjunction with new rules.
As part of its ongoing duties to regulate the anti-money
laundering (AML) and counter-terrorist financing (CTF)
obligations of broker-dealers, TM serves on a Treasury-led
task force evaluating the government’s AML-CTF regime.
TM also continues to represent the SEC in the U.S.
delegation to the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), an
intergovernmental organization that develops and promotes
policies to combat money laundering and terrorist financing.
The Division provides technical assistance to the Department
of the Treasury, which heads the U.S. delegation to FATF
on issues pertaining to the securities industry, including the
upcoming evaluation by FATF of U.S.’ AML-CTF efforts.
In FY 2017, TM also will face growing demands in its
supervision of critical securities market infrastructure, with
respect to both the implementation of new Dodd-Frank
Act-related responsibilities and the expansion of its existing
oversight program. The Division will expand its oversight
of existing clearing agencies, particularly those that are
designated as systemically important by the Financial
Stability Oversight Committee (FSOC), and will continue
to review their rule filings on an ongoing basis. As with
exchanges, many clearing agency rule changes filed with
the SEC must be handled on a significantly expedited basis
under the Dodd-Frank Act. Additionally, TM will need to focus
on significant industry initiatives to reform clearing agency
practices with respect to disclosure of risk management
information, tri-party securities lending activities, and the
duration of the standard securities settlement cycle, among
other matters.
The need for better trading and market information for
the SEC and SROs to effectively conduct surveillance and
assess market activity across a wide range of trading venues
remains a priority for TM. In FY 2012, the Commission

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

adopted a rule directing SROs to implement a consolidated
audit trail that would capture order and other trade
information across all markets. TM expects to continue to
monitor the SROs’ progress in developing the consolidated
audit trail and to review and analyze the national market
system plan submitted by the SROs. This effort is going to
result in technology development and implementation, as
well as processes in support of analysis on the consolidated
audit trail data. This data is expected to become available
starting in FY 2017.
OAR, working with the Division of Economic and Risk
Analysis (DERA), will continue to publish both one-time
and recurring reports concerning liquidity, volatility and
other market characteristics, both to expand the amount of
publicly available information on these topics and to establish
a more sound empirical basis for future market structure
initiatives. Such tools will enable TM and other SEC staff to
perform regular analyses related to general market depth,
order flow, and liquidity, helping to further inform the SEC’s
rulemaking and market oversight.
TM will continue to monitor trading in the U.S. exchange and
OTC securities markets, as well as continue its analysis of
the economic research on market structure issues. TM will
consider initiatives to protect investors and improve the
quality of markets – particularly in light of the increasing
technological sophistication of the markets and the potential
for excessive market volatility, among other developments.
The Division will consider initiatives with respect to the OTC
equity markets, including a focus on fair competition among
these markets.
TM will continue to pursue initiatives to improve the market
structure for trading fixed income securities, including
municipal and corporate bonds. Current and ongoing
initiatives include the adoption of riskless principal markup
disclosure rules by FINRA and the MSRB and development
of Commission rule proposals designed to improve pre-trade
price transparency in these markets.
The SEC’s oversight of security-based swap clearing
agencies requires (1) ongoing reviews of the rulebooks
and proposed rule changes of these clearing agencies;
(2) reviews of their requests for exemptive orders and other
relief to better harmonize the practices of the CFTC and
the SEC; and (3) reviews of new clearing business initiatives
as the use of security-based swaps expands. TM expects

  71

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

greater workload associated with SEC rules related to
security-based swaps clearing, as many of the standards
and the associated registrations are new.
TM will continue rulemaking efforts regarding its supervision
of broker-dealers, including by conducting ongoing
monitoring of broker-dealers that use value-at-risk (VaR)
models to calculate net capital and assessing risks arising
from broker-dealer affiliates through the Section 17(h)
program. The Division also is reviewing proposals to enhance
the capital and liquidity arrangements by these firms. The
Division also expects to advance the last set of amendments
to the rules regarding the removal of statutory references to
credit ratings, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act.
The staff, in conjunction with the Office of Compliance
Inspections and Examinations (OCIE), expects to register
security based – swap dealers (SBSDs), major securitybased swap participants (MSBSPs), and municipal advisors
– in addition to already regulated broker-dealers on a rolling
basis, monitor market developments and promulgate new
rules where needed, and respond to interpretive requests.
The demand on agency resources of this registration
process will be especially high to the extent that firms are
permitted to use VaR models to calculate regulatory capital
and customer margin requirements. Currently, the Division
oversees six firms subject to the Alternative Net Capital rules,
and expects to add two firms to this group in FY 2016, that
will require monitoring in FY 2017 and beyond.
Other areas of focus in rulemaking and otherwise include:
•	 Expanded regulation and supervision of transfer agents;
•	 Facilitation of the Equity Market Structure Advisory
Committee;
•	 Implementation of ATS transparency;
•	 Market structure-related rule proposals;
•	 Establishing a uniform fiduciary standard of conduct
for all broker-dealers and investment advisers when
providing personalized investment advice; and
•	 Crowdfunding, including registration of crowdfunding
portals, market assessment and the three-year lookback study.
TM further expects that additional responsibilities will arise
based on the significant implementation efforts that will

PAGE

  72

be required for the rulemaking already underway. Once
implemented, each new programmatic responsibility will
require incorporation into the interpretation and guidance
function in order to provide response to inquiries from
registered entities.

FY 2017 Request
The Division will face significant new challenges in
FY 2017 regarding regulation and supervision of the U.S.
securities markets. In FY 2017, the Division plans to use
the seven additional positions requested to undertake
new market-related responsibilities resulting from ongoing
or recently completed rulemaking, as well as continuing
challenges in the area of market supervision. These positions
would be employed in the following areas:
Office of Clearance and Settlement: The Division would add
three positions to the Office of Clearance and Settlement.
One Attorney Advisor would help support international
initiatives to comprehensively address risks posed by
central counterparties, clearing agencies, and other financial
market infrastructure. The Office also would bring on board
a Financial Engineer to leverage their technical expertise in
support of domestic rulemaking and international initiatives.
This individual also would coordinate with peers in other
stakeholder groups to ensure forward progress against
goals. Finally, the Division would hire an additional Attorney
Advisor to work with risk staff and other stakeholders to
ensure appropriate supervision and monitoring of the 2-3
new clearing agencies and swap data repositories that are
expected to register in the next year.
Office of Market Supervision: The Division requests adding a
supervisory staff member to lead the effort to act upon the
large number of rule filings that are submitted by national
securities exchanges and FINRA and that must be acted
on within strict statutory deadlines.
Office of Broker-Dealer Finance/Broker-Dealer Risk: TM would
add one position to lead a new Analytics and Reporting
function dedicated to monitoring internal controls and
risk management practices of broker-dealers, including
compliance with the new business conduct rules. Also, TM
seeks to hire a staff member to improve reporting about
broker-dealer finances, perform cross-firm liquidity analysis,
and analyze fully the risks of the derivatives positions in
the firms.

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Office of Derivatives Policy and Trading Practices: TM requests
a new Attorney Advisor to assist in implementing procedures
for foreign regulators or market participants to apply for
substituted compliance, including performing interpretive

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

work on behalf of the Division, which would permit market
participants to comply with U.S. requirements by complying
with foreign requirements.

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity
Securities Firm Supervision
SRO Proposed Rule Changes Reviewed1
SEC Rulemaking, Exemptive Orders, and Interpretive and Other Actions
Interpretive, Exemptive, and No-Action Request Letters Closed2
Reviews of Potential Enforcement Actions
Registered Representative Reentry Applications Filed
Provision of Interpretation and Guidance and Responding to General Questions
TCRs
Risk Assessment of Broker-Dealers Filing Form 17-H
Firms Assessed
Filings Reviewed
Risk Supervision of Alternative Net Capital Broker-Dealers
Firms Assessed
Filings Reviewed
Risk Supervision of OTC Derivatives Dealers and Security-Based Swap Dealers
Firms Assessed
Filings Reviewed
Applications Reviewed
Broker-Dealers
Registrants
Registration Applications Filed
Registration Amendments Filed
Registrations Withdrawn or Cancelled
Financial Reports Filed
Security-Based Swap Dealers3
Registrants
Registration Applications Filed
Major Security-Based Swap Participants3
Registrants
Registration Applications Filed
Funding Portals
Full-Time Equivalents

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

80
4
34
1,320
23
7,300
667

83
5
30
1,300
20
7,300
700

77
5
30
1,300
20
7,300
700

50
265

75
300

100
325

6
72

8
96

8
96

4
48
0

12
144
8

12
144
0

4,191
147
11,703
355
6,731

4,075
140
11,000
340
6,500

4,000
130
10,500
330
6,300

0
0

3
3

28
25

0
0
0
122

0
0
50
132

2
2
100
138
(continued on next page)

1	

These data include filings, pre-filings, and amendments reviewed.

2	

These data include requests for which a formal response was not issued, such as items that were withdrawn, but omit routine correspondence (such as routine
broker-dealer financial responsibility correspondence and foreign control location letters filed under Rule 15c3-3 of the Securities Exchange Act).

3	

These data are included because of the expanded responsibilities assigned to the Commission under the Dodd-Frank Act. The requirement for security-based
swap dealers and major security-based swap participants to register with the Commission is subject to the completion of Commission rulemaking.

  73

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

WORKLOAD DATA (continued)
Activity

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Securities Market & Infrastructure Supervision
SRO Proposed Rule Changes and Advance Notices Reviewed1
NMS & SRO Plan Amendments Filed
SEC Rulemaking, Exemptive Orders, and Interpretive and Other Actions
Interpretive, Exemptive, and No-Action Request Letters Closed2

2,587
17
10
9

2,674
20
10
10

2,497
20
10
10

18
3
161
0

20
1
180
0

21
1
189
0

84
8
151
10
335

86
10
160
8
344

86
10
160
8
344

0
0
0

0
0
0

20
20
0

7
3

7
3

9
3

0
0

2
2

2
2

324
7
202
14
248

290
7
201
35
240

280
7
190
10
210

5,561
1,343
2,588
189
2,879
121

6,161
600
2,500
400
6,161
132

6,761
600
2,500
300
6,761
138

243

264

276

Securities Exchanges
Registrants
Registration Applications Filed
Registration Amendments Filed
Registrations Withdrawn or Cancelled
Alternative Trading Systems
Registrants
Initial Operations Reports Filed
Initial Operations Report Amendments Filed
Cessations
Quarterly Reports
Security-Based Swap Execution Facilities3
Registrants
Registration Applications Filed
Proposed Rule Changes Filed
Clearing Agencies (Active)
Registrants
Registration Applications Filed
Security-Based Swap Data Repositories
Registrants
Registration Applications Filed
Transfer Agents4
Registrants
Registration Applications Filed
Registration Amendments Filed
Registrations Withdrawn or Cancelled
Annual Reports Filed
Large Traders
Registrants
Registration Applications Filed
Registration Amendments Filed
Terminated or Inactive
Annual Reports Filed
Full-Time Equivalents
Total Full-Time Equivalents

PAGE

1	

These data include filings, pre-filings, and amendments reviewed.

2	

These data include requests for which a formal response was not issued, such as items that were withdrawn, but omit routine correspondence (such as routine
broker-dealer financial responsibility correspondence and foreign control location letters filed under Rule 15c3-3 of the Securities Exchange Act).

3	

These data are included because of the expanded responsibilities assigned to the Commission under the Dodd-Frank Act. The requirement for security-based
swap dealers and major security-based swap participants to register with the Commission is subject to the completion of Commission rulemaking.

4	

These data include only SEC-registered transfer agents and omit the approximately 100 transfer agents registered with a bank regulatory agency, which the
Commission also oversees.

  74

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Division of Investment Management
FY 2015
Actual

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

173

183

191

$	41,896

$	46,438

$	49,558

12,624

10,845

11,147

$	54,520

$	57,283

$	60,705

Cost:
		 Salaries and Benefits
		 Non-Personnel Expenses
	

Total Costs

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

75

53

59

4

Mutual funds are the largest segment of the investment
company industry, accounting for 87 percent of investment
company assets. Mutual funds’ assets under management
have grown from $94.5 billion at the end of 1979 to
$15.3 trillion at September 30, 2015, a more than 100 fold
increase. Over the same period, the number of mutual fund
portfolios has increased from 526 to 8,066.
New types of funds are growing in market share. Exchangetraded funds (ETFs) – open-end funds and unit investment
trusts whose shares list and trade on a national securities
exchange – have grown rapidly in recent years and
now account for approximately $2 trillion in assets, or
approximately 11 percent of the long-term U.S. openend investment company industry, primarily in passive,
index-based strategies. In June 2015, ETF trading was
approximately 28 percent of total daily exchange value.
Private funds have also grown significantly in number and
size. In addition, many mutual funds are now engaging in

alternative investment strategies, and some are making
extensive use of derivatives.
In the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, there has been a
significant flow of cash into bond funds accompanied by
a lesser but significant flow of cash out of equity funds.
From January 2009 to September 2015, approximately
$1 trillion flowed into bond mutual funds while approximately
$133 billion flowed out of equity funds.
GROWTH IN ASSETS OF THE INVESTMENT COMPANY INDUSTRY
DECEMBER 1983 — SEPTEMBER 2015
(DOLLARS IN BILLIONS)

$18,000
$16,000
$14,000
$12,000
$10,000
$8,000
$6,000
$4,000
$2,000
$0

1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
Sep 2015

The Division of Investment Management (IM) administers the
Investment Company Act of 1940 and Investment Advisers
Act of 1940 and develops regulatory policy for open-end
management investment companies (commonly known
as mutual funds), other investment companies, and for
investment advisers.

Other

ETFs

MM

Income/Hybrid

Equity

Note: “Other” Investment Companies include: Unit Investment Trusts and
Closed-End funds.

  75

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

As of October 1, 2015, there were 11,986 SEC-registered
investment advisers reporting approximately $66.8 trillion
in regulatory assets under management, which was an
eight percent increase from the beginning of FY 2015.
Approximately 60 percent of these advisers provide
investment advice to individuals. Approximately 37 percent
provide investment advice to private funds such as hedge
funds, private equity funds, and venture capital funds with
gross assets of about $10.4 trillion. In addition to registered
investment advisers, the SEC also receives reports from
approximately 3,047 exempt reporting advisers – advisers
that are exempt from registration with the SEC because they
are venture capital fund advisers or mid-sized private fund
advisers – that report managing approximately $2.3 trillion
in private funds.

Improved Reporting of Information about
Fund Operations and Portfolio Holdings
The financial crisis highlighted the importance of the
careful management of risk by funds and their advisers,
including portfolio composition risks and operational risks
in particular. In FY 2017, IM expects to continue to focus
considerable attention on a set of initiatives to enhance
investment management industry resilience to portfolio
composition risk and operational risk. The initiatives are
designed to:
•	 Improve the data and other information used by the
Commission to understand the risks of the asset
management industry and develop appropriate
regulatory responses. The Commission has benefited
from monthly portfolio and other information
reported by money market funds, which has been
used to inform policy, rulemaking, examination,
and enforcement use. In FY 2015, the Commission
proposed rules that are designed to modernize and
consolidate certain reporting forms and require more
frequent and enhanced reporting of portfolio holdings.
The rules would require all mutual funds (other than
money market funds), ETFs and closed-end funds to
file monthly portfolio holdings information and selected
volatility metrics with the Commission in a tagged
format and to file a new form with census-type data.
The staff expects to analyze comments and develop
recommendations for the Commission to adopt and
implement the rules in FY 2016 and FY 2017.

PAGE

  76

•	 Ensure that registered funds enhance their fund-level
controls so they are able to identify and address risks
related to their liquidity and use of derivatives.
In FY 2015, the Commission proposed reforms
to promote effective liquidity risk management
throughout the open-end fund industry. The proposed
reforms would require mutual funds and exchangetraded funds to implement liquidity risk management
programs and enhance disclosure regarding fund
liquidity and redemption practices. The proposal also
would provide a framework under which mutual funds
could elect to use “swing pricing.” The staff anticipates
reviewing comments received and developing
recommendations for the Commission to adopt and
implement the rules in FY 2016 and FY 2017.
In FY 2016, the Commission proposed a new rule that
would address the use of derivatives by registered
investment companies under Section 18 of the
Investment Company Act. The rule is designed to
enhance management and oversight of mutual fund,
ETF, and closed-end fund exposure to derivatives,
taking into account comments on the Commission’s
2011 Concept Release on the Use of Derivatives by
Registered Investment Companies. Our staff anticipates
reviewing comments received and developing
recommendations for the Commission to adopt and
implement the rules in FY 2016 and FY 2017.
•	 Ensure that firms have a plan for transitioning their
clients’ assets when circumstances warrant. Staff is
developing a recommendation to the Commission
to propose requiring investment advisers to create
and maintain transition plans reasonably designed
to address risks related to the transition of significant
numbers of clients.
•	 Implement the new requirements for annual stress
testing by large investment advisers and large funds,
as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Periodic stress
testing could help these firms and the Commission
better understand the potential impact of stress events
on the asset management industry, particularly in
assessing liquidity and redemption risk. The staff is
developing a recommendation that the Commission
propose rules providing methodologies and reporting
requirements.

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Other Rulemaking Initiatives

FY 2017 Request

In FY 2017, IM anticipates that additional staff time will be
devoted to pursuing other rulemaking initiatives, including
work towards establishing a uniform fiduciary standard of
conduct for all broker-dealers and investment advisers
when providing personalized investment advice about
securities to retail customers, and requiring third party
compliance reviews for registered investment advisers.

The SEC requests a total of seven new positons for the
Division of Investment Management to implement these
important policy objectives. Of these seven positions, IM
requests three personnel to conduct ongoing analysis
of data, including new data that would be submitted to
the SEC under the initiatives described above. The new
positions would be used to develop holdings, performance,
and risk analytics for portfolio and other data filed by more
than 15,000 investment company portfolios on new Forms
N-PORT (monthly) and N-CEN (annually), if adopted. The
new staff would also manage N-PORT and N-CEN data;
produce and evaluate analytical reports; resolve complex
data quality and data management issues; and work with
filers and filing agents to resolve process, definitional, and
computational issues associated with individual filings’
portfolio holdings or risk metrics.

Exchange Traded Funds
ETFs have unique attributes that present different regulatory
concerns than conventional investment companies. ETFs
are rapidly growing, increasingly complex financial products
whose activities raise disclosure, conflict of interest, and
market structure, and other issues. In FY 2017, IM plans
to continue to focus considerable attention on product
innovation and potential market stresses in this area,
including evaluating additional applications for exchangetraded funds that may involve novel and complex structures,
trading mechanisms, and index replication methodologies.

Risk and Examinations Office
The Risk and Examinations Office (REO) manages,
monitors, and analyzes industry data; engages in dialogues
with senior management and boards of significant asset
management firms; provides ongoing financial analysis of
the asset management industry, including the risk-taking
activities of investment advisers and investment companies;
gathers and analyzes through its examination function
operational information directly from participants in the asset
management industry; and maintains industry knowledge
and technical expertise for the Division. In FY 2017, REO
plans to devote additional resources to expand and improve
IM’s monitoring and oversight of the industry, hire additional
staff with industry, quantitative and computerized data
analysis expertise, and implement new data analytics based
on modernized data reporting.

IM also requests three additional positions to monitor
implementation of new liquidity, derivatives, stress testing
and transition planning requirements described above,
provide interpretive advice, and respond to exemptive
applications requests.
Finally, IM requests one new quantitative research analyst
position to support its Disclosure Review and Accounting
Office (DRAO). The new position would enhance IM’s
risk monitoring program by (1) applying sophisticated
quantitative analysis techniques to the review of disclosure
filings of investment companies whose investment
objectives seek to provide specified return, risk, or market
volatility results through use of complex option, futures, or
swaps strategies; and (2) providing subject matter expertise
to DRAO in connection with the process of identifying
selected comments that may be appropriate for a variety
of seemingly different options, futures or swaps strategies
that share similar risk/return profiles.

  77

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

WORKLOAD DATA
FY 2015
Actual

Activity

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Industry Statistics1
Investment Companies:
Number
Portfolios and Insurance Contracts
Complexes
Assets ($ trillions)
Investment Advisers:
Number
Advisers Reporting on Form PF
Assets under Management ($ trillions)

4,100
18,835
838
17.8

4,034
18,919
854
17.6

3,900
19,300
865
18.3

11,474
2,581
62.0

11,986
2,700
66.9

12,500
2,800
72.0

3,031
1,956
31,768
4,734
1,197
1,197
13,821
4,750
49,817
12,637
25%
62

2,950
1,910
31,450
4,735
1,325
1,325
14,300
4,761
50,025
12,731
25%
67

3,000
1,940
31,900
4,795
1,350
1,350
14,500
4,833
50,750
12,918
25%
70

1,273
521
321
58

1,258
700
325
62

1,258
750
325
64

Rulemaking
Full-Time Equivalents

31

34

34

Risk and Examinations
Full-Time Equivalents

22

20

23

173

183

191

Disclosure
Investment Company Filings:
New Portfolios and Insurance Contracts Filed on Registration Statements
New Portfolio Disclosures and Insurance Contracts Reviewed
Existing Portfolios and Insurance Contracts Filed on Post-Effective Amendments2,3
Existing Portfolio Disclosures and Insurance Contracts Reviewed3
Portfolios and Insurance Contracts Filed on Proxy Statements
Portfolios and Insurance Contracts Filed on Proxy Statements Reviewed
Annual and Periodic Reports Filed
Annual and Periodic Reports Partially Reviewed
Total Filings
Total Filings Reviewed
Percent Reviewed
Full-Time Equivalents
Interpretive Guidance
Formal and Informal Requests for Guidance
Enforcement-Related Matters Reviewed
Exemptive Relief Requests Concluded
Full-Time Equivalents

Total Full-Time Equivalents

PAGE

1	

Industry statistics are reported as of the beginning of the fiscal year while workload indicators are reported as of the end of the fiscal year.

2	

Included in post-effective amendments are open-end, closed-end, and unit investment trust portfolios.

3	

With respect to post-effective amendments, historically, over 90 percent of open-end and closed-end portfolios that contain material changes
in disclosure or in fund operations are reviewed. Amendments to UIT portfolios, because of their repetitive nature, generally are not reviewed.

  78

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Division of Economic and Risk Analysis
FY 2015
Actual

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

133

154

163

$	30,890

$	37,904

$	40,863

21,389

30,444

31,186

$	52,279

$	68,348

$	72,049

Cost:
		 Salaries and Benefits
		 Non-Personnel Expenses
	

Total Costs

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

68

57

23

15

The Division of Economic and Risk Analysis (DERA)
integrates sophisticated analysis of economic, financial,
and legal disciplines with data analytics and quantitative
methodologies in support of the SEC’s mission. The Division’s
expertise supports a spectrum of SEC activities including:
policymaking, rulemaking, enforcement, examination, and
data processing and risk analytics.
As part of the policy decision-making process, DERA uses
rigorous data analytics to produce high-quality analyses
that address the economic issues associated with the
regulation of the financial markets and enforcement of
Federal securities laws. These analyses typically involve
qualitatively analyzing the potential economic impacts of
a particular regulatory action, collecting and quantitatively
analyzing market data, evaluating pertinent academic
literature, and/or conducting follow-up monitoring or
review of market impacts. DERA economists conduct
studies mandated by Congress and the Commission that
support the Commission in crafting policies and regulations.
Economists also often develop and execute independent
analysis of salient economic issues and identify and
summarize current academic literature, which is frequently
used to suggest or support Commission actions.

In addition to its role in the rulemaking process, DERA also
performs the following functions:
•	 Working with Office of Compliance Inspections and
Examinations (OCIE) on developing new models,
methods, and tools in support of a risk-based
inspections program designed to help allocate
resources effectively in review and examination of
regulated entities;
•	 Providing analyses in support of the enforcement
program, including to detect market abuse and other
violations, calculate ill-gotten gains, and determine
penalties and disgorgement;
•	 Conducting in-depth and data-driven studies on
investors, other market participants, and financial
markets to inform the Commission on a variety of topics,
such as descriptive studies of current market conditions,
analyses of the potential effects of policy choices, and
reviews of the effects of recently implemented rules;
•	 Developing a framework for the analysis of public and
private financial data to proactively track market trends,
new products and new product reviews, and innovative
financial practices;

  79

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•	 Identifying, evaluating, and recommending ways
staff can use data, including interactive data, as well
as providing expertise in analytical and quantitative
research and support;
•	 Building relationships with a broad range of external
financial experts, whether in academia, the private
sector, or other agencies, in order to remain current on
new market developments and the latest in financial
research; and
•	 Sharing knowledge through the development and
publication of research which focuses on matters of
significance to the SEC.
DERA assists in the Commission’s efforts to identify, analyze,
and respond to risks and trends, including those associated
with new financial products and strategies. Because of the
range and nature of its activities, DERA serves the critical
function of promoting cross-agency collaboration that takes
advantage of the agency’s broad range of expertise. DERA
continues to amplify its expertise by bringing on board a
small cadre of academics under Intergovernmental Personnel
Agreements (IPAs) and experts under the Special Government
Employees authority. These individuals work closely with
DERA’s Financial Economists and actively contribute to the
Division’s mission functions and activities.

FY 2017 Request
The FY 2017 request focuses on expanding DERA’s core
expertise and capacity in the following crucial areas:
Economic Analysis and Research: The majority of DERA’s staff
provide economic analyses and conduct robust research in
support of Commission rulemaking and policy development.

PAGE

  80

Many of these staff also conduct research to enhance the
Division’s awareness and understanding of significant
financial market issues and potential solutions to identified
market failures and risks. There is a continued demand for
this expertise analyses across the SEC. In FY 2017, one
new Financial Economist position is requested to focus on
Commission considerations of Exchange Traded Funds and
Products. The incumbent will have strong programming and
empirical analysis skills and expertise in financial economics
sufficient to work on highly complex cases involving
policy issues.
Data Analytics, Technical Support, and Risk Assessment:
DERA provides data analytics, technical support, and
risk assessment to help focus the agency’s resources on
matters presenting the greatest perceived risks in litigation,
examinations, and registrant reviews. DERA will continue
working with staff throughout the SEC to develop analytical
approaches and tools to help inform policy, monitoring,
and surveillance activities. These efforts include continued
responsibility for management of the SEC’s Tips, Complains
and Referral (TCR) system. For FY 2017, a total of four new
positions are requested to further enhance DERA efforts in
this area. Specifically, the Division is requesting two Financial
Economists, one Research Associate, and one IT Specialist.
Program Support: The Office of Chief Counsel (OCC) delivers
extensive legal advice and support for DERA’s mission
essential functions and activities. Also, the OCC provides
guidance and counsel to the Chief Economist and staff
regarding legal issues implicated by the Division’s broad
mandate. The FY 2017 request includes one new attorney
adviser to support DERA’s work across the SEC.

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity
Reviews of Commission Rules1
Reviews of SRO Rules
Regulatory Flexibility Analyses2
Advice on Regulatory, Enforcement, and Risk Assessment Issues
Interactive Data Compliance Monitoring3
Interactive Data Programs Supported4
Total Full-Time Equivalents

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

71
52
47

78
54
50

82
56
53

3,555
9,475
10

3,660
9,250
13

3,845
9,030
13

133

154

163

1	

Inflationary factors are five percent and 10 percent for FY 2016 and FY 2017 respectively.

2	

Includes: (i) all initial and final Regulatory Flexibility Analyses or certifications included in a proposing or adopting release, as required by the Regulatory Flexibility
Act; and (ii) all rule reviews conducted consistent with the Regulatory Flexibility Act’s requirement to review rules within 10 years of publication.

3	

A program where filings containing interactive data are subjected to a risk-based analytical review process to assess compliance with Commission rules. The workload
data represents the population of filers subject to these procedures.

4	

The number of programs or data sets subject to current, pending or contemplated Commission requirements to be provided in interactive data format. DERA staff
supports these programs in a number of ways including: taxonomy development and maintenance, technology infrastructure development, rule writing support,
implementation guidance, and technical support.

  81

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Office of the General Counsel
FY 2015
Actual

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

135

145

150

$	33,391

$	37,312

$	39,540

10,345

9,623

9,772

$	43,736

$	46,935

$	49,312

Cost:
		 Salaries and Benefits
		 Non-Personnel Expenses
	

Total Costs

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

27

88

5

30

The General Counsel serves as the chief legal officer of the
Commission and heads the Office of the General Counsel
(OGC). OGC provides independent legal analysis and advice
to the Chair, Commissioners, and operating divisions on all
aspects of the Commission’s activities. OGC also defends
the Commission in Federal district courts, represents the
Commission in appellate matters and amicus curiae filings,
and oversees the SEC’s bankruptcy program.
In FY 2017, OGC anticipates continued work on initiatives
to reform the existing regulatory structure for the securities
markets and the financial services industry. OGC also expects
to continue to provide technical assistance to Congress and
other financial regulatory agencies on numerous legislative
initiatives and other matters, as well as continue to respond
to Congressional inquiries.

FY 2017 Request
OGC is seeking two positions for FY 2017, of which one is
for OGC’s Legal Policy Group and the other for the Office’s
General Litigation Group. These two positions would assist
in the following areas:
Legislative Activity and Technical Assistance: In FY 2017,
efforts to strengthen the framework for financial regulation
likely will involve continued legislative activity, for which OGC

PAGE

  82

will be tasked to provide ongoing technical assistance to
Congress and other financial regulatory agencies. OGC
also expects to prepare and review written testimony for
congressional hearings, and prepare and review responses
to Congressional correspondence. The high level of
Congressional interest in the SEC’s mission, organization,
and activities has resulted in the need to provide large
volumes of documents in response to specific Congressional
inquiries. In FY 2017, Congressional and public interest in
the Commission is expected to remain high.
Rulemaking Activities: OGC expects to advise the divisions and
offices on a continued high number of rulemaking initiatives
to implement the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as other rulemaking initiatives such as rules designed to: improve transparency and investor protection; facilitate capital raising in small
offerings; improve practices in the asset-backed securities
markets; and address market structure developments.
Investigations Support: In FY 2017, OGC anticipates increased
workload related to a larger number of enforcement actions
and the high volume of enforcement cases against attorneys
practicing before the Commission who may have engaged
in unethical or improper conduct. This workload also will
be affected by the increase in whistleblower complaints
received from outside sources. OGC also anticipates that
the volume of labor and employee relations matters requiring

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

OGC assistance will rise with the size of the SEC’s workforce,
and OGC expects to receive an increase in the number of

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests and appeals
in FY 2017.

WORKLOAD DATA
FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

161

159

167

Pending Beginning of Year

44

57

62

Received

52

55

55

Completed

46

50

50

Pending End of Year

57

62

67

6

20

20

Correspondence with Congress and Others

116

180

180

Legislative Analysis and Technical Assistance

412

380

380

Other1

122

110

110

Activity
Appellate Cases:
Open Matters
Adjudicatory Matters:

Legislation:
Testimony

Advisory Services:
SEC Statutes
Analysis of Enforcement Memoranda

2,090

2,050

2,200

Review of Rulemaking and Other Projects

538

600

630

Review of Articles and Speeches

349

280

300

FOIA – Internal Appeals

492

500

505

Personnel Matters

204

275

300

Procurement Matters

700

730

740

25

25

25

341

370

370

57

60

60

60

62

63

Filed

42

43

44

Closed

10

10

10

Filed

18

19

19

Closed

Non-SEC Statutes

Labor Matters
Attorney Misconduct Investigations
Other (Subpoenas)
Corporate Reorganization:
Petitions Involving Public Investor Interest
Chapter 11 Cases: Appearances

Chapter 11 Cases: Monitored
12

12

12

Disclosure Statement Reviews

50

60

65

Disclosure Statements Commented On

28

35

40

135

145

150

Total Full-Time Equivalents

1	

“Other” consists of a variety of projects, including attending congressional hearings and monitoring legislation.

  83

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Other Program Offices
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters
		 Office of Chief Accountant

45

48

50

		 Office of Investor Education and Advocacy

39

41

44

		 Office of International Affairs

49

53

55

		 Office of Administrative Law Judges

14

13

13

5

8

9

37

45

48

6

7

8

195

215

227

$	46,384

$	53,894

$	58,178

16,437

17,755

18,250

$	62,821

$	71,649

$	76,428

		 Office of the Investor Advocate
		 Office of Credit Ratings
		 Office of Municipal Securities
		 Total Full-Time Equivalents
Cost:	
		 Salaries and Benefits
		 Non-Personnel Expenses
	

Total Costs

This section of the SEC’s request includes chapters that
describe the responsibilities and activities of the agency’s
smaller program offices, including:
Office of Chief Accountant: Establishes accounting and
auditing policy and works to improve the professional
performance of public company auditors to ensure that
financial statements used for investment decisions are
presented fairly and have credibility.
Office of Investor Education and Advocacy:  Serves investors
who complain to the SEC about investment fraud or the
mishandling of their investments by securities professionals,
ensures the views of retail investors inform the Commission’s
regulatory policies and disclosure programs, and works to
improve investors’ financial literacy.
Office of International Affairs:  Advances international
regulatory and enforcement cooperation, promotes
converged high regulatory standards worldwide, and
facilitates technical assistance programs in foreign countries.
Office of Administrative Law Judges:  Adjudicates allegations
of securities law violations.

PAGE

  84

Office of the Investor Advocate:  Provides assistance to
investors in resolving significant problems they may have
with the SEC or with self-regulatory organizations (SROs),
and identifying areas in which investors would benefit from
changes to Federal laws or to SEC regulations or SRO rules.
Office of Credit Ratings:  Administers the rules of the
Commission with respect to the practices of nationally
recognized statistical rating organizations (NRSROs) in
determining ratings; protects the users of credit ratings;
promotes accuracy in credit ratings issued by NRSROs;
and ensures that such ratings are not unduly influenced by
conflicts of interest.
Office of Municipal Securities:  Administers the rules of the
Commission with respect to the practices of municipal
securities brokers and dealers, municipal advisors, and
investors in, and issuers of, municipal securities. The office
also coordinates with the Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board (MSRB) on rulemaking and enforcement actions.

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Office of the Chief Accountant
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

45

48

50

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

18

16

16

0

The Office of the Chief Accountant (OCA) is responsible for
establishing and interpreting accounting policy to enhance
the transparency and relevancy of financial reporting
for investors. OCA works to improve the professional
performance of public company auditors to ensure
that financial statements used for investment decisions
are presented fairly and have credibility. OCA leads the
SEC’s efforts to oversee accounting standard-setting by
the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and
the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB),
and auditor oversight and standard-setting by the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB).
In FY 2015, OCA engaged in further outreach and analysis
regarding possible paths forward for incorporating IFRS
into the U.S. financial reporting system for U.S. issuers.
Furthermore, OCA focused on implementation of the new
converged accounting standard on revenue recognition.
In addition, in FY 2015, OCA coordinated with the PCAOB
as the Commission considered revisions to audit committee
disclosures and the PCAOB moved forward with its project to
improve transparency through disclosure of the engagement
partner and other participants in the audit.
OCA also continued to support the Commission in reviewing
PCAOB inspection findings and processing requests for
review, evaluating new PCAOB auditing standards and
interpretations and overseeing other PCAOB matters.
In addition to these areas of focus, in 2015, OCA, with
the assistance from staff from the Office of Compliance
Inspections and Examinations, planned and began

preparing for an inspection of a PCAOB program area, to
be conducted in FY 2016.
In FY 2016, OCA plans to conduct the inspection of a
PCAOB program area described above. OCA also plans
to continue to oversee the PCAOB’s efforts to improve audit
quality by revising its standard-setting process, with a focus
on improving its timeliness in this regard. Given the growth of
the PCAOB in recent years and the expansion of its authority,
OCA will need to increase its PCAOB oversight efforts.
Such efforts may include this type of review of PCAOB
program areas as appropriate. In addition, OCA will continue
to monitor FASB/IASB standard setting and transition
activities for new standards for revenue recognition, leasing,
consolidation, financial instruments, and credit losses.

FY 2017 Request
OCA requests at two additional positions in FY 2017 to
support planned initiatives, goals and objectives. OCA’s
primary initiatives, goals and objectives include the oversight
of the FASB/IASB standard setting and transition activities
for new, comprehensive standards on revenue recognition,
leasing, financial instruments and credit losses. Additionally
for oversight of the PCAOB, support for other division and
office rule-making through consultation on significant
accounting and auditing matters, provide accounting and
auditing training and advice to CF in the context of their filing
review program and to ENF in the context of enforcement
of the federal securities laws, and executing OCA-led
rulemaking and policy initiatives.

  85

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Rulemaking Initiatives

40

40

44

U.S. Standard-Setting Projects/Issues Monitored

82

82

82

Consultations with Foreign Regulators on
Accounting Interpretations/Compliance

44

58

58

IASB Standards/Interpretations Monitored

139

139

139

12

14

15

1

3

1

International:

International Auditing and Independence Standards Monitored
SEC and IOSCO Rulemaking/Policy/Other Statements Issued
Registrant Contacts:
Written Correspondence/Resolution of Accounting Issues
Consultation on Potential Enforcement Investigations
102 (e) Reinstatement Applications Processed
Member appointments to PCAOB, Financial Accounting Foundation, and FASB
Quality Reviews of Accounting Firms Conducted by PCAOB Subject to SEC Oversight
Rules Adopted by PCAOB and Approved by SEC
Auditing Standards/Interpretations Issued by PCAOB and Approved by SEC

140

140

330

350

21

21

21

6

6

6

293

287

300

2

2

5

6

13

15

412

475

500

0

1

1

Public Awareness, Outreach and Market Research Initiatives

45

46

48

Total Full-Time Equivalents

45

48

50

Independence Inquiries
Inspection of PCAOB programs

PAGE

140
305

  86

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

39

41

44

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

0

0

44

0

The Office of Investor Education and Advocacy (OIEA)
seek to provide individual investors with the information
they need to make sound investment decisions. OIEA
administers two primary programs to promote this mission:
assisting individual investors with complaints and inquiries
about the securities markets and market participants, and
conducting educational outreach to individual investors.
OIEA also helps to inform Commission policy by advising
the Commission and Commission staff on various issues
from the perspective of the individual investor, including
with respect to rulemakings, Investor Advisory Committee
recommendations, and through IOSCO’s Committee on
Retail Investors.

Research indicates that many individuals are not taking
key steps to protect their money from investment fraud,
including researching the background of an investment
professional before investing. In FY 2016, OIEA plans to
launch a public service campaign pilot focused on helping
individuals protect themselves from investment fraud,
including raising awareness about Investor.gov. The Office
expects that this campaign will drive increased traffic to
Investor.gov which will in turn significantly increase the
number of investor inquiries and questions received by
the Office going forward, including in FY 2017.

Each year, OIEA has contact with millions of individuals
through its investor assistance and education programs.
OIEA assists investors who contact the SEC with questions
or to complain about the perceived mishandling of their
investments by investment professionals and others.
Through its investor education program, OIEA produces
and distributes educational materials, leads educational
seminars and investor-oriented events, and partners
with other Federal agencies, state regulators, consumer
groups, and self-regulatory organizations on financial
literacy initiatives. OIEA plays an important role in the
Commission’s key initiatives aimed at protecting investors,
including helping senior citizens and military families guard
against securities fraud.

The Office is seeking two new positions to expand its investor
assistance efforts. The Office estimates it will respond to an
increased level of investor assistance requests compared to
previous years. These positions are needed to address this
increasing workload, maintain response times for investor
contacts and improve quality assurance.

FY 2017 Request

  87

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Investor Assistance
Total Investor Assistance Matters Closed1

19,509

22,000

25,000

Seven Days

65%

62%

62%

30 Days

93%

90%

90%

29

30

33

23,600,000

30,000,000

37,500,000

Percentage of Investor Assistance Matters Closed Within:

Full-Time Equivalents
Investor Education2
Page Views on OIEA Web Pages
In-Person Investor Events

71

75

80

6,700,000

10,000,000

10,000,000

Number of investor alerts and bulletins issued

31

32

34

Full-Time Equivalents

10

11

11

Total Full-Time Equivalents

39

41

44

Direct Mailing Campaign

PAGE

1	

Includes files relating to complaints, questions, and other contacts received from investors.

2	

OIEA’s workload items have been streamlined to highlight the office’s key investor education activities. Publications distributed, number of joint alerts and bulletins
issued, and Divisions’ initiatives supported have been deleted. The number of investor alerts and bulletins also has been moved to the investor education activity,
thereby eliminating the need for a separate listing of OIEA’s legal and policy activities.

  88

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Office of International Affairs
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

49

53

55

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

15

20

6

14

The Office of International Affairs (OIA) advances the SEC’s
mission by promoting international enforcement and
supervisory cooperation, developing and implementing
strategies to further SEC policy interests in the regulation
and oversight of cross-border securities activities, managing
and executing the SEC’s participation in international
regulatory bodies, engaging in regulatory dialogues with our
international counterparts, and providing technical assistance
to strengthen partnerships with foreign authorities.
OIA has four primary functional areas:
•	 Enforcement Cooperation
•	 Regulatory Policy and Relationships with
Foreign Counterparts
•	 Supervisory Cooperation
•	 Technical Assistance.

Enforcement Cooperation
Investigative and Litigation Support: OIA staff assists the
SEC’s Division of Enforcement with hundreds of requests
for international assistance each year, particularly in the area
of coordination of parallel proceedings with foreign securities
and law enforcement authorities. This assistance is provided
through all stages from investigation, through litigation, to
the conclusion of the matter. OIA assists Enforcement with
efforts to freeze and repatriate assets held in foreign nations
and provides guidance to foreign counterparts in their efforts
to secure the proceeds of fraud present within the U.S.

International Enforcement Policy: OIA actively participates in
multilateral efforts to enhance international enforcement
cooperation, representing the SEC on multiple International
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) committees
and steering groups. OIA coordinates with foreign counterparts
to develop policies relating to enforcement matters, and to
promote international cooperation among securities regulators
in their respective investigations and cases.

Regulatory Policy and Relationships
with Foreign Counterparts
OIA supports the SEC’s prominent role in international
bodies of securities regulators such as IOSCO and the
Financial Stability Board (FSB). Through these entities,
the SEC addresses international regulatory issues by
developing international guidance, recommendations and
standards, and assessing the implementation of foreign
financial market reforms and their ramifications for U.S.
investors. The SEC is involved in multiple IOSCO policy
committees, working groups and task forces, and influences
IOSCO’s contributions to the FSB. For example, the SEC
is working with IOSCO to develop a toolbox of approaches
for regulating market conduct.
OIA will also continue to work with the Office of the Chief
Accountant in managing the SEC’s representation in the
International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation
Monitoring Board, as well as monitoring the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board’s inspection of registered foreign
audit firms.

  89

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

In FY 2017, OIA anticipates that the pace of regulatory action
in other jurisdictions will increase, particularly in the European
Union. OIA will inform and advise the Commission and
staff about these developments with the goal of promoting
opportunities for converged approaches to high quality
regulatory standards.

demand for international cooperation. Moreover, the demand
for supervisory MOUs with foreign regulators will grow as
regulators look to share information and exchange views
in cross-border supervisory matters.

OIA also coordinates and participates in bilateral dialogues
with foreign counterparts on securities markets issues. OIA
also participates in dialogues led by the Treasury Department,
including the U.S.-EU Financial Markets Regulatory Dialogue,
NAFTA Financial Services Committee, U.S.-EU Financial
Services Committee, US-China Strategic and Economic
Dialogue, and U.S.-India Financial Regulatory Dialogue.

OIA provides technical assistance to foreign securities
regulators through a number of activities, such as conducting
the annual Institute for International Enforcement and the
International Institute for Market Development; holding
training programs for foreign regulatory and law enforcement
counterparts; providing assessments or “peer reviews” of
other entity’s regulatory oversight regimes; and handling
special projects including foreign visits to the SEC and
arranging for foreign authorities to accompany SEC staff
on examinations.

Supervisory Cooperation
The OIA supervisory cooperation group focuses on four
areas: (1) assisting other SEC divisions and offices in the
supervision of cross-border regulated entities by facilitating
cooperation with foreign counterparts, including conducting
on-site examinations abroad and addressing cross-border
registration issues; (2) responding to requests from foreign
counterparts in supervisory matters; (3) developing and
implementing supervisory memorandum of understandings
(MOUs) aimed at facilitating cooperation in the oversight of
cross-border regulated entities; and (4) providing subject
matter expertise on multilateral projects involving supervisory
cooperation issues.
Supervisory cooperation activities are expected to increase
in the future as the Offices of Compliance Inspections and
Examinations (OCIE) and Credit Ratings (OCR) continue to
expand their examination programs, generating additional

PAGE

  90

Technical Assistance

FY 2017 Request
OIA is requesting one new position for the international
enforcement cooperation and assistance section, to enable
the enforcement cooperation team to more effectively
respond to Division of Enforcement and foreign requests for
assistance in the area of investigation and litigation support.
OIA is also seeking a new position in the regulatory policy
area, due to the increasing number of projects undertaken
by the international organizations in which the Commission
participates, a heightened level of bilateral engagement
with foreign authorities, and an increased intensity of
multilateral assessment processes which will begin as
more international standards are developed by standardsetting bodies.

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

WORKLOAD DATA
FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

SEC Enforcement Division Requests to SEC OIA for International Assistance1

929

897

946

Responses to Foreign Requests for SEC Enforcement Assistance2

531

570

570

Activity

Trained3

1,666

1,700

1,800

SEC Requests for Supervisory Cooperation Assistance4

135

139

143

Responses to Foreign Requests for SEC Supervisory Cooperation Assistance5

113

116

120

132

140

150

49

53

55

Number of International Regulatory and Law Enforcement Officials

International Regulatory

Initiatives6

(including regulatory initiatives)

Total Full-Time Equivalents

1	

OIA’s FY 2017 projection uses a linear trend line analysis of the results for the last five years.

2	

As with the Division of Enforcement’s Requests to OIA, OIA’s FY 2017 projection for Responses to Foreign Requests uses a linear trend line analysis of the results
for the last five years.

3	

The FY 2016 and FY 2017 figures are contingent on the availability of sufficient domestic and foreign resources.

4	

OIA projects a three percent increase in the number of requests for supervisory cooperation assistance from SEC staff, including the Office of Compliance Inspections
and Examinations, the Office of Credit Ratings, and the Division of Trading and Markets.

5	

OIA projects a three percent increase in the number of foreign requests for the SEC assistance in supervisory matters.

6	

The Regulatory Policy Unit revised its workload tracking system in FY 2015 to improve reporting consistency. For this purpose, the Regulatory Policy Unit tracks
bilateral and multilateral engagements for the Chair, Commissioners, and OIA senior staff that the Regulatory Policy Unit coordinates and supports. The Regulatory
Policy Unit also supports staffs throughout the agency on internal projects with international aspects and international projects that are not quantified in this tracking
mechanism.

  91

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Office of Administrative Law Judges
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

14

13

13

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

0

13

0

0

The Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ) supports the
mission of the SEC by conducting administrative hearings
and issuing initial decisions from Commission Orders
Instituting Proceedings.
Administrative Law Judges serve as independent
adjudicators. Under the Administrative Procedure Act and
the Commission’s Rules of Practice, administrative law
judges conduct public hearings at locations throughout
the United States in a manner similar to non-jury trials
in the Federal district courts. Among other actions, they
issue subpoenas, hold prehearing conferences, and rule
on motions and the admissibility of evidence.

FY 2017 Request
In FY 2017, OALJ anticipates the Commission will institute
and order public hearings in 230 proceedings, although the
exact number and specific nature of these cases is unknown.
This estimate reflects the increasingly heavy and complex
caseload the Office has experienced in recent years. OALJ
requests one attorney to help in addressing this caseload.

WORKLOAD DATA
FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

96

90

80

Ordered for Hearing

226

230

230

Disposed

232

240

240

56

60

60

Activity
Proceedings Inventory:
Pending Disposition Beginning of Year

Canceled Before Hearing
Canceled After Hearing
Initial Decision Issued
Pending Disposition End of Year
Total Full-Time Equivalents

PAGE

  92

0

0

0

176

180

180

90

80

70

14

13

13

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Office of the Investor Advocate
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

5

8

9

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

6

0

3

0

The Office of the Investor Advocate (OIAD) is required by
Section 915 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) and was
established during FY 2014. The Office is responsible for,
among other things, identifying areas in which investors
would benefit from changes to Federal laws, SEC regulations,
or the rules of self-regulatory organizations (SROs), and for
providing assistance to investors in resolving significant
problems they may have with the SEC or SROs.

Activities must summarize the most serious problems
encountered by investors during the reporting period,
identify any Commission or SRO action that was taken to
address those problems, and recommend, as appropriate,
any administrative and legislative actions to resolve problems
encountered by investors.

Investor Advocacy: Consistent with the requirements of
Section 915 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office is responsible
for identifying problems that investors have with financial
service providers and investment products; analyzing the
potential impact on investors of proposed regulations and
rules; identifying areas in which investors would benefit from
changes in SEC regulations or SRO rules; and proposing
changes in regulations, legislation, or administration
of programs that may mitigate problems identified. The
additional position requested in FY 2016 will provide counsel
to the Investor Advocate on matters arising out of the Division
of Corporation Finance.

Ombudsman: The Investor Advocate is required by Section
919D of the Dodd-Frank Act to appoint an Ombudsman
who will act as a liaison between the SEC and any retail
investor in resolving problems that retail investors may have
with the SEC or SROs. The Ombudsman must also review
policies and procedures and make recommendations to
encourage the investing public and other interested persons
to submit questions to the Investor Advocate regarding
compliance with the securities law. The Ombudsman
is also required to establish safeguards to maintain the
confidentiality of communications between these persons
and the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman must evaluate
the effectiveness of this program and submit semiannual
reports to the Investor Advocate for inclusion in the reports
to Congress.

Reports to Congress: The Office is responsible for submitting
two reports to Congress per year. A Report on Objectives
is due not later than June 30 of each year, and its purpose
is to set forth the objectives of the Investor Advocate for
the following fiscal year. A Report on Activities is due no
later than December 31 of each year, and it describes the
activities of the Investor Advocate during the immediately
preceding fiscal year. Among other things, the Report on

Investor Advisory Committee: The Investor Advocate serves
as a member of the Investor Advisory Committee, which is
authorized by Section 911 of the Dodd-Frank Act, as codified
under Section 39 of the Exchange Act. This committee
advises and consults with the SEC on regulatory priorities
and protection of investors. The Office of the Investor
Advocate provides support and assistance to this advisory
committee to assist it with fulfilling its statutory mission.

  93

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

FY 2017 Request
OIAD requests one additional attorney in FY 2017 to
counsel the Investor Advocate on matters arising out of the
Division of Investment Management, as well as to provide
operational support to the Investor Advisory Committee
(IAC).With this additional staff member, the Office will have

an attorney assigned to review and evaluate rulemakings
in each of the major SEC rulemaking divisions. These
attorneys function as OIAD’s subject-matter experts on
issues related to their assigned divisions. In addition, they
provide valuable assistance to the IAC on any issues related
to their areas of expertise.

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Investor Advocacy:
SEC Rulemakings Reviewed

7

12

30

SRO Rulemakings Reviewed

12

83

100

5

6

8

16

18

12

Investor Inquiries2

499

625

800

Matters Opened

499

625

800

Matters Closed

394

575

750

8

12

16

Policy Recommendations1 to SEC, SROs, or Congress
Outreach Events/Speeches
Ombudsman:

Outreach Events/Speeches
Investor Advisory Committee Support:
In-Person Committee Meetings
Subcommittee Meetings/Briefings
Total Full-Time Equivalents

PAGE

4

4

4

30

36

30

5

8

9

1	

This includes only formal written recommendations of the Investor Advocate, not informal policy recommendations or advocacy. Pursuant to Exchange Act Sec.
4(g)(7), the Commission is required to respond to formal recommendations within 90 days.

2	

This includes all complaints, questions, and other contacts from investors. [“Investor Inquiries” and “Matters Opened” are the same number for our purposes – we
do not distinguish between the two. Every “Investor Inquiry” generates a “Matter Opened.” The 499 “Investor Inquiries” and “Matters Opened” for FY 2015 represent
the number of initial matters (initial complaints, questions, and other contacts) from investors. Follow-on matters (repeated calls/emails, duplicate requests, additional
questions on the same matter, etc.) are not included in the 499]

  94

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Office of Credit Ratings
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

37

45

48

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

11

34

2

1

The Office of Credit Ratings (“OCR” or the “Office”) is
charged with administering Commission rules with respect
to the practices of nationally recognized statistical rating
organizations (NRSROs). These rules are aimed towards
promoting accuracy in credit ratings issued by NRSROs,
ensuring that credit ratings are not unduly influenced
by conflicts of interest, and helping to ensure that firms
provide greater disclosure to investors. In support of this
mission, OCR conducts policy oversight of NRSROs and
conducts examinations.
OCR is responsible for presenting recommendations to
the Commission on policy and rulemaking with respect to
NRSROs, consulting with other SEC divisions and offices
as appropriate. OCR also works to: (1) implement rules
pertaining to NRSROs; (2) develop recommendations on
requests for Commission exemptive relief from the rules;
(3) prepare responses to requests for staff “no-action” relief
from the rules; and (4) formulate staff guidance and other
interpretive positions.
Examination of NRSROs for compliance with the Federal
securities laws and Commission rules accounts for the
majority of OCR’s workload. The Dodd-Frank Act requires
that OCR conduct an examination of each NRSRO at least
annually, in eight review areas prescribed by the Act.
OCR also conducts special targeted examinations based
on particular issues and to follow-up on tips, complaints,
and NRSRO self-reported incidents. OCR employs
a risk-based approach to exam planning, identifying
different risks for different NRSROs so that resources are

prioritized and appropriately focused on areas of higher
risk. The examinations of the larger or more complex
NRSROs are staffed with a quantitative analyst to provide
analytical support directly alongside the examination
teams. The Office also participates in discussions with
international regulators of the globally-active credit rating
agencies to determine potential areas of focus for domestic
NRSRO examinations.
OCR’s annual examinations in FY 2016 will include a
comprehensive review of NRSROs’ compliance with the
comprehensive new rules and rule amendments. OCR
expects that the FY 2017 examinations will include a
significant amount of testing and follow-up to ensure that the
NRSROs are complying with the new rules. OCR will further
review registrants’ technological initiatives, cybersecurity
governance, and risk assessment processes relating to
access rights, data loss prevention, vendor management,
training, and incident response. In addition, OCR will further
evaluate credit models quantitatively and qualitatively and
will initiate specialized examinations to conduct sweeps and
targeted examinations as appropriate.
When necessary, OCR’s examinations will result in a referral
to the Division of Enforcement. Since June 2012 when OCR
was formed, there have been three settled enforcement
matters against NRSROs.
Separate from the examination function, the NRSRO
monitoring and constituent monitoring functions within OCR
are responsible for gathering, analyzing, and assessing data
and identifying trends across the industry. This information

  95

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

may be useful for examination scoping, determining and
communicating best practices for NRSROs, and guiding
the direction for future policy activities or rulemakings
related to NRSROs. As part of the monitoring activities,
OCR meets with NRSRO boards of directors (including
a separate discussion with the independent directors) to
engage them in broader policy discussions. OCR also holds
meetings with investors, issuers, arrangers, industry trade
groups and other market participants.
The OCR monitoring function is also responsible for:
•	 reviewing applications for registration as an NRSRO
and applications to register for an additional asset class
or classes, and then developing recommendations for
the Commission;
•	 reviewing the annual and periodic updates submitted
by existing registrants on Form NRSRO;

•	 reviewing the NRSRO Employment Transition Reports
for former employees of NRSROs; and
•	 receiving tips from NRSROs that are reported pursuant
to Section 15E(u) of the Securities Exchange Act.

FY 2017 Request
For FY 2017, the SEC is requesting two additional Securities
Compliance Examiners positions for OCR. These new
positions will establish a dedicated team to focus on
specialized, targeted examination work and to be responsive
to market events that require immediate attention. OCR’s risk
assessments identify different risks for different NRSROs,
and many of the identified issues require follow-up through
targeted examination work on an expedited basis. This
specialized examination team will bolster OCR’s examination
function and allow OCR’s other examiners to focus on the
statutorily-mandated, annual examinations of each NRSRO.

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity
Annual Examinations and Other Examination Compliance Activities

PAGE

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

20

30

23

Studies, Reports and Related Matters

7

8

8

Regulatory and Legislative Initiatives

1

12

12

Orders and No-Action Letters

3

10

10

Monitoring Meetings

46

46

50

Form NRSRO – Initial Applications and Annual Certifications

47

47

47

Enforcement/TCR

40

44

48

International Activities

38

43

45

Business Processes

30

35

37

Total Full-Time Equivalents

37

45

48

  96

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Office of Municipal Securities
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

6

7

8

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

4

2

2

0

The Office of Municipal Securities (OMS) was created in
FY 2012 as an independent office that reports directly
to the SEC Chair, as required by Sec. 979 of the DoddFrank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
(Dodd-Frank Act). OMS is responsible for overseeing the
$3.7 trillion municipal securities market and administering the
Commission’s rules pertaining to municipal securities brokers
and dealers, municipal advisors, investors in municipal
securities, and municipal issuers. OMS also coordinates
with the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB)
on rulemaking and enforcement actions.
OMS coordinates the SEC’s municipal securities
activities, administers SEC rules relating to the municipal
securities market, oversees MSRB rulemaking, informs
the Commission on current market issues, advises the
Commission on policy matters relating to the municipal
securities market, and provides technical assistance in the
development and implementation of major SEC initiatives
in the municipal securities market. OMS assists other SEC
offices and divisions, including the Office of Compliance
Inspections and Examinations (OCIE) and the Division of
Enforcement (ENF), on a wide array of municipal securities
matters. OMS monitors current developments and emerging
risks in the municipal securities market and communicates
its observations and conclusions to other SEC offices
and divisions and other regulators for possible regulatory
responses. OMS’s workload is anticipated to grow due to
the expanding responsibilities of OMS and the offices OMS
directly supports, such as OCIE and ENF.

OMS has significant responsibilities derived from the
implementation of Sec. 975 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which
amended the Exchange Act to require the registration of
municipal advisors with the SEC and provided for their
regulation by the MSRB. OMS continues to implement
the final rules adopted in FY 2013 for municipal advisor
registration by monitoring and improving the SEC’s
registration system for municipal advisors, participating
in the review of municipal advisor registrations, reviewing
and processing MSRB rule filings related to municipal
advisor regulation, advising OCIE regarding inspections
and examinations of municipal advisors, coordinating with
the MSRB and FINRA to assure fair and uniform application
of new rules applicable to municipal advisors, and providing
interpretive guidance to those market participants who may
be required to register as municipal advisors.
In addition, OMS acts as the Commission’s liaison to the
MSRB, FINRA, the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) Office
of Tax-Exempt Bonds, and a variety of investor and industry
groups and regulators on municipal securities issues.
OMS interacts closely with the MSRB and is responsible
for reviewing and processing all MSRB rule filings. OMS
communicates with the MSRB Chairman, Board and staff
concerning MSRB activities, market developments, and
potential improvements of MSRB systems that either collect
information for regulators or provide information to the public.
OMS will continue to lead semiannual meetings with the
MSRB and FINRA regarding the municipal securities market,
as required by the Dodd-Frank Act; meet with MSRB and

  97

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

FINRA staff regularly; meet with IRS staff pursuant to the
SEC’s memorandum of understanding with the IRS; and
coordinate with other regulators as needed. OMS also
will continue to work closely with the municipal securities
industry to educate state and local governmental officials
and conduit borrowers about the Commission’s rules and
to foster a thorough understanding of the Commission’s
policies among all market participants.

FY 2017 Request
OMS is requesting one new attorney position to support
the office’s responsibilities mandated by Sec. 979 of the
Dodd-Frank Act. Specifically, the additional staff position will
support OMS’s considerable responsibilities to implement
the new regulatory regime for municipal advisors as
described above.

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity
SRO Proposed Rule Changes Reviewed1

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

16

16

18

SEC Rulemaking and Interpretive Actions

0

2

3

Interpretive, Exemptive, and No-Action Request Letters Closed

0

1

1

Reviews of Potential Enforcement Actions

15

17

20

800

800

900

28

30

35

Registrants

666

750

800

Registration Applications Filed

421

134

100

Registration Amendments Filed

539

1,000

1,120

35

50

50

6

7

8

Congressional, Governmental, Industry, and Public Correspondence and Inquiries2
Public Awareness and Market Outreach
Municipal Advisors3

Registrations Withdrawn or Canceled
Total Full-Time Equivalents

PAGE

1	

This data includes filings, pre-filings, and amendments reviewed.

2	

This data combines correspondence and telephone/Internet inquiries.

3	

This data reflects the expanded responsibilities assigned to the Commission for oversight of municipal advisors (firms and sole proprietors) by the Dodd-Frank Act.
In addition, approximately 4,000 natural persons engaged in municipal advisory activities were registered on Form MA-I in FY 2015.

  98

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Agency Direction and Administrative Support
FY 2015
Actual

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters
Agency Direction
Office of Executive Staff

43

40

41

Office of Public Affairs

10

12

14

Office of the Secretary

20

23

24

73

75

79

Subtotal
Administrative Support

	

Office of the Chief Operating Officer

25

16

18

Office of Financial Management

97

101

102

Office of Information Technology

165

174

181

Office of Human Resources

117

121

131

Office of Acquisitions

58

58

58

Office of Support Operations

99

102

105

Office of Strategic Initiatives

0

15

15
16

Office of the Ethics Counsel

15

16

Office of Minority and Women Inclusion

8

8

9

Office of Equal Employment Opportunity

11

11

11

Subtotal

595

622

646

Total Full-Time Equivalents

668

697

725

$	146,729

$	173,738

$	184,600

125,380

121,566

123,835

$	272,109

$	295,304

$	308,435

Cost:
Salaries and Benefits
Non-Personnel Expenses
Total Costs

This section of the FY 2017 request details the SEC’s agencywide executive activities, operations and administrative
functions and covers the following areas:
•	 Agency Direction: Includes the Chair and Commissioners’
offices, Office of the Legislative and Intergovernmental
Affairs (OLIA), Office of Public Affairs (OPA), and Office
of the Secretary.
•	 Office of the Chief Operating Officer: Provides executive
leadership in directing the management and coordination
of the SEC’s core mission support activities.

•	 Office of the Ethics Council: Administers the Commission’s
Ethics Program and interprets the SEC’s Supplemental
Ethics Rules as well as Federal Government-wide
ethics laws, rules and regulations.
•	 Office of Minority and Women Inclusion: Develops
standards for all agency matters relating to diversity
in management, employment, and business activities.
•	 Office of Equal Employment Opportunity: Ensures that
employees and applicants for employment have equal
opportunity in employment.

  99

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Agency Direction
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

43

40

41

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters
Office of Executive Staff
Office of Public Affairs

10

12

14

Office of the Secretary

20

23

24

Total Full-Time Equivalents

73

75

79

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

17

9

43

10

Agency Direction is comprised of the Commissioners
and their staff, as well as the Office of Legislative and
Intergovernmental Affairs (OLIA), the Office of Public Affairs
(OPA), and the Office of the Secretary (OS). The Chair’s Office
oversees all aspects of agency operations, as well as the
review and approval of enforcement cases and formal orders
of investigation and the development, consideration, and
execution of the agency’s substantive policy and rulemaking
agenda. Matters such as the proposal or adoption of new
rules and the consideration of enforcement cases are
performed by the Chair and the Chair’s staff as well as the
agency’s four other Commissioners and their staffs.
OLIA serves as the liaison between the SEC and Congress
and is responsible for responding to requests from Congress
for information related to agency programs and legislation
affecting the SEC or its mission. OLIA also coordinates the
testimony of SEC officials when the agency is asked to testify
at Congressional hearings. OPA coordinates and facilitates
the agency’s external and internal communications with
the media, the general public, and SEC staff. OS reviews
all documents issued by the Commission, schedules and
coordinates Commission meetings, prepares and maintains
records of Commission actions, and advises the Commission
and staff about practice and procedure.

  100

PAGE

Office of Legislative and
Intergovernmental Affairs
OLIA is the SEC’s point of contact for matters relating to
Congress. Among other things, OLIA:
•	 coordinates testimony and witness preparation for SEC
officials appearing at Congressional hearings;
•	 responds to requests by Members of Congress
and their staff for meetings, briefings, and technical
assistance on legislation and other matters affecting
the SEC or its mission;
•	 responds to requests from Members of Congress and
their staff for information concerning the operations
and activities of the Commission; and
•	 assists in responding to Congressional correspondence.
In FY 2017, OLIA expects to coordinate the provision of
technical assistance on legislation impacting the SEC or its
mission or in response to Congressional requests for assistance, as well as to assist SEC witnesses in testifying before
Congressional committees. OLIA also expects to provide
information to Congress in response to oversight requests.

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity
Commission Meetings

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

92

93

98

Calendar Items

616

630

650

Seriatim Actions

479

490

500

Congressional Testimonies
Chair’s and Congressional Correspondence
Total Full-Time Equivalents

Office of Public Affairs
The Office of Public Affairs (OPA), under the direction of the
Chair, is responsible for coordinating the SEC’s external and
internal communications with the media, the public, and SEC
staff. OPA distributes news and information that informs
the public and staff about the agency’s efforts to protect
investors; promote fair, efficient and orderly markets; and
facilitate capital formation.
OPA manages development of and creates written and
graphic content for all of the agency’s digital platforms,
including SEC.gov – which received more than 6.3 billion page
views in FY 2015. In FY 2016 OPA will continue to expand
our digital efforts to meet increasing demand. Significant
undertakings will include the launch of a new internal
communications platform, a new EDGAR search interface,
and a new, mobile-friendly public website for researching
investment professionals. The Office will also continue to
respond to media inquiries, write and edit news releases
and other materials, and facilitate media interactions with

6

9

9

1,493

1,690

1,690

43

40

41

agency officials to promote understanding of the agency’s
work in an increasingly dynamic marketplace.

FY 2017 Request
In FY 2017, OPA will work to continue to provide effective,
transparent and timely communication with investors,
market participants and other stakeholders. Especially as
Americans are increasingly using mobile devices to access
news, information, and services, the Office intends to place
a continuing high priority on leveraging the Internet and other
digital communication platforms and tools to communicate
the SEC’s achievements and priorities. Leveraging technology
will also help increase staff efficiency, productivity, and
effectiveness by facilitating the access, sharing, and analysis
of information. Accordingly, OPA requests one additional
position in FY 2017 to help provide strategic direction to our
digital communication efforts, including continuous evaluation
of our performance in a hyper-changing digital landscape
to maximize our opportunities while minimizing duplication
or redundancy.

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity
News Releases and Statements

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

295

200

200

Email and Mobile Bulletins

7,674

8,000

8,200

Social Media Posts1

6,227

6,500

6,800

10

12

14

Total Full-Time Equivalents

1	

Includes social media posts from various SEC Offices and Divisions that include SEC Twitter accounts, SEC Facebook accounts, and Flickr, YouTube, Pinterest,
and LinkedIn SEC accounts. See www.sec.gov/news/socialmedia.shtml

  101

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Office of the Secretary
The Office of the Secretary (OS) reviews all documents
issued by the Commission, schedules and coordinates
Commission meetings, prepares and maintains records
of Commission actions, and advises the Commission and
staff about practice and procedure. OS directly supports the
Commission staff, maintains the SEC’s website and Intranet,
and receives and tracks filings in administrative proceedings.
OS is comprised of two branches:
(1)	 Legal and Operations: This branch handles all of the
processes by which the Commission considers
matters under its purview. Legal and Operations
staff review all SEC documents submitted to and
approved by the Commission and ensure their
appropriate online and/or print publication. The
branch receives and tracks documents filed in
administrative proceedings, requests for confidential
treatment, and comment letters on rule proposals,
and monitors compliance with the Government in the
Sunshine Act. In addition, members of this Branch
provide advice to the Commission and the staff on
questions of practice and procedure.
(2)	 Web Operations: This Branch manages the public
website’s design and information architecture;
publishes the content to the public website; processes
all comment letters submitted by the public to the
agency; serves as “webmaster” in communicating
with the public about SEC.gov; and develops,
implements, and manages tools, such as RSS feeds,
to improve the dissemination of information on SEC.
gov. The staff of the Branch of Web Operations works
with the Office of Public Affairs to manage the Web
content management system and to improve the user
experience on the agency’s website.

  102

PAGE

In FY 2016, OS expects to implement the first phase
of a system to allow the intake of electronic filings from
parties to administrative proceedings, to serve parties with
Commission and ALJ orders, and to internally distribute
filings electronically. The system, when fully complete,
will provide a searchable public docket. Also in FY 2016,
OS expects to release an initial update modernizing
the internal system that manages information about
Commission meetings, tracks Commission votes on action
memoranda, monitors and processes seriatims, and tracks
advice memoranda. In FY 2017, after implementation
of these new systems, OS expects to consolidate and
replace several antiquated internal systems, including
the replacement of the current legacy administrative
proceedings tracking system.
OS has consistently increased workload due to work
produced by other offices and divisions. For example, in
FY 2015, the Legal and Operations Branch experienced an
11 percent increase in releases processed and a 45 percent
increase in administrative proceeding documents processed
over FY 2014. Similarly, in FY 2015, the Web Operations
Branch published approximately seven percent more
documents to the public website than in the previous
fiscal year. Furthermore, the agency’s rulemaking agenda
and enhanced enforcement program will have a significant
impact on OS in FY 2016 and FY 2017, as all enforcement
actions, examination reports, and rulemakings flow
through OS.

FY 2017 Request
OS requests one additional position in FY 2017 to meet the
additional workload placed on OS from the increased activities
of other divisions and offices in both FY 2016 and FY 2017.
This additional staff member will be necessary to process the
releases, notices, orders and other documents produced.

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity
Releases Processed
Public Comment Letters Processed
SEC Web Pages Viewed (in millions)1

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

5,217

5,700

6,300

231,717

250,000

275,000

N/A

N/A

N/A

Searches on SEC Website (in millions)

9,355

10,300

11,500

Documents Posted on Website

5,755

5,900

6,100

Administrative Proceedings Items Processed
Service of Process – Administrative Proceedings
Total Full-Time Equivalents

6,815

7,500

8,250

12,161

13,400

14,700

20

23

24

Note: The SEC Library organization was moved from the Office of the Secretary to the Office of the Chief Operating Officer in FY 2015 in a Congressionally-approved
reprogramming action.
1	

This metric is no longer reported by the Office of the Secretary. The Office of Public Affairs reports page views of SEC.gov.

  103

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Office of the Chief Operating Officer
FY 2015
Actual

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters
Office of the Chief Operating Officer

25

16

18

Office of Financial Management

97

101

102

Office of Information Technology

165

174

181

Office of Human Resources

117

121

131

Office of Acquisitions

58

58

58

Office of Support Operations

99

102

105

Office of Strategic Initiatives

0

15

15

561

587

610

Total FTE

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

4

0

11

595

The Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO) develops,
coordinates and provides strategic leadership and
operational oversight of the SEC’s core mission support
activities and compliance with the GPRA Modernization Act
of 2010 and other requirements imposed by Congress and
the Executive Branch.
In FY 2015, the Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO),
and the offices that comprise it, embraced a new vision:
To be an exemplary service and support organization with a
proven reputation as a valued partner that enables the SEC
to perform its critical work on behalf of investors.
The vision is supported by four “pillars,” or guideposts
marking the route to becoming an exemplary service and
support organization:
•	 Create an Energizing Work Environment
•	 Increase Public Trust Through the Highest Standards
of Integrity and Accountability

  104

PAGE

•	 Deliver Extraordinary Solutions and Services for our
Customers
•	 Be Excellent in All We Do.
Accordingly, the OCOO’s mission is accomplished by the
coordinated activities of its six mission support offices:
•	 Office of Financial Management (OFM): Responsible for
directing the SEC’s financial management, formulation
and execution of its budget, monitoring resource
utilization, developing and maintaining financial systems,
and managing financial statements and reporting.
•	 The Office of Information Technology (OIT): Responsible
for developing and executing the agency’s enterprise
IT strategy and programs, including application
development, infrastructure operations and engineering,
user support, program management, capital planning,
information security, and enterprise architecture.

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•	 The Office of Human Resources (OHR): Responsible
for the SEC’s strategic management of its human
capital, including the capacity to recruit, train, develop,
reward and retain a talented, multifaceted workforce.
OHR collaborates closely with the National Treasury
Employees Union on labor relations issues.
•	 The Office of Acquisitions (OA): Responsible for executing
and overseeing the SEC’s acquisition strategy, including
contract administration and management, compliance
with procurement policies, and acquisition workforce
certification, training and support.
•	 The Office of Support Operations (OSO): Responsible for
managing the agency’s Freedom of Information and
Privacy Act (FOIA) requests and official records. OSO
also conducts activities that support the physical safety
and security of the SEC’s Federal and contractor staff,
and strategic management of the agency’s facilities,
space, office supplies, transportation, mail distribution
and in-house print operations and publications.
•	 The Office of Strategic Initiatives (OSI): Responsible
for providing specific senior level focus on identified
functions and programs requiring modernization or
transformation and which have strategic value to the
carrying out of the SEC’s mission. OSI is also responsible
for the governance, oversight and management of
the ongoing investments in information sources, both
physical and electronic, as well as data used by the
agency in support of its analytics.
Additionally, the OCOO has a small, core staff that performs
specialized activities and functions to further enable the six
mission support offices to successfully carry out the SEC’s
mission.
In FY 2017, OCOO remains on track to meet the following
strategic objectives defined in the SEC’s Strategic Plan:
•	 Promote a results oriented work environment that
attracts, engages, and retains a technically proficient
and diverse workforce, including leaders who provide
motivation and strategic direction.
•	 Encourage a collaborative environment across divisions
and offices and leverages technology and data to fulfill
its mission more effectively and efficiently.

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•	 Maximize the use of agency resources by continually
improving agency operations and bolstering internal
controls.
In order to accomplish its mission, the OCOO is focused on
delivering direct and robust support in five specific areas:
•	 Operational risk and internal control: OCOO will continue
to improve the management of operational risk by
applying a rigorous and consistent process for all
divisions and offices to identify, assess, manage and
report operational risks and institute effective internal
controls. The OCOO will continue to support all divisions
and offices through direct technical assistance as well
as oversee business process re-engineering initiatives
throughout the agency.
•	 Audit Coordination and Follow-up: OCOO will continue to
manage communications between the SEC and audit
organizations and support the timely completion of
corrective action on audit recommendations.
•	 Internal communications: OCOO will continue to lead
internal communication efforts that promote high rates
of employee awareness and participation in agencywide initiatives and programs.
•	 Small Office Managing Executive support: OCOO will
continue to support small offices throughout the
Agency by providing administrative and management
support, enabling those offices to focus on their
specific missions.
•	 Project and program management: OCOO will continue
to enhance project management standards and
best practices throughout the agency by providing
leadership, tools, and guidance to project managers.

FY 2017 Request
In FY 2017, OCOO will need to maintain the same staffing
levels in four of the five focus areas articulated above and will
seek to increase the Small Office Managing Executive support
area by one position. This additional position will support
the increase from five to six offices benefiting from Small
Office Managing Executive Support and will also support
a number of planned Small Office technology initiatives.

  105

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity
Percentage of Management Assurance Statements providing an Unqualified
Opinion
Number of operational controls managed through the Operational Risk
Management Program
Number of audits facilitated
Number of projects and operational activities supported
Number of SharePoint sites/pages created and/or administered
Number of SEC Today articles, reminders, and daily emails distributed
Number of digital signage slides and announcements
Total Full-Time Equivalents

1	

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

100%

100%

100%

550

560

570

36

30

30

118

110

110

16

20

23

2,867

2,740

2,800

600

625

650

251

16

18

The Office of Strategic Initiatives (OSI) was formalized within the Office of the Chief Operating Officer in FY 2016, therefore lowering OCOO’s FTE between FY 2015
and FY 2016.

Office of Financial Management
The Office of Financial Management (OFM) is responsible
for the SEC’s financial and budgetary operations. OFM
maintains the agency’s financial systems and prepares
financial statements and reports; manages the formulation
and execution of the SEC’s annual Budget; coordinates the
agency’s performance and cost reporting; and oversees
internal controls over financial reporting.
In FY 2015, OFM reevaluated its business processes and
bolstered controls related to the timely recording of court
judgments impacting the financial statements. OFM is also in
the early stages of implementing a disgorgement and penalty
sub-ledger system which will allow for significantly more
automation and reporting in the area of disgorgement and
penalties. SEC also participated in the Federal governmentwide deployment of a new travel system.

  106

PAGE

FY 2015
Actual

During FY 2016 and FY 2017, OFM will concentrate on
further improving other systems that support the SEC’s
financial processes and controls. OFM will continue efforts
to modernize the systems supporting filing fees and property
and equipment. In addition, OFM will work to replace
the system supporting the SEC’s budget execution and
formulation functions. Finally, the SEC is in the early stages
of building a financial data mart, which when completed will
integrate data from various systems for more comprehensive
financial and management reporting.

FY 2017 Request
OFM expects to complete the build-out of the Internal
Controls Branch in FY 2017 and has therefore requested
one additional position. Management’s self-assessment of
internal controls was previously a fully outsourced function.
Given the emphasis on management self-assessing its own
controls, OFM has been gradually transitioning to an in-house
assessment function, and this additional staff member will
allow the Office to finish that transition.

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

WORKLOAD DATA
FY 2015
Actual

Activity

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Accounting and Finance
Quarterly/Annual Financial Statements Issued1
Financial Transactions

Analyzed2

Analysis and Reconciliation Reports Prepared3
Full-Time Equivalents

36

36

36

6,376,672

7,140,000

7,990,000

6,417

6,500

6,600

85

88

89

Planning and Budget4
Number of External Budget Meetings Attended
Number of Conference Requests Approved
Percent of Reserve Fund Letters Delivered to Congress on Time

32

24

24

103

93

93

100%

100%

100%

Full-Time Equivalents

12

13

13

Total Full-Time Equivalents

97

101

102

1	

This workload metric includes the five required financial statements - the Balance Sheet, Statement of Net Cost, Statement of Changes in Net Position, Statement
of Budgetary Resources, and the Statement of Custodial Activity - on a quarterly and annual basis (20 statements total); and the four Investor Protection Fund
financial statements as required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act on a quarterly and annual basis (16 statements total). This
metric does not include the government-wide financial statements.

2	

This workload metric captures all financial transactions processed in the financial system and analyzed by SEC staff.

3	

This workload metric accounts for all analysis and reconciliation reports prepared during the review of transactions processed by the FSSP.

4	

The workload items for Planning and Budget have been added, beginning in FY 2015.

Office of Information Technology
Information Technology (IT) plays a critical role in the mission
of the SEC and its ability to share information and data both
internally and externally. The increasing size and complexity
of U.S. markets require that the SEC continue leveraging
technology to streamline operations and increase the
effectiveness of the agency’s programs, building on the
progress made over the past several years in modernizing
technology systems. In FY 2017, the Office of Information
Technology (OIT) will continue its leadership role in the
SEC’s application development, infrastructure operations
and engineering, user support, IT program management,
capital planning, security, and enterprise architecture.
OIT leads the agency’s efforts to develop systems that will
allow a wide variety of data and other information from a
variety of sources, including corporate disclosures, equity
exchange feeds, investigations and examinations, tips,
complaints, and referrals, and commercial vendors, to be
gathered, shared, analyzed, and joined with other information
about the same entity or individual. Data management and
analysis is critical in identifying and assessing potential risk

to investors and the U.S. financial markets. The continued
growth in the size and technological complexity of the U.S.
markets requires that the SEC leverage technology to facilitate
its critically important quantitative and data analytic efforts.
Information technology is an increasingly vital function to the
SEC in modernizing filing practices, disseminating the vast
quantity of regulatory filings, managing the large number
of internal business processes and work products, and
protecting the Commission’s information assets. Since
FY 2013, online searches for Electronic Data Gathering
Analysis Retrieval (EDGAR) filings have more than tripled from
3 million to 9.4 million at the end of FY 2015. OIT requires
additional resources to keep pace with the increasing
demand and to better execute technology initiatives in
support of the SEC mission.
In FY 2017, OIT will pursue IT investments that focus on
improving the agency’s ability to analyze data to uncover
potential violations of the securities laws; improving
agency business processes, including in Enforcement and
Examinations; improving the usability of agency information
for the public; and further strengthening our information

  107

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

security program to counter advanced persistent threats
and enhance monitoring of SEC systems. Specific projects
include efforts to:
•	 Enhance data analytics and reporting – to provide a
Web-based solution that will enable SEC registrant
disclosures to be analyzed much more quickly and
comprehensively;
•	 Improve the eXtensible Business Reporting Language
(XBRL) Distribution System for EDGAR users, to help
facilitate the submission and use of this key data;
•	 Enhance the SEC’s quantitative research infrastructure
by offering a scalable, multi-tier solution to identify and
analyze key risks in the securities markets;
•	 Address new reporting requirements included in
Commission-approved rulemaking;
•	 Bolster the document management system by adding
an automated records management system to facilitate
compliance with Federal records management statutes;
•	 Leverage the data produced by business intelligence
tools that enhance the agency’s ability to track key
performance indicators;
•	 Implement enhanced data analytical systems for
investment adviser data;
•	 Strengthen cybersecurity and continuous monitoring;
and
•	 Continue the agency’s focus on cloud technology

Reserve Fund
In FY 2017, the SEC intends to continue using its Reserve
Fund to fund large, multi-year, mission-critical technology
projects. The SEC plans to use the Fund for the following
programs:
•	 Data Analytics;
•	 EDGAR Enhancements;
•	 EDGAR Redesign;
•	 Enforcement, Litigation, and E-Discovery;
•	 Examination Management;
•	 SEC.gov modernization;

  108

PAGE

•	 TCR enhancements; and
•	 Business process improvements.
These key priorities will enhance the SEC’s ability to improve
service to registrants and the public, integrate and analyze
large amounts of data, and improve SEC business and
operational processes.
The multi-year effort of overhauling EDGAR will create a
new, modernized system that will, among other things,
meet requirements for real-time system updates, reduce
filer burden by providing simplified search and filing options
based on filer experience (i.e., professional or novice),
improve data capture by moving to structured formats for
various SEC forms that will reduce the burden of producing
and consuming the data, and limit the long-term costs of
operating and maintaining the system.
In FY 2017, OIT will help the Division of Enforcement develop
systems supporting its efforts in early detection of violations
of securities laws, investigations, and litigation. Investments
planned for FY 2017 for the Enforcement program include:
•	 expanding an enterprise document management
system for users in Enforcement and throughout the
agency, and possible integration with other legacy
systems;
•	 enhancing a large file transfer capability to permit the
electronic transmittal of data directly from entities to
replace the current mode of submitting data devices;
•	 modernizing the current tools used to collect Blue
Sheets trade data from market participants;
•	 expanding the Division of Enforcement’s e-discovery
approach, to include an early assessment of documents
and the consolidation of e-discovery into a single
solution; and
•	 expanding the enterprise data analytics platform to
better detect large scale trading abuse.
For FY 2017, OIT will assist the Office of Compliance
Inspections and Examinations in the modernization of its
primary business systems, such as enhancing the examination
management platform, implementing advanced analytics tools
and operations such as the High-Frequency Analytics Lab
(HAL), supporting the Technology Controls Program’s (TCP)
testing center and registrant auditing system, and deploying

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

a Registrant Tracking Solution. These tools will provide OCIE
staff with a greater ability to detect trends and emerging fraud
risks, with the goal of enabling the SEC to allocate and direct
examination resources more effectively.
FY 2017 funding will also support enhancements to the
system that manages Tips, Complaints and Referrals
(TCRs), aimed towards providing a more capable and userfriendly system with increased flexibility, configurability, and
adaptability. The enhancements will provide flexible and
comprehensive intake, triage, resolution tracking, searching,
and reporting functionalities with full auditing capabilities.
OIT will build on the enterprise-wide platform to rapidly
automate business process workflows to streamline
communication, reinforce accountability, and adapt to
changing business needs and legislative requirements while
minimizing costs due to manual errors and inefficiency.

FY 2017 Request
The eight OIT positions requested will provide
technology support in the following areas: cloud and
outsourcing management (2), business and technical

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

analysis (1), information security/monitoring (1), infrastructure
management (1), platform management (2), and program
and project management (1). Specifically, the cloud and
outsourcing management positions will serve as experts in
engineering and managing data management initiatives related
to data quality, and data integration focusing on enterprise
architecture, transitioning to cloud computing and data
management. The business and technical analysis position will
perform duties related to managing and providing oversight
of contracts and conducting contract initiation activities,
evaluating proposals and leading technical evaluation panels.
The information security/monitoring position will perform
continuous monitoring across the Commission and assist
system owners in remediation activities and maintain metrics
to demonstrate overall risk profile compared to set thresholds.
The infrastructure management and support position will
perform duties related to receiving, processing, and disposal
of IT property and equipment, to include administration of the
IT property management database. The platform management
positions will focus on developing technologies that are
scalable, secure and fit with the overall enterprise standards.
The program and project management position will function
as the Portfolio Manager for Enforcement.

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

EDGAR Filings, Disclosure and Review
Online Searches for EDGAR Filings (in millions)1
Number of Electronic Filings Received (in millions)2

9,354

9,240

14,000

1.8

2.0

2.2

119,084

140,000

145,000

17,360

19,200

21,500

6,589

6,750

6,750

100%

100%

100%

241

400

440

17,325

19,000

20,000

165

174

181

Internal Process Improvements and Employee Productivity
User Requests for Helpdesk Assistance
Amount of Network-Based Storage (Terabytes)3
Network Users
Information Security and Disaster Recovery
Percentage of Major Systems Certified and Accredited
Filer Technical Support
Technical Support Internet and E-mail Inquiries
Technical Support Telephone Inquiries
Total Full-Time Equivalents

1	

In FY 2017, N-Port is expected to generate a significantly increased number of filings.

2	

This workload metric includes both the live and test files received. The peak record received is 21,000 filings for one day and 3,400 for one hour.

3	

It is currently unknown how much of a storage impact changing to a Virtual Desktop environment will have. Estimates on specific growth are currently
not available and may be adjusted once there is a better understanding of the virtual platform requirements.

  109

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Office of Human Resources
The Office of Human Resources (OHR) provides operational
and consulting services in the areas of recruitment, staffing,
organizational development, leadership and employee
development, compensation and benefits administration,
position management and classification, workforce planning,
and labor relations.
In FY 2015, OHR achieved significant success in meeting
goals established in its recruitment and hiring action
plan. OHR implemented a series of enhancements that
streamlined the hiring process and significantly reduced
the hiring timeline and increased the Office’s marketing and
outreach activities via social media outlets.
Also in FY 2015, OHR automated previously laborintensive, manual processes to improve efficiencies for
multiple OHR programs. In addition to the deployment of
these automation tools, OHR also developed and began
deployment of a comprehensive, single-source repository
for all personnel data. OHR will continue to develop and
implement organizational changes to reengineer, streamline,
and automate its internal processes.
To further enhance the SEC’s recruitment goals, the OHR
will finalize the SEC Workforce Plan in FY 2016. The
Workforce Plan will enhance the SEC’s ability to maximize
current use of talent by identifying, reducing and eliminating
competency gaps or deficiencies to ensure the agency has
the right talent in the right place at the right time. Also, the
OHR staff will continue to conduct human capital reviews
with the SEC divisions and offices. These reviews provide
an overview of the status of various aspects of human
capital activities, including long and short-term trends; use
of various OHR programs and services; and areas where
organizations may want or need additional assistance from
OHR. Additionally, OHR will continue to implement agencywide action plans for improving employee engagement
and satisfaction as measured by the Federal Employee
Viewpoint Survey (EVS).

  110

PAGE

SEC University (SECU) continued to build upon its suite of
e-learning, training, and educational resources covering
securities market structure and trading issues, legal and
accounting skills, investor protection, regulatory oversight,
management strategies, and other areas needed for
effective operations.

FY 2017 Request
To ensure fulfillment of strategic objectives, OHR is requesting
an increase of 11 positions in FY 2017. The eleven positions
will support the recruitment, development and retention of a
competent, high-performing and diversified SEC workforce in
the following areas: (2) recruitment and staffing, (2) benefits
administration, (2) leadership and professional development,
(2) organizational development, (2) labor relations and
performance management and (1) payroll and business
program management.
The recruitment and staffing positions will support the SEC
hiring process in attracting highly-talented and technically
proficient workforce as the agency continues to grow in
size. The SEC provides a cadre of benefits programs to
enhance the workforce and increase retention, the benefits
positions will perform duties related to the administration,
management, and oversight of various benefit programs.
The positions in organizational development and leadership
development will continue to support the agency in developing
a dynamic and innovative workforce and promoting leadership
and knowledge management. The focus in these areas
will concentrate on current and future employee skill and
competency needs to ensure the agency has access to the
knowledge and skills necessary to respond to market changes
and agency requirements.
The labor relations and performance management positions
will assist with managing union employee matters and the
implementation of an agency-wide performance management
system. The payroll and business program management
position will provide support to the payroll program including
time and attendance along with performing duties related
to managing the business operations of OHR.

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

WORKLOAD DATA
FY 2015
Actual

Activity
Personnel Actions Processed1,2
Recruitment Actions3
Held4

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

27,906

29,300

30,800

739

780

820

1,070

1,050

1,050

Number of Training Session Attendees

31,369

31,000

31,000

Studies, Reviews, and Policies Issued5

445

570

620

117

121

131

Training Sessions

Total Full-Time Equivalents

1	

FY 2015 data reports personnel actions completed.

2	

FY 2016 projections are based solely on FY 2015 personnel actions completed and five percent growth in personnel actions each fiscal year, with rounding. FY 2017
projections reflect anticipated five percent growth, with rounding.

3	

FY 2015 numbers are a count of vacancy announcements plus excepted appointments made without a posting. For FY 2015 this includes 585 postings (includes
49 students postings) and 154 excepted appointments without postings. FY 2016 projections reflect recruitment actions required for new FTE and replacement
of attrition.

4	

FY 2015 data is the total number of actual instructor-led training sessions held by SEC. In prior years, self-directed on-line learning and individual external training
were included in the calculation methodology of this workload item.

5	

Data for studies, reviews and policies issued includes human resource policies issued, and reports and studies completed by the Human Capital Strategy Groups.
Projections assume a 10 percent growth in workload. This workload item no longer includes employee relations cases or the Employee and Labor Relations Group.
Data pertaining to employee relations cases are captured under the Office of the General Counsel.

Office of Acquisitions
The Office of Acquisitions (OA) is responsible for procuring
all goods and services, except real property and employee
training, for the SEC. OA provides oversight of the Government
Purchase Card program and certification programs for
Contracting Officer’s Representatives and Program Managers.
OA is responsible for maintaining the on-site contractors’
database, closing out contracts, and the implementation and
enforcement of specific Congressional legislation, Executive
mandates, and other directives relating to procurement.
OA reports detailed information on expenditures and assures
contract-related data is properly reported to Federal systems
and SEC financial systems. OA tracks and reports a broad
range of information, in addition to financial data, required by
the SEC for its financial reporting. Examples include the Buy
American Act information; awards by Congressional District,
state, vendor, business type, and competition information;
and small business and other data necessary to ensure
transparency and accountability with respect to numerous
Federal programs.
In FY 2016, OA plans to further strengthen internal controls
over the contractual aspects of financial reporting by implementing an Electronic Contract File Project which, when fully

implemented, will result in greater ability to analyze contract
information, facilitate telework, and reduce space footprint for
paper files. The project will improve operations by enabling
simultaneous access to documents by multiple users, reduce
paper usage, improve records management efficiency and
ensure all pertinent records are included in the official contract
file. OA’s SharePoint site is also undergoing a redesign to
improve usability. In FY 2017, OA plans on continuing the
Contracting Officers’ Representative (COR) Improvement
Initiative which is to create a more comprehensive COR
Program that will provide efficient and functional control,
transparency, and management of the COR program across
the SEC. OA also will continue to enhance training and monitoring for the Program/Project Management programs.
OA’s workload continues to increase as the Office expands
its contract administration functions and as the volume and
complexity of contract awards increases. In FY 2017, OA
will continue to seek savings in operations by:
•	 reducing the proportion of cost reimbursement, time
and materials, and labor-hour contracts by converting
to firm fixed price contracts, where appropriate;
•	 improving acquisition planning for recurring contracts
to manage costs through review and adjustment of
labor categories, where appropriate;

  111

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•	 seeking further discounts from GSA schedule vendors
for awards made under the Multiple Award Schedule
program;
•	 improving Strategic Sourcing through education and
planning; increasing use of Enterprise Agreements and/
or Longer Term Vehicles; and improving communication
of existing vehicles to customers;
•	 pursuing improvements in acquisition planning early
in the project life cycle;
•	 improving service contract assessments to achieve
maximum value and efficiency, as well as proper
balance between Federal and contracted positions;

OA plans to continue to improve its oversight and reporting
functions, including those related to the Acquisition
Requisition Management System (ARMS) and the Small
Business Program. OA will also continue to monitor and
track Management Assurance controls and will manage
the SEC’s Contract Review Board, which reviews large
dollar procurement actions to make sure the most
effective contracting approach is taken. Based on current
initiatives, it is likely that OA’s workload will continue to
increase, especially as we work to improve contract
administration; however, OA will continue to drive internal
operational efficiency and does not anticipate the need
for additional staff.

•	 reducing expired contract liability and returning funds
to SEC for re-allocation; and
•	 strengthening contract administration efforts such as
invoice and quality reviews.

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Procurement Actions (Contracts and Purchase Orders)

2,844

2,930

3,020

Total Value of Contracts with Business Funded by SEC

$	424,670,158

$	436,960,000

$	450,070,000

Additional Value of Interagency Agreements Obligated (In Dollars)

$	35,661,045

$	36,730,000

$	37,830,000

GPC Cardholders Audited

113

110

110

Closeout Actions Processed

467

460

470

$	25,547,346

$	24,870,000

$	25,620,000

407

410

410

Dollars Recovered for Reuse (Closeouts & ULO De-obligations in Dollars)
CORs Managed
Small Business Actions Processed

1,810

2,340

2,340

Dollars Spent with Small Business

$	247,303,429

$	316,250,000

$	316,250,000

59.40%

55%

55%

Percent Small Business Dollars (23% Federal-wide Minimum Goal)
Multi-Agency Collaborative Actions
Multi-Agency Contract Value Awarded (In Dollars)
Total Full-Time Equivalents

  112

PAGE

FY 2015
Actual

692

710

730

$	170,824,490

$	175,950,000

$	181,230,000

58

58

58

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Office of Support Operations
The Office of Support Operations (OSO) offers a variety
of programs to manage the agency’s facilities and assets.
OSO is responsible for the processing of requests under
the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (FOIA), the
management of all agency records in accordance with the
Federal Records Act, maintaining the security and safety of
SEC facilities, and managing property and equipment and
overall building operations.
Office of FOIA Services (OFS): OFS is responsible for responding
to requests for non-public records and public records
not available on the SEC website under the Freedom of
Information and Privacy Acts. OFS expects the large volume
of FOIA requests to continue, as public and Congressional
interest in the agency’s mission and activities remains
high. Over the past two years, SEC’s FOIA requests have
increased 17.5 percent on average. OFS estimates it will
receive and process about 18,000 FOIA requests in FY 2017.
Office of Records Management Services (ORMS): ORMS
maintains SEC records schedules and develops policies
and procedures under the Federal Records Act and other
records requirements. ORMS also coordinates the retrieval
of non-active records from storage facilities and handles
requests for certified copies of agency records. ORMS will
implement electronic management of both permanent and
temporary email records in FY 2017 in compliance with
the Presidential Memorandum on Managing Government
Records (M-12-18). Finally, ORMS is leading the agency’s
effort to modernize records management practices by
automating processes that impact how electronic information
is maintained, managed, and safeguarded.
Office of Security Services (OSS): The OSS is responsible for
physical and personnel security, emergency management,
safety, Continuity of Operations (COOP), HSPD-12,
and National Security programs for the SEC. OSS also
initiates and adjudicates background investigations for
new personnel, as well as staff that need a higher security
clearance. In recent years, OSS has established a risk

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

assessment and management program, which includes
security assessments at both headquarters and the regional
offices. The Emergency Management, Safety and COOP
Branch manages a wide variety of programs, including the
ongoing training requirements for SEC staff.
Office of Building Operations (OBO): OBO is responsible
for publishing, printing and mail operations, facilities
management, and construction and leasing services.
In FY 2017, OBO will continue overseeing all activities
required at each SEC location to provide agreed-upon tenant
improvements. OBO will continue ensuring that costs and
schedules are on target and buildings provide functional,
usable space which meets applicable building codes and
agency functional requirements.
Since 2011, the President has made it a priority for Federal
tenants to optimize their real estate assets. Consistent with
this objective, OBO will continue working with the General
Services Administration in devising new approaches to
increase space utilization across the SEC’s real property
portfolio.

FY 2017 Request
OSO is requesting three new positions in FY 2017. The
first position will support the Physical Security Operations
Branch to ensure the safety and security of SEC personnel
and assets at the eleven Regional Offices, two data centers,
and SEC Headquarters Office. Specifically, this position
will be responsible for continuing the risk assessment and
management program, remediating identified vulnerabilities,
and enhancing regional office security systems.
OSO requests a second staff member for the Personnel
Security Operations Branch (PERSEC) to assist with
processing and adjudicating background investigations for
SEC staff and supporting compliance with new requirements
from the Office of Personnel Management and Office of the
Director of National Intelligence. Finally, OSO requests an
additional Security Specialist to help the SEC meet relevant
continuity requirements.

  113

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

WORKLOAD DATA
FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Records Management – Official Certs

3,768

4,520

5,650

Records Management – Document Requests

1,391

1,100

1,300

Activity

FOIA Requests Carried Forward From Prior FYs

1,298

1,800

2,300

New FOIA/PA Requests Received

16,898

17,400

17,900

FOIA/PA Requests Completed

16,207

16,700

17,200

Security Services – Interim Suitability Determinations Made

3,000

3,300

Security Services – HSPD-12 Credentials Issued

3,281

3,550

3,800

Security Services – HSPD-12 Credential Certificates Updated

1,337

1,400

1,400

3.5

5

4

99

102

105

Print Production (Millions of Pages)
Total Full-Time Equivalents

Office of Strategic Initiatives
The mission of the Office of Strategic Initiatives (OSI) is to
provide specific senior level focus on identified functions and
programs requiring modernization or transformation and
that have strategic value to the SEC’s mission. OSI is also
responsible for the governance, oversight and management
of the SEC’s ongoing investments in information sources,
both physical and electronic, as well as data used by the
agency in support of its analytics.
OSI is comprised of two Branches, the Information Services
Branch (which includes the library) and the Information
Portal Branch (which includes the SEC intranet, the
Insider). The Information Services Branch is responsible
for managing 151 data and information contracts in support
of the SEC’s divisions/offices. Because of this function, OSI
chairs the Data Working Group and the Information Services
Working Group, each of which provides programmatic
oversight of the agency’s associated ongoing investments
in these areas. The Information Portal Branch is responsible

  114

PAGE

2,815

for establishing a new information portal for SEC staff,
which will help facilitate knowledge management within
the agency.
The Office is also responsible for specific strategic programs
assigned to it by the COO, such as the EDGAR Redesign
(ERD) program. ERD is a multi-year program which will
define and deliver a modern electronic delivery solution
and replace the existing EDGAR system. OSI also chairs
the cross-agency ERD Governance Board, which provides
agency input and oversight to this key strategic initiative.

FY 2017 Request
OSI requests one additional position for creating effective
content to support the information services function as well
as manage the evolving information content for the virtual
library. The Information Services Branch will need a content
management person well versed in creating and identifying
content written and multi-media content appropriate for its
information and knowledge management functions.

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity

FY 2015
Actual1

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Public Reference – Visitors

—

1,000

1,000

Library Password Management – Active Passwords

—

28,000

34,000

Library Acquisitions – Contracts Managed

—

166

190

Library Reference – In-Depth Research Requests

—

250

275

Library Reference – Quick Reference Requests

—

1,880

2,340

Information Portal Branch
Number of Insider Hits

—

110M

114M

Requests for Content Changes

—

2,500

3,000

Creating New Content

—

3,000

3,500

Governance Board Meetings

—

12

12

Advisory Committee Meetings

—

24

24

Corp Fin ’33 & ’34 Act Meetings

—

30

45

Investment Management Meetings

—

12

24

ERD Technical & Functional Requirements Sessions

—

240

320

—

15

15

EDGAR Redesign

Total Full-Time Equivalents

1	

The Office of Strategic Initiatives (OSI) was established in FY 2016.

  115

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Office of the Ethics Counsel
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

15

16

16

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

0

0

0

16

The Office of Ethics Counsel (OEC) is responsible for
administering the Commission’s Ethics Program and for
interpreting the SEC’s Supplemental Ethics Rules as well as
Federal Government-wide ethics laws, rules and regulations.
OEC provides independent legal analysis and advice to the
Chair, Commissioners, and divisions and offices on ethics
issues. In addition, the OEC Compliance team manages
personal trading requests for staff Commission-wide in
compliance with the SEC Supplemental Ethics Rules
and provides training and counseling on personal trading
questions. OEC is also the SEC’s liaison with the United
States Office of Government Ethics.

OEC expects its workload and responsibilities to increase
as the overall workforce of the SEC increases and as the
number of enforcement matters increases.

FY 2017 Request
The Office is requesting a new position for an experienced
ethics attorney in FY 2017 to support its mandated ethics and
compliance functions, including administering the Personal
Trading and Compliance System; managing the financial
disclosure program; and providing advice, counseling and
training to the increasing numbers of SEC staff.

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity
Ethics Counseling Inquiries1

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

6,946

7,640

8,400

318

350

380

1,200

1,320

1,450

3,476

3,820

4,210

Review of Public Financial Disclosure Forms2
Commission Memoranda

Review3

Review of Confidential Financial Disclosure Forms4
Clearance of 8b

Requests5

Pre-clearance of Requests for Trading6
Employees Trained in Ethics7
Review of SEC Forms 682 Financial Disclosure

200

220

240

28,088

30,900

34,000

4,522

4,970

5,470

474

520

570

15

16

16

Forms8

Total Full-Time Equivalents
1	

Assisting current and former employees with questions regarding ethics law, rule and regulation.

2	

Review of the OGE 278 forms of senior officials, including 278-T forms.

3	

Reviewing all internal Commission Action memoranda to assist with conflict review.

4	

Review of OGE 450 forms of SEC staff.

5	

Analysis and processing of requests by former SEC employees to represent a party before the SEC.

6	

Analysis, under supplemental regulations, of requests by SEC staff to purchase or sell securities.

7	

Employees who received face to face or computer based training from OEC staff.

8	

Review of the SEC Form 682 for onboarding employees.

  116

PAGE

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

Office of Minority and Women Inclusion
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

8

8

9

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

0

0

0

9

The Office of Minority and Women Inclusion (OMWI) is
responsible for all matters related to diversity in management,
employment and business activities at the SEC as required
by Section 342 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The responsibilities of
the Office include developing standards for equal employment
opportunity and the diversity of SEC’s workforce (including
senior management), facilitating increased participation of
minority-owned and women-owned businesses in SEC’s
programs and contracts, and assessing the diversity policies
and practices of entities regulated by the SEC.
Diversity in SEC’s Workforce: Workforce diversity and inclusion
continue to be an integral part of OMWI’s operations.
Developing and implementing strategies to ensure that the
SEC attracts a diverse, qualified talent pool at all levels of the
organization, including the senior level, will be a priority. A key
component of OMWI’s outreach and recruitment strategy
will be to engage SEC staff, including the SEC Employee
Resource Groups, Diversity Councils (one in headquarters
and four in regional offices), managers and supervisors and
regional offices.
In FY 2017, OMWI will explore strategies to address any
residual triggers and barriers to equal employment opportunity
that exist in the SEC’s workforce. To enhance multicultural
competencies over time, training also will be a key component
of OMWI’s diversity and inclusion strategy. OMWI will administer both instructor-led and on-line diversity and inclusion
workshops to train our workforce on emerging issues relating
to diversity. Finally, OMWI will continue to expand its partnerships and alliances, sponsorships, recruitments efforts, and
outreach consistent with the requirements of Section 342.

Diversity of SEC’s Contracting and Business Activities: In FY 2017,
OMWI will continue to promote the fair inclusion of minorityowned and women-owned businesses in the Agency’s
business activities. Outreach, advocacy and education are
the core components of the SEC’s supplier diversity program.
OMWI will attend business opportunity events to attract
diverse suppliers, provide technical assistance to minorityowned and women-owned businesses on navigating the
SEC contracting process, and offer internal training on the
supplier diversity program to SEC staff involved in contracting
activities. Additionally, OMWI, in collaboration with the Office
of Acquisitions (OA), plans to host vendor events to promote
a wider pool of potential suppliers and to educate potential
businesses of future contract opportunities.
In FY 2015, OMWI finalized the “good faith effort” (GFE)
contract standard that requires contractors to demonstrate
the fair inclusion of minorities and women in their workforce,
as required by Section 342(c)(1) of the Dodd-Frank Act.
By FY 2017, OMWI will have formalized the policies and
procedures for monitoring contractor compliance with the
GFE contract requirement, and will be conducting reviews
to evaluate the fair inclusion of women and minorities within
the workforce of existing contractors (and, as applicable,
of subcontractors).
Diversity Policies and Practices of SEC Regulated Entities: In
FY 2015, the SEC, along with the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the
National Credit Union Administration, and the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau (the Agencies) issued an

  117

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

interagency policy statement establishing joint standards for
assessing the diversity policies and practices of the entities
they regulate (Joint Standards).
The Joint Standards provide a framework for regulated
entities to create and strengthen their diversity policies and
practices. The Joint Standards contemplate that regulated
entities will conduct voluntary self-assessments of their
diversity policies and practices at least annually, and submit
information pertaining to their diversity assessments to their
primary federal financial regulator.
In FY 2017, OMWI expects to continue: (1) developing a selfassessment tool for the SEC’s regulated entities that could
be used as an instrument for providing information pertaining
to diversity assessments to OMWI; (2) meeting with industry
trade organizations and advocacy organizations to solicit
their views on the form and content of a self-assessment
tool and information collection instrument; (3) participating in
educational events hosted by industry trade organizations to
publicize the Joint Standards and encourage the submission
of self-assessments of diversity information to OMWI; and
(4) monitoring progress and trends in the financial services
industry regarding diversity and inclusion in employment
and contracting, and identifying and highlighting successful
policies and practices.
Annual Report to Congress: OMWI is responsible for preparing an
annual report to Congress describing the Office’s activities with
respect to diversity in the Agency’s workforce and business
activities. This includes successes and challenges in operating

  118

PAGE

minority and women outreach programs, hiring qualified
minorities and women employees, and contracting with
minority-owned and women-owned businesses. The report
also includes quantitative information related to the SEC’s
contracting activities (e.g., total amounts paid to contractors
during the past year, and percentage of that amount paid
to contractors that are minority-owned or women-owned).
Because data analytics continues to be an important aspect
of the SEC’s diversity goals and objectives, OMWI developed
additional metrics that enhance the SEC’s ability to monitor
and track equal employment access, diversity and inclusion.

FY 2017 Request
Data analytics continues to be an important aspect of the
Agency’s diversity goals and objectives. In FY 2017, OMWI
requests one additional Data Analyst position, based on
a projected increase in workload as all of the mandatory
requirements of DFA Section 342 are implemented. These
include contractors’ compliance with the good faith clause
and regulated entities’ compliance with the Interagency
Policy Statement. Implementation will require OMWI to
conduct detailed analyses and reporting of data provided
by external entities. The additional position also will augment
the current data analytics that OMWI performs for all divisions
and offices by expanding OMWI’s capabilities to produce
predictive analyses that will inform strategic initiatives. Finally,
the position also will support continuous monitoring and
performance evaluation for all of the Agency’s diversity and
inclusion initiative.

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

WORKLOAD DATA
Activity
Reporting Requirements and Data Analyses1
Diversity and Inclusion

Programs2

Diversity and Inclusion Training3
Roundtable or Public

Meetings4

Vendor Outreach5
Targeted Advertisement Sources6
Diversity Standards and

Policies7

Good Faith Effort Contract Reviews8
Total Full-Time Equivalents

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

94

70

110

76

90

100

13

15

15

2

2

4

65

60

60

203

145

145

4

8

1

N/A

35%

70%

8

8

9

1	

These figures encompass customized analysis and/or assessments related to workforce and supplier diversity, in addition to OMWI’s Annual Report to Congress,
the Annual Federal Equal Opportunity Recruitment Plan (FEORP) and the Annual Equal Employment Opportunity Status Report (MD-715).

2	

OMWI’s Diversity and Inclusion programs involve external stakeholders and include participation in conferences, meetings, career fairs or other events to develop
diverse pipelines for employment and business opportunities at the SEC. These programs also include all Special Emphasis Observances, which are authorized by
Public Laws and Presidential Proclamations.

3	

OMWI continues to develop a variety of instructor-led and online training opportunities to enhance cultural awareness and inclusiveness for all levels of the SEC’s
workforce.

4	

OMWI plans to host roundtable discussions in order to provide information and technical assistance to industry representatives on the Interagency Policy establishing
standards for Assessing the Diversity Policies and Practices of Regulated Entities. In addition, OMWI, in collaboration with the U.S. Small Business Administration
and SEC divisions and offices, will host public meetings pursuant to Title VII of the JOBS Act.

5	

The SEC facilitates one-on-one meetings with vendors via OMWI-hosted Vendor Outreach Days. These forums allow interested businesses, including minorityowned and women-owned, 8(a) certified, small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, service-disabled veteran-owned and HUBZone certified businesses
to exchange information on their capabilities and services/goods and to receive technical assistance.

6	

Targeted advertisement sources utilized to attract diverse talent to apply for current vacancies that are open to the public.

7	

Workload in the area of developing and integrating statutorily mandated diversity standards and policies necessary for sustainable supplier and workforce diversity
practices.

8	

The workload item addresses the percentage of eligible contractors reviewed for compliance with the contract requirement that they make a good faith effort to
include minorities and women in their workforce. This workload item has been added beginning in FY 2016.

  119

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Office of Equal Employment Opportunity
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

11

11

11

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

0

0

0

11

The Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
empowers employees to perform the SEC’s mission by
fostering equality of opportunity in all aspects of employment
from hiring to separation. SEC employees come from diverse
backgrounds and, as Federal employees, are entitled to a
workplace where employment decisions are made without
regard to race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin,
disability, or genetic information. OEEO is organized in four
primary functions: Compliance, Reporting, Barrier Analysis,
and Mission Support.
The Compliance function focuses on the processing and
resolution of individual complaints of discrimination where the
alleged discrimination has already occurred, as well as the
prevention of illegal harassment. The Compliance function
also provides content for EEO-related training.
The Reporting function focuses on producing annual and
quarterly reports regarding the SEC’s equal employment
opportunity (EEO) program to internal and external
stakeholders, including Congress and the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (EEOC), which provides oversight
of EEO programs across the Federal government.
The Barrier Analysis function focuses on identifying
any systemic discrimination that may be occurring in
the workplace. This function analyzes quantitative and
qualitative data to determine whether a SEC policy, practice,
procedure, or condition limits employment opportunities
for members of particular demographic groups and makes
recommendations to eliminate any identified barriers. The

  120

PAGE

SEC has committed to conducting eight barrier analyses from
2015 to 2017. In support of this function as well as OEEO’s
other functions, in FY 2015 OEEO added the capability to
analyze and report on large sets of employment data, e.g.,
applicant flow data. Data analytics has increasingly become
important for OEEO to accomplish its mission.
The Mission Support function operates as the “business
office” of OEEO to ensure OEEO can complete its
mission. Mission support functions include acquisitions,
staff administration, budgeting, all internal reporting, and
program management. OEEO’s goal is to ensure that SEC
employees have a fair and equitable working environment
that will support them in their efforts to protect investors and
maintain the integrity of the securities markets.

FY 2017 Request
OEEO is requesting a new position to be filled by a data
analyst. Data analytics have become increasingly important
to OEEO in conducting barrier analyses, preparing internal
and external reports, improving operational efficiencies,
and enhancing internal controls. As discussed in OIG Audit
Report No. 528, statutory and regulatory requirements
mandate that the SEC conduct barrier analyses and
submit workforce data tables to the EEOC annually. The
new data analyst will analyze data to support the agency’s
ongoing barrier analysis program, as well as its reporting
and compliance functions.

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

WORKLOAD DATA
FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

314

315

315

10

10

10

804

800

800

598

600

600

Employee Resource Groups4

46

N/A

N/A

Total Full-Time Equivalents

11

11

11

Activity
Compliance1
Reporting
Barrier

Analysis2

Mission Support3

1	

This calculation includes – Informal complaints, formal complaints, harassment inquires, acknowledgement letters, final agency decisions, final orders, EEOC
uploads – hearings and appeals, mediations, facilitated discussions, new and review of compliance policy and procedures, and other substantive inquiries and
referrals from the IG, and questions about EEO matters that are raised and not pursuant to 29 CFR 1614.

2	

This calculation includes – Documentation reviewed and analyzed by OEEO for purposes of the Barrier Analyses listed (Resumes, OHR case files, internal
and external policies and procedures, EEOC Letters, SOP’s, Best Practices, Executive Orders, Pay Matrix documentation, etc.). This number also includes
implementation of Barrier Analysis recommendations, monitoring progress, meetings, SOP/Policy Development, data pulls, charts, reports, and data analysis
required for Barrier Analysis.

3	

This calculation includes – MD-715 Report analytics, No Fear Act analytics, all other non-Barrier Analysis related data analytics, substantive meetings internally
with the HCAC, OMWI, OGC and OHR, external meetings; contract related activity – invoice activity, performance meetings, service contract checklists, contract
closeout activity, replacement of contractor personnel and other COR and contract administrative duties; budget – calls, reports and justifications; and the review
of policies/procedures that do not fall into any other major function of OEEO.

4	

This function was moved to OMWI and will be reported by OMWI starting FY 2016.

  121

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

Office of the Inspector General
FY 2015
Actual

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

Full-Time Equivalents:
		Headquarters

35

47

53

$	7,664

$	10,724

$	12,279

3,307

4,038

4,222

$	10,971

$	14,762

$	16,501

Cost:	
		Salaries and Benefits
		 Non-Personnel Expenses
	

Total Costs

FY 2017 FTE BY SEC STRATEGIC GOAL
Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Establish an Effective
Regulatory Environment

Foster and Enforce Compliance
with Federal Securities Laws

Facilitate Access To Information
Investors Need

Align and Manage
Resources

0

0

0

53

The Office of Inspector General (OIG) is an independent
office that conducts audits of programs and operations of
the SEC and investigations into allegations of misconduct
involving the SEC’s programs and operations. The mission of
the OIG is to detect fraud, waste, and abuse and to promote
integrity, economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the SEC’s
programs and operations. The rapid pace of significant
internal and external changes impacting the work of the SEC
drives the work of the OIG. The OIG supports the efforts
of Congress and the SEC to fulfill their responsibilities and
achieve their goals and objectives with respect to oversight
of the securities industry and investor protection.
In Fiscal Year (FY) 2017, the OIG will continue to focus
on improving agency programs and operations through
audits, evaluations, and reviews. The Office also will enhance
staff and agency integrity by investigating allegations of
misconduct involving the SEC’s programs and operations.
The OIG’s workload remains high and the Office expects
both its investigative and audit teams to maintain active
workloads through FY 2017.
The Dodd-Frank Act imposed significant new responsibilities
on the SEC as a whole and, as a result, on the OIG.
In particular, Section 966 of the Dodd-Frank Act required
the OIG to establish an OIG SEC Employee Suggestion
Program (ESP). Under that program, SEC employees may

  122

PAGE

submit to the OIG suggestions for improving the SEC’s work
efficiency, effectiveness, and productivity, as well as the
SEC’s use of its resources. SEC employees may also submit
through the ESP allegations of waste, abuse, misconduct,
or mismanagement within the SEC. During FY 2017, the
OIG will continue to monitor, track, and analyze information
received through the ESP, and produce the required annual
report to Congress on the ESP. In addition, the OIG will
operate a program for recognizing employees who make
suggestions, through the ESP, that result in increased work
efficiency, effectiveness, or productivity of the SEC, or reduce
waste, abuse, misconduct, or mismanagement, as provided
for by the Dodd-Frank Act.
There also has been an increase in the coordination of OIG
activities to strengthen the oversight of the Federal financial
regulatory structure. For example, the SEC Inspector General
(IG) currently serves on the Council of Inspectors General
on Financial Oversight (CIGFO), which was established by
Section 989E of the Dodd-Frank Act. The OIG’s participation
on CIGFO requires additional resources to provide effective
oversight. In particular, the OIG will be required in FY 2017
to prepare a section of CIGFO’s annual report to Congress.
That section of the report will highlight the concerns and
recommendations in the OIG’s ongoing and completed work,
focusing on issues that might apply to the broader financial

FY 2017 BUDGET REQUEST BY PROGRAM

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

sector. CIGFO may also task the SEC OIG to conduct other
audit or review activities on CIGFO’s behalf.

•	 The aggregate amount of funds requested for the
operations of the OIG.

The increase in agency staff requested in FY 2017 will
result in the need for more OIG oversight. To continue
effective oversight, the OIG will need additional personnel
to accommodate this increased workload. In FY 2017, the
OIG plans to add four positions, consisting of one Attorney,
one Auditor, one Special Agent and one Investigative Analyst/
Criminal Research Specialist.

•	 The portion of that amount requested for OIG training,
including a certification from the IG that the amount
requested satisfies all OIG training requirements for
that fiscal year.

Specifically, as the OIG grows and expands its functions, the
OIG will need to build an Office of Chief Counsel, which will
include attorneys who provide legal advice and support to all
OIG components, including the Office of Audits, the Office of
Investigations, and the Office of Management Support. It is
essential that sufficient legal staff is available to review all OIG
products for legal soundness and accuracy consistent with
the requirements of the IG Act (as amended). Also, the OIG
will add an investigative analyst or criminal research specialist
to assist the OIG’s criminal investigators in gathering data
from multiple sources to ensure investigations are thorough
and complete. The Auditor and Special Agent are requested
to accomplish the core mission of the OIG.

Regulatory Requirement
The Inspector General Reform Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-409),
amended the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. app. 3).
Section 6(f)(1) of the Act requires that each IG submit a
budget estimate and request each fiscal year to the head of
the agency to which the IG reports, specifying the following:

•	 The portion of that amount necessary to support the
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and
Efficiency (CIGIE).
As required by the Act, the SEC OIG submits the following
information for the OIG’s budget estimate and request for
FY 2017.
•	 The aggregate budget request for the operations of
the OIG is $14,700,700.
•	 The OIG budget request incorporates a sufficient
aggregate amount of funds for the operations of the
OIG. The OIG training needs have traditionally been
partially funded out of the agency’s training budget.
We estimate FY 2017 OIG specialized training costs of
$197,500. The IG certifies that the aggregate amount
of the request satisfies all training requirements for the
OIG for FY 2017 and also any assessment required
to support CIGIE.
•	 The estimated amount of the SEC OIG’s contribution
to CIGIE is 0.30 percent of the budget request, 2017
or $43,970.

WORKLOAD DATA
FY 2015
Actual

FY 2016
Estimate

FY 2017
Request

6

4

6

Opened

11

14

13

Completed

13

12

13

4

6

6

35

47

53

Activity
Audits/Evaluations1
Pending Beginning of Year

Pending End of Year
Total Full-Time Equivalents

1	

The total FTE above represents the entire OIG Organization. However, the workload data above only includes the Office of Audits. The Investigative workload of the
Office of the Inspector General (OIG) is not included in the workload table because it would be inappropriate to speculate on the number of investigations the OIG
would need to conduct during a given time period.

  123

PAGE

