Exercise your Shareholder Voting Rights in Corporate
Elections
One of your key rights as a shareholder is the right
to vote the shares of the companies in which you invest. Shareholder voting rights give you the power to
elect directors at annual or special meetings and make
your views known to the company management and
directors on significant issues that may affect the value of your shares. Shareholders usually participate in
these meetings and elections
through proxy voting.
We developed this brochure
to help you understand more
about proxy voting and navigate your way through the
materials you are now receiving through the mail and the
Internet. Happy Voting.
What is a corporate
election?
As an investor owning shares in the company, you are
entitled to vote in corporate elections. You participate
in this corporate governance process by voting in elections at annual or special meetings for members of the
board of directors, and on certain issues relating to the
organization or governance of the company. The U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), a federal
agency, administers laws and regulations relating to the
solicitation of proxies for those shareholder votes, including disclosures in the proxy materials.

Investor Assistance (800) 732-0330

Why should I vote?
As a shareholder, your opinion about a company matters. You have two key ways to express those opinions:
(1) you can vote in corporate elections; or (2) you
can sell the securities of the company. Voting allows
you to make your voice heard on important corporate matters without having
to take more extreme measures like selling your stock.
For example, you could vote
against a proposed stock option plan if you don’t believe
that the plan is in the best interests of the company. Even
absent a particular proposal,
you could vote generally for
or against the re-election of
directors depending on how
you feel they are running the
company, including how they are paying the officers.
Is it important that I vote?
Yes! Individual investors are not required to vote, but
the exercise of voting rights is a key tool for making
your voice heard by the company’s directors and management. The outcomes of votes at corporate meetings
may affect the value of your shares. Many corporations
encourage shareholders to participate in the affairs of
the company through the proxy process as part of good

www.investor.gov

corporate governance and investor relationship building.

but no proxy card.
How do I vote at a corporate election?

The exercise of voting rights is

a key tool for making your voice
heard by the company’s directors
and management and may affect
shareholder value.
Corporate governance establishes a system of accountability among shareholders, directors and managers
through rules and regulations, the corporate charter
and bylaws, formal policies, and customs. This process
helps determine the leadership, organization, and direction of the company.
Recent rule changes make your vote more important
than ever. Before this year if you held your stock through
a broker, he or she was able to cast a vote on your behalf
to elect directors if you had not directed them on how
to vote. This rule was changed beginning January 1,
2010. Now, except for mutual funds, and other similar
types of investment companies, brokers are no longer
allowed to vote for directors without your involvement.
As a result of this change, if you don’t send a Voting
Instruction Form to your broker, your shares will not
be counted in director elections.

Under state law, shareholders may attend and vote at an
annual or special meeting. However, since most people
live hundreds of miles away from these meetings and are
too busy to attend, law permits shareholders to vote by
“proxy” without being present in person. Most shareholders vote this way. In corporate elections, when you
vote “by proxy,” you are authorizing someone (often
members of the company’s management) to vote according to your wishes, as reflected on the proxy card,
at the meeting.
What are the mechanics of voting
either in person or by proxy?
Typically, a company will allow you to vote in one or
more of the following ways:
•	 In person, you may attend the annual shareholder
meeting and vote at the meeting. The materials you
receive will describe what you must do to attend
and vote, as well as the time, location, and date of
the meeting.
•	 By mail, you may vote by filling out a paper proxy
card if you are a registered owner or a voting instruction form if you are a beneficial owner.

How do I know when to vote?
U.S. public companies set what is known as a “record
date”. Investors who own the company’s shares on that
record date have the right to vote. If you own shares of
the company on the record date, the company will send
you one of the following three communications: A notice that proxy materials are available on the Internet; a
package containing a proxy card or voting instruction
form, annual report, and proxy statement; or a package
containing an annual report and information statement,

Investor Assistance (800) 732-0330

•	 By phone, most companies provide a telephone
number in the proxy materials through which you
can vote. You will be prompted to vote using the
control number provided in your materials.
•	 Over the Internet, if the company has provided
that option. The materials will provide a website
and control number for you to use to vote.

www.investor.gov

What is a “registered” owner? What
is a “beneficial” owner?
A shareholder of a public company may hold shares either directly with the company, as the registered owner
or record holder, or indirectly (for example, through a
bank or broker-dealer), as a beneficial owner. Beneficial owners holding their shares at a broker-dealer or
bank are sometimes said to be holding shares in “street
name”. There are no significant differences between
registered and beneficial owners regarding the value of
your shares. Both have the same rights to dividends,
stock splits, and any appreciation or depreciation in the
value of the stock.
What is the difference between
registered and beneficial owners
when voting on corporate matters?
When it comes to voting on corporate matters there
are differences. Registered owners (or record holders)
receive a proxy and cast votes directly with the company that issues the shares. Beneficial owners, on the
other hand, receive a “voting instruction form” directing their broker or other financial institution how to
vote their shares. The broker-dealer (or bank or custodian) then casts the proxy vote with the company after
receiving instructions from its customer, the beneficial
owner.
How do I know whether I’m a
registered owner or a beneficial
owner?
The card included in your proxy package, if you receive a full package, will give you some indication. If
it names your broker, then you are a beneficial owner
-- generally, individuals who purchased their shares
through a broker are beneficial owners. The majority
of U.S. investors own their securities as beneficial own-

Investor Assistance (800) 732-0330

ers through their brokers and banks. If you are unsure
how you hold your shares, contact the company or your
broker or bank.
What is a “broker voting”?
Under most stock exchange rules, if you are a beneficial
owner, your broker may vote on your behalf at shareholder meetings under certain circumstances. This is
sometimes referred to as “broker voting”. Generally,
if you do not return your Voting Instruction Form (or
“VIF”) directing your broker how to vote on your behalf at least 10 days before the shareholder meeting, your
broker may vote on your behalf on certain routine matters. Remember that starting this year, you must fill out
the Voting Instruction Form and send it to your broker
for your vote to be counted in director elections
Why don’t I receive a copy of the proxy
statement, annual report and proxy
card in the mailing anymore?
In 2007, the SEC adopted new “e-proxy” or “notice
and access” rules. These rules allow companies to send
you a one-page notice that the materials are available
electronically instead of a full package containing a
proxy card, annual report and proxy statement. This allows companies to save significant yearly printing and
mailing costs, as well as help the environment. Companies can choose to mail hard copies of proxy materials
to all or some shareholders that have not elected to have
the company send hard copies to them.
Can I still get paper proxy packages
now and in the future?
Yes. If you are a registered owner you can call the telephone number on the notice and tell the company that
you want paper proxy packages. This selection would
apply to all future proxy mailings by that company as

www.investor.gov

well. However, because you own securities directly
with the company, you would need to call each company in which you own shares.
If you are a beneficial owner holding your stock
through a broker, you only need to make this request
once, by contacting your broker. Your broker will then
send you paper copies of current and future proxy materials for all of your stocks held in that brokerage account.
Where can I get more information or
help understanding proxy voting?
More information about corporate governance, the
mechanics of proxy voting and the new E-proxy rules
proxy voting is available on the internet at http://
www.sec.gov/spotlight/proxymatters.shtml. Investors
can also find on the site a sample proxy card, voting instruction form, and notice, accompanied by explanatory text showing how to use each document.

You can elect to have the

company and your broker send
hard copies of proxy materials
to you.

If you need additional help with proxy voting questions or have a concern that your voting rights have
been abridged you can call the SEC’s Office of Investor
Education and Advocacy at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The Office of Investor Education and Advocacy has
provided this information as a service to investors. It is
neither a legal interpretation nor a statement of SEC
policy. If you have questions concerning the meaning
or application of a particular law or rule, please consult
with an attorney who specializes in securities law.

SEC Pub. No. 028 (4/10)

