Other Information
Major Management Priorities, Challenges and Risks	

126

Cross Agency Collaboration	

128

Evidence Building	

130

Hyperlinks to Other Information and Resources	

131

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Major Management Priorities, Challenges and Risks
As markets, products, and participants that the SEC
oversees and regulates increase in size and complexity,
the agency’s mandate to protect investors, maintain fair,
orderly, and efficient markets, and facilitate capital formation
becomes more challenging. To maximize the use of the
SEC’s resources for the agency’s mission, the agency
continually strives to allocate its time and funds towards the
highest and best uses. As the agency turns from rule writing
to implementation and enforcement of the Dodd-Frank Act
and JOBS Act, agency resources need to stretch further
to cover the statutory expansions in the SEC’s jurisdiction.
The SEC also constantly must reevaluate its operations
to identify risks and ensure the agency is operating most
efficiently to achieve agency priorities.

•	 Protecting investors by expanding our enforcement
program’s investigative capabilities and strengthening
our ability to litigate against wrongdoers;
•	 Strengthening the SEC’s economic and risk analysis
functions; and
•	 Hiring experts capable of permitting the agency to fulfill
its expanded rulemaking and oversight responsibilities.
These priorities are discussed in further detail in the Executive
Summary and in relevant chapters of this report.

Management Challenges

•	 Increasing examination coverage of investment
advisers and other key entities who deal with retail
and institutional investors;

The SEC’s FY 2015 Annual Financial Report (www.sec.gov/
about/secpar/secafr2015.pdf), Other Information Section,
provides a summary of the most serious management
and performance challenges facing the SEC as identified
by the Office of the Inspector General (OIG). The AFR
provides details on current actions being taken to address
these challenges.

•	 Further leveraging cutting-edge technology to permit
the SEC to better keep pace with the entities and
markets we regulate;

The following table describes how the resources requested
for FY 2017 will help address the challenges identified by
the Inspector General.

In light of these challenges, the SEC has developed its
FY 2017 budget request with five main management
priorities in mind:

Management Challenge
Identified by the
Inspector General
Regulatory Oversight

How the FY 2017 Budget Addresses the Challenge
The President’s Budget Request for the SEC in FY 2017 seeks additional staff to allow the SEC to
accomplish several key and pressing priorities, including bolstering examination coverage for investment
advisers and other key areas; continuing the agency’s investments in the technologies needed to keep
pace with today’s high-tech, high-speed markets; strengthening our enforcement program’s efforts to
detect, investigate, and prosecute wrongdoing; and enhancing the agency’s oversight of the rapidly
changing markets and ability to carry out its increased regulatory responsibilities.
(continued on next page)

  126

PAGE

OTHER INFORMATION

Management Challenge
Identified by the
Inspector General

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

How the FY 2017 Budget Addresses the Challenge (continued)

Information Security

In FY 2017, the SEC will continue ongoing efforts to continuously strengthen its cyber security posture
and protect information stored, processed, and transmitted by SEC information systems. In today’s threat
landscape, agencies must possess advanced protocols and capabilities to proactively defend against
sophisticated data breaches and cyber intrusions. The SEC will continue efforts to enhance its continuous
monitoring program consistent with the federal government’s Information System Continuous Monitoring
(ISCM) methodology. Continuous monitoring is a critical capability in assessing the security posture of an
environment and maintaining a situational awareness of weaknesses and vulnerabilities, thereby reducing the
risk of security incidents. The SEC plans to leverage ISCM in integrating an Ongoing Authorization approach
consistent with guidance from the National Institute of Standards and Technology. This approach will help
the SEC build upon its organization-wide risk management process and better ensure information security
risk can be managed more effectively, to include risks presented by shared services and externally-operated
systems. Additionally, the SEC plans to focus on bolstering its capability to rapidly respond to unauthorized
or anomalous user activity through enhancing its security logging and analysis mechanisms.

Acquisition Management

In FY 2017, the Office of Acquisitions (OA) will use its resources to continue the Contracting Officers’
Representative (COR) Improvement Initiative, aimed towards providing greater efficient and functional
control, transparency, and management of the COR program across the SEC. OA also will also continue to
enhance training and monitoring for the Program/Project Management programs, as a tool to ensure that
significant investments are appropriately managed and controlled.

Financial Management

The annual financial audit for FY 2015 found that the SEC had no significant issues in its internal controls over
financial reporting. However, the SEC will continue to press ahead with efforts to strengthen and automate
controls. For example, we will continue developing our monitoring program, to self-assess and proactively
address any control weaknesses that may arise. During FY 2016 and FY 2017, the Office of Financial
Management (OFM) also will concentrate on further improving systems that support the SEC’s financial
processes and controls, such as those pertaining to disgorgements and penalties, filing fees, and asset
management. Finally, OFM expects to complete the build out of the Internal Controls Branch in FY 2017.

Human Capital
Management

The SEC is committed to consistently attracting, hiring, developing, and retaining a high-performing and
diverse workforce. To further enhance the SEC’s recruitment goals, the Office of Human Resources (OHR)
plans to finalize the SEC Workforce Plan in FY 2016. In FY 2017, OHR will conduct periodic reviews to
assess whether the plan aligns with current agency workforce and succession planning efforts. Overall,
OHR’s FY 2017 allocation will further the strategic management of the SEC’s human capital by attracting and
retaining a diverse and talented workforce, administering programs to enhance employee engagement and
leadership development, implementing advanced technologies to enhance and streamline work processes,
and establishing policies and procedures to ensure compliance with Federal regulations and negotiated
agreements. Also, in FY 2017, the SEC is requesting one additional position for the Office of Minority and
Women Inclusion (OMWI) to support the continuous monitoring and performance evaluation for all of the
Agency’s diversity and inclusion initiatives, as well as one data analyst for the Office of Equal Employment
Opportunity (OEEO) to assist in conducting barrier analysis, preparing internal and external reports, improving
operational efficiencies, and enhancing internal controls.

Operational Risk Management
The SEC has further enhanced operational effectiveness via
an agency-wide Operational Risk Management program.
Risk management processes and procedures are being
institutionalized and consistently applied within all operating
units, to ensure that internal operating risks are identified,
analyzed, and managed at all levels of the organization. The
Operational Risk Management Oversight Committee (RMOC)

provides oversight of the development and implementation
of operational risk policies, frameworks, and methodologies,
and it provides leadership and monitoring of agency-wide
operational risks. In FY 2016 and FY 2017, the SEC expects
to make adjustments to its risk management practices based
on upcoming guidance from the Office of Management and
Budget, as appropriate.
  127

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Cross Agency Collaboration
Working with partners across regulatory boundaries, market
segments, and national borders furthers the SEC’s ability
to protect investors; maintain fair, orderly, and efficient
markets; and facilitate capital formation. The SEC values
these partnerships and understands that these collaborations
are critical for the SEC to meet its strategic goals. Examples
of these collaboration efforts are discussed below.

Strategic Goal 1
To establish an effective regulatory environment, several SEC
divisions and offices regularly collaborate with both internal
and external partners.
For example, the SEC participates in international regulatory
organizations such as the Financial Stability Board (FSB) and
the International Organization of Securities Commissions
(IOSCO). Through these entities, the SEC addresses
international regulatory issues by developing international
guidance, recommendations and standards, and assessing
the implementation of foreign financial market reforms and
their ramifications for U.S. investors. The SEC is involved in
multiple IOSCO policy committees, working groups and task
forces, and influences IOSCO’s contributions to the FSB.
For example, the SEC is working with IOSCO to develop
a toolbox of approaches for regulating market conduct.
These organizations also issued papers in FY 2015 related
to, among other topics, cross-border regulation, credit rating
agencies, and methodologies for determining non-bank,
non-insurance systemically relevant entities.
The SEC also participates in bilateral dialogues with foreign
counterparts on securities markets issues, including
dialogues led by the Treasury Department such as the
U.S.-EU Financial Markets Regulatory Dialogue, NAFTA
Financial Services Committee, U.S.-EU Financial Services
Committee, US-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue,
and U.S.-India Financial Regulatory Dialogue. In FY 2017,
the SEC anticipates that the pace of regulatory action in
other jurisdictions will increase, particularly in the European
Union, and the SEC will continue to explore opportunities for
converged approaches to high quality regulatory standards.
Moreover, the demand for supervisory MOUs with foreign
regulators will grow as regulators look to share information
and exchange views in cross-border supervisory matters.

  128

PAGE

In FY 2014, the SEC and four other regulatory agencies
adopted a common rule to implement Section 619 of the
Dodd-Frank Act, known as the “Volcker Rule.” The Division
of Trading and Markets continues to work closely with these
agencies to coordinate their implementation of the common
rules, including collaboration on responses to interpretive
questions, collection of metrics data, and examining and
supervising affected firms. This close partnership enables
the Commission to fulfill its statutory mandate to issue and
implement rules under Section 619 in coordination with
the other rulemaking agencies. Interagency coordination
also reduces the potential costs to affected firms that could
arise from diverging interpretations of the common rule.
Partners within the SEC include the Division of Investment
Management, Division of Corporation Finance, Division
of Economic and Risk Analysis, Office of Compliance
Inspections and Examinations, and Office of the General
Counsel. Other Federal agencies involved in this project
include the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.
The Division of Corporate Finance (CF) ensures the SEC’s
compliance with Section 941 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which
requires the SEC to partner with other Federal financial
regulators to jointly prescribe regulations on risk retention
for securitizers in asset-backed securities transactions.
After the agencies jointly adopted the final rules on risk
retention in October 2014, CF staff collaborated with the
other agencies to provide interpretive guidance on the rules,
as appropriate. CF also consults with other Federal agencies
on implementation of credit risk retention rules. These
agencies include the Federal Reserve Board (FRB), Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC), Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD), Federal Housing Finance Agency
(FHFA), and the Department of the Treasury. Furthermore,
CF routinely participates with Federal banking regulators
on accounting issues in accordance to Section 241 of the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley (GLB) Act which requires the SEC to
consult and coordinate with the appropriate Federal banking
agencies before issuing comments to banks regarding loan
loss allowances.

OTHER INFORMATION

The Office of the Chief Accountant leads the SEC’s efforts
to oversee accounting standard-setting by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the International
Accounting Standards Board (IASB), and auditor oversight
and standard-setting by the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (PCAOB). In addition, OCA, together with
the Office of International Affairs, will continue to manage the
SEC’s representation in the International Financial Reporting
Standards Foundation Monitoring Board.

Strategic Goal 2
To foster and enforce compliance with the Federal securities laws, the SEC works closely with other agencies and
foreign governments.
The Division of Enforcement (ENF) collaborates with a
number of criminal authorities. For example, the Division, the
U.S. Department of Justice, and the U.S. Attorney’s Offices
frequently collaborate on individual cases and broad sweeps
or task forces through access grants to their respective
investigative files. The Division also collaborates with the
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) on individual matters
and through a Memorandum of Understanding to embed
several Agents and Intelligence Analysts from the FBI’s
Economic Crimes Unit into the Division’s Office of Market
Intelligence (OMI) for the purpose of information sharing
and combatting securities fraud by leveraging each other’s
resources and expertise.
ENF also coordinates with other Federal agencies, routinely
exchanging tips, complaints and referrals and sharing
information and intelligence. The Division primarily coordinated
in this regard with the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S.
Attorney’s Offices, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
but also coordinates with other Federal and state agencies
including, among others, the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the
Department of Education, the Department of Labor, the
Federal Trade Commission, the Internal Revenue Service,
the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, and the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency.
The Office of Compliance, Inspections and Examinations
(OCIE) is responsible for the oversight of broker-dealers
and does so through many coordinated efforts with the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). The SEC
and FINRA have regular contact to discuss strategic initiatives,
examination coordination, risk assessment efforts, rule-making

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

issues, industry risks, etc. This type of coordination is
ultimately intended to make oversight of broker-dealers more
effective and to improve compliance within the industry. As
an example, the two agencies coordinate to formally present
Compliance Outreach Seminars. Additional SEC offices,
particularly the Division of Trading and Markets, are involved
heavily in this coordination as well.
OIA staff assists the SEC’s Division of Enforcement with
hundreds of requests for international assistance each year,
particularly in the area of coordination of parallel proceedings
with foreign securities and law enforcement authorities.
OIA assists Enforcement with efforts to freeze and repatriate
assets held in foreign nations and provides guidance to
foreign counterparts in their efforts to secure the proceeds
of fraud present within the U.S.
OIA actively participates in multilateral efforts to enhance
international enforcement cooperation, representing the
SEC on multiple International Organization of Securities
Commissions (IOSCO) committees and steering groups.
OIA coordinates with foreign counterparts to develop policies
relating to enforcement matters, and to promote international
cooperation among securities regulators in their respective
investigations and cases. In addition, OIA coordinates with
the Division of Enforcement and the CFTC on joint and parallel
investigations of possible violations of U.S. securities and
commodities and futures laws where international issues
exist. OIA also works with the Department of Justice and
foreign law enforcement agencies on joint and parallel
investigations of possible violations of U.S. securities laws
where international issues exist.

Strategic Goal 3
The SEC frequently works with other entities to facilitate
access to the information investors need to make informed
investment decisions.
For example, the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
(OIEA) is an active member of IOSCO Committee 8, the
primary mandate of which is to conduct IOSCO’s policy work
on retail investor education and financial literacy. On May 6,
IOSCO published results of the Committee’s survey on
anti-fraud messaging, which described strategies used by
securities market regulators to educate individual investors
about how to protect themselves against investment fraud.
OIEA led the project working in coordination with various
IOSCO members.
  129

PAGE

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

OTHER INFORMATION

OIEA also worked with FINRA to issue two Joint Investor
Alerts: “Dormant Shell Companies – How to Protect Your
Portfolio from Fraud” and “Automated Investment Tools”.
These alerts warn investors about aggressively promoted
“penny” stocks that may be stocks of companies that have
no or nominal business operations or non-cash assets for
an extended period of time, and gave the public information
on automated investment tools.
CF and OMWI staff also work with the Small Business
Administration (SBA) to develop outreach events to educate
the public about the changes made by the JOBS Act.

Strategic Goal 4
To enhance the Commission’s performance through effective
alignment and management of human, information, and
financial capital the Commission’s administrative offices often
work collaboratively with other agencies. Below are just a
few examples of activities the SEC participates in to help
further enhance the effectiveness of our core operations.
The Office of Human Resources is developing a Financial
Rotation Program in collaboration with Treasury, FDIC, CFPB,
Federal Reserve and CFTC. This program will provide an
opportunity for front line employees to be able to share
knowledge and best practices across the financial community.
OHR also participates in quarterly discussions to benchmark
the benefits and worklife program offerings among the
FIRREA agencies. The shared goal is to benchmark program
areas, understand each other’s organizational climate, and

explore best practices. Participants include the FDIC, the
CFTC, the Federal Housing Finance Administration, the OCC,
NCUA, and the Farm Credit Administration
The Project Management Office (PMO) within the Chief
Operating Officer’s Office (COO) participates in a roundtable
with the CFTC and the CFPB. The purpose of the roundtable
is to build relationships between Project Management Office
(PMO) staff across Federal agencies, to share lessons learned
in PMO development and project delivery, to establish a
forum for partnership and idea-sharing, and to help each
pursue excellence in mission delivery within our respective
organizations. The Office of Risk Management (ORM), also
within the COO, participates in another roundtable called the
Program Management Community of Practice. Collaboration
activities include sharing best practices; comparing risk
management technology; benchmarking program maturity;
and sharing tools, templates, and methodologies with other
risk management professionals across Federal agencies.
The Office of Information Technology is another office at the
SEC that routinely works with other agencies. For example,
OIT is involved in a project with GSA called GSA Networkx.
The goal of this project is to provide a flexible, responsive
and cost effective vehicle for telecommunications and data
services from the nations’ telecommunication providers.
OIT also works with the National Telecommunications &
Information Administration (NTIA) within the Department
of Commerce (DOC) so the SEC may have use of DOC/
NTIA’s radio frequencies, assesses interference concerns,
and assure spectrum efficiency.

Evidence Building
Internal and external evaluations play a significant role in
monitoring and improving SEC program performance.
Through objective measurement and analysis, agency
managers determine the extent to which programs are
achieving mission objectives allowing them to direct
SEC resources accordingly. In FY 2015, there were nine
Government Accountability Office (GAO) reports and
eleven Office of Inspector General reports related to
agency operations. Beyond this, examples of reviews
and evaluations that the agency has initiated and plan to
continue include:

  130

PAGE

•	 The agency initiated and advanced broad-based reviews
of core agency programs involving equity market
structure and the effectiveness of its public company
disclosure rules to protect investors and promote capital
formation. These initiatives will continue in FY 2017.
•	 The Division of Trading and Markets will continue to
explore options to improve the market structure for
trading fixed income securities, including municipal and
corporate bonds. Current and ongoing initiatives include
the adoption of riskless principal markup disclosure

SECTION NOT UPDATED
OTHER INFORMATION

rules by FINRA and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board (MSRB), development of best execution guidance
for the corporate and municipal bond markets, and
development of SEC rules designed to improve
pre-trade price transparency in these markets.
•	 In FY 2017, the Division of Investment Management (IM)
will continue to focus on a set of initiatives to enhance
investment management industry resilience to portfolio
composition risk and operational risk.
•	 Through customer satisfaction surveys and other
research, the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
and the Office of the Investor Advocate will seek
additional information regarding the behavior of individual
investors, the types of information they need and use
when making investment decisions, and the usefulness
of SEC’s investor education programs and materials.
•	 The SEC reviews performance goal data on a quarterly
basis through the Chair’s Quarterly Operating Report
(CQOR), which was created to establish a performance
measure monitoring process for the agency. Once per
quarter, the SEC’s Performance Improvement Officer
and the Chair’s Office review the status of performance
goals and indicators and determine whether the agency
is on target for achieving the performance goals for the
fiscal year. The report includes the quarterly result for
each performance goal or indicator and the progress
achieved towards meeting the target for the fiscal

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

year. The SECs quarterly review process is in line
with OMB and Performance Improvement Council
recommendations for frequent data-driven reviews.
While the SEC is not required to comply with OMB
Memorandum M-14-06, the agency is supportive of the aims
to make greater use of existing administrative data where
possible. The SEC is already implementing activities that are
consonant with the guidance outlined in the Memorandum.
Examples of such activities are highlighted below.
•	 The SEC’s Division of Economic and Risk Analysis
(DERA) established the Quantitative Research and
Analytic Data Support (QRADS) program, with a formal
governance committee to manage the flow of SEC
data/analytic projects.
•	 The SEC manages a website to provide investors
and others with the ability to interactively explore a
range of new market metrics and access empirical
research and analyses that further inform the broader
public debate on market structure. The website is
located at www.sec.gov/marketstructure. It serves as
a central location for the SEC to publicly share evolving
data, research, and analysis as the agency continues
its review of equity market structure. The data and
related observations address the nature and quality of
displayed liquidity across the full range of U.S.-listed
equities – from the lifetime of quotes and the speed of
the market to the nature of order cancellations.

Hyperlinks to Other Information and Resources
SEC Strategic Plan for 2014-2018  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . www.sec.gov/about/sec-strategic-plan-2014-2018.pdf
FY 2015 Agency Financial Report  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . www.sec.gov/about/secafr2015.shtml
Prior Year Congressional Budget Justifications  . . . . . . . . . www.sec.gov/about/secreports.shtml
SEC’s Investor.gov  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . www.investor.gov
SEC Office of the Whistleblower  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . www.sec.gov/whistleblower
SEC Enforcement Actions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . www.sec.gov/spotlight/enf-actions-fc.shtml
The Laws that Govern the Securities Industry . . . . . . . . . . . www.sec.gov/about/laws.shtml
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . www.sec.gov/fast-answers

  131

PAGE

