U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Summary of Performance
and Financial Information
F i s c a l

Y e a r

2 0 1 4

The Securities and Exchange Commission at a Glance

Introduction: The SEC publishes a Summary of
Performance and Financial Information (SPFI), which is
a brief overview of financial and performance information,
that is electronically available at www.sec.gov/about/
secreports.shtml. The SEC also produces the Agency
Financial Report (AFR), which has a primary focus on
financial results, and an Annual Performance Report
(APR), which focuses on strategic goals and performance
results. The fiscal year (FY) 2014 APR will be included
in the SEC FY 2016 Congressional Budget Justification
in February 2015. The AFR is electronically available at
http://www.sec.gov/about/secafr2014.shtml. To comment
on the AFR, email SECAFR@sec.gov.

Mission
The mission of the SEC is to protect investors,
maintain fair, orderly, and efficient markets,
and facilitate capital formation.
PAGE

2

Vision
The SEC strives to promote a market environment that is
worthy of the public’s trust and characterized by:
•	 Transparent disclosure to investors of
the risks of particular investments;
•	 Oversight of key market participants, including
exchanges, brokers and dealers, investment
advisers, and others;
•	 Focus on strengthening market structure
and systems;
•	 Promotion of disclosure of market-related
information;
•	 Protection against fraud and abuse; and
•	 Evaluation, development and maintenance
of appropriate rules and regulations.

Values
Integrity

Excellence

Accountability

Effectiveness

Teamwork

Fairness

FY 2014 SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION

About the SEC
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is an
independent Federal agency established pursuant to the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The SEC is headed by a
bipartisan five-member Commission, comprised of the Chair
and four Commissioners who are appointed by the President
and confirmed by the Senate.
The SEC is responsible for overseeing the nation’s securities
markets and certain key participants, including brokerdealers, investment companies, investment advisers,
clearing agencies, transfer agents, credit rating agencies,
and securities exchanges, as well as organizations such as
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), and Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). It also seeks to ensure
that investors are provided with the material information
needed to make investment decisions.
Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), the agency’s jurisdiction
was expanded to include certain participants in the derivatives
markets, private fund advisers, and municipal advisors, among
other changes.
The agency’s responsibilities are organized into five divisions
and 23 offices, each of which is headquartered in Washington,
DC. The SEC also has 11 regional offices which are comprised
primarily of staff from the enforcement and examination
programs. The SEC employs over 4,100 people.

Fiscal Year 2014 Performance Highlights

Under the leadership of Chair Mary Jo White, FY 2014 marked
a year of significant achievement across the SEC. With
accomplishments ranging from robust and effective rulemaking
that strengthened our markets and increased protection for
America’s investors, to aggressive enforcement that employed
new investigative techniques and the innovative use of data
to bring actions that spanned the securities industry and
comprehensive examination of regulated entities designed to
promote compliance and prevent and detect fraud, this past
year has been a high water mark for the Commission.

A Focused Rulemaking Agenda
•	 With the significant efforts of the last fiscal year, the Commission has now completed most of its mandatory rulemaking
in six of the eight significant areas targeted for SEC action
by the Dodd-Frank Act.
•	 In December 2013, the Commission joined the Federal
banking agencies and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (CFTC) in adopting a final rule implementing
Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, known as the “Volcker
Rule.” This rule generally restricts financial institutions affiliated
with banks – including broker-dealers and investment advisers
– from engaging in proprietary trading, sponsoring hedge
funds and private equity funds, or investing in such funds.
•	 The Commission adopted fundamental reforms to money
market funds.
•	 The Commission worked to improve the supervision of
clearing agencies and adopted significant rules to enhance
the governance of credit rating agencies.
•	 The Commission adopted critical overhauls to the assetbacked securities market.
•	 The Commission proposed rules in December 2013 intended
to increase access to capital for smaller companies under
a Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act mandate.
The proposal built on Regulation A, an existing exemption
from Securities Act registration for securities offerings up to
$5 million within a 12-month period. The updated exemption,
commonly referred to as “Regulation A+,” would enable
companies to offer and sell up to $50 million of securities
within a 12-month period.

Aggressive Enforcement
•	 The SEC ended FY 2014 with 755 enforcement actions
and obtained orders for $4.16 billion in penalties and
disgorgement which was a record year.
•	 Some of the notable actions Enforcement brought include
actions against: exchanges, investment advisers and
broker-dealers, issuers, auditors and others who serve
as gatekeepers to our financial system, large international
corporations, municipal issuers for disclosure failures, and
an array of insider trading violations.
•	 Enforcement saw several “firsts,” such as charging violations
of the market access rule, the first enforcement action to halt
a fraudulent municipal bond offering, the largest ever penalty
for net capital rule violations, and the first case applying
Dodd-Frank Act whistleblower anti-retaliation authority.
•	 During FY 2014, Enforcement amplified its focus on market
structure issues and filed a number of actions against market
participants who pose a risk to the markets by failing to
operate within the rules.
•	 The SEC brought 52 insider trading actions, which sent a
strong deterrent message to would be-violators.
•	 Enforcement took proactive steps to combat microcap fraud
by more frequently suspending trading in securities that are
the objects of pump and dumps, targeting repeat players
who help facilitate these schemes, and building on the
SEC’s relationships with its regulatory and law enforcement
counterparts. Efforts in this area included suspending trading
in 255 dormant shell companies.
•	 SEC continued its focus on the municipal securities market,
bringing significant, novel actions charging the full spectrum
of market participants. Areas of focus this year included
conflicts of interest, pay-to-play schemes, and a new
initiative to encourage self-reporting of certain securities
law violations by municipal issuers and underwriters.
•	 Investment advisers and the funds they manage remained
a key focus of Enforcement during FY 2014.
•	 In coordination with the SEC’s Office of International Affairs
(OIA), Enforcement continued to expand its international
enforcement efforts.

FY 2014 SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION

PAGE

3

Enhanced Review Program
•	 The Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
(OCIE) continued to promote compliance through a
multi-level outreach program, and to detect and prevent
fraud through an increasingly sophisticated examination
process.
•	 OCIE engaged registrants through a wide variety
of channels ranging from its second annual public
statement of examination priorities to meetings with senior
management, heads of control functions and independent
directors.
•	 It significantly expanded the scope of its data collection
and analysis program.
•	 In FY 2014, OCIE conducted more than 1,850 formal
examinations of registrants, an increase over each of
the prior four fiscal years.
•	 In FY 2014, OCIE made more than 200 referrals, many
of which resulted in enforcement investigations and/
or actions.

Increased Outreach to Investors

Strategic Goals and Costs
The SEC’s performance data provides a foundation for both
programmatic and organizational decision-making and is critical
for gauging the agency’s success in meeting its objectives. The
SEC is committed to using performance management best
practices to promote greater accountability. The SEC’s FY 2014
APR will be issued with the agency’s FY 2016 Congressional
Budget Justification, and will provide a complete discussion
of all of the agency’s strategic goals, including a description of
performance goals and objectives, data sources, performance
results and trends, and information about internal reviews and
evaluations. A summary of the SEC’s verification and validation
of all performance data also will be included in the APR. The
SEC’s APR is expected to be available in February 2015 at
www.sec.gov/about/secreports.shtml.
Strategic Goal 1: Establish and maintain an effective
regulatory environment
•	 Strategic Objective 1.1: The SEC establishes and
maintains a regulatory environment that promotes highquality disclosure, financial reporting and governance,
and that prevents abusive practices by registrants,
financial intermediaries and other market participants.

PAGE

4

•	 The SEC appointed its first Investor Advocate in the
agency’s newly-formed Office of the Investor Advocate.
•	 The Commission continued to provide educational
programs and materials, coordinate with foreign
counterparts, and scrutinize disclosures to ensure that
investors are getting appropriate information.
•	 SEC’s staff are creating and embracing new tools and
technology, deploying new and innovative strategies to
protect investors, keep markets safe and encourage
capital formation – more effectively than ever before.
•	 The Office of Investor Education and Advocacy (OIEA)
posted educational content to Investor.gov. A record
number of 28 investor alerts and bulletins warning investors of possible fraudulent schemes, including affinity fraud
and schemes involving virtual currencies, and educating
them on investment-related matters were published.

•	 Strategic Objective 1.2: The SEC promotes capital
markets that operate in a fair, efficient, transparent and
competitive manner, fostering capital formation and
useful innovation.
•	 Strategic Objective 1.3: The SEC adopts and administers
regulations and rules that are informed by robust
economic analysis and public comment and that enable
market participants to understand clearly their obligations
under the securities laws.
•	 Strategic Objective 1.4: The SEC engages with a
multitude of stakeholders to inform and enhance
regulatory activities domestically and internationally.
Strategic Goal 2: Foster and enforce compliance with
the Federal securities laws
•	 Strategic Objective 2.1: The SEC fosters compliance
with the Federal securities laws.
•	 Strategic Objective 2.2: The SEC promptly detects and
deters violations of the Federal securities laws.
•	 Strategic Objective 2.3: The SEC prosecutes violations of
Federal securities laws and holds violators accountable
through appropriate sanctions and remedies.

FY 2014 SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION

•	 Strategic Objective 4.3: The SEC maximizes the use
of agency resources by continually improving agency
operations and bolstering internal controls.

Strategic Goal 3: Facilitate access to the information
investors need to make informed investment decisions
•	 Strategic Objective 3.1: The SEC works to ensure that
investors have access to high-quality disclosure materials
that facilitate informed investment decision-making.
•	 Strategic Objective 3.2: The SEC works to understand
investor needs and educate investors so they are better
prepared to make informed investment decisions.
Strategic Goal 4: Enhance the Commission’s performance through effective alignment and management
of human, information, and financial capital
•	 Strategic Objective 4.1: The SEC promotes a resultsoriented work environment that attracts, engages, and
retains a technically proficient and diverse workforce,
including leaders who provide motivation and strategic
direction.
•	 Strategic Objective 4.2: The SEC encourages a
collaborative environment across divisions and offices
and leverages technology and data to fulfill its mission
more effectively and efficiently.

Performance Achievements
The SEC seeks to encourage a strong culture of compliance
among organizations, to foster ethical behavior and decisionmaking. As part of its efforts to promote compliance within the
industry, OCIE exceeded its target by conducting 63 outreach
and education programs during the year, including Compliance
Outreach seminars, targeted sessions with never before
examined advisers, and various other outreach initiatives with
registrants and regulators (Performance Goal 2.1.1). Further,
the National Examination Program issued two National Risk
Alerts and participated in a number of other outreach efforts,
including speaking at more than 240 industry conferences
and other related engagements that are not reflected in the
numbers below. The program will continue to expand and
improve on these efforts during FY 2015 and FY 2016 as these
are critical elements in fostering and promoting compliance
with Federal securities laws.

PAGE

5

PERFORMANCE GOAL 2.1.1
Number of industry outreach and education programs targeted to areas identified as raising particular compliance risks
Description: Targeted communication with industry participants on topics shaping the examination program is intended to enhance compliance
practices and prevent violations before they occur. This metric identifies the number of major outreach efforts conducted including the SEC’s
national and regional compliance outreach events, published risk alerts, and other educational programs and initiatives.
Fiscal Year
Number of major outreach efforts

FY 2009

FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014
Plan

FY 2014
Actual

FY 2014
Results

N/A

6

5

12

15

16

63

Exceeded

Responsible Division/Office: Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Data Source: Internal tracking, although the events noted above are referenced on the SEC’S Website at www.sec.gov/ocie.

While the agency did not meet its targets for the percentage of investment companies examined during the year, the agency
did exceed its targets for percentage of investment advisers and broker dealers examined during the year (Performance Goal
2.2.1). In addition, examination resources in FY 2014 were allocated to other efforts intended to improve long-term performance,
including industry outreach initiatives, rulemaking efforts and other program improvements.

FY 2014 SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION

PERFORMANCE GOAL 2.2.1
Percentage of investment advisers, investment companies, and broker-dealers examined during the year
Description: This metric indicates the number of registrants examined by the SEC or an SRO as a percentage of the total number of registrants.
This metric includes all types of examinations: risk priority examinations, cause inspections to follow up on tips and complaints, limited-scope special
inspections to probe emerging risk areas, and oversight examinations of broker-dealers to test compliance and the quality of examinations by FINRA.
FY 2009

FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014
Plan

FY 2014
Actual

FY 2014
Results

Investment advisers

10%

9%

8%

8%

9%

9%

10%

Exceeded

Investment companies

29%

10%

13%

12%

11%

12%

10%

Not Met

Broker-Dealers (exams by SEC and SROs)

54%

44%

58%

49%

46%

48%

49%

Exceeded

Fiscal Year

Responsible Division/Office: Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Data Source: Tracking and Reporting Exam National Documentation System (TRENDS), Commission Filings, and SRO Databases (BD SRO Data)
Plan for Improving Program Performance: During FY 2015, staff will continue to implement improved processes and procedures that have been
identified as part of OCIE’s ongoing improvement process. Significant improvement initiatives in the areas of strategy, people, processes, and
technology have been completed in the last few years or are currently underway. The agency expects that these improvements, which include
enhancements to the exam program’s risk assessment processes, will lead to more effective coverage of registered entities. Furthermore, certain
targeted initiatives aimed at high risk firms and activities have already been implemented and it is anticipated that these efforts will result in
improved coverage levels in FY 2015.

Filing enforcement actions in a timely manner is an important measure of the Division of Enforcement’s (Enforcement) effectiveness.
In FY 2014, the average months between opening a matter under inquiry (MUI) or investigation and commencing an enforcement
action was 21 months, which is the same as the prior fiscal years (Performance Goal 2.3.3). Timely actions have an increased
deterrent impact. However, many of Enforcement’s cases are complex and can take extended periods of time to develop
successfully, which will negatively impact the timeliness of actions.
PAGE

6

PERFORMANCE GOAL 2.3.3
Average months between opening a matter under inquiry or an investigation and commencing an enforcement action
Description: This metric captures the average number of months between the opening of an investigation and the filing of the first enforcement
action arising out of that investigation. If the investigation was preceded by a matter under inquiry, the metric draws on the date of opening of
the matter under inquiry. In conducting investigations, the enforcement program continually strives to balance the need for complete, effective,
and fair investigation with the need to file enforcement actions in as timely a manner as possible. While not all investigations result in the filing of
enforcement actions, this metric provides information concerning the pace of investigations that do lead to such actions.
Fiscal Year
Months

FY 2009

FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014
Plan

FY 2014
Actual

FY 2014
Results

N/A

N/A

22

21

21

20

21

Not met

Responsible Division/Office: Division of Enforcement
Data Source: HUB case management and tracking system for the Division of Enforcement
Plan for Improving Program Performance: To achieve its goal of 20 months on this metric, Enforcement will continue to look for ways to manage
investigations effectively in order to promote speed and efficiency while maintaining an appropriate degree of thoroughness and completeness.
Enforcement will strive to improve through effective management of cases, as well as by leveraging various processes and initiatives designed to
promote efficiencies in investigations, such as technology, training, and regular case assessments. Enforcement leadership also will encourage
appropriate use of tools such as subpoena enforcement actions in order to ensure that investigations proceed on an appropriate timeframe.

Providing investors with the information they need to avoid securities fraud and make informed investment decisions remained
a high priority for the agency in FY 2014. The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy (OIEA) continued to support
the agency’s investor protection mission through the Investor.gov website, which provides key information for citizens to inform
their investment decisions. Investor.gov attracted over one million new visitors due in part to its growing digital and social media
presence, and the website’s high customer satisfaction scores significantly exceeded the Federal Government benchmark
(Performance Goal 3.2.3).

FY 2014 SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION

PERFORMANCE GOAL 3.2.3
Customer satisfaction rating of OIEA’s online investor education resources
Description: This metric gauges the effectiveness, helpfulness, and usability of OIEA’s online investor education resources.
Fiscal Year
Satisfaction index

FY 2009

FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

Prior-year data not available

FY 2013

FY 2014
Plan

FY 2014
Actual

FY 2014
Results

81

73

83

Exceeded

Responsible Division/Office: Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
Data Source: ForeSee results online portal

Management Assurances
In FY 2014, the SEC demonstrated its continued commitment
to maintaining strong internal controls. Internal control is an
integral component of effective agency management, providing
reasonable assurance that the following objectives are being
achieved: effectiveness and efficiency of operations, reliability of
financial reporting, and compliance with laws and regulations.
Assurance Statement On Internal Control Over
Operations: The SEC management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining effective internal control and
financial management systems that meet the objectives of the
Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act of 1982 (FMFIA). In
accordance with OMB Circular A-123, the SEC conducted its
annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls.
Based on the results of the assessment for the period ending
September 30, 2014, the SEC is able to provide an unqualified
statement of assurance that the internal controls and financial
systems, both for the agency as a whole and for the Investor
Protection Fund, meet the objectives of the FMFIA. No material
weaknesses were found in the design or operation of the
internal controls for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014.
Assurance Statement On Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting (ICFR): In accordance with Appendix A of OMB
Circular A-123, the SEC conducted its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which
includes safeguarding of assets and compliance with applicable
laws and regulations. Based on the results of the assessment,
the SEC is able to provide reasonable assurance that internal
control over financial reporting, both for the agency as a whole
and for the Investor Protection Fund, met the objectives of
FMFIA and were operating effectively as of September 30,
2014. No material weaknesses were found in the design or
operation of controls.
SEC also conducted reviews of its financial management
systems in accordance with OMB Circular A-123 Appendix D,

Compliance with the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act of 1996 (FFMIA). Based on the results of these
reviews, SEC can provide reasonable assurance that its
financial management systems substantially comply with the
requirements of the FFMIA as of September 30, 2014.

Summary of Financial Statement Audit
Audit Opinion: Unmodified
Restatement: No

PAGE

7

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S INTERNAL CONTROL FINDINGS
Category

FY 2014 Audit Finding

Material Weaknesses
Significant Deficiency

None
Accounting for Disgorgement
and Penalties

For FY 2014, our independent auditor, the U.S. Government
Accountability Office (GAO), has issued an unmodified
opinion on our financial statements and internal controls. In
addition, the SEC successfully downgraded the severity of
the one significant deficiency from FY 2013 related to internal
controls over information technology security. However for
FY 2014, the SEC had one significant deficiency in the area
of accounting for disgorgements and penalties. We found
that judgments and orders were not always getting recorded
into the accounting records on a timely basis. Therefore, the
SEC enhanced the controls in this area late in the fiscal year
to address the timely recording of transactions. The Office of
Financial Management has begun working more regularly with
the agency’s case management specialists, who have deep
institutional knowledge with respect to individual cases. We
expect the ongoing communication to help ensure proper
recording of judgments and orders. This will continue to be
an area of focus for us in FY 2015.

FY 2014 SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Looking Forward FY 2015

In FY 2015, the SEC will continue to promote policies
and programs to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly,
and efficient markets, and facilitate capital formation. The
agency will continue to build upon its robust enforcement
and examination programs using innovative data analysis and
cutting-edge technology. The SEC will also continue to make
progress on important rulemakings – both those mandated by
Congress and those that cover other mission-critical areas –
and will push forward on initiatives to strengthen the resiliency
and operational integrity of our securities markets. In FY 2015,
the SEC will also strive to enhance its operations, bolster its
investor outreach and use sophisticated data analytics to
improve its efficiency and effectiveness.

PAGE

8

In the coming fiscal year, the Commission will seek to complete
the remaining major rulemakings required by the Dodd-Frank
and JOBS Acts. The SEC will also continue to focus on
discretionary rulemaking in areas of critical importance for
investors and other market participants, including equity
and fixed income market structure, asset management, and
financial infrastructure.
With over 90 percent of the required rules proposed or
adopted, the Commission is nearing the completion of its
Dodd-Frank rulemaking in many key areas. In FY 2015, the
SEC will strive to advance the final rules by:
•	 Continuing to implement the comprehensive regulatory
framework for over-the-counter derivatives market called
for by the Dodd-Frank Act;
•	 Accelerating the implementation of the provisions of the
Dodd-Frank Act related to executive compensation;
•	 Seeking to adopt final rules to implement exemptions
under the Securities Act for securities-based
crowdfunding offerings and offerings conducted pursuant
to “Regulation A+”;
•	 Considering final amendments to enhance the
Commission’s ability to evaluate the development of
market practices in Rule 506 offerings and to address
concerns that may arise in connection with permitting
issuers to engage in general solicitation and general
advertising in such offerings;

FY 2014 SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION

•	 Continuing to work to implement the changes to the
thresholds for registration and deregistration under
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, which were effective
immediately upon enactment of the JOBS Act; and
•	 Continuing to provide interpretive guidance to issuers
and their advisers on the implementation and application
of the JOBS Act, and review emerging practices in the
securities market following the implementation of JOBS
Act rules.
Beyond these statutory mandates, the SEC will continue to
develop rules for a dynamic economy that seek to facilitate
capital formation while protecting investors and maintaining
fair, orderly, and efficient markets. In particular, in the coming
fiscal year, the SEC will:
•	 Continue to comprehensively review the structure of the
equity markets to optimize their functioning, including
through rulemaking;
•	 Consider significant enhancements to the risk management practices of the asset management industry; and
•	 Continue to work toward a stronger financial responsibility
framework for broker-dealers.
Enforcement and OCIE will continue to build on their very
strong results from FY 2014 by focusing on current and
emerging high-priority areas, and on enhancing their use
of cutting-edge technology and analytics. Enforcement’s
priorities for the coming year include a continued focus on
complex financial products, gatekeepers, financial reporting,
market structure, insider trading, investment advisers and
private funds, and municipal securities. OCIE will continue
to invest in and use data analytics that enable preemptive
detection of risk throughout entire industries and more
effective identification of fraud in examinations.
In FY 2015, the SEC will continue to look for new and
innovative ways to educate investors including:
•	 Increasing investor education outreach to target
audiences, including seniors, millennials, affinity groups,
and the military to convey key investor education
messages, including, among others, understanding
fees, and identifying fraud;

•	 Using research to inform and enhance investor education
initiatives, including feedback from Investor.gov’s customer
satisfaction survey; and
•	 Educating individuals about the importance of checking
the registration status of an investment professional before
investing.
Since FY 2013, the SEC has been working on a multi-year
technology transformation plan called “Working Smarter.”
Under the Working Smarter initiative, the agency has worked
to standardize enterprise-wide platforms, modernize SEC.gov
and the EDGAR filer system, develop advanced search and
discovery capabilities, and build complex, predictive analytical
capabilities. In FY 2015, the agency will continue to build on
this initiative in an effort to lower costs, deliver better services
to both employees and the public, and increase accountability,
transparency, and security.

The SEC is committed to further improving its financial systems,
processes, and controls. The agency is building a financial data
mart, as part of a broader SEC-wide Electronic Data Warehouse
initiative. This data mart is designed to integrate data from a
variety of SEC systems, facilitating financial decision-making
by providing comprehensive management and financial
reporting on a regular basis. The SEC also will continue to
participate in the Federal government-wide deployment of
a new travel system, work to replace the system supporting
budget execution and formulation, and focus on reforming the
systems related to filing fees and disgorgements and penalties.
The agency will continue to promote its strategic values of
integrity, accountability, effectiveness, teamwork, fairness and
a commitment to excellence through improving collaboration
and coordination among its divisions and offices, employing
new technology, and supporting the more than 4,000 talented
men and women who work tirelessly to fulfill the agency’s
important mission.

PAGE

9

Inspector General’s Statement on Management
and Performance Challenges
The Reports Consolidation Act of 2000 requires the SEC’s
Office of Inspector General (OIG) to identify and report
annually on the most serious management challenges that
the SEC faces.
The FY 2014 management challenges are:

The SEC remains committed to enhancing the financial and
operational effectiveness of the agency and appreciates the
OIG’s role in the effort. The SEC has actions—taken and
planned to be taken—to address each of the challenges
identified by the OIG.

•	 Regulatory Oversight
•	 Information Security
•	 Acquisition Management
•	 Financial Management
•	 Human Capital Management

FY 2014 SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Fiscal Year 2014 Financial Highlights

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FOR FY 2014 AND FY 2013
FY 2014

FY 2013

Total Assets

$	10,590

$	9,953

Total Liabilities

$	2,900

$	2,298

Net Position

$	7,690

$	7,655

(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

Annual Net Position Change

0%

1%

Total Program Costs

$	1,441

$	1,331

Revenues

$	1,906

$	1,764

Net (Income) Cost from Operations

$	(465)

$	(433)

Total Budgetary Resources

$	1,551

$	1,402

4,150

4,023

Actual FTEs at Fiscal Year End

Sequestration Order for FY 2014

PAGE

10

On March 1, 2013, the President issued the Sequestration
Order for FY 2013 which reduced FY 2013 budget authority.
As determined by the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB), for FY 2014, the sequestration order was applicable
to mandatory appropriations and spending authority from
offsetting collections, which included the Reserve Fund and
the Investor Protection Fund, of the SEC as follows:
Reserve Fund
The budget authority of $75 million was reduced by 7.2 percent
or $5.4 million.
Investor Protection Fund
The budget authority of $90 million was reduced by 7.2 percent
or $6 million.

Reserve Fund
Section 991(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act authorized the creation
of a Securities and Exchange Commission Reserve Fund
(Reserve Fund). Funded from filing fee collections, the SEC
can deposit up to $50 million per fiscal year, and the fund
cannot hold more than $100 million in total. Excess filing fees
are deposited to the U.S. Treasury General Fund.

FY 2014 SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014, filing fee
revenues were $580 million. Fifty million dollars was deposited
into the Reserve Fund, of which $25 million was rescinded
and $5.4 million was sequestered. The excess of $530 million
was earned on behalf of the U.S. Treasury General Fund.
Filing fees deposited to the Reserve Fund can be used to
fund the SEC’s operations, create budgetary authority, and are
reported as a component of Appropriations (Discretionary and
Mandatory) on the SEC’s Statement of Budgetary Resources.
Filing fees deposited to the U.S. Treasury General Fund cannot
be used to fund the SEC’s operations. These amounts do not
create budgetary authority, and are reported as a component
of Other Financing Sources: Other on the SEC’s Statement
of Changes in Net Position.

Investor Protection Fund
The SEC prepares standalone financial statements for the
Investor Protection Fund as required by the Dodd-Frank Act.
The Investor Protection Fund was established in the fourth
quarter of FY 2010 to provide funding for a Whistleblower
Award Program and to finance the operations of the SEC
OIG’s Employee Suggestion Program.
INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND ACTIVITY
FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 AND 2013
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2014 Program Costs
Total Program Costs were $1.4 billion for the year ended
September 30, 2014, an increase of $110 million or eight
percent when compared to the prior year. Salary and Benefit
Expenses increased more than $91 million, because the SEC
had higher expenses in the areas of Pay and Benefits as the
result of increased staffing and compensation. Other Expenses
remained stable when comparing FY 2014 to FY 2013, with
the exception of accrued Whistleblower payments from the
SEC’s Investor Protection Fund, which totaled more than
$25 million.

FY 2014

Balance of Fund at beginning of fiscal year,
October 1
$	439,197
Amount of earnings on investments during
the fiscal year

FY 2013
$	453,429

579

651

Amount paid from the Fund during the
fiscal year to whistleblowers

	(25,069)

	(14,832)

Amount paid from the Fund during the
fiscal year for expenses incurred by
Employee Suggestion Program

(47)

(51)

$	414,660

$	439,197

Balance of the Fund at the end of the
reporting period

Note: Table presented as “Dollars in Thousands” in order to detail
Investor Protection Fund Activity.
PAGE

11

The SEC had increased expenses in the areas of personnel
compensation and benefits which correlates to an increase
of 127 full-time equivalent employees; information technology
service contracts and licensing; capitalized and noncapitalized
information systems software and hardware; and whistleblower
award payments.

FY 2014 SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549

This report and other agency reports are available at www.sec.gov/about/secreports.shtml.
Please send your comments to SECAFR@sec.gov.

