 

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

OPERATIONS PLAN 

UNDER A LAPSE IN APPROPRIATIONS 

AND GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN 


September 22, 2015

 

 

1.	 PURPOSE:
This document describes the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) plan for
operating in the event of a lapse in appropriations that results in an SEC shutdown (referred to in
the rest of this document as a “lapse in appropriations”). This plan addresses a total shutdown,
not a partial shutdown due to the Agency having funds available, but not enough to maintain full
operations over a full quarter. In the event of an actual shutdown where SEC is required to
implement this general guidance, supplemental government-wide guidance issued by the Office
of Management and Budget (OMB), the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), and the
General Services Administration (GSA) will also apply.
2.	 AUTHORITY:
The Anti-Deficiency Act (31 USC §1341, et seq.), (The Act) restricts the conduct of business
by agencies during a lapse of appropriations. The Act generally prohibits agency heads and
their employees from:
	 Making or authorizing expenditures or obligations in excess of appropriations;
	 Making or authorizing expenditures or obligations of funds required to be
sequestered under Section 252 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985; and
	 Accepting voluntary services for the United States or employing others to perform
personal services in excess of that authorized by law, except in cases of
emergency involving the safety of human life or the protection of property.
Certain functions may be continued even in the absence of an annual appropriations bill or
continuing resolution. The principal guidance on the types of functions that may be continued
during a lapse in appropriations is found in the Attorney General’s opinion dated January 16,
1981, as updated by the Office of Legal Counsel in an August 16, 1995 Memorandum. Those
opinions authorize continuation of agency functions which satisfy any of the following criteria
referred to as “excepted” functions:






Those that have a continuing source of funding;
Those that are expressly authorized by Congress to continue even without
funding;
Those that are necessary to prevent an imminent and significant threat to the
safety of human life or the protection of property;
Those that are necessary for the discharge of the President’s constitutional duties;
and
Activities necessary for a short period in order to ensure an orderly shutdown of
operations.

OMB Circular A-11, Section 124 requires agencies to develop and maintain plans for an orderly
shutdown in the event of the absence of appropriations.
3.	 Applicability
SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page 2	


 

The procedures herein apply to all SEC personnel in pay and non-pay status except for
Presidential/Senate confirmation appointees and those employees funded through a permanent or
multi-year appropriation in effect at the time of the lapse in appropriations. In the event that
appropriations are passed by the Congress but not signed by the President before the beginning
of a workday immediately following the lapse, employees should proceed as outlined herein.
Designation of Excepted Employees
When a shutdown of SEC operations is imminent, the agency will establish a Contingency
Planning Committee to act on behalf of the Chairman. The Committee, in consultation with the
Office of General Counsel (OGC), will determine which employees should be excepted from
furlough because their duties relate to functions that qualify as exceptions to the Antideficiency
Act restrictions. The Office of Human Resources (OHR) will notify excepted employees of their
designation.
During the period in which there is a lapse in appropriations, the Committee will periodically
reassess the agency’s functions that need to be maintained, and may amend its designation of
those excepted from furlough to increase, decrease, or change those so designated. Upon
approval of any change, the Chief Operating Officer shall make the appropriate notifications to
the Office of Human Resources (OHR), the Office of Information Technology (OIT), and agency
security.
Employees Subject to Furlough
Except as described herein, all employees, including student volunteers, unpaid consultants and
individuals on Intergovernmental Personnel Act agreements (as applicable) are subject to
furlough. Subject to limited exceptions, all employees must report to work on the first day of
business following a lapse in appropriations to conduct shutdown activities, which are expected
to take approximately a half-day of work to complete. OHR will provide furlough notices to nonexcepted employees.
All employees on preapproved official travel are to return to their duty station. For non-excepted
employees, any upcoming travel should be cancelled or postponed. For excepted employees, any
upcoming non-essential official travel shall be cancelled or postponed.
Any employee in a training status is to return to his or her duty station. Any upcoming training
shall be cancelled or postponed.
All paid leave will be canceled. Accordingly, any non-excepted employee who has received
preapproval for paid leave during the shutdown period will be furloughed. Any employee who is
excepted must report to work.
During the shutdown, employees who have not been designated as excepted may not volunteer to
work without pay. Such voluntary services are a violation of the Antideficiency Act and will not
be permitted under any circumstances.

SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page 3	


 

4. Operations Plan Summary
Summary of Agency Activities during a lapse in appropriations:
In the event that the federal government shuts down, the Commission will have only an
extremely limited number of staff members available to respond to emergency situations
involving the safety of human life or the protection of property, including law
enforcement. Certain Commission systems will be operating under modified conditions.
Estimated time (to the nearest half-day) to complete any shutdown:
While most shutdown activities can be accomplished within 4 hours (NLT 12:00pm)
some agency shutdown personnel may need to work longer to secure and shutdown SEC
property and facilities.
Total number of employees expected to be on-board before implementation of the plan:
4,306 FTE
Total number of employees funded with non-appropriated funds, Investor Protection Fund before
implementation of the plan:
Less than 1 FTE
Number of employees to be retained because they are engaged in law enforcement activities:
110 FTE
Number of employees to be retained to protect life or property:
189 FTE
The agency's legal basis for each of its determinations to retain categories of employees,
including a description of the nature of the agency activities in which these employees will be
engaged:
In the context of shutdown furloughs, the term ‘excepted’ is used to refer to employees
excepted from the furlough because they are performing work that, by law, may continue to
be performed during a lapse in appropriations. Excepted employees include employees who
are performing emergency work involving the safety of human life or the protection of
property or performing certain other types of excepted work. See OMB Circular A-11, See
‘Applicability of the Antideficiency Act Upon A Lapse in an Agency's Appropriations,’ 4A
Op. O.L.C. 16 (1980); ‘Authority for the Continuance of Government Functions During a
Temporary Lapse in Appropriations," 5 Op. O.L.C. 1 (1981) (1981 Opinion);’ and
Memorandum for Alice Rivlin, OMB, from Walter Dellinger Assistant Attorney General Re:
Government Operations in the Event of a Lapse in Appropriations (August 16, 1995).
SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page 4	


 

5.	 COVERAGE:
In the event of a funding hiatus caused by the lack of either an appropriations act or a
continuing resolution, all SEC programs must follow this guidance. Three actions will be
taken. These actions involve conducting furlough activities, shutdown activities, and excepted
activities:
	 Furlough Activities: All employees will be advised to come to work to secure their
workstations and return home, unless otherwise notified.
	 Shutdown Activities: Some personnel will be designated as necessary to complete tasks
for the orderly shutdown of the Commission and will continue to report until such time as
their shutdown tasks have been completed.
	 Excepted Activities: Some activities and functions will continue because they are
authorized by law. The personnel carrying out these activities may work even in the
absence of an appropriation.

6.	 Pre-Decisional: Shutdown Impact
Prior to the first day of shutdown activities, the following actions will be completed:
The Chair, Chief Operating Officer and Division, Office and Regional Directors will identify
those functions that need to be performed that are solely associated with an orderly shutdown of
normal activities. Such functions may include but are not limited to:
	 Identifying measures to secure records, personal property, real property, and facilities that
will be maintained and protected until appropriate disposition is accomplished.
 Drafting a strategy for communicating with Agency employees.
 Drafting a strategy for communicating outside the Agency as necessary.
 Identifying all potential meetings, hearings, and other previously arranged Agency
business that may need to be cancelled.
	 Updating Agency lists of excepted employees, ensuring that employees have been
identified consistently and fairly in compliance with applicable personnel regulations and
as required by Article 50 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement listed at the end of this
document.
	 Ensuring that Agency lists identifying employees whose presence at work will be
required to perform functions associated with the orderly shutdown of program activities
includes employee name, title, and function the employee will perform.

SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page 5	


 

	 Identifying what Office of Information Technology systems support is needed to
maintain excepted services and information technology infrastructure. 

 Identifying all employees on international travel. 

 Identifying all contractors and contracts that could be impacted by an impending 

shutdown.
 Identifying what instructions and procedures the Office of Human Resources will provide
to employees for the shutdown period.
 Initiating bargaining over furlough related topics.

7.	 Preliminary Activities
1.	 The Chief Operating Officer (COO), in coordination with the Office of General Counsel
(OGC), will review and update this plan annually.
2.	 The COO or his/her designee will notify the National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU) if
any changes to this plan affect the working conditions of bargaining unit employees and, if
necessary, conduct bargaining over the impact and implementation of the changes.
3.	 The Chair, the Chief Operating Officer, and Division/Office heads will serve as the
Contingency Planning Committee (CPC). In consultation with the Office of General
Counsel, the CPC will identify all persons holding positions necessary for continued
operations to protect life or property or to carry out law enforcement activities.
4.	 The Chief Human Resources Officer (CHCO) (OHR) will, in coordination with the Office of
General Counsel, as necessary:
a.	 Assume responsibility for employee notification procedures to include issuance of
notices to employees of their excepted or non-excepted designation in advance of
the official shutdown notification.
b.	 Dissemination of furlough letters and information on health/life insurance
coverage. He/she will serve as a point of contact for answering employee
questions concerning pay, leave, benefits and time in service.
c.	 Provide specific instructions for employees to complete their final time and
attendance report.
d.	 Develop and disseminate employee notification procedures and notices to
employees in travel, training and leave without pay status when shutdown
notification is given.
e.	 Prepare return to work procedures to recall all furloughed employees to duty.
SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page 6	


 

f.	 Enforce an immediate hiring freeze that will apply during a lapse in
appropriations.
g.	 Ensure that entry-on-duty dates (EODs) for prospective employees with
employment offers are suspended until the funding lapse
is over and make sure no new job offers are made.
5.

The Office of Support Operations Director (OSO) will:
a.	 Coordinate with the Office of Security Services (OSS), the General Service
Administrative (GSA) and/or the appropriate building managers to determine all
necessary arrangements for the physical security of the SEC headquarters and
regional office buildings in the event of a funding lapse.

6.

The Office of Acquisitions Director (OA) will:
a.	 Ensure that all applicable Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) are followed.
SEC’s sources of contract funding are typically no-year. If any contract is funded
in excess of available appropriations in error, e.g., a period of performance has
been stated beyond the expiration of a Continuing Resolution, the error will be
corrected so as to limit the Government’s liability.
b.	 Typically, for contracts funded with one-year appropriated funds, contracting
officers would issue stop work orders or suspension of work orders, consistent
with FAR Part 42, with the exception of contracts whose purpose is the protection
of life or property or those services needed for the orderly shutdown of
government operations. However, SEC does not have contracts funded with oneyear appropriated funds. Stop work orders may be issued based on business
assessments and the availability of appropriate federal oversight of the work.
c.	 Government Purchase Card (GPC) use is typically at a very low transaction value,
under $3,500, and very short term in duration. GPC use would function in a
similar manner as larger contracts should a Stop Work order be needed during
contract performance. GPC card holders at the SEC will be given instruction to
stop any orders from being placed within a very short period to stop all GPC
obligations of funds.

7.

The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) will:
a.	 Control obligations during a lapse of appropriations and ensure compliance with
applicable laws and regulations. Specifically the CFO may, as required and as
permitted under the Anti-deficiency Act and other applicable law:
	 Authorize obligations of funds to the extent permitted during a lapse in
appropriations

SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page 7	


 

	 In conjunction with the Office the General Counsel, establish and
disseminate procedures for the initiation, review, and approval of purchase
requests to ensure that no contractual or other financial commitments are
entered after a lapse in appropriations other than those deemed excepted.
	 Take necessary actions to adjust allocations as appropriate during periods
of lapsed appropriations
	 Ensure that funds are not disbursed that are not available for disbursement.

8.	 Shutdown Implementation
Chronological Order of Actions:
1.	 The Contingency Planning Committee (Chair, Chief Operating Officer and
Division/Office Directors) will meet to review shutdown/furlough plans, including
procedures for notifying non-excepted employees.
2.	 Issue notice to NTEU on the status of the shutdown and possible actions. The Labor
Relations Office in the Office of Human Resources (OHR) in consultation with OGC will
serve as the focal point for communications with NTEU.
3.	 Issue a notification to the workforce on the status of the shutdown and possible actions.
4.	 Notify all employees of position status (excepted and non-excepted), as well as plans and
requirements.
5.	 Issue Frequently Asked Questions and Answers (FAQs) to workforce.
6.	 Division/Office Heads will ensure employees are aware of their furlough status.
7.	 Division/Office Heads will provide the Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer,
and Director, Office of Acquisitions with a list of all existing and any new contracts that
need to be awarded during shutdown that are required to continue performance during the
shutdown period. List needs to include the Contracting Officer Representative (COR)
name and whether the COR is listed as excepted plus any special instructions for the
contract/program.
8.	 Director, Office of Acquisitions will notify CORs and contractors’ corporate points of
contact (not individual contractor employees) of any work suspensions and any special
instructions for work that is needed to continue operations. Depending on the
circumstances, general notice may be provided through the public SEC.gov
communications site.
9.	 Division/Office Heads will provide to the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial
Officer with a list of all travel either underway or to be initiated during the lapse in
appropriations, that will be necessary in order for the agency to conduct excepted
activities. In addition, this list should include any other non-travel, non-contract
expenses that would need to be incurred to conduct excepted activities.
SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page 8	


 

10. The Chief Financial Officer will notify the divisions and offices which travel and other
non-contract expenses are approved during the lapse in appropriations.
11. Division/Office Heads will provide the Office of Human Resources (OHR) with a list of
employees on travel, training, extended leave, and leave without pay.
12. Division/Office Heads will evaluate project priorities and make changes based on
reduced staff operating under the funding hiatus.
13. All leave requests will be cancelled. No leave will be granted. Regional employees on
detail in and around Washington, D.C., will report to Station Place.
14. Non-excepted staff will be engaged in activities to shut down their respective operations,
to secure their workstations, to assure the rapid restart of operations when funding is
renewed.
15. If an appropriations bill has not been approved (by conclusion of the 4 hour period), nonexcepted staff will be given furlough notices and dismissed until funding is approved.
16. In case of an extended furlough, SEC management will continue to review the
appropriate number of retained staff in order to ensure that it has adequate staff to meet
critical needs.

Substitution of Excepted Personnel
The Chair and Division and Office heads are authorized to substitute excepted employees so
long as the substituted personnel are performing authorized activities.
The following factors should be considered when making a decision on staff substitutions:
	 Managers should take into account the impact the rotation schedule may have on
unemployment compensation eligibility for the employee, based on local jurisdictions'
unemployment insurance policies.
	 Decisions on rotations for specific positions should balance the Agency’s need for
continuity and equity to the employees.
	 Managers should determine on what basis rotations will occur (i.e., daily or for longer
periods), but due consideration should be given to continuity and fairness.
	 Personnel rotated into and out of an excepted function must have the requisite
qualifications to perform the function.
SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page 9	


 

Management decisions to rotate personnel into and out of an excepted function must be
documented in writing and be consistent with Article 50, Furlough Due to the Lapse in
Appropriations, of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, where applicable.
OIT, OHR, OA and OSO will be notified of any change in employee furlough status.
Employees will be contacted by telephone to substitute for an excepted employee or to recall
employees to perform essential authorized functions.
Notification to Public and Staff
The Office of Public Affairs (OPA) will inform the public and employees of SEC operating
status and emergency functions as appropriate through the SEC website www.sec.gov and
other digital channels.
The Office of Information Technology (OIT) will ensure that the SEC headquarters and
regional main phone lines contain a message regarding the current status of the agency’s
operations.
Additionally, the Agency will use the Notifind system to contact employees regarding
changes in Agency status.
The Office of Personnel Management will post operating status on their website at
www.opm.gov. In addition, Employees should check the SEC headquarters and regional
main phone numbers listed on page 14 for updated information about the reopening of the
agency after approval of appropriation. Employees are expected to check these sources each
day and return to work on their next regularly scheduled workday following enactment of
appropriations legislation enactment of appropriations legislation.
9.	 Orderly Shutdown of Non-Excepted Functions
Activities on the First Day of a Funding Lapse
The First 4 Hours: (NLT 12:00 pm)
	 OHR staff will electronically send furlough notices and Standard Form (SF) 8, “Notice to
Federal Employee about Unemployment Insurance” to non-excepted employees. All
notices and SF-8s will be forwarded in electronic format using delivery receipt as quickly
as possible on the day of the shutdown. Supervisors will document the employee’s
receipt of notification. OHR will retain copies of deliveries/receipt for the record.
	 Division/Office heads or their designees will meet with employees within the employee’s
first hour of report to work to review the furlough process and notices.
SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page	10	


 

Supervisors, through an email approved by OHR and OGC, will:
 Cancel annual and sick leave scheduled for furloughed employees during the shutdown,
including leave already started.
 Advise employees being furloughed that the agency may not accept their voluntary
services during a shutdown.
	 Advise employees who are furloughed they are not authorized to use Government
equipment, i.e., Blackberries, laptops, cell phones, etc., to conduct official Agency
business during the shutdown.
	 Ensure shutdown activity has been appropriately completed; secure the facility, as
applicable.
 First level supervisors will keep a record of employees notified.
 Division/Office Directors will submit a complete list of notified employees to OHR for
confirmation of completion.
Employees:
 Employees reporting to work will be instructed either to begin their excepted activity
work, or to begin shutdown operations.
 Non-excepted employees should only perform those tasks necessary to safeguard
property, records, and information and to complete administrative functions that may
include:
o	 performing personnel functions to process furlough notices;
o	 cancelling meetings, hearings, conferences and other scheduled Commission
business;
o	 answering telephones and email inquiries and advising callers of the pending
shutdown;
o	 securing files, confidential materials, office work papers, and documents;
o	 issuing stop-work orders, as needed, to affected contractors;
o	 processing travel vouchers for the period just prior to the appropriations’ lapse;
o	 processing unpaid bills for obligations incurred, or collections received; prior to
the last workday before a lapse in appropriations;
o	 securing Federal property;
o	 setting up consistent voicemail and email “out of office” messages
o	 petitioning courts for suspension or stay of any ongoing litigations;
documenting the status of projects so that work can be resumed with the least
disruption possible
10. Reactivation of Functions

SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page	11	


 

Resumption of Duties:
Non-excepted employees should monitor the news for information on an additional
appropriations bill and, unless told otherwise, should report back to work on their next scheduled
workday once another continuing resolution or an appropriation bill is enacted (passed by the
House and the Senate and signed by the President). The Agency will use the Notifind system to
contact employees regarding changes in Agency status.
Plans for restarting Information Technology (IT) systems and avoiding any data loss or
interruption, which may include requiring that critical IT personnel report to work earlier than
their normal work schedule to ensure that IT systems are up and running as soon as possible.
Such work only to occur if funding is actually available.”
Procedures for resuming program activities, particularly related to contracts, including steps to
ensure appropriate oversight and disbursement of funds.
Office of Financial Management staff will make sure all financial transactions that occurred
during the lapse in appropriations are processed and recorded accurately in the agency’s financial
system.
11. Summary of Major Functions to be Continued During a Lapse in Appropriations
In the event of a lapse in appropriations, the SEC will retain certain excepted personnel to
perform functions relating to emergencies involving the safety of human life or the protection of
property and including law enforcement functions. At this time, contracts will be assessed and
those that have a continued source of funding with appropriated, multi-year or no-year funds are
considered excepted and may continue. Stop work orders may be issued based on business
assessments of the need and support required for the contract. Privatized functions or systems
will resume. Other functions generally will be discontinued.
Certain Commission systems will be operating under modified conditions.
EDGAR and Staff Guidance
Although the Commission's EDGAR system is operated pursuant to a contract and thus will
remain fully functional as long as funding for the contractor remains available through permitted
means, the Divisions of Corporation Finance, Investment Management, and Trading and
Markets, and the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations will be unable to process
filings, provide interpretive advice, issue no-action letters or conduct any other normal Division
and Office activities. As a result, new or pending registration statements or applications for
exemptive relief will not be processed regardless of the status of any review of those filings.

SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page	12	


 

IARD
The Commission's IARD system is operated pursuant to a contract and thus will remain fully
functional and will continue to accept filings as long as funding for the contractor remains
available through permitted means. However, the Office of Compliance Inspections and
Examinations will be unable to approve applications for registration by investment advisers, the
Division of Investment Management will be unable to provide interpretive advice regarding the
Advisers Act, rules, or forms, or consider applications for exemptive relief under the Advisers
Act. As a result, new or pending investment adviser applications will not be processed. The
IARD system will continue to accept annual and other-than-annual amendments to Form ADV,
Form ADV-W, and Form ADV-E filings.
CRD and Transfer Agent Registration System
The CRD system will remain fully functional and continue to accept filings. The Transfer Agent
Registration System will also continue to accept filings. However, the Division of Trading and
Markets and the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations will not be able to review
pending filings, consider new or pending applications or registrations, provide interpretive
advice, or issue no-action letters, nor will the staff be available to conduct any other normal
Division and Office activities.
EFFS
The EFFS system for SRO proposed rule changes will remain functional and you will be able to
submit SRO proposed rule changes through EFFS. Under Exchange Act Rule 19b-4, any day on
which the Commission is not open for regular business as a result of a lapse in appropriations (or
for certain other reasons) is not a "business day" as that term is used in Section 19 of the
Exchange Act and Rule 19b-4 thereunder. As a result, any SRO proposed rule change submitted
through EFFS on a day on which the Commission is not open for regular business will have as its
filing date the next business day after the Commission opens for regular business (e.g., the next
business day after a shutdown has ended).
Tips, Complaints and Referrals
The Division of Enforcement will have only a limited number of staff on duty to perform critical
functions. However, staff will attempt to respond to certain critical matters, including allegations
of ongoing fraud and misconduct. The Tips, Complaints, and Referrals website will continue to
be operational and submissions will be reviewed for appropriate action.
Investor Complaints

SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page	13	


 

The Office of Investor Education and Advocacy will have a limited number of staff on duty to
review investor complaints submitted through the investor complaint form. The Office will be
unable to respond to complaints, questions, or requests for information.
Comment Letters and Public Input
The Commission will continue to accept comment letters during the federal government
shutdown. However, the Commission will have an extremely limited number of staff members
on duty, so there will be delays in posting them to the SEC website.
Public Reference Room
The public reference room will be closed during the government shutdown and, absent a
compelling need under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(E)(v)(I), all requests for information under the
Freedom of Information Act will not be processed during this time.
Mail Delivery
A limited number of staff will be on duty to process incoming mail. The Commission's mail
room will be open from 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday to take in mail and accept
packages from couriers, but there will be delays in processing and delivery to Commission staff.
If you have an emergency delivery, please contact staff using the telephone numbers or e-mail
addresses listed in the box below.
While it is not possible to anticipate every SEC function that may be needed, the following is a
summary of the major functions of the SEC that will continue during a lapse in appropriations
and those major functions that will be discontinued.
Law Enforcement/Litigation
Handle emergency enforcement matters, including temporary restraining orders and/or
investigative steps necessary to protect public and private property; monitor the Commission’s
“tips, complaints, and referrals” system and web-based investor complaint system and process
referrals from self-regulatory organizations and others to identify matters that are emergencies
and take follow-up steps relating to such emergencies; ongoing litigation that cannot be deferred
where there is a threat to property; and emergency examinations and inspections to protect public
and private property.
Systems Available for Filings by Registrants and Regulated Entities/Questions about
Filings

SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page	14	


 

EDGAR and other filing systems (but see below re: processing of registrations and other filings)
will remain functional; answer questions about fee-bearing EDGAR filings and other emergency
questions regarding EDGAR submissions.
Market Monitoring and Surveillance
Perform Market Watch activities and monitor market technology operations; monitor any brokerdealers reported as being in financial distress; money market fund surveillance and monitoring;
and monitor any international market developments that might impact the US.
Internal Systems/Functions, Human Resources and Security
Perform functions related to shutdown processes; post communications from the Commission;
ongoing human resource/administrative support for excepted personnel; manage ongoing
operation of SEC network and information systems; and perform functions related to securing
SEC facilities to prevent loss of property and protect human life.
Other Continued Functions
Ethics functions necessary for the protection of property; process essential obligations that need
to be incurred by the SEC; and perform functions for Commission meetings related to
emergencies.
Office of the Inspector General
The Inspector General will maintain limited administrative tasks and provide assistance to
support excepted functions. As necessary, the Office of the Inspector General will address
emergency situations where failure to perform those functions would result in an imminent threat
to the safety of human life or protection of property. You will be able to reach an extremely
limited number of Commission staff members who will be available to respond to emergency
situations. If you have an emergency, please call or e-mail the relevant telephone line or e-mail
box listed below.
Division of Corporation Finance
CFemergency@sec.gov
(202) 551-3100
Division of Investment Management
IMemergency@sec.gov
(202) 551-6720

SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page	15	


 

Division of Trading and Markets
TMemergency@sec.gov
(202) 551-5500
Division of Enforcement
ENFemergency@sec.gov
(202) 551-4800
Division of Economic and Risk Analysis
RFemergency@sec.gov
(202) 551-6655
Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
OCIEemergency@sec.gov
(202) 551-6200
Office of the Secretary
OSemergency@sec.gov
(202) 551-5400
Office of International Affairs
OIAEmergency@sec.gov
(202) 551-6690
Office of Public Affairs
news@sec.gov
Office of the Chief Accountant
(202) 551-5300

12. Summary of Major Functions That Will Be Discontinued
Law Enforcement/Litigation: Ongoing litigation, except matters that cannot be deferred as
described above; investigative work, including commencing investigations and conducting
investigative testimony, except as necessary for the protection of property; pursuing the
collection of any delinquent debts or work to distribute funds to harmed investors; and nonemergency examinations and inspections and related follow-up.
Processing and Approvals of Filings and Registrations by Registrants and Regulated
Entities: Review and approval of applications for registration by entities (e.g., investment
advisers, broker-dealers, transfer agents, nationally recognized statistical rating organizations,
investment companies, and municipal advisors) and with respect to new financial products;
review and approval of self-regulatory organization rule changes; review and acceleration of
SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page	16	


 

effectiveness of registration statements by issuers for securities offerings; review of periodic
reports and other filings; and non-emergency support to registrants.
Rulemaking/Interpretive Questions/Exemptive Relief: All non-emergency rulemaking;
nonemergency interpretive advice, staff no-action letters and processing new or pending
applications for exemptive relief.
Oversight of Self-Regulatory Organizations and the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board: Routine oversight of self-regulatory organizations and the PCAOB.
International Matters: Non-emergency assistance to foreign authorities under bilateral or
multilateral arrangements; and participation in multilateral organizations and working groups.
Other Discontinued Functions: Processing of requests under the Freedom of Information Act
absent a compelling need under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(E)(v)(I); all of the functions of the Equal
Employment Opportunity Office; investor outreach and education and monitoring investor tollfree telephone lines and emails from investors; routine human resources functions, including
among others, training and development; non-emergency travel; and routine public
communications and operation of the Public Reference Room.

13. Collective Bargaining Agreement
Furlough Due To Lapse in Appropriations
Article 50
Section 1
The following procedures shall apply when a furlough may be necessary due to lapse in
appropriations/debt ceiling limitation, failure to extend the debt ceiling, or lack of continuing
resolution.
A. The Employer will invite NTEU to be present at any meetings with bargaining unit
employees where the discussion involves a potential and/or impending government
shutdown. Prior to any such furlough, the Union will be given the opportunity to
bargain the impact and implementation of the proposed furlough to the maximum extent
permitted by law. Whenever OMB and/or OPM provide guidance to the Employer
pertaining to a government shutdown, the Employer will promptly provide a copy to
NTEU.
B. The Employer retains the right to determine which duties and responsibilities must be
performed during a furlough and which employees are qualified to perform such duties

SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page	17	


 

and responsibilities. The Employer agrees to provide a final list of "excepted”
employees to the Union as soon as possible.
Whenever the Employer prepares any list of functions, positions and/or employees that
have been designated as "excepted" and therefore expected to continue working during a
furlough, the Employer will promptly provide a copy to NTEU. Whenever the
Employer creates or receives guidance and/or criteria regarding the determination of
functions, positions and/or employees to designate as "excepted," the Employer will
promptly provide a copy to NTEU. Unless otherwise specified herein, other
information regarding any furlough will be provided to the Union in accordance with
Section 7114 of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
To the extent SEC is directed by OMB or OPM not to release guidance it received from
those agencies, it will promptly provide that information to NTEU once any such
restriction is lifted.
C. The parties will meet jointly to evaluate mechanisms and procedures to be used within
the Agency's various organizational units to identify which bargaining unit employees
will be excepted in the event of a furlough. To the maximum extent possible, such
mechanisms and procedures will balance the need for transparency, employee fairness
and employee forewarning with the Agency's mission requirements.
In the event the parties do not reach agreement on such procedures or mechanisms within
12 months following implementation of this Agreement, the Employer will create a list of
excepted positions and identify qualified employees to fill them. Qualified employees
will be solicited to volunteer to fill excepted positions in the event of a furlough under
this article. Volunteers will be selected by service computation date. If there are an
insufficient number of volunteers, the excepted slots will be filled with qualified
employees based on reverse SCD, the list will constitute an "Excepted Position Cadre."
The Cadre shall be updated at least annually by soliciting for volunteers using this same
process. The Employer will provide NTEU with the Cadre list once completed, and
any updates to the list as they are made. In the event of a furlough under this article, the
employees on the Cadre will be notified and given the opportunity to volunteer to be
activated during the furlough. Volunteers will be selected by SCD, and if there are
insufficient volunteers, employees on the Cadre will be selected by reverse SCD. NTEU
will be promptly provided with a list of the employees selected to serve during the
furlough. The Employer will consider an employee's request not to work due to a
hardship. Employees will be given written documentation notifying them if they are
selected as an "excepted" employee and required to work.
D. The Employer will notify all impacted employees of the conclusion of the furlough.
The notification will include instructions on reporting to work. However, a liberal leave
policy will be in effect on the day employees are to return to work.
Section 2

SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page	18	


 

If an employee is unable to use their officially scheduled and approved "use or lose" annual
leave due to the furlough, and if they are unable to reschedule it, provided they qualify for
carry-over of annual leave, such annual leave will be carried over.
Section 3
During any fiscal year in which a furlough occurs, and in advance of the furlough, the Employer
and NTEU shall jointly issue an all-employee notice with Questions and Answers attached
which advise employees of the impact of non-pay status on civil service benefits and programs,
and which addresses financial concerns employees may have when faced with a pay reduction.
Once finalized, the notice will be distributed to all employees.
During any fiscal year in which a furlough occurs, and in advance of the furlough, the Employer
shall provide all employees with information describing a furlough and benefits, including
unemployment, that are available in their jurisdiction. At a minimum, this notice will contain
information on unemployment benefits availability, the waiting period, if any, benefits eligibility
requirements, and the location and phone number of State and/or municipal agencies responsible
for administering the program in the local area.
Section 4
While in a non-pay status, employees may engage in outside employment without obtaining
prior written permission as long as the outside employment does not otherwise violate law, rule,
or regulation.

SEC:	Operations	Plan	Under	A	Lapse	in Appropriations	_September	2015	
 

Page	19	


