U.S. Securities
and Exchange
Commission
S T R AT E G I C P L A N
FISCAL YE ARS 2014 –201 8
Protecting investors, maintaining fair,
orderly, and efficient markets,
and facilitating capital formation

This document presents the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission’s Strategic
Plan prepared in accordance with the
Government Performance and Results Act
Modernization Act of 2010. The plan sets
out the Commission’s mission, vision,
values, and strategic goals for fiscal years
2014 through 2018. Furthermore, it
discusses the SEC’s environment, details
the strategic objectives the Commission
seeks to achieve, presents the strategies
and initiatives that will be undertaken
to accomplish those objectives, and lists
the performance goals that will be used
to gauge the agency’s progress.

CONTENTS
Mission, Vision, and Values .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3
Strategic Goals and Strategic Objectives.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5
Environmental Perspective and Outlook.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7
Resources .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 9

Strategic Goal 1

Establish and maintain an effective regulatory environment. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11

Strategic Goal 2

Foster and enforce compliance with the federal securities laws.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25

Strategic Goal 3

Facilitate access to the information investors need to make informed
investment decisions.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37

Strategic Goal 4

Enhance the Commission’s performance through effective alignment
and management of human, information, and financial capital. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 45

Program Evaluation.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 1

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
is an independent federal agency established
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(Exchange Act). It is headed by a bipartisan
five-member Commission, comprised of the
Chair and four Commissioners, who are appointed
by the President and confirmed by the Senate.
The Chair is responsible for the executive and
administrative functions of the Commission.
The SEC employs over 4,100 people.

MISSION
The mission of the SEC is to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly, and efficient
markets, and facilitate capital formation.

VISION
The SEC strives to promote a securities market that is worthy of the public’s trust
and characterized by:
■	

■	

Transparent disclosure to investors of the risks of particular investments;
Oversight of key market participants, including exchanges, brokers and
dealers, investment advisers, and others;

■	

Focus on strengthening market structure and systems;

■	

Promotion of disclosure of market-related information;

■	

Protection against fraud and abuse; and

■	

Evaluation, development and maintenance of appropriate rules and regulations.

VA L U E S
Integrity: As the SEC is the independent federal agency entrusted with regulating
and conducting enforcement for the U.S. securities markets; each member of the
Commission’s workforce has a responsibility to demonstrate the highest ethical
standards to inspire confidence and trust.
Excellence: The SEC is committed to the highest standards of excellence in pursuit
of its mission. The investing public and the U.S. securities markets deserve
nothing less.
Accountability: The SEC embraces the responsibility with which it is charged. In
carrying out its mission, SEC employees hold themselves accountable to the public
and take responsibility for achieving SEC goals.
Effectiveness: The SEC strives to work creatively, proactively, and effectively in
assessing and addressing risks to the securities markets, the public, and other market
participants. The staff is committed to finding innovative and flexible approaches to
the SEC’s work and using independent judgment to explore new ways to fulfill the
SEC’s mission in the most efficient and effective manner possible.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 3

Teamwork: The SEC recognizes that its success depends on a diverse, coordinated
team committed to the highest standards of trust, hard work, cooperation, and
communication. The staff is committed to working together and coordinating
effectively with investors, business, governments, and other organizations in the
U.S. and abroad.
Fairness: The SEC treats investors, market participants, and others fairly and in
accordance with the law. As an employer, the SEC seeks to hire and to retain a skilled
and diverse workforce, and to ensure that all decisions affecting employees and
applicants are fair and ethical.

4 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

S T R AT E G I C G O A L S A N D S T R AT E G I C O B J E C T I V E S
Strategic Goal 1: Establish and maintain an effective regulatory
environment

➤	 Strategic Objective 1.1
The SEC establishes and maintains a regulatory environment that promotes
high-quality disclosure, financial reporting and governance, and that prevents
abusive practices by registrants, financial intermediaries and other market
participants.
➤	 Strategic Objective 1.2
The SEC promotes capital markets that operate in a fair, efficient, transparent
and competitive manner, fostering capital formation and useful innovation.
➤	 Strategic Objective 1.3
The SEC adopts and administers regulations and rules that are informed by
robust economic analysis and public comment and that enable market participants to understand clearly their obligations under the securities laws.
➤	 Strategic Objective 1.4
The SEC engages with a multitude of stakeholders to inform and enhance
regulatory activities domestically and internationally.

Strategic Goal 2: Foster and enforce compliance with the federal
securities laws

➤	 Strategic Objective 2.1
The SEC fosters compliance with the federal securities laws.
➤	 Strategic Objective 2.2
The SEC promptly detects and deters violations of the federal securities laws.
➤	 Strategic Objective 2.3
The SEC prosecutes violations of federal securities laws and holds violators
accountable through appropriate sanctions and remedies.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 5

Strategic Goal 3: Facilitate access to the information investors need
to make informed investment decisions

➤	 Strategic Objective 3.1
	 The SEC works to ensure that investors have access to high-quality disclosure
materials that facilitate informed investment decision-making.
➤	 Strategic Objective 3.2
The SEC works to understand investor needs and educate investors so they are
better prepared to make informed investment decisions.

Strategic Goal 4: Enhance the Commission’s performance through
effective alignment and management of human, information and
financial capital

➤	 Strategic Objective 4.1
The SEC promotes a results-oriented work environment that attracts, engages,
and retains a technically proficient and diverse workforce, including leaders who
provide motivation and strategic direction.
➤	 Strategic Objective 4.2
The SEC encourages a collaborative environment across divisions and offices
and leverages technology and data to fulfill its mission more effectively and
efficiently.
➤	 Strategic Objective 4.3
The SEC maximizes the use of agency resources by continually improving
agency operations and bolstering internal controls.

6 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

E N V I R O N M E N TA L P E R S P E C T I V E & O U T L O O K
The SEC’s goals and priorities are influenced by a number of external environmental
factors, including the demands of fulfilling its mission in an increasingly complex
and globally interconnected securities market and the statutory structure within
which the Commission works. In recent years, this environment has changed
dramatically. While this Strategic Plan attempts to anticipate various ways in which
the markets, regulated industries and legislative requirements may evolve over time,
no plan can anticipate all possible scenarios. The following discussion outlines the
agency’s perspective and outlook on the most significant environmental factors that
have influenced—and are expected to continue to influence—the SEC’s fulfillment
of its mission.
Increasingly Dispersed and Complex Financial Markets
Driven by competition, technology, regulation and market participants’ innovation,
today’s financial markets offer more products, services, strategies and opportunities
than ever before. Investors are confronted by a growing number of increasingly
complex product offerings. Sophisticated technology brings remarkable speed and
efficiency to the financial markets, making both routine trades and complex transactions easier and less expensive to execute. At the same time, this technology brings
new risks of accidental or intentional disruptions which are capable of spreading
across markets, international borders and institutional firewalls. In addition, market
structure has become highly fragmented as trading volume is dispersed among many
highly automated trading centers that compete for order flow of securities.
New Aspects of the Agency’s Jurisdiction
The SEC’s role has significantly expanded in recent years, as historic legislation like
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank
Act) and the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (JOBS Act) have increased the
Commission’s regulatory responsibility for advisers to hedge funds and other private
funds, clearing houses, rating agencies, municipal advisers, crowdfunding portals
and, together with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the entire
market structure surrounding swaps.

Actions designed to ease the acquisition of new capital by new and smaller
enterprises—chiefly through crowdfunding and general solicitation—will increasingly demand SEC time and resources as well.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 7

The Globally Interconnected Financial Markets
At the same time that domestic responsibilities are expanding, activities the SEC regulates increasingly have international implications. Traders in today’s global financial
market can move billions of dollars thousands of miles away in a fraction of a second;
issuers can explore a whole world of choices as they decide where to list and raise
new capital; and investor portfolios are more diverse and global than ever before.
Engagement and appropriate coordination with foreign regulators, both bilaterally
and multilaterally, on everything from enforcement strategies to swaps regulations,
are necessary for the SEC to oversee today’s markets, to combat fraud and to identify
global risks that could impact U.S. securities markets.
Continuing Risks
Many of the initiatives outlined in this Strategic Plan are designed to address specific
problems brought to light by the global financial crisis and its aftermath. Despite best
efforts, however, it is impossible to predict and plan for all potential challenges. The
degree of the SEC’s success in achieving its goals and strategic objectives may depend
upon factors such as those listed below.
■	

■	

■	

■	

■	

■	

The SEC’s ability to meet its statutory mission and the performance goals and
strategic objectives outlined in this Strategic Plan are inherently dependent upon
the SEC obtaining sufficient resources, which the agency needs to keep pace
with the growing size and complexity of the securities markets and the broad
oversight and enforcement responsibilities. The SEC submits an annual budget
request which outlines the funding it is seeking and the intended use of such
funding. The appropriation that the SEC receives is fully offset by securities
transaction fees and, accordingly, the SEC’s funding is not borne by taxpayers.
Budgetary constraints will impact the ability of the SEC to fulfill its goals and
objectives as outlined in this Strategic Plan.
Legislative and regulatory changes may not be successful in providing
regulators with a comprehensive understanding of systemic risk or sufficient
tools to manage that risk more effectively.
Changes in financial industry regulation may unintentionally hamper
behavior that would benefit the market and investors.
Regulations may be perceived as a substitute for care and diligence on the part
of investors in their own decision-making.
Over-regulation or under-regulation may undermine the competitiveness of the
U.S. capital markets in an increasingly competitive global marketplace.
Over-regulation or under-regulation may chill innovation, entrepreneurship,
and prudent risk taking.

8 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

RESOURCES
The SEC is an independent federal government agency funded through annual
appropriations enacted by Congress and the President. Until FY 2012, the agency’s
appropriations were offset by transaction and registration fees collected by the
agency. The Offsetting Collections and Spending Authority chart below presents
the SEC’s budgetary authority derived from offsetting collections from transaction
fees collected pursuant to Section 31 of the Exchange Act and registration fees
collected under Section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 13(e) and 14(g) of
the Exchange Act and Section 24(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 during
the period FY 2005 through 2011. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act and beginning in
FY 2012, registration fee collections are no longer offsetting collections, and are now
either deposited into the Securities and Exchange Commission Reserve Fund or the
U.S. Treasury General Fund. Thus, the columns for FY 2012 through FY 2013 reflect
only Section 31 transaction fee collections.
The SEC’s appropriation is deficit-neutral since, under the Dodd-Frank Act,
the Commission’s appropriation is matched by anticipated collections of Section 31
securities transaction fees. Thus, each year, Congress and the President can decide
the size of the SEC’s appropriation without diverting resources from other priorities
or adding to the nation’s debt. Since personnel and technology typically comprise
about 70 percent of the SEC’s appropriation, constraints on the Commission’s budget
can have a direct and significant impact on the staff and systems the Commission
has available to enforce and implement the federal securities laws.
OFFSETTING COLLECTIONS AND SPENDING AUTHORITY (Dollars in Millions)
2000
1800
1600
1400
■	

1200
1000
800

■	

600

■	

Spending Authority
from the General
Fund, Resulting from
Lower-Than-Expected
Offsetting Collections
Section 6(b), and
Sections 13(e) & 14(g)
Section 31

400
200
0

2005

actual

2006

actual

2007

actual

2008

actual

2009

actual

2010

actual

2011

actual

2012

actual

2013

actual

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 9

‘‘

Effective regulation of the U.S. financial system

requires us to grapple with a global financial system
that transcends boundaries. And it demands that
we match our regulatory and enforcement
priorities with those of scores of jurisdictions

’’

around the world.

				

10 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

CHAIR MARY JO WHITE

STRATEGIC GOAL

1

Establish and Maintain an Effective Regulatory Environment
THE SEC IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ESTABLISHING a regulatory environment in

which the agency’s mission can be met and sustained. Most securities laws and regulations flow from two central principles. First, all investors should have equal access
to accurate, complete and timely information about the investments they buy, sell,
and hold. Second, investors should be able to rely upon self-regulatory organizations
(SRO), exchanges, broker-dealers, investment advisers, investment companies and
other market participants to conduct investors’ securities transactions efficiently and
according to the informed choices made by investors.
The SEC has broad authority to shape the regulatory framework for the securities
industry. Rulemaking often is required to remedy abusive practices, to respond to
Congressional mandates, to address changing economic conditions, to address risks
in advances in technology or novel products or services. In general, rulemaking and
policies are designed to improve disclosure, facilitate the flow of important information
to investors and the public, improve governance, promote high-quality accounting
standards and financial reporting, enhance the responsibilities and accountability of
financial intermediaries and other market participants and strengthen the structure of
the trading markets, among other goals. When properly crafted, these rules serve to
further the SEC’s mission. In addition, when existing laws are not sufficient to achieve
this mission, the SEC also has a duty to advise Congress about necessary corrective
measures. The SEC recognizes that regular reviews of Commission regulations and
its rulemaking processes are necessary to confirm that intended results are being
achieved as well as to identify gaps and redundancies in regulation.
In addition to promulgating its rules and regulations, the SEC provides guidance
when, among other things, it sets forth the views of the Commission or its staff on
questions of current concern without stating them in the form of legal requirements.
The most prevalent form of this guidance is publicly available staff statements on a
particular legal or accounting issue or on an interpretation of a rule or regulation.
The staff also responds to inquiries from individuals and companies about whether
an activity, undertaken in a specified manner, would violate the securities laws. The

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 11

inquiries can take the form of written requests that the staff not recommend enforcement or other action to the Commission if the activity is completed as specified. The
SEC also issues individual orders granting relief from provisions of the securities laws
when the specific facts indicate that doing so is consistent with the protection of
investors and the policy and purposes behind the laws. These orders can serve as a
testing ground for useful innovation and may pave the way for rulemaking.
S T R AT E G I C O B J E C T I V E 1 . 1
The SEC establishes and maintains a regulatory environment that promotes
high-quality disclosure, financial reporting and governance, and prevents
abusive practices by registrants, financial intermediaries and other market
participants.

The investments of Americans and their families are dependent upon the maintenance
of healthy capital markets. The greater availability of and access to investment opportunities can help Americans build their portfolios to create a better life for themselves
and their children. Investment opportunities may include the potential for abuse by
market intermediaries, and other market participants. Such abuses erode the investing
public’s trust and undermine investor confidence in markets as a whole.
To protect investors and to promote confidence in the integrity and fairness of the
markets, the SEC uses its regulatory authority to deter potentially abusive behavior.
The federal securities laws entrust the SEC with authority to shape the regulatory framework so that investors are protected through the availability of high-quality disclosure
about their investments. In addition, the agency develops regulations that promote
and strengthen corporate and fund governance.
Initiatives
To accomplish this strategic objective, the SEC plans to implement the following
initiatives:
■	

Improve the quality and usefulness of disclosure: The SEC will continue to
evaluate and, where necessary, amend its requirements to improve the quality and
usefulness of registrants’ disclosures to investors, including continuing to modernize the collection and dissemination of timely, machine-readable, structured data
to investors when appropriate. Areas of focus will include disclosure about registrants’ financial condition, operations, risk management and executive compensation decisions and practices. Additionally, the SEC will continue to pursue data
standards and methods that permit investors to more efficiently search for information within forms as well as aggregate and compare financial data across filers.

12 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

■	

■	

■	

■	

■	

■	

■	

Engage in rulemaking mandated by Congress: The SEC will continue to fulfill
its obligations under the Dodd-Frank Act and the JOBS Act to develop and promulgate mandated rules and regulations with appropriate notice comment and
economic analysis.
Analyze trends in new financial products and instruments, including exchange
traded products, and market innovations: The SEC will proactively seek out
information from market experts both inside and outside the SEC to help inform
the regulatory process, look for new risks, understand the impact of significant
market events and ensure that rules and registrants’ disclosures take into account
the latest market environment and practices. When possible, the SEC will directly
collect and analyze relevant market data to identify upcoming trends, patterns,
or relationships among asset classes, instruments and market participants, and to
identify areas of regulatory need. One area of focus will be to consider requiring
mutual funds to provide additional information on portfolio holdings and other
operations.
Strengthen proxy infrastructure: The SEC will consider issues related to the
mechanics of proxy voting and shareholder-company communications, including
the role of proxy advisory firms.
Modernize beneficial ownership reporting: The SEC will consider how to
modernize its beneficial ownership reporting requirements to, among other
things, address the disclosure obligations relating to the use of equity swaps and
other derivative instruments.
Analyze regulatory structures for investment advisers and broker-dealers
providing personalized investment advice: The SEC will continue to analyze
whether the different regulatory obligations that apply to broker-dealers and
investment advisers providing personalized investment advice should be changed
for the protection of investors.
Modernize the regulatory treatment and valuation of certain portfolio holdings of registered investment companies: The SEC will consider regulatory initiatives and/or guidance needed to update and improve the current regulatory regime
for the use of derivatives by mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and other
registered investment companies. A related initiative is consideration of updated
guidance for registered investment companies regarding the valuation of their
portfolio securities and other assets.
Promote high-quality accounting standards: The SEC will continue to promote
the establishment of high-quality accounting standards by independent standard
setters in order to meet the needs of investors. In overseeing the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC will strengthen and support the FASB’s
independence and maintain the focus of financial reporting on the needs of

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 13

investors. Due to the increasingly global nature of the capital markets, the agency
will work to promote higher quality financial reporting worldwide and will
consider, among other things, whether a single set of high-quality global
accounting standards is achievable.
■	

■	

■	

■	

Foster high-quality audits through the oversight of the accounting profession:
The SEC will continue to oversee the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (PCAOB) and its regulation of independent auditors through the PCAOB’s
inspection and disciplinary programs. The SEC also will work closely with the
PCAOB on the promulgation and interpretation of auditing standards to address
current issues in the capital markets.
Enhance the regulation of broker-dealers, clearing agencies, and other major
market participants: The SEC will continue to enhance its oversight of brokerdealers, clearing agencies, and other major market participants by, among other
things, evaluating the current regulatory structure related to financial responsibility,
customer protection and governance.
Monitor disclosures related to asset-backed securities: The SEC is considering
revising its rules and forms to improve registration and disclosure requirements
for asset-backed securities, and will monitor disclosures and compliance with
current and any revised rules that have been promulgated by the Commission.
The SEC will continue to fulfill its statutory mandate to work with other federal
regulators in the promulgation of joint rules concerning credit risk retention in
securitized transactions.
Strengthen oversight of municipal advisors and consider guidance for private
fund advisers: The SEC will continue to enhance the program for registration and
oversight of municipal advisors, with a particular focus on registering municipal
advisors under the permanent registration rules and reviewing rule filings by the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) to implement the permanent
municipal advisor registration rules. Another area of focus will be the application
of rules under the Investment Advisers Act to private fund advisers and the need to
provide guidance regarding the application of those rules.

14 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Related Indicator
The following indicator is useful for understanding the SEC’s activities, but should not
be considered a performance metric. As this indicator is not used to assess performance,
it does not require a target or timeframe.
INDICATOR

DESCRIPTION

Number of investor testing
research projects

This metric tracks the number of research initiatives used
to gather feedback from investors on the usefulness of
disclosures and other input on SEC rulemaking.

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1.2
The SEC promotes capital markets that operate in a fair, efficient, transparent,
and competitive manner, fostering capital formation and innovation.

Through rulemaking and other initiatives, the Commission works to assure that
investors have fair access to securities markets; that their orders are handled in an
efficient and transparent manner throughout the order entry, execution, clearing,
and settlement process; that securities laws and regulations do not promote regulatory
arbitrage; and that U.S. securities markets remain vibrant, competitive and resilient.
These efforts help to promote markets in which investors have the necessary information to make investment decisions, the price discovery process is fair and free from
manipulation, and trades can be executed efficiently. The Commission also fosters
capital formation by facilitating market access for novel products and innovative and
competitive investment company structures when consistent with investor protection.
Self-regulation is a fundamental component of the regulation of U.S. securities
markets and market intermediaries. SROs must balance multiple interests and responsibilities. The SEC oversees SROs to ensure that securities markets operate in a fair,
efficient and orderly manner; that they are competitive; and that they promote capital
formation. The SEC has authority over the rulemaking and other activities of SROs,
which include national securities exchanges, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (FINRA) and clearing agencies. In approving SRO rules, the SEC must
determine, among other things, that these rules are designed to prevent fraudulent
and manipulative practices, promote just and equitable principles of trade, and foster
cooperation in the clearing and settling of trades, and that they do not impose an
unnecessary or inappropriate burden on competition. At the same time, SROs face
unique challenges balancing their regulatory responsibilities with business and other
interests. In this respect, the SEC’s oversight over SROs provides it with the ability to
monitor conflicts of interest by, among other things, ensuring that an SRO’s rules,

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 15

as well as any changes to those rules, assure a fair representation among members and
participants in the selection of an SRO’s directors and administration of its affairs, and
also are not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers and other
participants. 
Initiatives
To accomplish this strategic objective, the SEC plans to implement the following
initiatives:
■	

Foster a fair and efficient market structure: The SEC will continue to pursue
initiatives that promote the goals of the national market system in the trading of
securities, such as enhancing price transparency, facilitating best execution,
assuring fair access to trading systems and fostering fair competition. These may
include:
➤	

➤	

➤	

➤	

➤	

■	

■	

Reviewing the impact of algorithmic and other automated trading on the
markets, including its potential contribution to market volatility and, if
warranted, developing an appropriate policy response;
Strengthening the incentives for investors to display trading interest, and
thereby contribute to the price discovery process;
Enhancing the post-trade transparency of alternative trading systems
(including dark pools) in order to address market fragmentation and facilitate
best execution;
Continuing and expanding a comprehensive review of equity market
structure; and
Considering a comprehensive review of the structure and operation of the
listed options markets to promote fair, efficient, transparent, and competitive
markets.

Oversee the system of self-regulation: Through its review of SRO proposed rule
changes, ongoing dialogue with SROs, and rulemaking and other initiatives, the
SEC will appropriately oversee the system of self-regulation. This is particularly
important in light of conflicts of interests.
Enhance the technological resilience of securities markets: The SEC is working
with securities markets, securities firms and other key market participants to
ensure the development of adequate policies and procedures with regard to their
automated systems and to guard against technological failures. The SEC recently
proposed rulemaking to require securities markets, clearing agencies, and plan
processors to assure that their systems have adequate levels of capacity, integrity,
resiliency, availability and security to maintain their operational capability and

16 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

that those markets operate in the manner intended. The SEC anticipates continuing
its work on this rulemaking proposal and continuing its dialogue with securities
markets to assure a robust and sound U.S. market infrastructure.
■	

■	

■	

■	

■	

■	

Reduce reliance on credit ratings references in SEC rules: The SEC will continue
to work to implement the credit rating reference removal provisions required by
the Dodd-Frank Act and insert appropriate substitutes as required by law.
Enhance oversight of derivatives: The SEC will continue to implement the
derivatives provisions of Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act, including through
cooperative measures with foreign counterparts. The SEC will work with the
CFTC to seek to harmonize futures and securities laws for economically equivalent
instruments.
Help prevent market manipulation: As part of this initiative, the SEC will
review recent changes to the regulation of short sales to assess their effectiveness
and determine whether additional modifications are warranted. The agency also
intends to explore ways to enhance the transparency of trading activities to better
deter and detect manipulation. In addition, the SEC will pursue initiatives to update
and enhance the anti-manipulation rules that address the activities of underwriters,
issuers, selling security holders and others in connection with securities offerings,
as well as update and enhance the anti-manipulation rules that address issuer
repurchases and timely public notice of dividends and other distributions.
Improve transparency and oversight of small capitalization securities: The
SEC will pursue initiatives focused on the special characteristics of the market
for small capitalization securities, in order to enhance the transparency of this
market and promote vigorous oversight. Goals of these initiatives will include
assuring appropriate investor protections and promoting market efficiency. The
SEC also will review its rule that governs the publication of quotations for
securities that are not listed on a national securities exchange, to ensure that it
adequately addresses securities and situations most likely to raise concerns about
fraud and manipulation.
Consider implementing further money market fund reforms: The SEC plans
to consider final amendments to its rule regulating money market funds (MMFs),
which would be designed to reduce their susceptibility to runs, improve their
ability to manage the effects of high levels of shareholder redemptions in times of
stress, increase the transparency of risk in MMF portfolios and preserve, as much as
possible, the benefits of MMFs for investors and the short-term financing markets.
Enhance the market structure for fixed income securities: The SEC plans to
pursue many of the recommendations highlighted in the July 2012 Report on the
Municipal Securities Market through a combination of SEC, MSRB, and FINRA
initiatives, in an effort to enhance the market structure for all fixed income securities,

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 17

including taxable and tax-exempt securities. This effort will include initiatives
aimed at promoting transparency and the development of new mechanisms to
facilitate the provision of liquidity, as well as initiatives to improve the execution
quality of investor orders.
■	

■	

Consider streamlining the process for introducing new exchange-traded
funds: The SEC will consider whether or not to permit certain exchange-traded
funds to be introduced to the market without first submitting an application
under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and receiving an exemptive order
from the Commission.
Improve clearance and settlement: The SEC will pursue initiatives to develop
registration practices that facilitate appropriate access to U.S. financial markets for
different types of clearing agencies and transfer agents, and supervisory resources
and practices that allow the SEC to appropriately consider the systemic and other
risks of registered and exempt clearing agencies and transfer agents performing
payment, clearance and settlement activity in the U.S. and for U.S. persons. The
SEC also will consider whether and how to modify existing rules covering clearing agencies and transfer agents to enhance the safety and efficiency of securities
clearance and settlement practices and ensure that such practices are harmonized
with the broader U.S. financial system.

Performance Goal
The SEC intends to use the following performance metric to gauge its progress in
achieving this strategic objective:
PERFORMANCE GOAL

DESCRIPTION

Time to complete SEC review
of SRO rules that are subject to
SEC approval

The SEC reviews SRO rule proposals for consistency with
the Exchange Act standards of investor protection, fair and
orderly operation of the markets and market structure, as
well as other statutory requirements. This metric gauges the
timeliness of those reviews.

18 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Related Indicators
The following indicators are useful for understanding the SEC’s activities, but should
not be considered performance metrics. As these indicators are not used to assess performance, they do not require targets or timeframes.
INDICATOR

DESCRIPTION

Percentage of SRO rule filings
submitted for immediate
effectiveness

This indicator gauges the proportion of SRO rule proposals
that are submitted for immediate effectiveness.

Percentage of transaction dollars
settled on time each year

This indicator measures the efficiency of the U.S. clearance
and settlement system for equity securities.

Percentage and number of market
outages at SROs and electronic
communications networks (ECNs)
that are corrected within targeted
timeframes

Market outages reflect problems in the systems underlying
the securities markets that could have an adverse effect
on the markets’ ability to function as required. The SEC
assesses the reliability and resiliency of these systems to
minimize the number and duration of outages. This indicator
gauges how quickly outages are resolved, so that market
activity can resume.

S T R AT E G I C O B J E C T I V E 1 . 3
The SEC adopts and administers regulations and rules that are informed
by robust economic analysis and public comment and that enable market
participants to understand their obligations under the securities laws.

The process of developing and administering rules and regulations is one of the
primary functions of the SEC and involves staff from virtually every division and
office. One of the agency’s primary objectives is to maintain a regulatory framework
that enables market participants to understand their obligations.
The success of this strategic objective requires collaboration and coordination among
staff members who bring a variety of different perspectives, with appropriate tools and
support. In addition, the agency must continually reevaluate its regulatory framework
so that it provides sufficient protections to investors as new products and services
enter the market. In addition to drafting its own rules, the SEC often coordinates with
other federal regulators in joint rulemaking to ensure consistency and clarity throughout the market.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 19

The SEC’s economic analysis supports a wide spectrum of activities, including policymaking and rulemaking. The SEC integrates robust economic analysis into the rulemaking process and rule releases, so that its rules and regulations are appropriately
informed by economic reasoning and impacts. The SEC also identifies developing
risks and trends in the financial markets and engages in long-range planning and
training to address such developments.
The SEC plans to continue to encourage investor participation and comments on
proposed rules, regulations and other issues materially affecting investors through a
variety of methods, including supporting the work of the Investor Advisory Committee, staffing the Office of the Investor Advocate and working with the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy to highlight issues that may be of particular interest to
investors.
Initiatives
To accomplish this strategic objective, the SEC plans to implement the following
initiatives:
■	

■	

■	

Improve agency-wide coordination of the rulemaking process: The SEC will
seek additional ways to foster greater and earlier collaboration among divisions
and offices on rulemaking initiatives. The agency will establish collaboration tools
to more effectively gather and analyze data from across the SEC and manage
rulemaking activities.
Enhance the process for no-action, interpretive, and exemptive regulatory
requests: The SEC will continue reviewing its process for handling written
requests for no-action, interpretive, and exemptive relief, so that the agency’s
responses are completed in a timely and efficient manner.
Respond accurately and promptly to informal guidance requests from market
participants and others: The SEC will strive to respond to informal requests for
guidance regarding the laws and rules it administers to provide appropriate
informal guidance as quickly as possible.

20 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Performance Goals
The SEC intends to use the following performance metrics to gauge its progress in
achieving this strategic objective:
PERFORMANCE GOAL

DESCRIPTION

Length of time to respond
to written requests for noaction letters (NAL), exemptive
applications, and written
interpretive requests

The SEC staff responds to requests for guidance from individuals
and market participants about specific provisions of the federal
securities laws. These queries may seek interpretations of the
securities laws or regulations, or assurances that no enforcement
action will be taken if the individual or market participant engages
in a specified activity. The staff also reviews applications for
exemptions from the securities laws. Written responses to such
requests for guidance, when provided, generally are publicly
available, as are applications and related notices and orders,
when issued. This metric gauges the timeliness of initial
comments issued by the Divisions of Trading and Markets,
Investment Management, and Corporation Finance.

Timeliness of responses to
requests for informal guidance
received by the Devision of
Trading & Markets dedicated
hotline or email box

The Division of Trading and Markets maintains a dedicated
phone line and an email account to provide market participants
with avenues to request information and informal guidance
regarding the Exchange Act and rules thereunder. This metric will
reflect the timeliness of the staff’s responses to these requests.

Related Indicators
The following indicators are useful for understanding the SEC’s activities, but should
not be considered performance metrics. As these indicators are not used to assess
performance, they do not require targets or timeframes.
INDICATOR

DESCRIPTION

Number of amendments to
national securities exchange
registrations (Form 1)

This indicator provides information about the volume of
material filed with the SEC that involves amendments to
exchange registrations.

Number of Alternative Trading
System registrations (Form ATS)

This indicator provides information about the volume of
material filed with the SEC that involves filings related to ATS
registrations.

Number of new investment
product submissions

This indicator provides information about the volume of
material filed with the SEC that involves new product
submissions pursuant to Rule 19b-4(e) of the Exchange Act.

Number of published economic
reports

This indicator gauges the number of economic reports that
staff of the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis publishes
annually on the SEC’s website.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 21

S T R AT E G I C O B J E C T I V E 1 . 4
The SEC engages with a multitude of stakeholders to inform and enhance
regulatory activities domestically and internationally.

In today’s markets, capital can cross jurisdictional boundaries with the click of a
mouse. It is more important than ever to coordinate with other U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities and stakeholders on the best regulatory responses to the changing
market landscape. Failure to effectively coordinate can significantly hamper the SEC’s
ability to achieve its policy objectives or avoid significant unintended consequences.
Domestically, the Chair of the SEC will continue to participate actively in the Financial Stability Oversight Committee (FSOC) with the heads of others FSOC member
agencies, such as the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the Department of
the Treasury and the CFTC.
The SEC also will actively participate in international multilateral organizations,
including the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), the
Financial Stability Board, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and the Financial Action Task Force. These efforts will be complemented by
direct bilateral consultations with foreign regulatory counterparts on enforcement
and regulatory cooperation matters. In addition, the SEC continues to promote international coordination and cooperation through its technical assistance programs for
foreign regulators.
The SEC will continue to coordinate with domestic stakeholders including investors,
industry representatives, technical experts and other market participants. The SEC
will also continue to work with the Investor Advisory Committee on a variety of
regulatory issues.
Initiatives
To accomplish this strategic objective, the SEC plans to implement the following
initiatives:
■	

Collaborate with other authorities on enforcement and market oversight
matters: In order to create a more effective and coordinated regulatory environment, the SEC will partner with U.S. federal and state regulatory authorities to
share data, information, and expertise on regulatory issues as appropriate. The
SEC will similarly utilize arrangements to share appropriate and relevant data,
information, and expertise with foreign authorities about cross-border issues.

22 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

■	

■	

■	

Continue global coordination and assistance: The SEC will continue to work
closely with its regulatory counterparts abroad, as well as with relevant international organizations, to promote high-quality securities regulation worldwide and
regulatory convergence where appropriate. The SEC will conduct technical assistance programs that promote emerging and recently-emerged markets’ capacity to
take steps to minimize the likelihood of regulatory arbitrage and promote crossborder enforcement and supervisory assistance.
Facilitate input from stakeholders in rulemaking initiatives: The SEC will
continue to seek input from stakeholders to inform its rulemaking initiatives
through a variety of methods including, as appropriate to the initiative, meeting
with investors, industry representatives, technical experts and other market
participants, holding roundtables and issuing concept releases.
Coordinate closely with the Investor Advisory Committee: The SEC will
continue to work closely with the Investor Advisory Committee, which was
established to present the views and experience of a wide variety of investors and
to advise the Commission on regulatory priorities and practices. The Investor
Advisory Committee is authorized by statute to submit findings and recommendations to the Commission for review and consideration.

Performance Goals
The SEC intends to use the following performance metrics to gauge its progress in
achieving this strategic objective:
PERFORMANCE GOAL

DESCRIPTION

Supervisory cooperation requests
from foreign authorities for SEC
assistance and SEC requests
for assistance on supervisory
cooperation from foreign authorities

The SEC makes requests to foreign authorities for supervisory
cooperation assistance and responds to such requests from
foreign regulators both through formal mechanisms, such
as supervisory memoranda of understanding, and on an ad
hoc basis.

Number of non-U.S. regulators
trained

This metric shows the reach of the SEC’s technical
assistance programs for regulators around the world. The
SEC conducts these training sessions to assist countries in
developing and maintaining robust protections for investors
and promoting cross-border enforcement and supervisory
assistance.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 23

‘‘

The ability to identify and bring timely, high-quality
enforcement actions when violations of the federal
securities laws occur is integral to the SEC’s core
mission. The SEC must enhance its enforcement
function not only to send strong messages to
wrongdoers that misconduct will be swiftly and
aggressively addressed, but also to adapt to the
highly automated, high-speed markets of today

’’

and tomorrow.

				

CHAIR MARY JO WHITE

STRATEGIC GOAL

2

Foster and Enforce Compliance with the Federal Securities Laws
FOSTERING COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL SECURITIES LAWS is interwoven

through all of the Commission’s programs and is central to fulfilling its mission of
protecting investors; maintaining fair, orderly and efficient markets; and facilitating
capital formation. Through disclosure reviews and examinations of broker-dealers,
investment advisers, SROs and other market participants, the SEC seeks both to detect
violations of the securities laws and rules and to foster strong compliance and risk
management practices within these firms and organizations.
When violations do occur, the SEC strives to take prompt action to stop the misconduct, penalize the wrongdoers and, where possible, return funds to harmed investors.
These actions span the broad spectrum of the securities laws including, among others,
matters of financial reporting, disclosure, accounting fraud, securities offerings,
insider trading and market manipulation. These critical investor protection functions
contribute to investors’ confidence in our capital markets.
The SEC will continue to enhance its National Examination and Enforcement
programs. As discussed further below, these improvements include expanding the
SEC’s training programs, hiring staff with new skill sets, streamlining processes,
enhancing information-sharing, leveraging the knowledge of third parties, improving
the processing of the thousands of tips the agency receives annually and improving
risk assessment techniques. These, and other significant efforts, contribute to the SEC’s
objective of creating an enduring structure for improved protection of investors
and markets.
S T R AT E G I C O B J E C T I V E 2 . 1
The SEC fosters compliance with the federal securities laws.

While detecting violations of the federal securities laws is an integral aspect of the
SEC’s programs (see Strategic Objective 2.2), working to prevent future violations can
be even more important to protecting investors and enhancing market integrity. The
SEC’s goal is to encourage regulated entities and reporting companies to do all that
they reasonably can to identify possible compliance pitfalls and take preventive action
before a violation occurs.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 25

Initiatives designed to foster greater compliance with securities laws run throughout
this Strategic Plan. They include efforts designed to provide investors with information
they need so that they can wisely select and monitor their investments and professional
intermediaries (see Strategic Objective 3.1); to ensure that rules are written in an understandable way, so that those charged with compliance clearly understand their responsibilities (see Strategic Objective 1.3); to create, as appropriate, prophylactic rules that
prevent abusive trading or marketing practices (see Strategic Objective 1.2); and to
deter regulated entities and reporting companies from engaging in unlawful conduct
(see Strategic Objective 2.2).
The SEC seeks to encourage within organizations of all sizes that participate in the
securities markets a strong “culture of compliance”—an environment that fosters,
from top leadership down, ethical behavior and decision-making. This philosophy
should underpin all that the organization does, so that when employees make
decisions, large and small, they are guided by a culture that reinforces acting in both
a legal and ethical manner.
Initiatives
To accomplish this strategic objective, the SEC plans to implement the following
initiatives:
■	

Expand outreach efforts for promoting compliance practices: The SEC will
enhance efforts to promote compliance by engaging in more proactive communications with registrants and their personnel, including chief compliance
officers, senior executives and board members. These efforts will include expanding participation in compliance outreach events; disseminating targeted materials
to firms by means of risk alerts; detailing areas where examiners have identified significant compliance deficiencies, best practices identified by examiners
or industry groups, and rule changes; and raising registrant awareness of the
seriousness of certain exam findings by holding post-examination compliance
conferences.

26 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Performance Goals
The SEC intends to use the following performance metrics to gauge its progress in
achieving this strategic objective:
PERFORMANCE GOAL

DESCRIPTION

Number of industry outreach and
education programs targeted to
areas identified as raising particular
compliance risks

Targeted communication with industry participants on topics
shaping the examination program is intended to enhance
compliance practices and prevent violations before they
occur. This metric identifies the number of major outreach
efforts conducted including the SEC’s national and regional
compliance outreach events, published risk alerts, and other
educational programs and initiatives.

Percentage of firms receiving
deficiency letters that take
corrective action in response to all
exam findings

At the conclusion of examinations, the staff communicates
identified deficiencies to registrants in the form of a deficiency
letter. Registrants are then given a chance to respond to staff
findings and often take action to remedy any problems and
potential risks, including monetary compensation to clients
and enhancements to disclosures, policies and procedures.
Most often, registrants respond that they have corrected
the deficiencies and implemented measures to prevent
recurrence.

S T R AT E G I C O B J E C T I V E 2 . 2
The SEC promptly detects and deters violations of the federal securities laws.

Violations of the securities laws have a tremendous impact on investors. Accordingly,
prompt detection of potential securities law violations is important in limiting the
harm caused to investors. By identifying violations early, the SEC seeks to punish
wrongdoers promptly, correct violative behavior in the financial markets before it
proliferates, stop fraud and manipulation before it affects a large number of investors,
and locate and preserve investors’ assets before they are lost or dissipated.
Detecting violations of the federal securities laws is a difficult but critical function,
and one in which the agency continuously seeks to enhance its efforts. In the midst
of constantly evolving financial markets, the SEC seeks to strengthen its oversight of
the large number of registrants by focusing its resources on the areas of greatest risk.
This risk-based approach, which the Commission continually seeks to refine, is implemented across agency programs through various methodologies aimed at identifying,
assessing and managing risks to investors.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 27

In addition, each year the SEC receives thousands of tips and complaints, as well as
referrals from SROs, that staff analyze to determine matters requiring investigation.
The Commission works closely with others—SROs, the Department of Justice and
other criminal authorities, and state, federal, and foreign regulators—to maximize the
breadth and depth of its combined efforts. As described below, the SEC will continue
working to improve its detection and deterrence efforts.
Initiatives
To accomplish this strategic objective, the SEC plans to implement the following
initiatives:
■	

■	

■	

■	

Enhance surveillance and risk assessment capabilities: The SEC will continue
to enhance the methods and tools for more effectively identifying and assessing
risks in the markets and focusing surveillance efforts on entities, persons, and
practices that pose a high risk to investors and financial markets. As part of this
effort, the SEC will seek to obtain greater access to data and insights from a variety
of sources including data from registrants, SROs, commercial vendors, and other
sources. In addition, the SEC will expand the use of analytics to enhance the ability
of examination and enforcement staff to detect potentially violative activity.
Improve management of tips, complaints, and referrals: The SEC will enhance
the process for receiving, processing, and acting upon tips, complaints and referrals
so they can continue to be handled consistently and appropriately, including
through examinations or enforcement investigations. This effort will also enhance
the SEC’s data on tips, complaints, and referrals, to help the agency spot trends
and patterns about potential issues or violations that may warrant further Commission action.
Build upon the establishment and successes of the Office of the Whistleblower:
The SEC will continue to encourage individuals and entities with timely, credible
and specific information about potential securities law violations to provide information to the Commission to further investigations and promote more efficient
use of the Commission’s limited resources. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the
SEC is required to compensate eligible whistleblowers with an award of 10 to 30
percent of amounts collected as a result of original information provided by a
whistleblower that leads to a successful enforcement action resulting in monetary
sanctions exceeding $1,000,000.
Bolster the expertise of SEC staff: The SEC will continue to develop and implement specialized teams focusing on particular market issues that directly affect
investors and the functioning of the markets, by enhancing the expertise of SEC
staff through targeted training in critical and emerging areas, and enabling staff to
obtain additional training resulting in certifications, such as “Certified Fraud
Examiners” and “Chartered Financial Analysts.”

28 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

■	

■	

Build upon Enforcement’s Cooperation Program: The staff will use a variety
of tools—including cooperation agreements, deferred prosecution agreements
and non-prosecution agreements—to encourage individuals and companies to
promptly report violations and provide assistance to the agency.
Enhance sharing, cooperation, and joint initiatives both within the agency and
with other regulators: The SEC will focus on improving the sharing of information between divisions and offices of the Commission and with other regulators.
This type of communication will help ensure that expertise is shared and that
areas of mutual interest are addressed in an efficient and effective manner. This
includes continuing the use of joint specialized working groups within the agency
that are focused on market issues and entities presenting significant risks. This
would also include continuing efforts to collaborate and share information with
other regulators, such as FINRA, state regulators, the CFTC, international counterparts and many others.

Performance Goals
The SEC intends to use the following performance metrics to gauge its progress in
achieving this strategic objective:
PERFORMANCE GOAL

DESCRIPTION

Percentage of investment advisers,
investment companies, and brokerdealers examined during the year

This metric indicates the number of registrants examined by
the SEC or an SRO as a percentage of the total number of
registrants. This metric includes all types of examinations:
risk priority examinations, cause inspections to follow up on
tips and complaints, limited-scope special inspections to probe
emerging risk areas, oversight examinations of broker-dealers
to test compliance and the quality of examinations by FINRA.

Percentage of compliance exams
that are concluded in accordance
with the Office of Compliance
Inspections and Examination’s
(OCIE) statutory deadline

The staff conducts examinations each year of registered
entities, including investment advisers, investment company
complexes, transfer agents, and broker-dealers. The staff
strives to complete its examinations and communicate
findings in the most efficient and effective manner and within
its statutory deadline. This metric reflects the percentage of
examinations concluded within the statutory deadline.

Number of joint exams, information
sharing agreements, and formal
meetings with other regulators

The SEC attempts to coordinate and collaborate with other
regulators on areas of mutual interest. This helps to ensure
that all regulators are informed of ongoing risks and issues
related to broad market practices as well as specific entities
of mutual interest. This cooperation is critical to the exam
program to ensure that certain higher risk firms and activities
are addressed in the most efficient and effective manner. This
metric tracks critical cooperation activities that are occurring
between the SEC’s exam program and other regulators.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 29

Related Indicators
The following indicators are useful for understanding the SEC’s activities, but should
not be considered performance metrics. As these indicators are not used to assess
performance, they do not require targets or timeframes.
INDICATOR

DESCRIPTION

Percentage of exams that identify
deficiencies, the percentage that
result in a “significant finding,”
and the percentage referred to the
Division of Enforcement

Examiners find a wide range of deficiencies during
examinations. Some of the deficiencies are more technical in
nature, such as failing to include all information that is required
to be in a record. However, other deficiencies may cause harm
to customers or clients of a firm, have a high potential to cause
harm, or reflect recidivist misconduct. The latter deficiencies
are among those categorized as “significant.” This indicator
identifies the percentage of exams that identified deficiencies,
that resulted in significant deficiency findings, and that were
referred to Enforcement.

Number of cause exams that
result from tips, complaints and
referrals

Analysis of a tip can support the request for a cause exam. This
indicator would identify the number of SEC cause exams that
result from tips collected through outreach efforts.

Number of rule-making initiatives
assisted by the National Exam
Program

The examination program interacts with registrants on a regular
basis and this work provides feedback critical to ensuring
effective and practical rulemaking and policy efforts. This
indicator tracks how frequently the examination program assists
with rulemaking initiatives.

Number of investigations or
inquiries originating from a tip or
complaint

Analysis of a tip or complaint can result in the need for an
enforcement investigation. The indicator identifies the number
of SEC investigations that result from tips and complaints
received by the SEC.

SEC investigations in which
requests for access to information
were granted by the SEC to other
authorities, such as SROs or
other state, federal, and foreign
enforcement authorities

The SEC works closely with other regulators and authorities.
This metric identifies the number of investigations in which
the SEC granted one or more authorities access to information
concerning an investigation during the fiscal year. This may
include requests for access to SEC investigative files
concerning investigations that the SEC continues to pursue, as
well as those in which the SEC has completed its investigation.

Requests from foreign authorities
for SEC assistance and SEC
requests for assistance from
foreign authorities

Each year, the SEC makes hundreds of requests for
enforcement assistance to foreign regulators, while responding
to hundreds of such requests from other nations. To facilitate
this type of assistance, and encourage other countries to enact
laws necessary to allow regulators to cooperate with their foreign
counterparts, the SEC has entered into bilateral informationsharing arrangements, as well as the Multilateral Memorandum
of Understanding, an information-sharing arrangement
negotiated through IOSCO.

30 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

S T R AT E G I C O B J E C T I V E 2 . 3
The SEC prosecutes violations of federal securities laws and holds violators
accountable through appropriate sanctions and remedies.

Investors are not truly protected unless those who prey on them are swiftly and
appropriately sanctioned. The enforcement staff strives to obtain swift and firm
sanctions, while remaining fair and reasonable. The breadth of the enforcement
program’s capabilities in this area derives, in part, from its close cooperation with the
other SEC divisions that perform regulatory functions and also have deep knowledge
of the market and its participants.
To improve the quality and efficiency of its investigations, the SEC is committed to
streamlining internal processes wherever possible. In pursuing potential violations of
the securities laws, the SEC regularly works closely with other regulators and law
enforcement agencies. The enforcement program also has seen a dramatic increase
in its coordination efforts with foreign authorities, including requests for assistance
to and from foreign regulators under bilateral and multilateral information-sharing
arrangements. These efforts also include requests to trace proceeds of fraud to foreign
countries, and actions to obtain asset freezes. The SEC is committed to further
expanding its coordination with these entities in order to strengthen the Commission’s
ability to hold wrongdoers accountable.
Initiatives
To accomplish this strategic objective, the SEC plans to implement the following
initiatives:
■	

■	

■	

Continue utilizing specialty groups within the enforcement program: The SEC
will continue to use specialized groups and task forces to move quickly and to
centralize expertise on the most critical issues emerging in the markets. As market
conditions and market events dictate, Enforcement will evaluate the need to add,
eliminate or implement changes to specialized groups and task forces.
Enhance timeliness of distributions to wronged investors: The SEC will improve
timeliness and efficiency of its efforts to return money collected in enforcement
actions to harmed investors.
Enhance communications among SEC divisions and offices and the enforcement
program: The SEC will improve communication and sharing of information
between the enforcement program and other divisions and offices to bring to
bear the collective expertise of the Commission in a timely and efficient manner,
such as continuing meetings of the Cross-Border Working Group.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 31

■	

■	

Review approach for enforcement penalties: The SEC will continue to assess its
approach to the use of penalties in connection with enforcement recommendations/
actions so that penalties have the appropriate punitive and deterrent effect, having
in mind avoiding unnecessary harm to shareholders.
Broaden the range of enforcement sanctions: The SEC will develop alternative
approaches to sanctions to gain greater flexibility in bringing actions to conclusions
that benefit investors.

Performance Goals
The SEC intends to use the following performance metrics to gauge its progress in
achieving this strategic objective:
PERFORMANCE GOAL

DESCRIPTION

Percentage of enforcement actions
in which the Commission obtained
relief on one or more claims

This metric identifies, as to all parties to enforcement actions
that were resolved in the fiscal year, the percentage against
whom the Commission obtained a judgment or order entered
on consent, a default judgment, a judgment of liability on one
or more charges, and/or the imposition of monetary or other
relief. The Division of Enforcement is currently assessing
this metric, and evaluating how to incorporate qualitative
considerations of the results of its enforcement actions.

Percentage of first enforcement
actions filed within two years of the
opening of an investigation

This metric concerns the pace of investigations that lead to the
filing of enforcement actions. Specifically, this metric captures
the rate at which the first enforcement action arising out of an
investigation was filed within two years of the opening of the
investigation. If the investigation was preceded by a matter
under inquiry, the metric draws on the date of the opening
of the matter under inquiry. In conducting investigations, the
Enforcement program continually strives to balance the need
for complete, effective and fair investigations with the need to
file enforcement actions in as timely a manner as possible.

Average months between opening
a matter under inquiry or an
investigation and commencing an
enforcement action

This metric captures the average number of months between
the opening of an investigation and the filing of the first
enforcement action arising out of that investigation. If the
investigation was preceded by a matter under inquiry, the
metric draws on the date of opening of the matter inquiry.
In conducting investigations, the enforcement program
continually strives to balance the need for complete, effective,
and fair investigation with the need to file enforcement actions
in as timely a manner as possible. While not all investigations
result in the filing of enforcement actions, this metric provides
information concerning the pace of investigations that do lead
to such actions and supplements the previous goal, which
measures the percentage of first enforcement actions filed
within two years.

32 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

PERFORMANCE GOAL

DESCRIPTION

Percentage of debts where either
a payment has been made or a
collection activity has been initiated
within 180 days of the due date of
the debt

The SEC can seek a wide range of remedies for failure to
comply with the securities laws. These remedies include civil
monetary penalties and disgorgement. When the remedies
are imposed by the SEC or the federal district court, payments
must be made by a certain date. This metric identifies the
percentage of debts where debtors have made payments or
the SEC has initiated a collection activity within 180 days of
the due date. Such collection activities include, among other
things, demand letters, negotiation of payment plans, enforcing
the payment of the debt through the courts or other judicial
remedies.

Percentage of Fair Fund and
disgorgement fund plans that
have distributed 80 percent of the
available funds for distribution
within twenty four (24) months of
the approval of the distribution plan

In addition to other types of relief, the SEC may seek
orders requiring parties to disgorge any money obtained
through wrongdoing. The SEC also is empowered to seek
civil penalties for violations of the securities laws. Where
appropriate, the SEC has sought to return disgorged funds
to harmed investors and, as a result of the Fair Funds
provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank
Act, to combine amounts paid as penalties with disgorged
funds, or to create a Fair Fund from penalties only, to reduce
losses to injured parties and to maximize funds available
for distribution. This metric identifies the percentage of
distribution plans that reached a critical mass during the
fiscal year and within twenty four (24) months of the approval
of the distribution plan. The distribution plan includes the
timeline and procedures required to return the funds to
injured investors. This reflects Commission-wide efforts to
implement plans to return money to investors quickly. Any
funds not returned to investors are sent to the U.S. Treasury
or the Investor Protection Fund established pursuant to
Section 21F(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Neither disgorgement nor penalties are used for the SEC’s
own expenses.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 33

Related Indicators
The following indicators are useful for understanding the SEC’s activities, but should
not be considered performance metrics. As these indicators are not used to assess
performance, they do not require targets or timeframes.
INDICATOR

DESCRIPTION

Percentage of filed enforcement
actions reflecting characteristics
that present enhanced risk
to investors and markets, as
measured by the nature of the
investigation, conduct, parties
and impact.

This indicator assesses the quality of the cases filed by the
Division of Enforcement. The indicator focuses on cases filed
by the SEC that involve factors reflecting enhanced risk to
investors and markets. Such cases may involve: (i) those
identified through risk analytics and cross-disciplinary initiatives
to reveal difficult-to-detect or early stage misconduct, thus
minimizing investor loss and preventing the spread of unlawful
conduct and practices; (ii) particularly egregious or widespread
misconduct and investor harm; (iii) vulnerable victims; (iv) a high
degree of scienter; (v) involvement of individuals occupying
substantial positions of authority, or having fiduciary obligations
or other special responsibilities to investors; (vi) involvement
of recidivists; (vii) high amount of investor loss prevented;
(viii) misconduct that is difficult to detect due to the complexity
of products, transactions, and practices; (ix) use of innovative
investigative or analytical techniques; (x) effective coordination
with other law enforcement partners; and/or (xi) whether the
matter involves markets, transactions or practices identified
as an enforcement priority, or that advances the programmatic
priorities of other SEC divisions or offices.

Total amount distributed within
the fiscal year, and the number
of Fair Funds from which those
distributions came

In its enforcement actions, the SEC may seek to return funds
to harmed investors through disgorgement of ill-gotten gains
or through the Fair Funds provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act. This provision permits the SEC to combine amounts paid
as penalties with disgorged funds, or to create a Fair Fund
from penalties only, to reduce losses to injured parties. This
reflects the SEC’s efforts to return funds to injured investors.
This indicator identifies the total amount distributed within the
fiscal year, and the number of Fair Funds from which those
distributions came. This indicator may increase or decrease
in dollar amount and number of distribution funds based on
the number of SEC enforcement actions brought involving
distributions, amounts ordered and paid in those actions,
and other factors. Due to the variation in reporting timelines
established for each individual distribution, reported amounts
are based on the agency’s best available information. Reported
amounts do not include those funds distributed through
receiverships. Any funds not returned to investors are sent to
the U.S. Treasury or the Investor Protection Fund established
pursuant to Section 21F(g) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. Neither disgorgement nor penalties are used for the
Commission’s own expenses.

34 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

INDICATOR

DESCRIPTION

Percent of enforcement actions
filed that arose out of national
priority investigations

The Division of Enforcement brings many enforcement actions
each year that can be characterized as high impact and of national
priority. High impact or national priority investigations include those
investigations which are significant for one or more of the following
reasons: (i) presents an opportunity to send a particularly strong
and effective message of deterrence, including with respect to
markets, products and transactions that are newly developing, or
that are long established but which by their nature present limited
opportunities to detect wrongdoing and thus to deter misconduct;
(ii) involves particularly egregious or extensive misconduct; (iii)
involves potentially widespread and extensive harm to investors;
(iv) involves misconduct by persons occupying positions of substantial authority or responsibility, or who owe fiduciary or other
enhanced duties and obligations to a broad group of investors
or others; (v) involves potential wrongdoing as prohibited under
newly-enacted legislation or regulatory rules; (vi) concerns potential misconduct that occurred in connection with products, markets,
transactions or practices that pose particularly significant risks for
investors or a systemically important sector of the market; (vii)
involves a substantial number of potential victims and/or particularly vulnerable victims; (viii) involves products, markets, transactions or practices that the Division of Enforcement has identified as
priority areas (i.e., conduct relating to the financial crisis; fraud in
connection with mortgage-related securities; financial fraud involving public companies whose stock is widely held; misconduct by
investment advisers; and matters involving priorities established
by particular regional offices or the specialized units); and/or
(ix) provides an opportunity to pursue priority interests shared
by other law enforcement agencies on a coordinated basis.

Criminal actions related to
conduct under investigation
by the SEC

In some instances, conduct may involve both civil and criminal
violations and may be investigated by both the SEC and the criminal authorities. This indicator identifies the number of criminal
actions that are related to conduct under investigation by the SEC.

Disgorgement and penalties
ordered and the amounts
collected

In addition to other types of relief, the SEC may seek orders requiring parties to disgorge any money obtained through wrongdoing.
The SEC is also empowered to seek civil penalties for violations
of the securities laws. In some cases, the SEC will seek to obtain
large monetary sanctions even in instances where the prospects
of collecting on a judgment are slight. The rationale for seeking
monetary relief in these circumstances is that such relief, even
when likely uncollectible, might become collectible in the future
based on the defendant’s changed circumstances, and also
because such relief can serve to deter others from violating the
securities laws. Where appropriate, the SEC has sought to return
disgorged funds to harmed investors. Funds not returned to investors are sent to the Treasury or the Investor Protection Fund established pursuant to Section 21F(g) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. This indicator lists disgorgement and penalties ordered as
a result of SEC cases and the amounts collected in those actions.
This indicator could increase or decrease based on various factors.
STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 35

‘‘

Increasing investor understanding should always

be one of our primary goals. But it is not enough
merely to make accurate, timely, and useful
information available; we also have to make it
accessible. We have to provide information in the
ways that investors want to receive it. Investor
outreach is crucial to success. Finding out what is
on investors’ minds will improve the overall quality

’’

of the information we provide.
				

CHAIR MARY JO WHITE

STRATEGIC GOAL

3

Facilitate Access to the Information Investors Need to Make
Informed Investment Decisions
THE FEDERAL SECURITIES LAWS require that corporations, investment compa-

nies, and other entities provide investors with timely and meaningful information
about, among other things, their operations and financial condition. Because an
educated and informed investor ultimately provides the best defense against fraud and
costly mistakes, these laws place great emphasis on providing material information to
the investing public.
The SEC promotes informed investment decisions through two main approaches.
The first is to require that investors have accurate, useful, and timely public access
to disclosure materials that can be easily understood and analyzed. The second is to
implement a variety of investor education initiatives aimed at providing investors with
a better understanding of the operations of the nation’s securities markets.
In administering its disclosure program, the SEC requires reporting entities to disclose
financial and non-financial information to the investing public, thereby providing a
common pool of knowledge for all investors to use to judge for themselves whether a
security is an appropriate investment. Similarly, SEC rules require that investors have
access to certain information about the financial intermediaries they rely upon for
investment advice and other services. SEC staff reviews the disclosure and other filings
that corporations, investment companies, and other entities submit to assess whether
the disclosures appear adequate and accurate under the relevant rules and regulations.
The goal of the SEC’s investor education program is to give investors the information
they need to evaluate current and potential investments, while also providing agency
staff with critical insight about emerging trends and factors shaping investor decisionmaking. The SEC staff aims to collect investor-focused data from a variety of sources
and use it both to track trends in the securities industry and to identify, among other
things, problematic brokers, investment advisers, firms, and sales practices.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 37

S T R AT E G I C O B J E C T I V E 3 . 1
The SEC works to ensure that investors have access to high-quality
disclosure materials that facilitate informed investment decision-making.

Investors who have access to information and know what questions to ask are more
likely to invest wisely, and to choose professional intermediaries that will best meet
their objectives. The SEC understands that not all investors need the same information and that those needs are affected by their backgrounds, resources and goals. The
SEC seeks to structure disclosure requirements so that investors are armed with timely
and useful information they need to make informed investment decisions.
As technology and the complexity of financial instruments change, so too do the
needs of modern day investors. Providing investors with information in concise,
easy-to-use formats that are tailored to their needs helps investors to help themselves.
On a recurring basis, the Commission examines its filing review program to explore
whether its disclosure requirements, review criteria, approach to comments, and professional and technology resources provide maximum impact to benefit investors. As
described below, the SEC will engage in a number of initiatives to further enhance its
programs in this key area.
Initiatives
To accomplish this strategic objective, the SEC plans to implement the following
initiatives:
■	

■	

Update disclosure and reporting requirements to reflect the informational
needs of today’s investors: The SEC will continue its efforts to enhance disclosure
requirements for the benefit of investors, including a reassessment of current core
corporate disclosure requirements. In proposing changes for the Commission to
consider, the staff will seek to modernize disclosure requirements and eliminate
redundant reporting requirements. The staff ’s efforts will continue to include a
review of proxy voting and shareholder communications to identify ideas and
proposals for potential improvement to those rules.
Evaluate the effectiveness of filing review programs for reporting entities
so that investors receive material information in a timely manner without
imposing undue regulatory burdens on filers: The staff will continue to evaluate the Commission’s filing review processes and make changes in response to
evolving trends or market developments. The staff will also work to ensure that
the SEC has reliable risk management tools to identify material issues in offering
documents and periodic reports for review, and obtain enhancements in disclosure. This assessment will explore the criteria used to identify filings for review,
the process of issuing comments to reporting entities and new ways for technology
to help improve the Commission’s programs.

38 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

■	

■	

Design and implement new disclosure regimes for specialized categories of
issuers so that investors in these products have relevant and useful information to make informed investment decisions: The SEC will continue to evaluate
and improve the disclosure requirements for securitized financial products and
other complex financial instruments. The SEC plans to consider rules designed
to provide variable annuity investors with more user-friendly disclosure and to
improve the delivery of information about variable annuities through increased
use of the internet and other electronic means of delivery. In addition, the SEC
will continue work on proposed amendments to its advertising rules that would
require target date retirement funds’ marketing materials to provide investors
enhanced information about those funds.
Design and implement enhancements to EDGAR and SEC.gov to facilitate
investor and market participant access to and utilization of disclosure documents and other information: The SEC will continue to modernize its IT systems
and the dissemination and rendering of electronic disclosure documents to improve
investor access to relevant information and the ease of interacting with the SEC.
The SEC is working on enhancements to data standards and XBRL filing requirements that improve the quality of structured data and reduce burdens on filers.

Performance Goals
The SEC intends to use the following performance metrics to gauge its progress in
achieving this strategic objective:
PERFORMANCE GOAL

DESCRIPTION

Percentage of public companies
and investment companies with
disclosures reviewed each year

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that the SEC review, at least
once every three years, the disclosures of all companies and
investment company portfolios reporting under the Exchange
Act. These reviews help improve the information available to
investors and may identify possible violations of the federal
securities laws. This metric gauges the number of public
companies and investment companies reviewed each year.

Time to issue initial comments on
Securities Act filings

The target of 30 days or less has become a de facto industry
standard for issuers and underwriters’ expectations for the
maximum time to receive initial comments on Securities
Act registration statements. This metric will measure the
Commission’s frequency in meeting this 30-day target.

Percentage of investment company
disclosure reviews for which initial
comments are completed within
timeliness goals

For initial registration statements, the SEC’s goal is for staff to
issue initial comments within 30 days after they are filed (60 days
for registration statements of insurance product separate accounts
and related mutual funds). The SEC also aims for staff comment
on post-effective amendments within 45 days and preliminary
proxy statements within 10 days after they are filed. This metric
will show how often the Commission is meeting this goal.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 39

Related Indicator
The following indicator is useful for understanding the SEC’s activities, but should
not be considered a performance metric. As this indicator is not used to assess performance, it does not require a target or timeframe.
INDICATOR

DESCRIPTION

Total digital audience including
website, social media and mobile
media

Digital media has become the dominant channel for investors
seeking to access information. These statistics will help
evaluate the extent to which investors are turning to the SEC,
identify the channels they use, and quantify the amount of
information they receive.

S T R AT E G I C O B J E C T I V E 3 . 2
The SEC works to understand investor needs and educate investors
so they are better prepared to make informed investment decisions.

Understanding the interests and concerns of investors is critical to carrying out the
Commission’s investor protection mission. The SEC advances this mission by regularly communicating with investors, responding to their complaints and inquiries, and
providing educational programs and materials.
The SEC will obtain more comprehensive information about the views and perspectives of investors. It will seek more robust information regarding the behavioral characteristics of investors and the types of information investors need and use as they
make informed investment decisions. It will compile and provide this information to
the Commission to help in the development of rules and educational programs that
address investors’ views and concerns.
The SEC is exploring ways to encourage investor input by presenting investors with
clear, easily understandable explanations of Commission rules and rule proposals and
other activities through a variety of communication channels, including social media.
These efforts will complement those of the Investor Advisory Committee, which was
constituted to present the views and experience of a broad spectrum of investors, and
which will serve as an additional source of information concerning investors’ priorities and perspectives on the Commission’s regulatory agenda.
More comprehensive data about investors also will drive the Commission’s investor
education efforts. Working in partnership with other federal and state agencies, financial industry associations, consumer groups and educational organizations, the SEC
will develop investor education initiatives that are targeted to specific audiences.

40 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Initiatives
To accomplish this strategic objective, the SEC plans to implement the following
initiatives:
■	

■	

■	

■	

■	

Use feedback from individual investors to improve investor education resources:
In addition to responding to investor complaints and inquiries and conducting
in-person outreach, the SEC will use informational surveys to evaluate whether
investors are engaging in prudent investing behaviors and to gauge the usefulness
of its investor education materials and responsiveness of its investor assistance
program.
Inform rulemaking with investors’ views: The SEC will use investor testing
and other outreach efforts, as appropriate, to gather input from investors on rulemaking initiatives and better understand their informational needs.
Address Investor Advisory Committee input: The SEC will consider information and respond to recommendations from the Investor Advisory Committee
regarding investors’ perspectives and priorities.
Expand collaborative partnerships: The SEC will partner with other federal and
state agencies, securities regulators and non-profit organizations to shape and
target educational initiatives to maximize their impact on specific communities
of interest.
Promote investor awareness: The SEC staff will issue Investor Alerts and other
educational materials designed to both arm investors to be their own first line of
defense against fraud and assist them in understanding new products and the role
of financial intermediaries.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 41

Performance Goals
The SEC intends to use the following performance metrics to gauge its progress in
achieving this strategic objective:
PERFORMANCE GOAL

DESCRIPTION

Number of page views of online
investor education content, and
number of in-person events,
including those with specifically
targeted communities and
organizations

The Office of Investor Education and Advocacy (OIEA)
initiates investor education campaigns on key strategies for
making informed investment decisions, including publicizing
online resources for researching investment professionals
and investments, understanding fees, and identifying fraud.
OIEA staff also participates in in-person events for investors
generally and those targeted to specific investors, such as
seniors, service members, and other affinity groups. This
metric tracks page views of SEC online investor education
materials and the number of investor events in which OIEA
staff participated.

Timeliness of responses to investor
contacts

OIEA serves the tens of thousands of investors each year
who contact the SEC with investment-related complaints and
questions. The staff aims to close out as many new investor
assistance matters as possible within seven and thirty
business days.

Customer satisfaction rating of
OIEA’s online investor education
resources

This metric gauges the effectiveness, helpfulness, and
usability of OIEA’s online investor education resources.

Number of new investor education
materials designed primarily to
help investors protect themselves
from fraud

Through OIEA, and often in conjunction with other
organizations, the staff issues Investor Alerts and other forms
of educational material that inform investors about different
permutations of fraud, new investment products, and other
topical issues. This metric measures the number of new
investor education materials issued by OIEA.

42 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Related Indicators
The following indicators are useful for understanding the SEC’s activities, but should
not be considered performance metrics. As these indicators are not used to assess
performance, they do not require targets or timeframes.
INDICATOR

DESCRIPTION

Number of investor testing
research projects

This indicator tracks the number of research initiatives used
to gather feedback from investors on the usefulness of
disclosures and other input on SEC rulemaking.

Number of sets of
recommendations prepared by
the investor advisory committee

This indicator tracks the recommendations from the Investor
Advisory Committee regarding investors’ perspectives and
priorities.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 43

‘‘

The SEC’s hardworking and dedicated staff is the

’’

core component of the agency’s strength.
				

CHAIR MARY JO WHITE

STRATEGIC GOAL

4

Enhance the Commission’s Performance Through Effective
Alignment and Management of Human, Information, and
Financial Capital
THE PUBLIC AND THE SECURITIES MARKETS are best served by an efficient,

effective, and agile SEC. Given the immense size of the securities markets the SEC
regulates, the SEC’s success in fulfilling its mission and in achieving the goals and
objectives outlined in this Plan is highly dependent upon whether it’s adequately
funded and its ability to continually direct its resources towards the most productive
uses. The SEC also is extremely mindful of its responsibility to optimize the use of its
resources because it is a government agency entrusted with public funds.
The SEC continuously strives to enhance its performance by making sound investments in human capital and new technologies and by employing strong financial
management and operational risk management practices. With respect to its workforce, the SEC must be able to attract and retain high-performing staff, continually
update their skills so they are abreast of the latest developments in the industry and
create organizational structures and work processes that are efficient and effective.
The Commission’s information technology environment must give employees the
tools they need to view, analyze and act upon the enormous volume of financial data
and other information relevant to oversight of the securities markets. The SEC must
demonstrate a continued commitment to maintaining strong internal controls to
support effectiveness and efficiency of Commission operations. Finally, the SEC must
continually direct its financial resources to their highest and best use, always subject
to strong internal controls.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 45

S T R AT E G I C O B J E C T I V E 4 . 1
The SEC promotes a results-oriented work environment that attracts,
engages, and retains a technically proficient and diverse workforce,
including leaders who provide motivation and strategic direction.

The SEC is committed to being an employer of choice by consistently attracting, hiring,
developing, and retaining a high-quality, diverse, and results-oriented workforce. The
SEC is continually refining a series of programs to enhance its human capital, such
as rewarding high performance, promoting high employee satisfaction and updating
staff skills.
The SEC continues to build and maintain an effective training program to deepen
expertise and skills, not only in the rapidly evolving nature of the markets, but also in
areas of new responsibility for the Commission. The training supports development
for employees directly involved in examinations, investigations, fraud detection,
litigation, and other core mission responsibilities of the SEC. The training consists
of specialized in-depth topics concerning new trends in the securities industry and
changing market conditions, as well as analytics and forensics. It also allows staff to
obtain certain specialized financial certifications and regulatory credentials, as well
as the advanced continuing education credits required for maintaining legal and
financial credentials.
The SEC’s success at fulfilling its strategic goals depends upon effective leadership
at all levels. From branch chiefs to the Commission’s senior leadership, the SEC’s
leaders must not only motivate and manage employees effectively, but also play a
critical role in identifying the key areas on which staff should focus their attention to
generate the greatest benefit for investors. Through leadership and employee development programs, the Commission seeks to maintain a diverse cadre of technically
proficient leaders that can conduct their supervisory responsibilities effectively and
meet the dynamic challenges of market oversight.

46 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Initiatives
To accomplish this strategic objective, the SEC plans to implement the following
initiatives:
■	

■	

■	

Increase employee engagement and retention: To retain high caliber and diverse
talent, the SEC will implement programs and initiatives focused on employee
engagement and retention. In response to employee viewpoint survey results, the
SEC has conducted numerous interviews and focus groups with its workforce at
every level. The recommendations derived from this information will form the
basis for action plans aimed at improving the Commission’s organizational
climate and workforce morale. These plans will be implemented and evaluated in
a manner designed to promote continuous improvement. Improvements in
organizational climate and workforce morale should lead to greater employee
engagement and increased retention, particularly of high-performing employees.
Enhance employee development program: For the SEC to fulfill its mission
it must attract and select a diverse cadre of highly talented and accomplished
people and provide them with opportunities to develop the knowledge and skills
to achieve high levels of performance and address changes in market conditions,
securities laws, federal regulations, best practices and technology. The Office
of Human Resources (OHR) will work to identify training and learning needs
within each division and office and to procure or develop high-quality training
that will develop employee skills. OHR will utilize, encourage and monitor the use
of individual development plans so that employee-specific needs are met and that
progress can be tracked.
Leadership development program: To ensure the SEC has the caliber of leadership commensurate with its mission, the SEC will continue the construction
and implementation of a comprehensive leadership development program that
will address the needs of a diverse group of supervisors, managers, and leaders. Specific aspects of the program include improving training for new supervisors, building skills in change management, enhancing cultural awareness and
inclusiveness, increasing the number and scope of developmental opportunities
for all leaders, and instituting a succession planning program to prepare nonsupervisors to assume supervisory roles and supervisors to assume key executive
positions.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 47

Performance Goals
The SEC intends to use the following performance metrics to gauge its progress in
achieving this strategic objective:
PERFORMANCE GOAL

DESCRIPTION

Turnover

When employee morale and engagement are high, highperforming employees tend to remain in the organization.
Although turnover can fluctuate based on a variety of factors,
the SEC aims to keep its turnover rate relatively low, below
8% per year.

Expanding staff expertise

Internal training and hiring programs are designed to help
the agency recruit and develop a diverse and qualified staff
with the key skills, industry knowledge, and expertise to
support the SEC mission. In particular, there is a need to
train examiners, attorneys, economists, and other experts
for subject matter expertise relevant to the marketplace
and investment and trading practices. This metric tracks
whether certain areas requiring significant training are being
addressed. The agency will track the number of SEC staff
participants in mission-focused training and development
programs and will report on specific items through the use of
post-course evaluations to assess the impact and results of
this training on a five-point scale.

Number of diversity-related
partnerships/alliances

Increased numbers of diversity-related partnerships or
alliances with professional associations and educational
organizations provide opportunities to educate students
about the SEC’s work and to recruit career professionals
from all segments of society. The SEC will track the number
of partnerships and/or alliances with diverse professional
associations and educational organizations.

Survey rankings

Annual and other rankings, together with other metrics and
indicators of federal government agencies will be used as
one kind of metric to determine the SEC’s overall success in
improving employee morale and employee engagement.

Bench strength

To maintain mission effectiveness, it is essential that attrition
in the leadership ranks is quickly addressed by having a
highly qualified and diverse pool of candidates ready to
assume those critical roles. Success is measured by the
percentage of key leadership positions for which the SEC has
identified a pool of qualified candidates.

48 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

S T R AT E G I C O B J E C T I V E 4 . 2
The SEC encourages a collaborative environment across divisions and
offices and leverages technology and data to fulfill its mission more
effectively and efficiently.

The SEC’s divisions and offices collaborate in a variety of ways, both formal and
informal, to advance the Commission’s mission. Such coordination is essential for any
organization as large and complex as the SEC to bring together different perspectives,
decide on the best course of action, and implement that course in the most effective
way. Given the importance and complexity of the SEC’s mission, it is imperative that
the Commission continuously improve its ability to break down silos, share information and work jointly towards a common purpose.
Information technology plays a crucial role in the mission of the SEC and its ability
to share information and data both internally and externally. The SEC gathers a wide
variety of data and other information from a variety of sources, including corporate
disclosures, equity exchange feeds, investigations and examinations, tips, complaints,
and referrals, and commercial vendors. The SEC is working to develop systems that
will allow more of this information to be quickly shared, analyzed, and joined with
other information about the same entity or individual. These efforts should save staff
time, provide better information about the firms the SEC regulates and enhance the
ability to uncover hidden risks to investors.
The increasing size and complexity of the U.S. markets require that the SEC continue
to leverage technology to improve its productivity, as well as identify and address the
most significant threats to investors. Information technology is an increasingly vital
function to the SEC in modernizing filing practices, disseminating the vast quantity of
regulatory filings, managing the large number of internal business processes and work
products and protecting the Commission’s information assets.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 49

Initiatives
To accomplish this strategic objective, the SEC plans to implement the following
initiatives:
■	

■	

■	

Work smarter to achieve the SEC mission: A multi-year technology transformation plan called “Working Smarter” will ensure the SEC’s business processes
are streamlined, integrated, and implemented with the best technology to reduce
costs and increase efficiencies and effectiveness; deliver better services to both
employees and the public; and provide greater accountability, transparency, and
security. Leveraging modern, reliable, and innovative technologies and predictive
analytics will transform the way the SEC performs its mission and provide a
proactive view into how technology impacts capital markets. By ensuring people
“work smarter,” the SEC will derive significant and measurable performance
improvements in core operations and increase value through the use of automated
processes.
Make disclosure information more useful for analysis: Disclosure documents
are submitted to the Commission electronically and, as appropriate, disseminated
electronically to the investing public. This initiative will review the current disclosure systems and processes and identify ways to optimize the use of technology
to improve the way disclosure documents are constructed and submitted with
more emphasis on data collection. A new filing system that is optimized for data
retrieval and analysis will provide features that help users create filings that are
appropriate to their purpose and that allow computers to extract data from the
filings for automated analysis. The system will be more flexible, so that, as new
disclosure documents are defined, they can be implemented much more quickly,
with all of the features of a modern, web-based filing system. Eventually, new
filings structured for automated data retrieval and analysis will replace all
filings submitted through the EDGAR system.
Improve SEC’s information management and analysis functions: The SEC
aims to provide its staff with the access to information and effective analytical
capabilities needed to perform their duties. To accomplish this outcome, the SEC
will work on several fronts to improve its abilities to acquire, store, manage, and
deliver data and information in support of its critical business functions. Among
the steps in this effort are standardization of enterprise-wide platforms, knowledge management, seamless integration of structured and unstructured data
sources, cloud computing, modernization of SEC.gov and EDGAR filer systems,
cataloging the SEC’s data and its interrelationships in an electronic data warehouse (EDW); ensuring data quality; and establishing new methods for capturing
information, including from SEC staff themselves as they conduct examinations,
investigations, and other activities.

50 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

■	

■	

■	

■	

Enhance workflow and document management: Virtually all business processes
within the Commission involve the acquisition, creation, review, and editing of
documents. These processes are conducted informally, without the benefit of
automated tracking, notification and auditing capabilities. Under this initiative,
the SEC will assess its critical business processes and apply document management tools to increase productivity, enhance collaboration and create a shared
repository of essential documents and data. Among the business areas that would
benefit from this effort are enforcement case management, disgorgement and
penalties, examination management, management of Commission actions, filing
of administrative proceedings and rulemaking.
Enhance the SEC’s electronic discovery program: The SEC must have the technical
capability to electronically organize and retrieve an extraordinary volume of
documents obtained in the conduct of investigations. Under this initiative, the
SEC will enhance its current electronic discovery tools and improve its document
storage, organization, and analytic capabilities. The SEC also will create a repository
of documents and data that is more widely available across cases and with other
Commission business functions as appropriate.
Enhance operational resiliency: The SEC will support a reliable computing
environment that provides high performance, security and cost effectiveness. The
Commission also will enhance the computing infrastructure, including through
server virtualization and clustering, to eliminate down time if systems at one site
fail, enhance security, and achieve cost savings.
Enhance internal communications to staff: Led by the Offices of Public Affairs
and Chief Operating Officer, the SEC will track and recognize exceptional staff
achievements, awards and other successful outcomes to promote a sense of pride
and accomplishment throughout the Commission. Additionally the SEC will
initiate a program leveraging technology and best practices to centralize all
administrative, technology, financial, procurement, human capital and other
operational information, news and resources so that staff can easily “self-service”
and find the tools, forms, guidance and support they need.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 51

Performance Goals
The SEC intends to use the following performance metrics to gauge its progress in
achieving this strategic objective:
PERFORMANCE GOAL

DESCRIPTION

Ensure SEC’s systems and
applications are available

The SEC aims to enhance its computing infrastructure to
eliminate down time if systems at one site fail, among other
objectives. This metric will capture the percentage of systems
and applications that can fail over or within 8 hours.

Equip the SEC with an enhanced
enterprise infrastructure

The SEC aims to promote collaboration and information
sharing across the enterprise. To improve efficiency and
knowledge management, the SEC will consolidate and
centralize its collaborative technologies to a commonly
used enterprise set by 2020. This metric will measure the
percentage of the SEC’s offices and divisions that utilize
centralized enterprise collaboration solutions.

Expand the SEC’s video
teleconferencing (VTC) capabilities
to support an increasingly
geographically dispersed workforce

The SEC seeks to develop a state-of-the-art video teleconference solution that allows users to conduct a video/
teleconference meeting between HQ, regional offices and
multiple endpoints simultaneously; collaborate and share
presentation materials; and use VoIP technology to host
video teleconferences from their offices/workspaces with
other SEC users or conference rooms. This metric will
measure the average “uptime” or availability of all VTC
systems.

Pursue continuous technology cost
reductions and efficiencies

Recent technology enhancements- e.g., data center
consolidation, virtualization and maintenance contract
reductions- are producing technical efficiencies and cost
savings. This metric will measure the amount of these costs
savings.

Enhance the SEC’s enterprise
data warehouse infrastructure and
performance

The Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) infrastructure
will enable the provisioning of data to Commission staff
for search and analysis through a virtual data warehouse
platform. This metric will measure the availability of EDW and
data sources.

52 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

S T R AT E G I C O B J E C T I V E 4 . 3
The SEC maximizes the use of agency resources by continually improving
agency operations and bolstering internal controls.

As an agency of the federal government entrusted with public funds, the SEC must
always strive to enhance the value for investors it creates from every budget dollar.
The SEC continually strives to allocate the resources approved by Congress and the
President towards the highest and best use. The SEC also constantly reevaluates its
operations to identify cost savings and maximize their benefit.
The SEC will strive to maintain strong financial management practices and robust
internal controls. The SEC is placing great emphasis on bolstering its processes and
systems in its budgeting, accounting, and internal control functions over operations.
In addition, the SEC continues to focus on delivering complete, concise, and meaningful information about the financial and operating performance of the Commission
that supports management decision-making.
Initiatives
To accomplish this strategic objective, the SEC plans to implement the following
initiatives:
■	

■	

Better integrate data from SEC operational functions into management
decisions: To accomplish the SEC’s mission it is essential that management
decisions are based on the best available information from multiple sources. This
requires SEC leaders to consider information from human resources, financial
management, information technology and support operations functions when
making management decisions. To improve decision-making and reporting
capabilities, the SEC will examine its data collection, analysis and reporting
methods to determine areas for improvement.
Further enhance financial systems to achieve operational efficiency and
effectiveness: The SEC is in the early stages of building a financial datamart as
part of a broader Commission-wide EDW initiative. The datamart is expected to
integrate data from various systems to provide more comprehensive management
and financial reporting on a regular basis, to facilitate better decision-making.
The SEC also will participate in the federal government-wide deployment of a
new travel system, work to replace the system supporting budget execution and
formulation, and focus on reforming the systems related to filing fees and registrant
deposits.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 53

■	

■	

■	

Continue enhancing internal controls: Although the SEC has made significant
progress in strengthening internal controls over financial reporting, the Commission is still focused on further optimizing its controls to enhance financial
accounting, reporting and operations. Many of these areas are interdisciplinary
and involve collaboration between different offices within the SEC. Such areas
include accounting for property and contract obligations, as well as disgorgements, penalties, and filing fees. The SEC also will continue to focus on areas that
are highly manual and therefore more at risk for error, with a view towards
further automation where possible.
Further enhance management assurance to achieve operational efficiency and
effectiveness via an agency-wide operational risk management program: The
SEC will continue to build its Operational Risk Management program to
manage internal risks that may impact its ability to successfully fulfill its mission.
Risk management processes and procedures will be institutionalized and
consistently applied within all operating units to ensure that internal operating
risks are identified, analyzed, and managed at all levels of the organization. The
SEC is in the early stages of formalizing governance structures through the
Operational Risk Management Oversight Committee (RMOC). The RMOC will
provide oversight of the development and implementation of operational risk
policies, framework, methodologies, and provide leadership and monitoring of
Commission-wide operational risks.
Enhance consideration of diverse sources in SEC’s business activities: For the
SEC to enhance the diversity of its suppliers to ensure that it is procuring the best
goods and services to meet its contracting needs, the SEC actively will engage in
outreach to diverse vendors to evaluate and consider their capabilities, and
publicize procurement opportunities in diverse sources.

54 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Performance Goals
The SEC intends to use the following performance metrics to gauge its progress in
achieving this strategic objective:
PERFORMANCE GOAL

DESCRIPTION

Financial audit results

Under the Accountability of Taxpayer Dollars Act of 2002,
the SEC is required to meet all proprietary and budgetary
accounting guidelines for federal agencies and to undergo
annual audits. The SEC’s audits are conducted by the
Government Accountability Office (GAO).

Assurance statement on internal
control over operations

In accordance with OMB A-123 and Section 961 of the DoddFrank Act, the SEC conducts an annual assessment of the
effectiveness of internal controls. The SEC will continue
to develop its Operational Risk program and enhance
cross-organizational processes to support all division and
office management assurance statements. Success is
measured by the quality of risk and control assessments and
management self-identification and resolution of improvement
opportunities.

Timely completion of corrective
action on Office of Inspector
General (OIG)

Timely completion of audit recommendations is an important
SEC priority. This metric measures how well the Commission
is doing in completing corrective action on OIG audit
recommendations within established timeframes.

STRATEGIC PLAN , FISCAL YEARS 2014–2018 | 55

P R O G R A M E VA L U AT I O N
The SEC values independent, high-quality assessments of the agency’s performance
against its goals and desired strategic objectives. Such assessments are critical to the
Commission’s ability to evaluate its work, refine its programs and redirect resources
accordingly. The more than 150 audits, studies, and evaluations of SEC programs and
securities industry-related issues completed since the release of the agency’s previous
Strategic Plan have served as an important resource in the development of this Strategic
Plan. Over the next five years, the SEC will continue to draw on evaluations from a
variety of sources to improve its programs.
Annual Performance Report
In February 2013, the SEC published an Annual Performance Report (APR) describing
the agency’s accomplishments and presenting the results of the agency’s performance
metrics for FY 2012. The most recent version of the SEC’s APR can be found on the
agency’s website, at http://www.sec.gov/about/secreports.shtml.
Consultation with Outside Groups
The SEC frequently seeks the input of investors, industry groups, academia, and
other experts to gain outside perspectives about its programs and various issues in the
securities industry. These efforts include the SEC’s Investor Advisory Committee;
Commission-sponsored roundtables focused on specific issues; the agency’s
Annual Government-Business Forum on Capital Formation, focused particularly
on the needs of new, small, medium-sized, and independent businesses; the SEC’s
annual conference with the North American Securities Administrators Association;
and solicitations of public comments on Commission rule proposals.
Government Accountability Office
The Government Accountability Office conducts dozens of studies or investigations
related to the SEC’s programs every year. In FY 2013, GAO’s reports covered internal
supervisory controls, requirements and costs associated with newly developed SEC
rules, and the criteria for qualifying as an accredited investor, among other areas.
In addition, GAO performs an annual audit of the SEC’s financial statements and
internal controls over financial reporting.
Office of the Inspector General
The Office of Inspector General (OIG) is an independent office within the SEC that
conducts audits of programs and operations of the Commission and investigations
into allegations of misconduct by staff or contractors. The mission of the OIG is to
detect fraud, waste and abuse, and to promote integrity, economy, efficiency and
effectiveness in the Commission’s programs and operations.

56 | U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
1 0 0 F S T R E E T N E | WA S H I N G TO N , D C 2 0 5 4 9 | W W W. S E C . G O V

