Agency and Mission
Information
Executive Summary	

4

Mission, Vision, Values and Goals	

8

History and Purpose	

9

Organizational Structure and Resources	

10

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

AGENCY AND MISSION INFORMATION

Executive Summary
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC or the
agency) is pleased to submit its budget request for Fiscal Year
(FY) 2017. The SEC is requesting $1.781 billion in support
of 5,196 positions and 4,870 full time equivalents (FTE) for
FY 2017. This requested budget level is essential to support
the agency’s mission to protect investors, maintain fair,
orderly, and efficient markets, and facilitate capital formation.
In recent years, the SEC has made substantial progress in
strengthening its operations and programs. The agency has
proposed or adopted nearly all of the mandatory rulemakings
required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) and the Jumpstart Our
Business Startups Act (JOBS Act), in addition to advancing
other key rules in mission critical areas that protect investors
and our markets. These efforts have included final rules
addressing over-the-counter derivatives; new means for
small businesses to access capital (including rules to update
Regulation A and permit securities-based crowdfunding
offerings); executive compensation disclosures; and the
removal of references to credit ratings from SEC rules.
In addition to implementing congressionally mandated rules,
the SEC has also advanced other important policy objectives,
including rules to enhance oversight of high-frequency traders
and the agency’s supervision of investment advisers and
mutual funds, including reforms to money market mutual
funds; as well as adopting requirements for comprehensive
new controls at critical market participants to strengthen key
technological systems.
Beyond the rulemakings, the SEC has intensified its review of
equity and fixed income market structure issues, undertaken
a disclosure effectiveness initiative seeking ways to improve
the public company disclosure regime for investors and
companies, and continued to act aggressively to hold
securities law violators accountable. Broad, systemic
enhancements in the SEC’s National Examination Program
(NEP) – including increased recruitment of industry experts,
the augmentation of data analytics capacities, and enhanced
training programs – have led to a more effective, efficient
program. The agency also is increasingly harnessing
technology to better identify risks, uncover frauds, sift
through large volumes of data, inform policymaking, and
streamline operations, while at the same time improving

PAGE

  4

internal collaboration and recruiting more staff with
specialized expertise and experience.
While these and other critical improvements have been
made, challenges remain in the agency’s efforts to address
the growing size and complexities of the securities markets
and fulfill the SEC’s broad mandates and responsibilities.
Currently the SEC is charged with overseeing over 26,000
market participants, including nearly 12,000 investment
advisers, nearly 11,000 mutual funds and exchange
traded funds, over 4,000 broker-dealers, and over 400
transfer agents. The agency also oversees 18 national
securities exchanges, 10 credit rating agencies, and six
active registered clearing agencies, as well as the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board (MSRB), the Securities Investor Protection
Corporation (SIPC), and the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB). In addition, the SEC is responsible for
selectively reviewing the disclosures and financial statements
of over 9,100 reporting companies.
Beyond this, in recent years the SEC’s responsibilities have
dramatically increased, with new or expanded jurisdiction
over securities-based derivatives, hedge fund and other
private fund advisers, credit rating agencies, municipal
advisors, and clearing agencies, as well as a requirement
to implement and oversee a new regime for crowdfunding
offerings, among other responsibilities. As the size and
complexity of the entities in the SEC’s jurisdiction grows,
so too has the size and complexity of the markets and
entities the SEC regulates. From 2001 to 2015, assets
under management of SEC-registered advisers increased
approximately 210 percent from $21.5 trillion to approximately
$66.8 trillion, and assets under management of mutual funds
grew by almost 125 percent from $7 trillion to over $15 trillion.
Trading volume in the equity markets for 2015 was in excess
of $70 trillion compared to over $55 trillion in 2009.
The SEC appreciates the confidence that Congress and the
President have placed in it in recent appropriation cycles,
with enacted budgets that are permitting the SEC to begin
to address longstanding resource challenges. In light of the
continuing growth in the industry and the enormity of the

AGENCY AND MISSION INFORMATION

responsibilities now placed on the agency, however, additional
funding is critical. The SEC must be able to keep pace with
the always expanding complexity of the entities, markets, and
industries it regulates when the integrity of our markets and
Americans’ savings for college, retirement, and other financial
goals are at stake. In assessing the appropriate budget for
the SEC, it is critical that the SEC’s funding is deficit-neutral,
which means that any amount appropriated to the agency will
be offset by modest transaction fees and therefore will not
impact the deficit or the funding available for other agencies.
As described in more detail below, this budget request
seeks to:
•	 Increase examination coverage of investment advisers
and other key entities who interact with retail and
institutional investors;
•	 Further leverage cutting-edge technology to permit the
SEC to better keep pace with the entities and markets
we regulate;
•	 Protect investors by expanding our enforcement
program’s investigative capabilities and strengthen
our ability to litigate against wrongdoers;
•	 Further bolster the SEC’s economic and risk analysis
functions; and
•	 Hire experts capable of permitting the agency to fulfill
its expanded rulemaking and oversight responsibilities.

Expanding Oversight of Investment Advisers
and Strengthening Compliance
The need for significant additional resources to permit the
agency to increase its examination coverage of registered
investment advisers and investment companies cannot be
overstated. Increasing this examination coverage is vital
to the SEC’s ability to protect investors and the nation’s
securities markets.
The largest increase in entities registered with the SEC has
occurred among investment advisers: a decade ago, there
were approximately 9,000 investment advisers managing
$28 trillion in assets, while the current projection is that these
figures will grow to 12,500 investment advisers managing
more than $70 trillion in assets by FY 2017. Beyond an
increase in the number of advisers and assets under
management, additional challenges to examination staff are

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

posed by the increased use of new and complex products by
both investment advisers and broker-dealers, an increasing
use of technology in operations that facilitate activities such
as high-frequency and algorithmic trading, and the growth
of complex “families” of financial services companies with
integrated operations that include both broker-dealer and
investment adviser affiliates.
In FY 2015, SEC staff, through risk-targeted exams, examined
approximately 10 percent of registered investment advisers;
these firms manage more than 30 percent of the assets under
management of currently registered advisers. The program
also continued its emphasis on the roughly 40 percent of all
registered investment advisers that have never been examined
through the continuation of the NEP’s never before examined
adviser initiative started in 2014. Significant additional
resources are critical to improve the examination coverage
of this important industry. Under the FY 2017 request, a top
priority will be to hire 127 additional examiners, primarily to
conduct additional examinations of investment advisers.
The NEP also would add positions to improve oversight and
examination functions related to broker-dealers, clearing
agencies, transfer agents, self-regulatory organizations
(SROs), swap data repositories, municipal advisors, and
crowdfunding portals, among others.

Continue to Leverage Technology
The SEC has made substantial progress in modernizing its
technology systems, streamlining operations, increasing
our use of data analytics, and increasing the effectiveness
of its programs. The SEC’s FY 2017 budget request, which
includes full use of the Reserve Fund, seeks to build on
this progress by supporting a number of key information
technology (IT) initiatives, including:
•	 Expanding data analytic tools that assist in the integration
and analysis of huge volumes of financial market data,
employing algorithms and quantitative models that
can lead to earlier detection of fraud or suspicious
behavior and ultimately enabling the agency to allocate
its resources more effectively.
•	 Increasing investments in Information Security, to address
as a top priority – the ability to monitor and avoid
advanced persistent threats. The SEC’s IT security
program plans to focus its efforts on improved risk
management and monitoring and continuing to invest

PAGE

  5

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

AGENCY AND MISSION INFORMATION

in modernizing and securing the SEC’s infrastructure
to enhance workflow and document management,
the SEC’s electronic discovery program, operational
resiliency, and internal communications to staff.
•	 Redesigning the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and
Retrieval (EDGAR) system, an ongoing, multi-year effort
to simplify the financial reporting process to promote
automation and reduce filer burden. With a more
modern EDGAR, both the investing public and SEC staff
will benefit from having improved access to better data.
•	 Improving examinations through risk assessment and
surveillance tools that will help staff monitor for trends
and emerging fraud risks, as well as improving the
efficiency of the examination program so it can cover
higher risk areas with its resources.
•	 Enhancing the Tips, Complaints, and Referral system (TCR) to
bolster its flexibility, configurability, and adaptability. TCR
investments will provide more flexible and comprehensive
intake, triage, resolution tracking, searching, and
reporting functionalities, with full auditing capabilities.
•	 Improving enforcement investigation and litigation tracking
to better handle the substantial volume of materials
produced during investigations and litigation. Among
other initiatives, the SEC needs to build a capacity to
electronically transmit data for tracking and loading
(versus the current practice of receiving content via the
mail); implement a document management system for
Enforcement’s internal case files; and revamp the tools
used to collect trading data from market participants.
•	 Further modernize SEC.gov to make one of the most
widely used Federal Government websites more
flexible, informative, easier to navigate, and secure
for investors, public companies, registrants and the
general public.

PAGE

managers, business analysts, and technical resources who
will improve technology and data management support
for the SEC’s business areas. In addition, the positions
will enhance information security through monitoring, and
drive further improvements in IT equipment management
and reporting.

Bolster Enforcement
It is vital to the SEC’s mission to bring timely, high-quality
enforcement actions when violations of the Federal securities
laws are identified. In FY 2015, the SEC brought a record
number of enforcement actions against those who defrauded
investors and violated the law – including multiple first of their
kind actions – and obtained order for monetary remedies
exceeding $4 billion. Despite these strong efforts, the agency
must continue to expand its enforcement function to keep
pace with the growing size and complexity of the nation’s
markets and to swiftly and aggressively address misconduct.
For FY 2017, the SEC is requesting 52 additional positions
for the Enforcement Division. The Division will use the
additional requested positions to support its three core
functions: intelligence analysis, investigation, and litigation.
Specifically, these additional resources will support the
Enforcement program’s current and future initiatives by,
among other things:
•	 increasing the experienced forensic accountants,
attorneys, industry experts, and information technology
and support staff needed to promptly detect, prioritize,
and investigate areas appropriate for enhanced
enforcement efforts;
•	 adding experienced trial attorneys to prosecute the
growing number of highly-complex enforcement
actions;

•	 Invest in further business process automation and
improvement, to build workflow applications that will
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the agency
in serving the public.

•	 enhancing Enforcement’s data analytics expertise to
assist in the implementation of data intensive projects,
state-of-the-art investigative tools (such as eDiscovery
and knowledge management), and improved forensic
capabilities; and

In addition to these planned investments, the FY 2017
request includes eight new positions for Office of Information
Technology (OIT) to better execute these and other
technology initiatives. These staff would serve as project

•	 bolstering staffing for intelligence functions, including
the collection, analysis, triage, referral, monitoring, and
follow-through on the thousands of tips, complaints
and referrals (TCRs) received each year.

  6

AGENCY AND MISSION INFORMATION

With respect to the latter two points, analysis of large
datasets, including SEC filings and trading data in equities,
options, municipal bonds, and other securities, helps to
limit investor harm by increasing the chances of detecting
misconduct earlier. The SEC’s Enforcement program expects
the improved data analysis capabilities derived from the
agency’s investments in IT will yield additional case leads
in FY 2017. As a result, the Enforcement program would
dedicate 10 of the requested positions to further develop
its data analytic function, increasing the number of staff
responsible for reviewing and triaging incoming TCRs and
bolstering the number of staff to whom TCRs are sent for
further investigation.
The Enforcement program also requires increased staffing
to promptly detect complex frauds and other difficult-todetect misconduct, whether it occurs at hedge funds,
broker-dealers, or “boiler rooms”; respond to misconduct
in the changing equity markets relating to algorithmic trading
and “dark pools”; address large-scale insider trading and
stock manipulation; and keep pace with a rapidly evolving
industry. As a result, 30 of the new positions the Enforcement
Division is seeking in FY 2017 would be to reinforce its
investigative functions. These new positions will help the
Division continue progress on existing investigations and
handle its increasing case load, while quickly investigating
and bringing emergency actions as necessary in matters
where investors’ money may dissipate if immediate action
is not taken.
Finally, 12 of the new positions the Division is requesting in
FY 2017 would reinforce its litigation operations nationwide.
This increased allocation will enable the SEC to handle the
higher proportion of enforcement actions that are being
filed as contested matters as well as to follow through on its
commitment to litigate any case where it believes admissions
of wrongdoing are appropriate.

Focus on Economic and Risk Analysis
to Support Rulemaking and Oversight
The SEC remains committed to strengthening the economic
and risk analysis functions of its Division of Economic and
Risk Analysis (DERA) and for FY 2017 plans to add six new
positions to DERA. This additional growth would continue

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

to deepen the Division’s expertise in support of rulemaking
initiatives affecting the capital markets as well as efforts to
detect violations of the securities laws.
These DERA positions would focus on areas including
Exchange Traded Funds, microcap stocks, the derivatives
markets, Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities (RMBS),
Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (CMBS), and
Collateralized Loan Obligations (CLO), among other critical
asset classes that the agency is required to monitor as
part of the recently adopted credit risk retention rules.
These positions would work with colleagues across the
SEC to proactively monitor these markets from a systemic
perspective, as well as develop analytical tools to assist the
Division of Enforcement in analyzing and identifying potential
illicit activity in these areas.

Meet Expanded Rulemaking and
Oversight Responsibilities
The agency also is requesting seven additional positions
in FY 2017 for its Division of Trading and Markets (TM).
In FY 2017, the Division plans to use the additional positions
requested to undertake new market-related responsibilities
resulting from ongoing or recently completed rulemakings,
as well as continuing to improve the agency’s market
supervision. Three of these positions would help the Division
implement its new or enhanced responsibilities to oversee
clearing agencies and swap data repositories. The other four
would help improve the SEC’s analytics and reporting on
broker-dealers’ finances, internal controls, risk management
practices; process rule proposals from a growing number
of self-regulatory organizations; and provide interpretive
guidance related to the derivatives markets.
The SEC also is requesting seven new positions for the
Division of Investment Management to implement key policy
objectives. Of these seven positions, three personnel would
conduct ongoing data analysis, including new data that
would be submitted to the SEC as part of the investment
company reporting modernization initiative. An additional
three positions would monitor issues related to asset
management risks, including related to liquidity, derivatives,
stress testing and transition planning rulemaking initiatives, as
well as provide interpretive advice and respond to exemptive
applications requests.

PAGE

  7

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

AGENCY AND MISSION INFORMATION

Mission, Vision, Values and Goals
Mission
The mission of the SEC is to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly,
and efficient markets, and facilitate capital formation.

Vision
The SEC strives to promote a market environment that is worthy of the
public’s trust and characterized by transparency and integrity.

Values
Integrity
Effectiveness

Excellence
Teamwork

Accountability
Fairness

Strategic Goals and Objectives of the FY 2014 – FY 2018 Strategic Plan
Strategic Goal 1: Establish and maintain an effective
regulatory environment
Strategic Objective 1.1: The SEC establishes and
maintains a regulatory environment that promotes highquality disclosure, financial reporting, and governance,
and that prevents abusive practices by registrants,
financial intermediaries, and other market participants.
Strategic Objective 1.2: The SEC promotes capital
markets that operate in a fair, efficient, transparent,
and competitive manner, fostering capital formation
and useful innovation.
Strategic Objective 1.3: The SEC adopts and
administers regulations and rules that are informed by
robust economic analysis and public comment and
that enable market participants to understand their
obligations under the securities laws.
Strategic Objective 1.4: The SEC engages with
a multitude of stakeholders to inform and enhance
regulatory activities domestically and internationally.

Strategic Goal 2: Foster and enforce compliance
with the Federal securities laws
Strategic Objective 2.1: The SEC fosters compliance
with the Federal securities laws.
Strategic Objective 2.2: The SEC promptly detects
and deters violations of the Federal securities laws.

PAGE

8

Strategic Objective 2.3: The SEC prosecutes violations
of Federal securities laws and holds violators accountable
through appropriate sanctions and remedies.

Strategic Goal 3: Facilitate access to the information
investors need to make informed investment decisions
Strategic Objective 3.1: The SEC works to ensure that
investors have access to high-quality disclosure materials
that facilitate investment decision-making.
Strategic Objective 3.2: The SEC works to understand
investor needs and educate investors so they are better
prepared to make informed investment decisions.

Strategic Goal 4: Enhance the Commission’s performance
through effective alignment and management of human,
information, and financial capital
Strategic Objective 4.1: The SEC promotes a resultsoriented work environment that attracts, engages, and
retains a technically proficient and diverse workforce,
including leaders who provide motivation and strategic
direction.
Strategic Objective 4.2: The SEC encourages a
collaborative environment across divisions and offices and
leverages technology and data to fulfill its mission more
effectively and efficiently.
Strategic Objective 4.3: The SEC maximizes the use
of agency resources by continually improving agency
operations and bolstering internal controls.

AGENCY AND MISSION INFORMATION

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

History and Purpose
During the peak of the Depression, Congress passed the
Securities Act of 19331 (Securities Act). This law, along
with the Securities Exchange Act of 19342 (Exchange Act),
which created the SEC, was designed to restore investor
confidence in our capital markets by providing investors
and the markets with more reliable information and clear
rules of honest dealing. The main purposes of these laws
were to ensure that:
•	 Companies publicly offering securities for investment
dollars must tell the public the truth about their
businesses, the securities they are selling, and the
risks involved in investing.
•	 People who sell and trade securities – brokers,
dealers and exchanges – must treat investors fairly
and honestly, putting investors’ interests first.
The SEC is responsible for overseeing the nation’s securities
markets and the primary participants, including brokerdealers, investment companies, investment advisers,
clearing agencies, transfer agents, credit rating agencies,
and securities exchanges, as well as organizations such
as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA),
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), and Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). Under the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act3 (Dodd-Frank Act), the agency’s jurisdiction was
expanded to include certain participants in the derivatives
markets, private fund advisers, and municipal advisors,
among other changes.

1 	Securities
2	

The SEC consists of five presidentially appointed
Commissioners, with staggered five-year terms. One of them
is designated by the President as Chair of the Commission,
who is responsible for the executive and administrative
functions of the Commission. President Franklin Delano
Roosevelt appointed Joseph P. Kennedy to serve as the
first Chairman of the SEC.
By law, no more than three of the Commissioners may
belong to the same political party. The Commission convenes
regularly at meetings that are open to the public and the news
media unless the discussion pertains to confidential subjects,
such as whether to begin an enforcement investigation.
Each year, the SEC brings hundreds of civil enforcement
actions against individuals and companies for violation of
securities laws. Examples of infractions include insider
trading, accounting fraud, and providing false or misleading
information about securities or the companies that issue
them. One of the major sources of information that the SEC
relies on to bring enforcement action is investors themselves
– another reason that educated and careful investors are
critical to the functioning of efficient markets. To help
inform investors, the SEC offers the public a wealth of
educational information on its website at www.investor.gov,
as well as an online database of disclosure documents at
www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.html
that public companies and other market participants are
required to file with the SEC.

Act of 1933 www.sec.gov/about/laws/sa33.pdf

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 www.sec.gov/about/laws/sea34.pdf

3 	Dodd-Frank

Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act www.sec.gov/about/laws/wallstreetreform-cpa.pdf

PAGE

  9

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

•

AGENCY AND MISSION INFORMATION

Organizational Structure and Resources
SEC Office Locations
The SEC’s headquarters are in Washington, DC, and the agency has 11 regional offices located throughout the country.
The regional offices are responsible for investigating and litigating potential violations of the securities laws. The offices
also have examination staff, who inspect regulated entities such as investment advisers, investment companies and
broker-dealers. The map below shows the locations of the regional offices, and the states that are included in each region.

SEC HEADQUARTERS AND REGIONAL OFFICE LOCATIONS

Chicago
New York

Salt Lake
San Francisco

Boston

Philadelphia

Denver

SEC Headquarters

Los Angeles
Fort Worth

Atlanta

Miami
SEC Headquarters
Atlanta Regional Office

Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Alabama

Boston Regional Office

Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode Island

Chicago Regional Office

Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, Wisconsin

Denver Regional Office

Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming

Fort Worth Regional Office

Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Kansas (except for the exam program which is
administered by the Denver Regional Office)

PAGE

  10

Los Angeles Regional Office

Arizona, Hawaii, Guam, Nevada, Southern California (zip codes 93599 and below, except for 93200-93299)

Miami Regional Office

Florida, Mississippi, Louisiana, U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico

New York Regional Office
New York, New Jersey

Philadelphia Regional Office

Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, District of Columbia

Salt Lake Regional Office
Utah

San Francisco Regional Office

Washington, Oregon, Alaska, Montana, Idaho, Northern California (zip codes 93600 and up, plus 93200-93299)

AGENCY AND MISSION INFORMATION

•

FY 2017 CBJ, FY 2017 APP, AND FY 2015 APR

SEC Organization Structure
The SEC is an independent Federal agency established pursuant to the Exchange Act. It is headed by a bipartisan
five-member Commission, comprised of the Chair and four other Commissioners, who are appointed by the President
and confirmed by the Senate. The Chair serves as the chief executive, and in consultation with fellow Commissioners, sets
the agenda for the Commission. The agency’s functional responsibilities are organized into five divisions and 23 offices,
each of which is headquartered in Washington, DC. The SEC also has 11 regional offices which are comprised primarily
of staff from the national enforcement and examination programs.
In Fiscal Year (FY) 2015, the agency employed 4,301 full-time equivalents (FTE).

  11

PAGE

