U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FISCAL YEAR 2012 SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE
A N D F I N A N C I A L I N F O R M AT I O N

F Y

2 0 1 2

S U M M A R Y

O F

P E R F O R M A N C E

A N D

F I N A N C I A L

I N F O R M A T I O N

The Securities and Exchange Commission at a Glance

Vision
What We Do: The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) oversees
key participants in the securities markets,
including broker-dealers, investment
companies, investment advisers, clearing
agencies, transfer agents, credit rating
agencies, and securities exchanges. The
SEC is concerned primarily with promoting
the disclosure of important market-related
information, maintaining fair dealing, and
protecting against fraud. Crucial to the
SEC’s effectiveness in each of these areas
is its enforcement authority. Each year the
SEC brings hundreds of civil enforcement
actions against individuals and companies
for violation of the securities laws.
Established: During the peak year of
the Depression, Congress passed the
Securities Act of 1933. This law, along
with the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (Exchange Act), which created the
SEC, was designed to restore investor
confidence in our capital markets by
providing investors and the markets with
more reliable information and clear rules of
honest dealing.
Branch of Government: Executive
FY 2012 Leadership:
Chairman Mary L. Schapiro
Number of Full-Time Equivalents
(FTEs): The SEC employed 3,785 FTEs
in fiscal year 2012.

The SEC strives to promote a market environment that is worthy of the
public’s trust and characterized by transparency and integrity.

Mission
The mission of the SEC is to protect investors; maintain fair, orderly,
and efficient markets; and facilitate capital formation.

Values
Integrity

Accountability

Effectiveness

Teamwork

Fairness

Commitment to Excellence

About the SEC
•	 The SEC has five presidentially appointed Commissioners, with staggered
terms. One of them is designated by the President as Chairman of the
Commission.
•	 The Commission convenes regularly scheduled meetings that are open to
the public and the news media unless the discussion pertains to confidential
subjects, such as whether to authorize enforcement actions.
•	 The SEC is responsible for overseeing the nation’s securities markets
and certain primary participants, including broker-dealers, investment
companies, investment advisers, clearing agencies, transfer agents, credit
rating agencies, and securities exchanges, as well as organizations such
as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board (MSRB), and Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (PCAOB). Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), the agency’s jurisdiction was expanded to
include certain participants in the derivatives markets, private fund advisers,
and municipal advisers, among other changes.
•	 To help support investor education, the SEC offers the public a wealth of
educational information on www.investor.gov and an online database of
disclosure documents at www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.
html that public companies and other market participants are required to
file with the SEC.

Website: www.sec.gov

1

FF YY

22 00 11 22

S U
U M
M M
M A
A R
R Y
Y
S

O
O FF

PP EE RR FF OO RR MM AA NN CC EE

AA NN DD

F FI IN NA AN NC CI IA AL L I N
I NF FO OR RM MA AT TI O
I ON N

Fiscal Year 2012 Performance Highlights

Enforcement and Compliance
The SEC continued to bring cases
in record numbers, leading the effort
against those who contributed to the
financial crises.
•	 The 734 enforcement actions brought
in FY 2012 marked the second highest
amount ever filed in a fiscal year. Of
these, 150 were filed in investigations
designated as National Priority Cases.
•	 The Commission distributed to
harmed investors $508 million
obtained through the SEC’s enforcement actions. These payments were
made through 72 Fair Funds set up
under a provision of the SarbanesOxley Act.
•	 The National Examination Program
created several specialized working
groups to better focus on entities
most likely to present risk to
investors, leading to a significant rise
in the percentage of examinations
that resulted in findings deemed
“significant” or which were referred to
the Division of Enforcement for further
action.
•	 The first whistleblower payout was
made to an individual who provided
high quality, significant information
that helped stop a multi-million dollar
fraud.

Investor Focused Rulemaking
The SEC continued to pursue a robust,
investor-focused rulemaking agenda
propelled in part by the demands of
the Dodd-Frank Act and in recognition
that investor protection regulations need
to reflect the reality of today’s modern
technology.

•	 The Commission approved or
disapproved 308 Self Regulatory
Organization (SRO) rule changes filed
pursuant to the Exchange Act, which
represents a 40 percent increase over
the prior fiscal year. The Commission
determinations occurred within the
Dodd-Frank Act statutory timeframes
99 percent of the time.
•	 The Commission surpassed all of its
FY 2012 targets for responding timely
to written requests for no-action
letters, exemptive applications, and
written interpretive requests.
•	 The Commission surpassed all of its
FY 2012 targets for correcting market
outages at SROs and Electronic
Communications Networks.

Investor Access to Information
The SEC continued to carry out the
SEC’s investor education program,
which includes producing and
distributing educational materials,
participating in educational seminars
and investor-oriented events, and
partnering with Federal agencies, state
regulators, and others on investor
literacy initiatives.
•	 The Commission reached a total of
16 million investors, 1.2 million more
investors this year than in FY 2011,
as a result of a direct mail partnership
with the Internal Revenue Service,
and held 47 in-person events.
•	 During FY 2012, the Commission
issued initial comments on Securities
Act filings within an average of about
25 days of filing. Timely reviews allow
companies seeking to raise capital to
build offering schedules around the de
facto standard of 30 days.
2

•	 In FY 2012, the SEC.gov website
which provides the public with
information about the SEC’s mission,
actions, and rule interpretations as well
as educational information and free
access to the EDGAR database of
corporate filings had more than a billion
hits per month, a fivefold increase of
web traffic from the prior year.

Strategic Goals and Costs
GOAL 1: Foster and enforce compliance
with the Federal securities laws
Cost: $552.3 million

GOAL 2: Establish an effective
regulatory environment
Cost: $163.9 million

GOAL 3: Facilitate access to the
information investors need to make
informed investment decisions
Cost: $187.2 million

GOAL 4: Enhance the Commission’s
performance through effective alignment
and management of human, information,
and financial capital
Cost: $294.1 million

Fiscal Year 2012 Financial Highlights

2013

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FOR FY 2012 AND FY 2011
FY 2012

FY 2011

Total Assets

$	8,761

$	8,517

Total Liabilities

$	1,162

$	1,106

Net Position

$	7,599

$	7,411

Annual Net Position Change

	3%

	8%

Total Program Costs

$	1,198

$	1,148

Revenues

$	1,648

$	1,644

while further improving performance in the functions

Net (Income) Cost from Operations

$	(450)

$	(496)

that have traditionally defined the agency. These

Total Budgetary Resources

$	1,236

$	1,713

3,785

3,844

A Year of Continuing Progress

(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

I

n 2013, the SEC will continue to embrace its
increasing regulatory and oversight responsibilities

Actual FTEs at Fiscal Year End

include aggressive enforcement actions, thorough

SUMMARY OF INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S INTERNAL CONTROL FINDINGS

examinations, proactive disclosure efforts, and robust
rules focused on investor protection.
Much of this will be accomplished through better use of

Category

FY 2012 Audit Finding

Material Weaknesses
Significant Deficiencies

None
Budgetary Resources
Property and Equipment Controls

the Commission’s most powerful tool, the nearly 4,000

Below is a discussion of a few of the notable highlights for the
agency’s finances in FY 2012.

talented and motivated men and women who work at
the SEC. Among other advancements, staff will have
better access to needed technology, as improvements

Reserve Fund

continue to come on-line – improvements that include

Section 991(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act authorized the creation
of a Securities and Exchange Commission Reserve Fund
(Reserve Fund). Funded from filing fee collections, the SEC
can deposit up to $50 million per fiscal year, and the fund
cannot hold more than $100 million in total. Excess filing fees
are deposited to the U.S. Treasury General Fund.

data mining, workflow, and risk analysis tools that
allow the staff to keep up with an increasingly complex
financial system. Investors will continue to benefit, as
well, from a commitment to improving staff skills and
to deploying personnel in ways that leverage in-house

In FY 2012 and subsequent fiscal years, filing fee collections
are no longer offsetting collections. Filing fees deposited to
the Reserve Fund can be used to fund the SEC’s operations,
create budgetary authority, and are reported as a component
of Appropriations (Discretionary and Mandatory) on the SEC’s
Statement of Budgetary Resources. Filing fees deposited to
the U.S. Treasury General Fund cannot be used to fund the
SEC’s operations, do not create budgetary authority, and are
reported as Transferred to the General Fund on the SEC’s
Statement of Changes in Net Position.

expertise and experience in key areas.
SEC staff will work towards completion of DoddFrank Act rulemaking, filling regulatory gaps that were
highlighted by the financial crisis and that posed risks for
both individual and institutional investors. Staff will also
focus on further implementation of the Jumpstart our
Business Startups (JOBS) Act, designed by Congress to

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, filing fee
revenues were $378 million. $50 million was deposited into
the Reserve Fund, of which $25 million was temporarily
rescinded. The excess of $328 million was deposited into the
U.S. Treasury General Fund. In prior fiscal years, all filing fee
collections created budget authority from offsetting collections
and were used to partially fund SEC’s operations.

give entrepreneurs and small businesses greater access
to early-stage capital.

3

F Y

2 0 1 2

S U M M A R Y

O F

P E R F O R M A N C E

Fiscal Year 2012 Financial Highlights

continued

Downward Adjustments of Prior Year
Unfunded Lease Obligations
The SEC recognized an unfunded obligation totaling
$137.7 million for the Constitution Center lease in FY 2011. In
June 2012, the SEC and U.S. General Services Administration
(GSA) signed an agreement transferring responsibility for
the Constitution Center lease to GSA. Based upon this
agreement, the SEC recognized a downward adjustment
totaling $137.7 million.

Fiscal Year 2012 Program Costs
The SEC organizes its divisions and offices under the 10 major
programs. Total FY 2012 costs of $1,198 million consist of
the sum of (1) the costs of resources directly or indirectly
consumed by the programs, and (2) the costs of identifiable
supporting services provided by other responsibility segments
within the agency. The SEC allocates support costs to its
programs using activity-based cost accounting.

Investor Protection Fund
The SEC prepares standalone financial statements for the
Investor Protection Fund as required by the Dodd-Frank Act.
The Investor Protection Fund was established in the fourth
quarter of FY 2010 to provide funding for a Whistleblower
Award Program and to finance the operations of the Office of
Inspector General’s Employee Suggestion Program.

INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND ACTIVITY
FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2012 AND 2011
FY 2012

FY 2011

Balance of Fund at beginning of preceding
fiscal year

$	452,788

$	451,910

Amount deposited into or credited to the
Fund during the preceding fiscal year

	—

	—

Amount of earnings on investments during
the preceding fiscal year

757

990

Amount paid from the Fund during the
preceding fiscal year to whistleblowers

	(46)

	—

(70)

(112)

$	453,429

$	452,788

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Amount paid from the Fund during the
preceding fiscal year for expenses
incurred by Employee Suggestion
Program
Balance of the Fund at the end of the
preceding fiscal year

4

A N D

F I N A N C I A L

I N F O R M A T I O N

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549

This report and other agency reports are available at www.sec.gov/about/secreports.shtml.
Please send your comments to SECAFR@sec.gov.

