U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Agency Financial Report
F i s c a l

Y e a r

2 0 1 4

About This Report
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) fiscal year (FY) 2014 Agency
Financial Report (AFR) provides financial and high-level performance results that
enable the President, Congress and the public to assess the SEC’s accomplishments
and understand its financial picture. This report satisfies the reporting requirements
contained in the following laws and regulations:
•	

Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002

•	

Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990, as amended by the Reports
Consolidation Act of 2000

•	

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Section 922
Whistleblower Protection, and Section 963 Annual Financial Controls Audit

•	

Federal Financial Management Improvement Act of 1996

•	

Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act of 1982

•	

Government Management Reform Act of 1994

•	

GPRA Modernization Act of 2010

•	

Improper Payments Information Act of 2002, as amended by Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery
Act of 2010 and Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act of 2012

•	

Office of Management and Budget Circular A-123, Management’s Responsibility for Internal Controls

•	

Office of Management and Budget Circular A-136, Financial Reporting Requirements

•	

Recovery Auditing Act, Section 831, Defense Authorization Act, for 2002

For the third year in a row, the SEC is producing an AFR, with a primary focus on financial results, and an Annual
Performance Report (APR), which focuses on strategic goals and performance results, in lieu of a combined
Performance and Accountability Report. The FY 2014 APR will be included in the SEC FY 2016 Congressional
Budget Justification in February 2015. Additionally, SEC will publish a Summary of Performance and Financial
Information (SPFI), also to be released in February 2015. This AFR and prior year SEC AFRs are electronically
available at www.sec.gov/about/secreports.shtml. To comment on this report, email SECAFR@sec.gov.

Certificate of Excellence in Accountability Reporting
The SEC’s FY 2013 AFR received the Certificate
of Excellence in the Accountability Reporting from
the Association of Government Accountants, which
represents the eighth year in a row the SEC
has received this honor. The award
is presented to Federal
Government agencies
whose annual reports
achieve the highest
standards demonstrating
accountability and
communicating results. In
addition, the SEC received
a Best in Class Award for
its Chief Financial Officer
Message.

Contents
Message from the Chair	

2

Introduction to the Agency Financial Report	

4

Management’s Discussion and Analysis	
Vision, Mission, Values and Goals	
History and Purpose	
Organizational Structure and Resources	
FY 2014 Year in Review	
Looking Forward	
Financial Highlights	
Performance Highlights	
Verification and Validation of Performance Data	
Strategic and Performance Planning Framework	
Performance Achievements	
Management Assurances and Compliance with Laws	
Annual Assurance Statement	
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Control	
Other Reviews	
Financial Management Systems Conformance	
Federal Information Security Management Act	

5
6
8
9
13
39
44
51
51
51
53
56
56
57
58
58
59

Financial Section	
Message from the Chief Financial Officer	
Report of Independent Auditors	
Enclosure I: Management’s Response to Audit Opinion	
Financial Statements	
Notes to the Financial Statements	
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited)	
Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements	
Notes to the Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements	

61
62
63
72
74
80
109
112
114

Other Information	
Schedule of Spending (Unaudited)	
Inspector General’s Statement on Management and Performance Challenges	
Management’s Response to Inspector General’s Statement	
Summary of Financial Statement Audit and Management Assurances	
Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act Reporting Details	

119
120
122
129
134
135

Appendices	
Appendix A: Chair and Commissioners	
Appendix B: Major Enforcement Cases	
Appendix C: SEC Divisions and Offices	
Appendix D: Glossary of Selected Terms	
Appendix E: Acronyms	

139
140
143
159
161
165

Available on the Web at www.sec.gov/about/secafr2014.shtml
To contact the SEC, please see www.sec.gov or “Contact Us” at www.sec.gov/contact.shtml.
To comment on this report, email SECAFR@sec.gov.
For further information on selected terms and topics, please see “Fast Answers” at www.sec.gov/answers.shtml.

PAGE

 1

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIR

Message from the Chair
During the past year, the

with banks and will generally restrict these institutions from

talented and dedicated men

sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds, or investing

and women of the U.S.

in such funds. We also adopted important enhancements to

Securities and Exchange

the offering process, disclosure and reporting for asset-backed

Commission have tirelessly

securities and oversight of credit rating agencies. We adopted

carried out the agency’s

foundational rules for implementing the regulatory framework

mission to protect investors,

for security-based swaps, and removed references to credit

foster capital formation and

ratings in our rules.

promote fair, orderly and
efficient markets.

required by the JOBS Act, including proposed rules to permit

Together, we have achieved

companies to raise funds through crowdfunding, and rules that

many important accomplishments in Fiscal Year 2014

create an exemption from registration under the Securities Act

(FY 2014). We brought a record number of cutting edge

that will make it easier for smaller companies to raise capital.

enforcement actions, proposed and adopted rules that
strengthened our financial system and increased transparency,
promoted compliance through detailed, risk-based examinations of registrants and furthered enhanced transparency
through our disclosure review program.

In addition to the congressionally mandated rulemakings, the
Commission also adopted important rules that reform the
way that money market funds operate. To reduce the risk
of damaging runs, these reforms included a combination of
targeted floating net asset value for prime institutional funds,

Our success did not stop there. We hired our first Investor

liquidity fees and redemption gates for non-government money

Advocate to lead our newly-established Office of the Investor

market funds, enhanced disclosure, reporting diversification

Advocate. The agency expanded direct outreach to investors

and stress testing.

and market participants by issuing more investor bulletins and
alerts than ever before. These efforts go to the very core of
our investor protection mission.

During the past year our examination and enforcement
programs benefitted from effective deployment of sophisticated
technology and from risk-based resource allocation and

Sophisticated economic analysis informed the agency’s

targeted strategy to extend the SEC’s presence to every

rulemakings, and shed new light on complex areas of financial

corner of the marketplace, by participants at every level.

market structure.

The SEC’s National Exam Program continued to enhance its

We continued to focus on advancing rulemakings required
under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Accountability
Act (Dodd-Frank) and Jumpstart Our Business Startups

PAGE

In FY 2014, the Commission advanced the major rules

data analytics capabilities by using technology to collect and
process massive quantities of data to target irregularities and
identify potential deficiencies.

(JOBS) Acts. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC joined the

The Division of Enforcement continued to mount increasingly

Federal banking regulators and the Commodity Futures Trading

sophisticated investigations, redoubling efforts in traditional

Commission (CFTC) in adopting the Volcker Rule, which

areas, like accounting fraud, and expanding its focus on

will limit proprietary trading by financial institutions affiliated

gatekeepers who must act in investors’ interests. This year, in

 2

MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIR

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

addition to bringing more cases than ever before, Enforcement

I am pleased to report the SEC’s independent auditors, the

also brought a number of first-ever cases that span the

Government Accountability Office, issued an unmodified audit

securities industry, including actions involving whistleblower

opinion on the SEC’s financial statements and has affirmed

retaliation, the market access rule and the “pay-to-play”

that the agency’s financial statements are presented fairly in

rule for investment advisers. The result is a strong deterrent

all material respects, in conformity with the U.S. generally

message to all would-be wrongdoers.

accepted accounting principles. Based on our review, we can

The Commission’s focus on equity market structure remained
a priority in FY 2014. The agency unveiled an innovative equity
market structure website that provides investors with access

confirm that the financial and performance data presented in
this report are complete, reliable and conform to the Office of
Management and Budget guidance.

to evolving data, research and analysis that will help to inform

These are only a few examples of the tremendous

the public debate. The Commission remains committed to

accomplishments of the more than 4,000 men and women of

bolstering the resilience of the market systems and to continue

the SEC in FY 2014. In every division and office of the agency,

to engage in efforts to foster market infrastructure and reduce

our professionals demonstrated teamwork, innovation and

system disruptions. Earlier this year, the Commission held a

a fierce commitment to the agency’s mission. In the year to

roundtable on cybersecurity, which addressed issues facing

come, we will continue to further initiatives, regulations and

financial market participants. Commission staff also continued

programs that will allow us to keep pace with a changing

to develop rules that, among other things, will require

marketplace and pursue the agency’s mission more effectively

exchanges, clearing agencies, and other market platforms to

than ever.

take new measures to better ensure the operational capability
of their systems and promote market stability.
Mary Jo White
Chair
November 14, 2014

PAGE

 3

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

INTRODUCTION TO THE AFR

Introduction to the Agency Financial Report
The SEC Agency Financial Report (AFR) is organized in the
following three major sections, and supplemental appendices.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
This section provides an overview of SEC’s history, mission,
organization, strategic goals and objectives, year in review,
forward looking information, performance highlights and a
summary of financial information. This section concludes
with management’s assurance on internal controls, financial
systems and controls, and compliance with laws and
regulations.

Financial Section
This section contains a message from the Chief Financial
Officer followed by the independent auditor’s report on our
principal financial statements, management’s response to the
audit report, audited financial statements and accompanying
notes, and required supplementary information. Concluding
this section are stand-alone comparative financial statements
and accompanying notes for the Investor Protection Fund as
required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act.

PAGE

  4

Other Information
This section contains the statement prepared by the agency’s
Office of Inspector General (OIG) summarizing what the
OIG considers to be the more serious management and
performance challenges facing the agency, followed by the
SEC Chair’s response outlining the agency’s progress in
addressing the challenges. Also included are a Summary of
Financial Statement Audit and Management Assurances listing
internal control material weaknesses and financial systems
non-conformances; a schedule of spending showing how and
where the SEC spends its funds; and a detailed explanation
of any significant erroneous payments and overpayments
recaptured as required by the Improper Payments Information
Act of 2002, as amended.

Appendices
This section includes biographies of the SEC Chair and
Commissioners, a summary of the SEC’s major enforcement
cases, a listing of the SEC divisions and offices, a glossary of
selected terms, and a list of acronyms used within the AFR.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis

T

he U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s

•	 Financial Highlights: Provides an overview of the SEC’s

(SEC) Management’s Discussion and Analysis

financial information, including an analysis of the financial

(MD&A) serves as a brief overview of the agency’s

data presented in the audited financial statements. The

mission, organization, goals, and the 2014 program and

sources and uses of SEC’s funds and the limitations of

financial performance:

the financial statements are also explained.

•	 Vision, Mission, Values and Goals: The listed vision,

•	 Performance Highlights: Explains the SEC’s strategic

mission and values statements as set forth in SEC’s

and performance planning framework, discusses the

Strategic Plan establishes the direction the SEC is

process used to verify and validate the performance

undertaking in meeting its four strategic goals.

results contained in the Agency Financial Report (AFR),

•	 History and Purpose: Provides background on the SEC
and responsibilities for overseeing the nation’s securities
markets and certain primary participants.
•	 Organization Structure and Resources: Highlights SEC’s
office locations, organization, employment statistics,
and a summary of programs by responsible divisions
and offices.

displays the FY 2014 operating costs by strategic
goal, summarizes the FY 2014 performance results
by strategic goal, and highlights key performance
accomplishments.
•	 Management Assurances and Compliance with Other
Laws: Provides management’s assessment and
assurances on the SEC’s internal controls related to
the Federal Manager’s Financial Integrity Act of 1982

•	 FY 2014 Year in Review: Provides a summary of SEC’s

(FMFIA) and our compliance with the Federal Financial

efforts in pursuing its investor protection and market

Management Improvement Act (FFMIA) related to

stability missions in FY 2014.

compliance of our financial systems with Federal

•	 Looking Forward: An overview of actions the SEC will
continue to focus its ever-increasing on-going regulatory
and oversight responsibilities.

requirements. Also addressed is our compliance with
Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA)
and other laws and regulations.

PAGE

  5

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Vision, Mission, Values and Goals

Vision

The SEC strives to promote a market environment that is worthy of the public’s trust and
characterized by:
•	 Transparent disclosure to investors of the risks of particular investments;
•	 Oversight of key market participants, including exchanges, brokers and dealers,
investment advisers, and others;
•	 Focus on strengthening market structure and systems;
•	 Promotion of disclosure of market-related information;
•	 Protection against fraud and abuse; and
•	 Evaluation, development and maintenance of appropriate rules and regulations.

Mission

Values

The mission of the SEC is to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly, and efficient markets,
and facilitate capital formation.

Integrity: As the SEC is the independent Federal agency entrusted with regulating and conducting
enforcement for the U.S. securities markets; each member of the Commission’s workforce has a
responsibility to demonstrate the highest ethical standards to inspire confidence and trust.
Excellence: The SEC is committed to the highest standards of excellence in pursuit of its mission.
The investing public and the U.S. securities markets deserve nothing less.
Accountability: The SEC embraces the responsibility with which it is charged. In carrying out
its mission, SEC employees hold themselves accountable to the public and take responsibility for
achieving SEC goals.
Effectiveness: The SEC strives to work creatively, proactively, and effectively in assessing and
addressing risks to the securities markets, the public, and other market participants. The staff is
committed to finding innovative and flexible approaches to the SEC’s work and using independent
judgment to explore new ways to fulfill the SEC’s mission in the most efficient and effective
manner possible.
Teamwork: The SEC recognizes that its success depends on a diverse, coordinated team committed
to the highest standards of trust, hard work, cooperation, and communication. The staff is committed
to working together and coordinating effectively with investors, business, governments, and other
organizations in the U.S. and abroad.
Fairness: The SEC treats investors, market participants, and others fairly and in accordance
with the law. As an employer, the SEC seeks to hire and to retain a skilled and diverse workforce, and
to ensure that all decisions affecting employees and applicants are fair and ethical.

PAGE

  6

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Strategic Goals and Strategic Objectives
Strategic Goal 1: Establish and maintain an effective
regulatory environment

Strategic Goal 3: Facilitate access to the information
investors need to make informed investment decisions

Strategic Objective 1.1: The SEC establishes and
maintains a regulatory environment that promotes highquality disclosure, financial reporting and governance, and
that prevents abusive practices by registrants, financial
intermediaries and other market participants.

Strategic Objective 3.1: The SEC works to ensure that
investors have access to high-quality disclosure materials that
facilitate informed investment decision-making.
Strategic Objective 3.2: The SEC works to understand
investor needs and educate investors so they are better
prepared to make informed investment decisions.

Strategic Objective 1.2: The SEC promotes capital
markets that operate in a fair, efficient, transparent and
competitive manner, fostering capital formation and
useful innovation.

Strategic Goal 4: Enhance the Commission’s performance
through effective alignment and management of human,
information and financial capital

Strategic Objective 1.3: The SEC adopts and administers
regulations and rules that are informed by robust economic
analysis and public comment and that enable market
participants to understand clearly their obligations under
the securities laws.

Strategic Objective 4.1: The SEC promotes a resultsoriented work environment that attracts, engages, and
retains a technically proficient and diverse workforce,
including leaders who provide motivation and strategic
direction.

Strategic Objective 1.4: The SEC engages with a
multitude of stakeholders to inform and enhance regulatory
activities domestically and internationally.

Strategic Objective 4.2: The SEC encourages a
collaborative environment across divisions and offices and
leverages technology and data to fulfill its mission more
effectively and efficiently.

Strategic Goal 2: Foster and enforce compliance
with the Federal securities laws

Strategic Objective 4.3: The SEC maximizes the use
of agency resources by continually improving agency
operations and bolstering internal controls.

Strategic Objective 2.1: The SEC fosters compliance with
the Federal securities laws.
Strategic Objective 2.2: The SEC promptly detects and
deters violations of the Federal securities laws.
Strategic Objective 2.3: The SEC prosecutes violations
of Federal securities laws and holds violators accountable
through appropriate sanctions and remedies.

PAGE

  7

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

History and Purpose
During the peak of the Depression, Congress passed the
Securities Act of 19331 (Securities Act). This law, along with
the Securities Exchange Act of 19342 (Exchange Act), which
created the SEC, was designed to restore investor confidence
in our capital markets by providing investors and the markets
with more reliable information and clear rules of honest dealing.
The main purposes of these laws were to ensure that:
•	 Companies publicly offering securities for investment
dollars must tell the public the truth about their
businesses, the securities they are selling, and the risks
involved in investing.
•	 People who sell and trade securities – brokers, dealers
and exchanges – must treat investors fairly and honestly,
putting investors’ interests first.
The SEC is responsible for overseeing the nation’s securities
markets and certain primary participants, including brokerdealers, investment companies, investment advisers, clearing
agencies, transfer agents, credit rating agencies, and securities exchanges, as well as organizations such as the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board (MSRB), and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). Under the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act3 (Dodd-Frank
Act), the agency’s jurisdiction was expanded to include certain
participants in the derivatives markets, private fund advisers,
and municipal advisors, among other changes.

PAGE

The SEC consists of five presidentially appointed
Commissioners, with staggered five-year terms. One of them
is designated by the President as Chair of the Commission
(see Appendix A: Chair and Commissioners). President
Franklin Delano Roosevelt appointed Joseph P. Kennedy to
serve as the first Chairman of the SEC.
By law, no more than three of the Commissioners may belong
to the same political party. The Commission convenes regularly
at meetings that are open to the public and the news media
unless the discussion pertains to confidential subjects, such
as whether to begin an enforcement investigation.
Each year, the SEC brings hundreds of civil enforcement
actions against individuals and companies for violation
of securities laws. Examples of infractions include insider
trading, accounting fraud, and providing false or misleading
information about securities or the companies that issue
them. One of the major sources of information that the
SEC relies on to bring enforcement action is investors
themselves – another reason that educated and careful
investors are critical to the functioning of efficient markets.
To help inform investors, the SEC offers the public a wealth
of educational information on its website at www.investor.gov,
as well as an online database of disclosure documents at
www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.html that
public companies and other market participants are required
to file with the SEC.

1

	Securities Act of 1933 www.sec.gov/about/laws/sa33.pdf

2	

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 www.sec.gov/about/laws/sea34.pdf

3 	

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act www.sec.gov/about/laws/wallstreetreform-cpa.pdf

  8

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Organizational Structure and Resources
SEC Office Locations
The SEC’s headquarters are in Washington, DC, and the agency has 11 regional offices located throughout the country.
The regional offices are responsible for investigating and litigating potential violations of the securities laws. The offices also
have examination staff, who inspect regulated entities such as investment advisers, investment companies and broker-dealers.
The map below shows the locations of the regional offices, and the states that are included in each region.

CHART 1.1

PAGE

  9

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

SEC Organization Structure
The SEC is an independent Federal agency established pursuant to the Exchange Act. It is headed by a bipartisan five-member
Commission, comprised of the Chair and four Commissioners, who are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate
(see Appendix A: Chair and Commissioners). The Chair serves as the chief executive. The agency’s functional responsibilities are
organized into five divisions and 23 offices, each of which is headquartered in Washington, DC. The SEC also has 11 regional
offices which are comprised primarily of staff from the national enforcement and examination programs.
In fiscal year (FY) 2014, the agency employed 4,150 full-time equivalents (FTE), including 3,996 permanent and 154 temporary
FTEs. The SEC organization chart below is as of September 30, 2014.

CHART 1.2

SEC ORGANIZATION CHART

PAGE

  10

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

SEC Programs
The SEC organizes its divisions and offices under the 10 major programs outlined below in Table 1.1, SEC Programs and
Program Descriptions.
TABLE 1.1
SEC PROGRAMS AND PROGRAM DESCRIPTIONS
Program

Divisions and Offices

Program Descriptions

Enforcement

Division of Enforcement and enforcement
staff within the SEC’s regional offices

This program investigates and brings civil charges in Federal district court or
in administrative proceedings based on violations of the Federal securities
laws. An integral part of the program’s function is to seek penalties and the
disgorgement of ill-gotten gains in order to return funds to harmed investors.
Also organized within the Enforcement program is the Office of the Whistleblower,
created under the Dodd-Frank Act to administer the SEC’s Whistleblower Program
that rewards individuals who provide the agency with tips that lead to successful
enforcement actions.

Compliance
Inspections and
Examinations

Office of Compliance Inspections and
Examinations and examinations staff
within the SEC’s regional offices

This program conducts the SEC’s examinations of registrants such as investment
advisers, investment companies, broker-dealers, self-regulatory organizations
(SROs), credit rating agencies, transfer agents, and clearing agencies.

Corporation Finance

Division of Corporation Finance

This program performs functions to help investors gain access to materially
complete and accurate information about securities, and to deter fraud and
misrepresentation in the public offering, trading, voting, and tendering of securities.

Trading and Markets

Division of Trading and Markets

This program conducts activities to establish and maintain standards for fair,
orderly and efficient markets, while fostering investor protection and confidence
in the markets.

Investment
Management

Division of Investment Management

This program seeks to minimize the financial risks to investors from fraud,
mismanagement, self-dealing, and misleading or incomplete disclosure in the
investment company and investment adviser segments of the financial services
industry.

Economic and
Risk Analysis

Division of Economic and Risk Analysis

The division provides economic analyses as part of the Commission’s rulemaking
process; supports its rule review, examination and enforcement programs with
data-driven, risk-based analytical methods; and oversees its Tips, Complaints
and Referrals (TCR) and interactive data programs.

General Counsel

Office of the General Counsel

The Office of the General Counsel (OGC) serves as the chief legal officer of the
Commission and provides independent legal analysis and advice to the Chair,
Commissioners, and operating divisions on all aspects of the Commission’s
activities. The General Counsel also defends the Commission in Federal district
courts, represents the Commission in all appellate matters and amicus curiae
filings, and oversees the SEC’s bankruptcy program.

  11

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

TABLE 1.1 Continued from previous page
Program
Other Program
Offices

Divisions and Offices
•	 Office of the Chief Accountant;

Program Descriptions
These offices are responsible for:

•	 Office of Investor Education and
Advocacy;

•	 Serving as the chief advisor to the Commission on all accounting and
auditing policy and overseeing private sector standards setting;

•	 Office of International Affairs;

•	 Serving investors who contact the SEC, ensuring that retail investors’
perspectives inform the Commission’s regulatory policies and disclosure
program, and improving investors’ financial literacy;

•	 Office of Administrative Law Judges;
•	 Office of the Investor Advocate
•	 Office of Credit Ratings; and
•	 Office of Municipal Securities

•	 Administering the rules of the Commission with respect to the practices of
municipal securities brokers and dealers, municipal advisors, and investors
in municipal securities, and the practices of nationally recognized statistical
rating organizations (NRSROs), including examinations of NRSROs;
•	 Advancing international regulatory and enforcement cooperation, promoting
converged high regulatory standards worldwide, and facilitating technical
assistance programs in foreign countries; and
•	 Adjudicating allegations of securities law violations.

Agency Direction
and Administrative
Support

•	 The Chair and Commission;

•	 Office of Public Affairs;

The Chair is responsible for overseeing all aspects of agency operations, and
the Chair and Commissioners are responsible for the review and approval of
enforcement cases and formal orders of investigation and the development,
consideration, and execution of policies and rules. The other offices in Agency
Direction and Administrative Support are responsible for:

•	 Office of the Secretary;

•	 Working with Members of Congress on issues that affect the Commission;

•	 Office of the Chief Operating Officer;

•	 Coordinating the SEC’s communications with the media, the general public,
and foreign visitors;

•	 Office of Legislative and
Intergovernmental Affairs;

•	 Office of Financial Management;
•	 Office of Information Technology;
•	 Office of Human Resources;
•	 Office of Acquisitions;
•	 Office of Support Operations;

•	 Reviewing all documents issued by the Commission, and preparing and
maintaining records of Commission actions;
•	 Maximizing the use of SEC resources by overseeing the strategic planning,
information technology, procurement, financial management, records
management, human resources, and administrative functions of the agency;

•	 Office of the Ethics Counsel;

•	 Ensuring that the SEC is an equal opportunity employer in full compliance
with all Federal equal employment opportunity laws; and

•	 Office of Minority and Women
Inclusion; and

•	 Enhancing the diversity of the SEC’s workforce, contractors, and regulated
entities in accordance with existing Federal laws and regulations.

•	 Office of Equal Employment
Opportunity
Inspector General

Office of Inspector General

The Office of Inspector General (OIG) is an independent office that conducts audits
of programs and operations of the SEC and investigations into allegations of
misconduct by staff or contractors. The mission of OIG is to detect fraud, waste,
and abuse and to promote integrity, economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the
SEC’s programs and operations.

As shown in the Statements of Net Cost on page 75, the SEC presents its net costs of operations by the programs outlined above,
consistent with the presentation used by the agency in submitting its budget requests.

PAGE

  12

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Fiscal Year 2014 in Review
Continuing the Commitment to Excellence
Under the strong leadership of Chair Mary Jo White, Fiscal
Year (FY) 2014 marked a year of significant achievement
across the SEC. With accomplishments ranging from robust
and effective rulemaking that strengthened our markets and
increased protection for America’s investors, to aggressive
enforcement that employed new investigative techniques and
the innovative use of data to bring actions that spanned the
securities industry, this past year has been a high water mark
for the Commission.

Strong and Effective Rulemaking
The SEC finalized a number of significant rules central to
financial market reform and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Accountability Act (Dodd-Frank Act), including the Volcker
Rule and ground-breaking regulations for money market funds,
credit rating agencies, asset-backed securities, and over-thecounter derivatives. The Commission also advanced important
rules under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act
aimed at encouraging the growth of small businesses through
securities-based crowdfunding and an expanded exemption
for securities offerings of up to $50 million.

Aggressive Enforcement
The Enforcement Division (Enforcement) continued to bring
new and innovative approaches to widen its enforcement
footprint and deter wrongdoers. The Commission vigorously
prosecuted executives and companies for accounting
and financial fraud, held gatekeepers accountable for
their illegal actions, and continued to focus enforcement
efforts on insider trading. The Commission used powerful
tools to crack down on wrongdoers, such as barring them
from the securities industry and demanding admissions of
wrongdoing where the circumstances warranted. In the
past year, the Enforcement Division also saw several “firsts,”
such as charging violations of the market access rule, the
first enforcement action to halt a fraudulent municipal bond
offering, the largest ever penalty for net capital rule violations,
and the first case applying Dodd-Frank Act whistleblower
anti-retaliation authority.

Chair Mary Jo White

The successful results over the past year sent a strong
message to the financial markets that violations would be
uncovered and punished, regardless of the size of the entity,
position of the individual or magnitude of the wrongdoing.

Enhanced Review Program
The Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
(OCIE) continued to promote compliance through a multi-level
outreach program, and to detect and prevent fraud through
an increasingly sophisticated examination process.
OCIE engaged registrants through a wide variety of channels
ranging from its second annual public statement of examination
priorities, to meetings with senior management, heads of
control functions and independent directors. It also continued
to enhance its ability to uncover fraud and suspicious activity by
refining its risk-based targeting methodologies and improving
its in-house expertise, with specialized working groups in
key areas. It significantly expanded the scope of its data
collection and analysis program, while skilled technologists
in its Quantitative Analytics Unit (QAU) put powerful tools in
the hands of Commission examiners.

  13

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

The SEC also worked to address the stability and resilience
of the financial system, coordinating closely with the markets’
self-regulatory organizations (SROs) on measures designed to
improve the stability and resilience of the system.

Comprehensive Review of Core Commission Programs
The Commission initiated and advanced broad-based reviews
of core agency programs involving equity market structure,
including enforcement actions against exchanges and
alternative trading systems (ATS), and the effectiveness of
its overall disclosure rules to protect investors and promote
capital formation.

Leveraging Data and Technology to Better Protect
Investors and Strengthen Markets
In the past year, the Commission made great strides
in improving its technology, particularly through the
development of tools that permit it to better use data to
monitor and enhance the integrity of the markets and inform
the Commission’s exam program. The Market Information
Data Analytics System (MIDAS) continues to fuel the review
of market structure, and the National Exam Analytics Tool
(NEAT) system enables examiners to review years of trading
data and millions of transactions in minutes. These and other
technology investments have enabled the Commission to
fulfill its mission to protect investors and enable our markets
to operate more efficiently and effectively.
In addition to uncovering fraud and wrongdoing, the
Commission used data-driven analysis to refine the
rulemaking process and to deepen the understanding of
current, complex market structure issues. Examinations of
ATS and over-the-counter trading were posted for the public
and market participants on the SEC’s new market structure
website, which has rapidly become a trusted and influential
resource within the financial community.
A continuing focus on information technology (IT) upgrades
also yielded a platform upgrade for the agency’s Tips,
Complaints and Referrals Intake and Resolution portal and
systems that will allow Enforcement to better and more
efficiently analyze, store and review the millions of electronic
records that hold the key to successful actions.

PAGE

  14

Increased Outreach to Investors
The Commission continued to provide educational programs
and materials, coordinate with foreign counterparts, and
scrutinize disclosures to ensure that investors are getting
appropriate information.
Throughout the agency, the SEC’s talented and dedicated
staff are creating and embracing new tools and technology,
deploying new and innovative strategies to protect investors,
keep markets safe and encourage capital formation – more
effectively than ever before.
In FY 2014, the SEC embraced the challenges of a growing
mandate and increasingly complex marketplace by providing
strong and effective rulemakings; innovative strategies
for vigorous enforcement; enhanced examinations and
oversight; a deepened determination to oversee the most
complex and rapidly evolving corners of the financial markets;
and a recommitment to traditional priorities including investor
education and international cooperation. The SEC continued
its strong commitment to protect investors, ensure that our
nation has the safest and most dynamic financial markets
in the world and provide better opportunities for capital
formation.

A Focused Rulemaking Agenda
In FY 2014, the SEC focused on advancing both important
discretionary policy initiatives and rules required under the
Dodd-Frank and JOBS Acts in those areas that are central
to protecting investors, maintaining fair, orderly, and efficient
markets, and facilitating capital formation. Under the DoddFrank Act, the Commission completed new rules regarding
the regulation of proprietary trading, derivatives, asset-backed
securities, and credit ratings. Under the JOBS Act, the
Commission proposed new rules to facilitate crowdfunding
and securities offerings up to $5 million within a 12-month
period. At the same time, the SEC continued to push a broader
agenda beyond these statutes, including the adoption of new
rules regarding money market funds.

The Dodd-Frank Act
With the efforts of the last fiscal year, the Commission has
now completed virtually all of its mandatory rulemaking in
six of the eight significant areas targeted for SEC action by

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

the Dodd-Frank Act: the regulation of private fund advisers;
restrictions on proprietary trading; enhanced standards for
clearing agencies; a new regulatory framework for municipal
advisors; better regulation of credit rating agencies and credit
ratings; and stronger protections for investors in asset-backed
securities. In addition to fulfilling these mandates, the SEC
continued rulemaking to execute its mandates in the two
remaining significant areas addressed by the Dodd-Frank Act
– over-the-counter derivatives and executive compensation.

Volcker Rule
In December 2013, the Commission joined the Federal banking
agencies and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC) in adopting a final rule implementing Section 619 of
the Dodd-Frank Act, known as the “Volcker Rule.” This rule
generally restricts financial institutions affiliated with banks
– including broker-dealers and investment advisers – from
engaging in proprietary trading, sponsoring hedge funds and
private equity funds, or investing in such funds. At the same
time, consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act, this rule preserves
certain financial services essential to the healthy functioning
of the U.S. financial system, including market making and
underwriting.
Following adoption of the Volcker Rule, the Commission
staff has continued to work closely with the staffs of the
other financial regulators to address implementation issues
including, among other things, coordinated responses to
interpretive questions, technical issues related to the collection
of metrics data, and approaches to supervising and examining
banking entities.

Clearing Agencies
The Commission continued to work to improve the supervision
of clearing agencies, particularly those designated by the
Financial Stability Oversight Council as systemically important.
In March 2014, the SEC proposed additional standards
for systemically important clearing agencies and clearing
agencies that clear security-based swaps. The proposed rules
would subject covered clearing agencies to new requirements
regarding their financial risk management, operations, and
governance, as well as their disclosures to market participants
and the public.

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Credit Rating Agencies
In August 2014, the Commission adopted an expansive set of
rules under the Dodd-Frank Act to enhance the governance
of credit rating agencies and improve the quality of their credit
ratings. The new requirements for credit rating agencies
address internal controls, conflicts of interest, disclosure of
credit rating performance statistics, procedures to protect the
integrity and transparency of rating methodologies, disclosures
to promote the transparency of credit ratings, and standards
for training, experience, and qualifications of credit analysts.
The requirements provide for an annual certification by the
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) concerning the effectiveness of
internal controls and additional certifications to accompany
credit ratings attesting that the rating was not influenced by
other business activities.

Reliance on Credit Ratings
In December 2013, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, the
Commission removed references to credit ratings from the
broker-dealer financial responsibility rules and certain portfolio
requirements for funds, marking the removal of references
from 22 Commission rules and forms since the statute was
enacted. The SEC continues to work to finish the removal of
four remaining references, re-proposing in July 2014 to remove
references in provisions regulating money market funds. This
re-proposal would also eliminate an exclusion from the issuer
diversification provisions applicable to money market funds
for securities with certain guarantees.

Securitization
In August 2014, the SEC adopted rules that revise the offering
process, disclosure, and reporting for asset-backed securities
to require issuers to include loan-level disclosure for certain
assets, such as residential and commercial mortgages and
automobile loans. The rules, which implement provisions of the
Dodd-Frank Act, also provide more time for investors to review
and consider a securitization offering, revise the eligibility
criteria for using an expedited offering process known as “shelf
offerings,” and significantly enhance reporting requirements.
The SEC also continued its efforts with five other Federal
agencies to finalize rules requiring sponsors of securitization
transactions to retain risk in those transactions.

  15

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Derivatives
The SEC completed its proposals to implement Title VII of
the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires the creation of an entirely
new regulatory framework for over-the-counter derivatives,
and commenced the adoption of final rules. In April 2014, the
SEC proposed recordkeeping and reporting rules for firms
engaged in security-based swap activities, which are designed
to promote better risk management and improve regulatory
oversight.
In June 2014, the SEC adopted a series of rules, and issued
guidance on cross-border security-based swap activities
for market participants. The rules and guidance represent
the initial threshold step in the agency’s efforts to establish
a framework to address market participants that may be
subject to more than one set of regulations across different
jurisdictions as a result of their cross-border swaps activity.
Importantly, the adoption of these rules will also enable
the Commission to move forward with the remainder of its
outstanding proposals for substantive rules under Title VII,
including those regarding security-based swap reporting and
trading, as well as the registration and regulation of dealers
and major market participants.

Investor Advisory Committee and the
Office of the Investor Advocate
The SEC’s Investor Advisory Committee (IAC), established
by the Dodd-Frank Act, continued to advise the Commission
on regulatory priorities, the regulation of securities products,
trading strategies, fee structures, the effectiveness of
disclosure, and on initiatives to protect investor interests, and
promote investor confidence and the integrity of the securities
marketplace.
In April 2014, the Commission issued a release seeking
comment on an IAC recommendation regarding disclosure by
target date funds. In 2010, the Commission proposed rule
amendments that would require marketing material for target
date funds to include, among other disclosures, an illustration
of the changes in the fund’s asset allocation over time, i.e., an
illustration of the fund’s asset allocation glide path. The
Commission reopened the comment period on the proposal
to request comment on the IAC’s recommendation that the
Commission develop a glide path illustration based on a
standardized measure of fund risk as a replacement for, or
supplement to, the proposed asset allocation glide path
illustration.

From left to right: Investor Advocate Rick Fleming, Commissioner Kara M. Stein, Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar, Chair Mary Jo White,
Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher, and Commissioner Michael S. Piwowar

PAGE

  16

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

The SEC also appointed Rick Fleming to serve as the first
Investor Advocate in the agency’s Office of the Investor
Advocate established by Section 915 of the Dodd-Frank Act,
completing the senior leadership team for the five new offices
established by the Act.

Studies and Reports
In FY 2014, the SEC also neared completion of its work on
the 28 studies and reports mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act.
The SEC staff completed a report to Congress in November
2013 regarding the independence of credit rating agencies
and how that affects the credit ratings they issue, including
an evaluation of the management of conflicts of interest raised
by a credit rating agency providing ancillary services, such as
risk management advice or consulting.
The SEC staff also completed a report to Congress in June
2014 regarding the feasibility, benefits, and costs of requiring
the real-time reporting of certain short sale positions,
and adding new, short sale-related marks to the public
dissemination of securities transactions in a voluntary pilot
program for issuers.

The JOBS Act
Over the last fiscal year, the Commission advanced all of
the outstanding major rules mandated by the JOBS Act,
which requires a number of initiatives designed to promote
initial public offerings (IPOs) of smaller companies and small
business capital formation.

Crowdfunding
In October 2013, the Commission proposed rules under the
JOBS Act to permit companies to offer and sell securities
through crowdfunding, an evolving method of raising capital.
Crowdfunding has been used outside of the securities arena
to raise funds through the internet for a variety of projects,
ranging from innovative product ideas to artistic endeavors
such as films or music. The JOBS Act created an exemption
from registration under the Securities Act so that this type of
funding method can be used to offer and sell securities. The
JOBS Act also established the foundation for the regulatory
structure of this new market.

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Regulation A+
The Commission proposed rules in December 2013 intended
to increase access to capital for smaller companies under
a JOBS Act mandate. The proposal built on Regulation A,
an existing exemption from Securities Act registration for
securities offerings up to $5 million within a 12-month period.
The updated exemption, commonly referred to as “Regulation
A+,” would enable companies to offer and sell up to $50 million
of securities within a 12-month period.

Additional JOBS Act Activities
The Commission staff continued to monitor the effect of the
elimination of the ban on general solicitation and general
advertising on the securities markets, as well as the public
comment on the Commission’s proposed amendments to
Regulation D and certain other rules from last fiscal year.
The SEC staff also conducted a review of the disclosure
requirements in Regulation S-K, and concluded to undertake
further efforts to study ways in which the disclosure rules could
be modernized, made more effective, and simplified to reduce
the costs and other burdens for emerging growth companies,
while simultaneously improving the readability and navigability
of disclosure documents for investors.

Money Market Fund Reform
In July 2014, drawing on legal expertise, economic analysis,
and regulatory experience from across the Agency, the SEC
adopted measures to reduce the risk of contagion from rapid
heavy redemptions in money market funds. The Commission’s
reforms included a combination of a targeted floating net asset
value for prime institutional funds as well as a liquidity fees
and redemption gates regime for all non-government money
market funds. These reforms also enhanced money market
fund disclosure, reporting, diversification, and stress testing
requirements.
In an effort to reduce costs associated with these reforms
and their impact on investors, the Commission and its staff
worked closely with the Treasury Department and the Internal
Revenue Service to facilitate the issuance of new regulations
that should significantly mitigate tax compliance issues and
costs for investors in floating net asset value funds.

  17

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

In addition, the Commission staff has formed a working
group to maintain an ongoing, comprehensive review of the
implementation and impact of the money market mutual
fund reforms.

Enhancing Market Structure and Resiliency
During FY 2014, the Commission has closely focused on
bolstering resilience throughout critical market systems.
In particular, after the August 2013 interruption in the trading of
Nasdaq-listed securities, the equities and options exchanges,
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), and the
clearing corporations have been working together with other
market participants to identify a series of concrete measures
designed to address specific areas where robustness and
resilience of market systems could be improved.
The exchanges have conducted a series of specific
enhancements to improve robustness and resilience of the
securities information processors, or SIPs. The exchanges
have also developed more robust SIP backup capabilities,
and have implemented a new “hot-warm” backup, with a tenminute recovery standard.
In addition to these initiatives, the Commission continues
its efforts to foster robust market infrastructure and reduce
the number of systems disruptions through a focus on
systems compliance and integrity. For example, in March
2013, the Commission proposed Regulation SCI, which,
among other things, would require that exchanges and
other key market players maintain policies and procedures
reasonably designed to ensure their operational capability
and compliance with relevant laws and rules, and that these
entities take appropriate corrective action if problems occur.
Commission staff is working to prepare a recommendation for
the Commission’s consideration with respect to the adoption
of Regulation SCI. In addition, in March 2014, the Commission
conducted a Cybersecurity Roundtable, which addressed the
cybersecurity landscape and the cybersecurity issues faced
by financial market participants today.
The Commission’s continued focus on equity market structure
was enhanced by the roll-out in October 2013 of its equity
market structure website. The website is intended to promote
a market-wide dialogue and fuller empirical understanding of
the equity markets. It serves as a central location for SEC staff
to publicly share evolving data, research, and analysis.

PAGE

  18

The website includes detailed analyses of trading data by
the Division of Trading and Markets’ Office of Analytics and
Research (OAR). OAR has implemented a Market Information
Data Analytics System (MIDAS) to collect and analyze market
data from both the public consolidated data feeds and the
“proprietary” data feeds provided by the exchanges to their
customers. OAR has analyzed MIDAS data to address key
issues raised by the current market structure, including trading
speed, quote lifetimes, trade-to-order volume ratios, hidden
volume ratios, and odd-lot rates.
Last month, the SROs submitted a proposal National
Market System (NMS) plan related to the establishment of
a consolidated audit trail that would capture customer and
order event information for orders in NMS securities, across
all markets, from the time of order inception through routing,
cancellation, modification, or execution. Commission staff
is in the process of reviewing the proposed NMS plan and
will provide a recommendation to the Commission regarding
publication of the plan for notice and comment in Federal
Register. After publication, Commission staff will review the
comments and provide a recommendation to the Commission
regarding whether to approve the proposed NMS plan.
The equity market structure website reflects the Commission’s
data-driven approach to a wide range of important and pressing
market structure issues. The Commission is particularly
focused on whether market structure rules and regulatory
arrangements continue to meet their objectives of investor
protection, fair and orderly markets, and capital formation.
Continued evaluation and, as appropriate, advancing initiatives
to address aspects of market structure issues is a priority for
the Commission in FY 2015.
In an effort to assess higher quality markets for smaller
companies, the Commission issued an order directing the
exchanges and FINRA to submit a NMS plan to implement
a tick size pilot, which would widen the quoting and trading
increment for certain small capitalization companies. The tick
size pilot was submitted to the Commission on August 25,
2014, including the trade-at rule.
Commission staff is doing a comprehensive review of market
structure issues and is pursuing initiatives to address issues
regarding high frequency trading, fragmentation in the equity
markets, and broker conflicts. For example, the staff is working
on establishing a new Market Structure Advisory Committee of
experts. Once the Committee is established, it is anticipated

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

that staff will provide materials for the Committee to consider
on a wide range of market structure issues including whether
the Commission’s own rules, such as the trade-through rule of
Regulation NMS, have contributed to excessive fragmentation
across all types of venues and whether the current regulatory
model for exchanges and other trading venues makes sense
for today’s markets.
Commission staff is also preparing two recommendations
for the Commission: the first, a rule to clarify the status of
unregistered active proprietary traders to subject them to our
rules as dealers; and second, a rule to eliminate an exemption
from securities association membership requirements for
dealers that trade in off-exchange venues. Dealer registration
and FINRA membership should significantly strengthen
regulatory oversight over active proprietary trading firms and
the strategies they use.
Commission staff is also preparing recommendations to
improve firms’ risk management of trading algorithms and
to enhance regulatory oversight over their use. In this regard,
FINRA is currently pursuing an initiative to provide suggested
supervision and control practices for firms engaging in
algorithmic trading strategies and to require that persons
responsible for the design or development of algorithmic
trading strategies to register as associated persons.
Commission staff is preparing a recommendation to the
Commission to expand the information about ATS operations
submitted to the Commission and to make the information
available to the public. In addition, Commission staff is
preparing a recommendation to the Commission for a rule that
would enhance order routing disclosures. This rule proposal
would require disclosure of the customer-specific information
that a broker is expected to provide to each institutional
customer on request. This rule would help to ensure that
information disclosed to customers is useful, reliable, and
uniformly available on request to all institutional customers.
In June, the exchanges and FINRA were asked to consider
including a time stamp in the consolidated data feeds that
indicates when a trading venue, for example, processed the
display of an order or execution of a trade. The exchanges
were also asked to develop proposed rule changes to disclose
how they are using data feeds. The exchanges and FINRA
have initially responded to this request by seeking authorization
from the SIP committees to establish a new time stamp for
public dissemination and the exchanges have submitted

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

rule changes to disclose their use of market data feeds in
their operations. In addition, FINRA is pursuing an initiative
to expand transparency in the over-the-counter market by
disseminating non-ATS volume information.
Commission staff also is developing a recommendation to
the Commission for an anti-disruptive trading rule. The rule
would address the use of aggressive, destabilizing trading
strategies in vulnerable market conditions, when they could
most seriously exacerbate price volatility. It is anticipated that
the rule would apply to active proprietary traders in short time
periods when liquidity is most vulnerable and the risk of price
disruption caused by aggressive short-term trading strategies
is highest.
Finally, the exchanges have undertaken a comprehensive
review of their order types and how they operate in practice,
the results of which are expected to be provided to the
Commission before the end of the calendar year.

Building on a Strong Enforcement Program
In FY 2014, the SEC built an impressive record of cases
that spanned the spectrum of the securities industry. These
actions punished securities law violators, served as a strong
deterrent to misconduct, returned funds to injured investors,
and sent important messages to the market. Some of
the notable actions Enforcement brought include actions
against: exchanges, to ensure that they operate fairly and in
compliance with applicable rules; investment advisers and
broker-dealers, for taking undisclosed fees and disrupting
the markets through failures in their trading systems; issuers,
for significant financial reporting failures; auditors and others
who serve as gatekeepers to our financial system; large
international corporations, for violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (FCPA); municipal issuers for disclosure failures;
and an array of insider trading cases.
The SEC ended FY 2014 with 755 enforcement actions and
obtained orders for $4.16 billion in penalties and disgorgement.
The quality, breadth, and impact of these actions helped boost
investor confidence and increase market integrity. Enforcement
continued to focus on ensuring that its actions sent a strong
deterrent message by pursuing significant monetary penalties
and continuing to require admissions in appropriate cases.
This fiscal year was also marked by Enforcement’s pursuit of
creative strategies for conducting investigations and bringing
actions. Enforcement developed and used new tools to

  19

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

more than four million orders into the market when
attempting to fill just 212 customer orders. The SEC’s
order also charged Knight Capital with violating the
market access rule in various ways, including by
relying on financial risk controls that were not capable
of preventing the entry of orders that exceeded pre-set
capital thresholds for the firm in the aggregate.
■■

Chair Mary Jo White and Director of the Enforcement
Division Andrew Ceresney

harness and mine data sources, which expanded the SEC’s
ability to target misconduct, and increased coordination with
those inside the agency as well as the SEC’s law enforcement
and regulatory partners.

A Year of Firsts
FY 2014 was marked by a number of first-of-their-kind actions
driven by an enforcement effort committed to using innovative
approaches to uncover misconduct and hold wrongdoers
accountable. Some of these actions include those described
below.
•	 The SEC filed its first enforcement actions charging
violations of the market access rule. This rule, adopted
in 2010 as Rule 15c3-5 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (Exchange Act), requires firms to have adequate
risk controls in place before providing customers with
access to the market.
■■

PAGE

  20

In the first action, Knight Capital Americas LLC paid
a $12 million penalty to settle charges that it violated
the market access rule in connection with a trading
incident that resulted in market disruption. According
to the SEC’s order, as a result of two critical technology
missteps, a Knight Capital order router rapidly sent

In the second action, the SEC charged Wedbush
Securities, one of the largest volume market access
providers in the United States, and two individuals,
with violating the market access rule and a host of
other regulatory requirements as a result of trading by
its market access customers. Enforcement charged
that Wedbush allowed thousands of essentially
anonymous foreign traders to send orders directly to
U.S. trading venues to trade billions of shares every
month, but failed to establish, document, and maintain
a system of risk management controls and procedures
reasonably designed to manage the risks associated
with its business.

•	 In the first case under its new authority to bring antiretaliation enforcement actions, the SEC charged
Paradigm Capital Management, a hedge fund adviser,
for engaging in prohibited principal transactions and
subsequently retaliating against the employee who
reported the trading activity to the SEC. The firm’s
owner was charged with causing the improper principal
transactions. The firm and its owner agreed to pay
$2.2 million to settle the charges.
•	 The SEC charged TL Ventures, a private equity firm,
with violations of the investment adviser pay-to-play
rules in the first action involving violations of these rules.
The pay-to-play rules, adopted in 2010, prohibit
investment advisers from providing compensatory
advisory services for two years following a campaign
contribution by the firm or certain associates to political
candidates or officials in a position to influence the
selection or retention of advisers to manage public
pension funds. According to the SEC’s order, TL
Ventures continued to receive compensation from two
public pension funds within two years after an associate
made campaign contributions to a mayoral candidate
and a governor. TL Ventures agreed to settle the charges
by paying nearly $300,000.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•	 A municipal issuer in the state of Washington’s Wenatchee
Valley region agreed to pay a $20,000 penalty – the
first-ever against a municipal issuer – and undertake
remedial efforts to settle charges that it misled investors
in a bond offering. The SEC also settled charges against
the underwriter and outside developer of the project, and
three individuals involved in the offering.
•	 The SEC obtained a court order against the City of Harvey,
Illinois and its comptroller to halt a fraudulent municipal
bond offering. This was the first time that the SEC has
sought an emergency court order to stop a municipal bond
offering. The SEC alleged that the city was marketing new
bonds without disclosing that it had previously diverted
at least $1.7 million of bond proceeds from a prior bond
offering to pay the city’s operational costs.
•	 The SEC charged Scottrade, a brokerage firm, with
failing to provide the agency with complete and accurate
information concerning trades executed by the firm and
its customers over a six-year period. Scottrade agreed
to settle the charges by paying a $2.5 million penalty,
admitting it violated the Federal securities laws, and
retaining an independent compliance consultant to
remediate its compliance failures. This was the SEC’s
first action to enforce the recordkeeping requirements
established by Rules 17a-25 and 17a-4(f)(3)(v) of the
Exchange Act.
•	 The SEC charged Ernst & Young LLP with violating auditor
independence rules for actions taken by its subsidiary to
lobby congressional staff on behalf of two audit clients.
The lobbying activities were impermissible under the
SEC’s auditor independence rules because they put
the firm in the position of being an advocate for those
audit clients. The SEC’s order found that despite these
lobbying activities, Ernst & Young repeatedly represented
that it was “independent” in audit reports issued on the
clients’ financial statements. This marked the SEC’s first
action involving violations of the auditor independence
rules in connection with lobbying activity. Ernst & Young
agreed to pay $4 million to settle the SEC’s charges.
•	 The SEC charged Wells Fargo Advisors LLC with failing
to maintain and enforce procedures reasonably designed
to prevent employees from misusing material nonpublic
information obtained from retail customers and clients,
unreasonably delaying its production of documents

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

during an SEC investigation, and providing an internal
document related to a compliance review of a broker’s
trading that had been altered by a compliance officer.
This is the SEC’s first action against a broker-dealer
for such failures to protect a customer’s information
that had been misappropriated by an employee. The
SEC’s action against Wells Fargo arose out of a prior
insider trading case against a Wells Fargo broker who
learned confidentially from his customer that Burger
King was being acquired. The broker then traded on
that information ahead of the public announcement
and tipped others who also traded. Wells Fargo agreed
to settle the SEC’s charges by admitting wrongdoing,
paying a $5 million penalty, and agreeing to retain an
independent consultant.

Market Structure, Exchanges, and Broker-Dealers
The proliferation of sophisticated trading technologies and
trading venues has radically transformed the markets.
Enforcement is keenly focused on keeping pace with these
changes by leveraging the knowledge of its specialized
units, closely collaborating with the other SEC divisions and
OCIE, and employing technology to more effectively use “big
data.” During FY 2014, Enforcement amplified its focus on
market structure issues and filed a number of actions against
market participants who pose a risk to the markets by failing
to operate within the rules. These included significant cases
against exchanges, ATSs, broker-dealers, and other key
market participants relating to failures in controls, failures to
safeguard customer information, and manipulative trading.
•	 The SEC charged the New York Stock Exchange LLC
and two affiliated exchanges for repeatedly engaging in
business practices that either violated exchange rules or
required a rule when the exchanges had none in effect.
The exchanges agreed to settle the SEC’s charges by
retaining an independent consultant and, together with
an affiliated routing broker who was also charged, paying
a $4.5 million penalty.
•	 The SEC charged Liquidnet Inc., a brokerage firm that
operates an ATS known as a “dark pool,” with improperly
using subscribers’ confidential trading information
in marketing its services. The SEC’s order found that
Liquidnet violated Regulation ATS, which, among
other things, requires all ATSs to have safeguards and

  21

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

procedures to protect their subscribers’ confidential
trading data. Liquidnet agreed to pay a $2 million dollar
penalty to settle the charges.
•	 LavaFlow, a brokerage firm operating an ATS known as
an electronic communications network, agreed to pay
$5 million to settle the SEC’s charges that it failed to
protect the confidential trading data of its subscribers.
The settlement included a $2.85 million penalty – the
largest penalty to date against an ATS. The SEC also
charged LavaFlow with aiding and abetting an affiliate’s
broker-dealer registration violations.
•	 The SEC charged three brokerage subsidiaries of
ConvergEx Group, a global trading services provider, plus
two former employees of certain subsidiaries, with fraud
for deceiving customers about hidden fees to buy and sell
securities. In a separate action, the SEC also charged the
former CEO of a broker-dealer subsidiary of ConvergEx
for deceiving customers in connection with the same
scheme. The SEC alleged that the former CEO concealed
the fees and encouraged traders under his management
to do the same. The ConvergEx subsidiaries agreed to
pay more than $107 million and admit wrongdoing to
settle the SEC’s charges. The two former employees
also settled the SEC’s charges.
•	 The SEC charged Latour Trading LLC, a high frequency
trading firm, and its former Chief Operating Officer (COO)
for the firm’s repeated violations of the net capital rule and
related recordkeeping provisions and filing requirements.
The SEC’s order found that Latour routinely failed to
maintain its required minimum net capital by millions of
dollars. To settle these charges, Latour agreed to pay
a $16 million penalty – the largest ever penalty for net
capital rule violations – and the former COO agreed to
pay a $150,000 penalty.
•	 The SEC charged the owner of a New Jersey-based
brokerage firm with a manipulative trading practice known
as “layering.” The alleged scheme involved the owner
tricking others into buying or selling stocks at artificial
prices driven by orders that he later cancelled. The SEC
also charged the owner and others with registration
violations. The two firms and five individuals charged by
the SEC agreed to, among other things, pay a combined
total of nearly $3 million to settle the charges and the
owner agreed to a bar from the securities industry.

PAGE

  22

Insider Trading
Unlawful insider trading always receives significant enforcement
attention, and this fiscal year was no exception. In FY 2014,
the SEC brought 52 insider trading actions. These cases,
which sent a strong deterrent message to would be-violators,
involved a wide range of entities and individuals including
financial professionals, lawyers, and corporate insiders who
breached their duties in pursuit of their own personal gain.
Notable examples included:
•	 The SEC charged a former trader for the hedge fund
Level Global Investors, L.P., with insider trading in the
securities of Carter’s Inc., a youth clothing company. The
trader caused Level Global to trade in advance of marketmoving news concerning Carter’s after receiving tips
through a consulting agreement with a former Carter’s VP
of investor relations. The total profits and losses avoided
on the trades exceeded $3 million.
•	 The SEC charged three founders of Lawson Software
with insider trading ahead of the company’s sale by
misusing nonpublic information to take unfair advantage
of incorrect media speculation and analyst reports about
the company’s acquisition. They agreed to pay nearly
$5.8 million to settle the charges.
•	 The SEC charged a stockbroker and a managing clerk
at a major law firm with insider trading in a $5.6 million
scheme in which the clerk tipped the stockbroker
through a middleman about more than a dozen corporate
transactions for which his law firm provided advice. The
middleman, who the SEC also charged for his role in the
scheme, met the stockbroker at Grand Central Terminal
where he would show the stockbroker a piece of paper
with the relevant ticker symbol and then eat the tip to
destroy the evidence.
•	 The SEC charged four individuals in a $12 million serial
insider trading scheme that lasted more than three years
in which they traded in Ross Stores stock options based
on nonpublic information about monthly sales results
leaked by a former Ross Stores’ employee.

Financial Reporting/Accounting and Disclosure Fraud
In FY 2014, Enforcement intensified its focus on financial
reporting and accounting fraud. Comprehensive, accurate, and
reliable financial reporting is critical to ensuring that investors

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

and the markets receive information needed to make informed
decisions. Enforcement actions in this area are essential to
ensuring public confidence in our securities markets.
•	 CVS Caremark Corp. paid $20 million to settle SEC
charges that it misled investors about significant financial
setbacks and used improper accounting that artificially
boosted its financial performance. The SEC alleged that
in offering documents for a $1.5 billion bond offering, CVS
fraudulently omitted that it had recently lost significant
Medicare Part D and contract revenues in the pharmacy
benefits segment. In addition, the SEC alleged that CVS
further misled investors by manipulating how it calculated
its retention rate, a key metric for pharmacy benefits
managers. CVS also allegedly made improper accounting
adjustments that overstated the financial results for its
retail pharmacy line of business. The retail controller
who was charged with orchestrating these improper
adjustments agreed to settle the SEC’s charges by paying
a $75,000 penalty and being barred for at least one year
from practicing as an accountant on behalf of any publicly
traded company or entity regulated by the SEC.
•	 The SEC charged five executives and finance
professionals in connection with a $150 million fraudulent
bond offering by Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the international
law firm where they worked. The SEC alleged that the
senior financial officers inflated the firm’s profitability by
millions of dollars to conceal breaches of debt covenants
in the firm’s loan agreements and that this information
was then incorporated into bond offering documents.
The SEC further alleged that the firm continued to
conceal its improper accounting by making fraudulent
quarterly certifications in connection with the offering.
•	 The SEC charged Diamond Foods, Inc., a snack foods
company, and its former Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in
an accounting scheme to falsify walnut costs in order to
boost earnings and meet analyst estimates. The former
CEO was also charged for his role in the company’s false
financial statements filed with the SEC, which included
omitting material facts from representations to Diamond’s
outside auditors. Diamond agreed to pay $5 million to
settle the SEC’s charges. The former CEO, who returned
or forfeited more than $4 million in bonuses and other
benefits, also agreed to pay a $125,000 penalty to settle
the SEC’s charges.

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•	 The SEC charged Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.
with failing to fully and accurately disclose to investors
a set of extraordinary corporate transactions that put
millions of newly issued company shares in the hands
of a management-friendly director in order to thwart
a hostile takeover bid. Lions Gate admitted the facts
underlying the misconduct and paid $7.5 million to settle
the SEC’s charges.
•	 The SEC used its authority under the “clawback” provision
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to require the former
CEO of Saba Software, Inc. to reimburse the company
$2.5 million in bonuses and stock profits he received while
an accounting fraud occurred at the company. At the
same time, the SEC charged Saba Software and two
former executives behind the accounting fraud scheme in
which U.S.-based managers directed consultants in India
to falsify timesheets so that the company could achieve
quarterly revenue and margin targets. Saba Software
agreed to pay $1.75 million to settle the SEC’s charges
and the two former executives agreed to settle the case
as well. The clawback provision does not require a finding
that a CEO personally engage in misconduct in order to
trigger a reimbursement obligation.

Gatekeepers
Enforcement remained focused on gatekeepers to our financial
system, including attorneys, accountants, fund directors, board
members and other industry professionals who play a critical
role in the functioning of the securities industry. Gatekeepers
are integral to protecting investors in our financial system
because they are best positioned to detect and prevent the
compliance breakdowns and fraudulent schemes that cause
investor harm. Actions against gatekeepers included:
•	 The SEC charged AgFeed Industries, Inc., an animal feed
company, and eight of its executives with conducting
a massive accounting fraud in which they repeatedly
reported fake revenues from their China operations
to meet financial targets and prop up the company’s
stock price. Among those charged was the company’s
U.S.-based audit committee chair who learned of the
misconduct. The SEC alleged that instead of taking
meaningful action after learning of the fraud, the audit
committee chair, along with the company’s CFO at the
time, engaged in efforts to raise capital for expansion

  23

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

and acquisitions. The SEC settled its charges against
the former interim CEO, who agreed to be barred from
serving as an officer or director of a public company, and
paid a $100,000 penalty. A former CFO of the company
who cooperated with the SEC’s investigation also settled
the SEC’s charges by agreeing to an order suspending
him from practicing as an accountant for at least five
years. AgFeed subsequently agreed to pay $18 million to
settle the SEC’s charges. Under the proposed settlement,
which is subject to court approval, the $18 million will be
distributed to victims of the company’s fraud.
•	 The SEC charged transfer agent Registrar and Transfer
Company (R&T) and its CEO for violations of the
registration provisions of the securities laws and failing
to supervise firm employees who enabled an unlawful,
unregistered distribution of the shares of Heathrow
Natural Food & Beverage, Inc. Heathrow, a microcap
company, was the subject of a “pump and dump”
scheme orchestrated by its CEO, who the SEC also
charged. An SEC examination of R&T revealed that
it repeatedly failed to detect and address red flags in
connection with more than 54 share issuance requests
from Heathrow’s CEO. R&T and its CEO agreed to settle
the charges by paying a combined total of more than
$150,000 and R&T’s CEO also agreed to be suspended
for 12 months from serving in a supervisory capacity with
a transfer agent.
•	 The SEC charged Sherb & Co., LLP, an audit firm, and
four auditors for their roles in the failed audits of three
China-based companies. An SEC investigation found that
Sherb & Co. and its auditors falsely represented in audit
reports that their audits were done in accordance with
U.S. auditing standards. In reality, the audits were replete
with failures and improper professional conduct, and one
of the companies they audited was charged by the SEC
with financial fraud. To settle the charges, Sherb & Co.
and the four individual auditors agreed to be barred from
practicing as accountants on behalf of any publicly traded
company or other entity regulated by the SEC, and the
firm also agreed to pay a $75,000 penalty.
•	 The SEC also brought actions under a risk-based
initiative internally designated “Operation Broken Gate,”
which seeks to identify auditors who may have violated
the Federal securities laws or failed to comply with

PAGE

  24

U.S. auditing standards during their audits and reviews
of financial statements for publicly traded companies.
This ongoing initiative has led to multiple actions against
auditors and their affiliated firms, resulting in suspensions
from auditing public companies.

Microcap Fraud
Enforcement sent a strong message that the SEC is bringing its
resources to bear to halt microcap fraud. During the last fiscal
year, Enforcement took proactive steps to combat microcap
fraud by more frequently suspending trading in securities
that are the objects of pump and dumps, targeting repeat
players who help facilitate these schemes, and building on the
SEC’s relationships with its regulatory and law enforcement
counterparts. Enforcement’s efforts in this area included:
•	 Suspending trading in 255 dormant shell companies,
any of which might have been the next vehicle for stock
manipulators.
•	 Charging a penny stock promoter, who ran a pair
of well-known websites that disseminated emails
promoting penny stocks, with a fraudulent practice
known as “scalping.” The SEC alleged that the promoter
disseminated emails to approximately 700,000 people
recommending a penny stock, but the emails failed to
disclose that the promoter held more than 1.4 million
shares of the stock that he intended to sell immediately.
The SEC obtained an emergency asset freeze to prevent
the promoter from liquidating $1.9 million in trading
profits he made from exploiting the run up in the price
of a microcap stock he touted. The promoter settled
the charges by consenting to a judgment that required
him to pay $3.73 million in sanctions, barred him from
participating in any penny stock offering, and enjoined
him from recommending stocks without making certain
disclosures.
•	 Charging four penny stock promoters for manipulating
the securities of six different thinly-traded penny stock
companies in an alleged $2.5 million scheme involving
pre-arranged, manipulative matched orders and wash
trades that created the illusion of an active trading market.
•	 Charging six penny stock promoters and the CEO of
a microcap company in a joint law enforcement effort
focused on penny stock fraud. The SEC alleged that

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

five of the penny stock promoters engaged in various
manipulation schemes involving undisclosed payments to
induce purchases of microcap stock to generate the false
appearance of market interest. The same day, the SEC
announced charges against a microcap company and its
CEO for orchestrating a pair of illicit kickback schemes
and an insider trading scheme involving the company’s
stock. The SEC also charged a sixth promoter for his role
in the insider trading scheme.

Municipal Securities
In FY 2014, the SEC continued its focus on the municipal
securities market, bringing significant, novel actions charging
the full spectrum of market participants. Areas of focus this
year included conflicts of interest, pay-to-play schemes, and
a new initiative to encourage self-reporting of certain securities
law violations by municipal issuers and underwriters.
•	 Enforcement launched the Municipalities Continuing
Disclosure Cooperation (MCDC) initiative to encourage
issuers and underwriters of municipal securities to
self-report certain violations of the Federal securities
laws relating to the continuing disclosure obligations
specified in Rule 15c2-12 under the Exchange Act.
Under the initiative, Enforcement agreed to recommend
standardized, favorable settlement terms to settle actions
with municipal issuers and underwriters who self-report
violations.
•	 The SEC filed its first action under the MCDC initiative
against Kings Canyon Joint Unified School District, which
resulted in Kings Canyon settling charges concerning
an inaccurate continuing disclosure affirmation made in
connection with a 2010 bond offering. Kings Canyon
consented to an order to cease and desist from
committing or causing any future violations of Section
17(a) of the Securities Act and agreed to, among other
things, adopt written policies for its continuing disclosure
obligations.
•	 The SEC charged the state of Kansas with fraud for failing
to disclose its multi-billion-dollar pension liability in bond
offering documents, which created a repayment risk
for investors in those bonds. Kansas settled the SEC’s
charges by consenting to an order requiring it to cease
and desist from committing future violations. Kansas
also adopted new policies and procedures to improve

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

disclosures about its pension liabilities. This enforcement
action stemmed from a nationwide review of municipal
bond disclosures that had resulted in prior actions against
the states of New Jersey and Illinois.

Investment Advisers
Investment advisers and the funds they manage remained
a key focus of Enforcement during FY 2014. Enforcement
brought actions against a wide range of investment advisers,
including those who engaged in fraudulent conduct, had
deficient compliance programs, and breached their fiduciary
duties to their clients.
•	 The SEC charged Barclays Capital Inc. with failing to
maintain an adequate internal compliance system to
ensure the firm did not violate any Federal securities
laws after its wealth management business in the U.S.
acquired the advisory business of Lehman Brothers in
September 2008. An SEC examination and subsequent
investigation found that Barclays failed to enhance its
compliance infrastructure to integrate and support the
acquisition and rapid growth of the advisory business
from Lehman. According to the SEC’s order, the
deficiencies in its compliance systems contributed to
other securities law violations by Barclays. To settle the
SEC’s charges, Barclays agreed to pay a $15 million
penalty and undertake remedial measures, including
engaging an independent compliance consultant.
•	 The SEC charged Western Asset Management Company,
an investment adviser, with fraud for concealing investor
losses that resulted from a coding error and engaging
in cross trading that favored some clients over others.
Western Asset settled the SEC’s charges by agreeing
to distribute more than $17 million to harmed clients, to
pay a $2 million penalty, and to retain an independent
compliance consultant to address these failures.
•	 The SEC charged Ambassador Capital Management,
an investment advisory firm, and its portfolio manager
for deceiving the trustees of a money market fund and
failing to comply with rules that limit risk in a money
market fund’s portfolio. The action stemmed from an
ongoing analysis of money market fund data by the
SEC’s Division of Investment Management, which
recognized that the performance of the money market
fund was consistently different from the rest of the

  25

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

International Enforcement
In coordination with the SEC’s Office of International Affairs
(OIA), Enforcement continued to expand its international
enforcement efforts. FY 2014 included several significant
actions that involved cooperation with the SEC’s law
enforcement and regulatory counterparts both at home and
abroad.

Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar

market. In September 2014, Enforcement received a
favorable initial decision in this matter, which among other
things, permanently barred Ambassador Capital from
association with any investment company, censured the
portfolio manager, and ordered Ambassador Capital and
the portfolio manager to pay combined civil penalties of
more than $800,000.
•	 The SEC charged three investment advisory firms for
violating the “custody rule” that requires them to meet
certain standards when maintaining custody of their
clients’ funds or securities. The SEC’s investigation of
these firms stemmed from referrals by the Agency’s
OCIE examiners. These investigations found that
New York-based Further Lane Asset Management,
Massachusetts-based GW & Wade, and Minneapolisbased Knelman Asset Management Group failed to
maintain client assets with a qualified custodian or
engage an independent public accountant to conduct
surprise exams. The SEC also charged the CEO of
Further Lane and the CEO and Chief Compliance
Officer of Knelman for custody rule and other violations.
All agreed to settle the charges and pay monetary
sanctions in addition to other relief.

PAGE

  26

•	 The SEC charged global aluminum producer Alcoa,
Inc. with FCPA violations related to illicit payments by
subsidiaries to government officials in Bahrain to maintain
a key source of business. The SEC alleged that more than
$110 million in corrupt payments were made to Bahraini
officials with influence over contract negotiations between
Alcoa and a major government-operated aluminum plant.
Alcoa agreed to pay $175 million to settle the SEC’s
charges as part of a $384 million settlement that also
resolved a parallel criminal case announced by the United
States Department of Justice (DOJ).
•	 The SEC charged Hewlett-Packard Company with
violating the FCPA when its subsidiaries in Russia,
Poland, and Mexico made improper payments in excess
of $3.5 million to government officials to obtain or retain
lucrative public contracts. Hewlett-Packard agreed to pay
more than $31 million to settle the SEC’s charges as part
of a $108 million settlement with the SEC and the DOJ.
•	 The SEC charged Weatherford International Ltd. with
violating the FCPA by authorizing bribes and improper
travel and entertainment for foreign officials in the Middle
East and Africa to win business, including kickbacks in
Iraq to obtain United Nations Oil-for-Food contracts.
Weatherford agreed to pay the SEC more than $65 million
as part of a global settlement of more than $250 million
to resolve the SEC’s charges and parallel actions by the
DOJ and three other agencies.
OIA continued to facilitate international cooperation and
assistance to support the SEC’s enforcement efforts. Among
other accomplishments in FY 2014:
•	 OIA’s Enforcement Cooperation Group handled 960
SEC Enforcement Division requests for international
assistance, 548 requests for assistance from foreign
regulatory and law enforcement authorities, and 878

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

tips, complaints and referrals (TCRs) with international
aspects (incoming and outgoing).
•	 Through work with the International Organization of
Securities Commissions (IOSCO), OIA worked to increase
to 103 the signatories to the Multilateral Memorandum of
Understanding (MMoU), which constitutes a net addition
of six signatories from the end of FY 2013. The MMoU
is the principal framework by which securities regulators
around the world exchange information critical to the
investigation and prosecution of cross-border securities
violations.
•	 OIA also opened 30 formal investigations to assist the
SEC’s foreign regulatory counterparts.

Complex Financial Instruments
In FY 2014, the SEC brought a number of actions involving
complex financial instruments, which built on the SEC’s already
strong record of pursuing financial crisis-related cases.
•	 The SEC charged Bank of America Corporation with
failing to disclose known uncertainties about potential
increased costs related to mortgage loan repurchase
claims stemming from more than $2 trillion in residential
mortgage sales. Bank of America admitted this failure and
agreed to settle these charges in addition to securities
fraud charges that the SEC filed in 2013 relating to a
residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) offering.
The bank agreed to pay $245 million to resolve the SEC’s
charges as part of a major global settlement with the DOJ
and other government agencies.
•	 The SEC charged RBS Securities Inc., a subsidiary of the
Royal Bank of Scotland plc, with misleading investors in
a 2007 subprime mortgage-backed security offering. The
SEC alleged that RBS represented that the loans backing
the offering generally met the lender’s underwriting
guidelines even though nearly 30 percent of the loans fell
short and should have been excluded from the offering.
According to the SEC’s complaint, this gave investors a
misleading impression of the quality of the loans backing
the offering and the likelihood of their repayment. RBS
agreed to pay more than $150 million to settle the matter,
which will be used to compensate harmed investors.

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•	 The SEC also charged three Morgan Stanley entities
with misleading investors in two RMBS securitizations
that the firms underwrote, sponsored, and issued. The
SEC’s order found that Morgan Stanley misrepresented
the current or historical delinquency status of mortgage
loans underlying the two securitizations. Morgan Stanley
agreed to settle the charges by paying $275 million,
which will be distributed to harmed investors.

Pursuing Compliance-Based Violations
In FY 2014, the SEC brought a number of large, complex
cases, but also remained focused on pursuing smaller,
compliance-related violations through streamlined investigative
and settlement approaches.
•	 Enforcement’s Compliance Program Initiative, which
targets firms that have been previously warned by SEC
examiners about compliance deficiencies but failed to
effectively remediate them, generated actions in which
the SEC sanctioned three investment advisory firms
for repeatedly ignoring problems with their compliance
programs. The firms settled the SEC’s charges by agreeing
to pay financial penalties and hire compliance consultants.
•	 In another noteworthy effort, the SEC charged 34
individuals and entities in a novel Enforcement initiative
designed to root out those who repeatedly fail to comply
with Federal securities laws requiring them to promptly
report information about their holdings and transactions
in company stock. Enforcement staff used quantitative
data analytics to identify individuals and companies with
especially high rates of filing deficiencies. All but one of the
34 individuals and companies charged agreed to settle the
charges and pay financial penalties totaling $2.6 million.
•	 Enforcement also continued its successful initiative to
target violations of Rule 105, an anti-manipulation rule
that prohibits firms from improperly participating in public
offerings after short-selling those same stocks during a
restricted period – generally five business days before a
public offering. In a second sweep under this initiative, the
SEC obtained a combined total of more than $9 million
in disgorgement, interest and penalties in settlements
with 19 firms and one individual trader for their Rule
105 violations.

  27

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Trial Victories
Enforcement had a number of important trial victories in
FY 2014.
•	 After a lengthy trial, a jury returned a verdict in favor of the
SEC on all claims in its action against two corporate insider
brothers. The SEC alleged that the brothers engaged in
a 13-year fraudulent scheme to hold and trade tens of
millions of securities of public companies while they were
members of the boards of directors of those companies,
without disclosing their ownership and their trading of
those securities. The SEC also alleged that the brothers
realized gains in excess of $550 million as a result of
the scheme. Prior to trial, the brothers’ former attorney,
who was also charged by the SEC, agreed to settle the
SEC’s charges by admitting certain facts, paying almost
$795,000 in disgorgement and prejudgment interest, and
consenting to an order suspending him from appearing
or practicing as an attorney before the SEC. Following
the liabilities and remedies phase of the trial, the court
issued an opinion and order requiring the brothers to pay
disgorgement totaling more than $187 million in addition
to prejudgment interest for the entire period of the fraud.
•	 Following a five-week trial, a jury returned a verdict in
favor of the SEC on its fraud claims against a Minneapolis
attorney; a real estate finance fund; and the fund’s
manager, which the attorney owned. The SEC alleged
that the defendants engaged in securities fraud in
connection with their offer and sale of interests in the real
estate fund. The attorney and the other defendants raised
over $21 million from investors while making materially
false and misleading statements that effectively hid the
real estate fund’s deteriorating financial condition. In June
2014, the court issued an order imposing permanent
injunctions against all three defendants, barring the
attorney from serving as an officer or director of a publiclytraded company for a period of ten years, and imposing
financial sanctions exceeding $14.5 million against the
real estate fund, $3.3 million against the attorney and
the fund’s advisor, jointly and severally, and $1.8 million
against the attorney individually.
•	 The SEC won its jury trial against a Connecticut-based
hedge fund manager and his firms, which he used to
facilitate a multi-billion dollar Ponzi scheme operated
by Minnesota businessman. The SEC alleged that

PAGE

  28

the fund manager funneled several hundred million
dollars of investor money into the scheme and falsely
assured investors that their money would be protected.
In September 2014, the court issued an opinion and
order imposing permanent injunctions and monetary
sanctions of over $80 million against the fund manager
and his firms.
•	 The SEC obtained a jury verdict in its favor on all counts
against AIC, Inc., Community Bankers Securities, LLC,
and an individual who was their founder, President
and CEO. The SEC alleged that the founder devised
and orchestrated an offering fraud in which he sold
millions of dollars of AIC promissory notes and stock.
The defendants misrepresented and omitted material
information to investors, many of whom were elderly,
about a variety of important matters, including the safety
and risk, associated with the investments. In August
2014, the court issued an opinion and final judgments
against the defendants imposing permanent injunctive
relief, disgorgement and prejudgment interest, and
civil penalties. Altogether, the court imposed nearly
$70 million in disgorgement, prejudgment interest,
and civil penalties against the defendants and relief
defendants.
•	 In August 2014, a jury returned a verdict against Sage
Advisory Group, LLC and its principal in a fraud case filed
by the SEC. The SEC charged that the principal engaged
in a scheme to induce his former brokerage customers to
transfer their assets to Sage, his new advisory firm. The
SEC further charged that the founder made a number
of materially false and misleading statements to his
customers about moving their accounts to his new firm
and that the founder failed to disclose that the switch
would result in significant savings that would flow to him
and Sage rather than the advisory clients.

Continued Excellence in the
Examination Program
OCIE plays a critical role in protecting investors and the integrity
of our capital markets. Every year, OCIE examiners conduct
risk-based examinations of many kinds of registered entities,
including broker-dealers, investment advisers, investment
companies, national securities exchanges, self-regulatory
organizations (SROs), transfer agents, and clearing agencies

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

to evaluate their compliance with applicable regulatory
requirements. OCIE uses the findings from these examinations
to address deficiencies directly with registrants and, more
broadly, to improve industry compliance, detect and prevent
fraud, inform policy, and identify risks.
In FY 2014, OCIE conducted more than 1,850 formal
examinations of registrants, an increase over each of the
prior four fiscal years. As described below, in addition to
examinations, OCIE also performed thousands of desk reviews
to evaluate the business activities of its registrants. OCIE’s
examinations resulted in the return of more than $40 million
to investors. More than $300 million in fines, penalties, and
disgorgement was assessed as a result of enforcement actions
concluded in FY 2014 that involved a referral to Enforcement
from an OCIE examination.

Developing Technology and Data Analytics
In FY 2014, OCIE continued to make significant enhancements
in data analytics. This effort has made OCIE more efficient and
effective in analyzing massive amounts of data from registrants
to detect potential violations of laws, rules, and regulations.
For several years, OCIE’s Risk Assessment and Surveillance
Group (RAS) has aggregated and analyzed data from SEC
filings concerning registrants and individuals to identify activity
that may warrant examination. In FY 2014, RAS significantly
expanded its data analysis and monitoring efforts to surveil
data from sources internal and external to the Commission,
including, for example, data collected by or filed with other
regulators, SROs, and exchanges; and information that
registrants provide to data aggregators, regarding, for
example, their business activities and marketing-related
efforts. This expanded data collection and analysis has not
only enhanced OCIE’s ability to identify operational red flags
throughout entire industries – such as firms with aberrant
swings in reported assets under management, changes in
key individuals, business activities, and affiliates, and other
possible indicia of heightened risk – but has also enabled
examiners to better understand each firm’s business activities
prior to conducting an examination.
Other OCIE teams have also leveraged technology to evaluate
large amounts of data for signs of fraud and suspicious
activity. OCIE has hired highly skilled technologists in its
Quantitative Analytics Unit (QAU) to develop tools that bring
powerful analytic capabilities to each examiner in the National

Commissioner Michael S. Piwowar

Examination Program. In FY 2014, the QAU developed the
“National Exam Analytics Tool,” commonly referred to as
“NEAT,” which enables examiners to access and systematically
analyze years’ worth of a registrant’s trading data in minutes.
NEAT replaced what was formerly a labor-intensive process
that often consumed weeks or months of examiner time
and resulted in a sampling of a limited time period of such
data, as opposed to the systematic and complete analysis
of years’ worth of data that NEAT facilitates. QAU has also
been developing technologies to help examiners detect
suspicious activity in areas such as money laundering and
high frequency trading that will further expand and enhance
OCIE’s capabilities to fight and deter fraud.
OCIE’s Risk Analysis Examination Group (RAE) has also
leveraged technology to examine clearing firms and large
broker-dealers. The RAE team analyzes all transactions
cleared by selected firms over a period of years and then
subjects that data to a broad range of queries designed to
identify problematic behavior. Applying such methods, the
RAE team identified a wide range of problematic behavior
across multiple firms, including unsuitable recommendations,
misrepresentations, inadequate supervision, churning, and
reverse churning. In FY 2014, RAE collected and analyzed
approximately 1.3 billion transactions from 350 firms, which,
in turn, resulted in referrals for focused examinations by OCIE
and investigation by Enforcement.

  29

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Continuing to Promote and Improve Industry Compliance
OCIE improves industry compliance with the Federal securities
laws and promotes better industry risk management practices
through examinations, communication, and outreach initiatives
with the industry. In FY 2014:
•	 OCIE published its second annual public statement of
examination priorities to inform investors and registrants
about areas that the staff believes present heightened risk
and to support the SEC’s mission. The examination priorities
were selected through a collaborative process in which
OCIE’s senior management and senior representatives
of other SEC Divisions and Offices worked side-by side
to analyze and perform a risk-based assessment of a
voluminous amount of information from a number of
sources. These sources included information reported
by registrants in required filings, as well as information
gathered through examinations; communications with other
Federal, state and foreign regulators; comments and tips
received from investors and registrants; data maintained in
third-party databases; interactions with registrants, industry
groups, and service providers outside of examinations; and
industry and media publications.
•	 OCIE issued public “Risk Alerts,” one of which
summarized OCIE staff observations on due diligence
practices of certain investment advisers that manage or
recommend alternative investments to their clients, and
the other of which provided information about OCIE’s
initiative to assess cyber-security preparedness.
•	 OCIE conducted over 55 outreach conferences with the
industry and securities regulators, both regionally and
nationally, and OCIE staff appeared at more than 240
events in order to promote transparent communications
and coordination among industry participants and
regulators.
•	 OCIE engaged directly with senior management, heads of
control functions, and independent directors of the largest
broker-dealer holding companies and management
organizations to emphasize the critical role of compliance
in those institutions’ enterprise risk management.
•	 OCIE launched a number of focused examination
initiatives to promote compliance and increase awareness
of regulatory risks with certain entities. For example, OCIE
commenced an initiative to examine investment advisory

PAGE

  30

firms that have been registered with the Commission for
at least three years, but have not yet been examined.
OCIE also commenced an initiative to focus on newly
registered Municipal Advisors that registered under SEC
rules, which went into effect during FY 2014.

Continuing to Identify and Prevent Fraud
OCIE identifies and prevents fraud and other misconduct
through examinations. When OCIE uncovers information in
an examination that establishes or suggests misconduct,
examiners refer the matter to Enforcement for investigation
and appropriate action. In FY 2014, OCIE made more than 200
referrals, many of which resulted in enforcement investigations
and/or actions. Notable examples of enforcement actions that
have involved OCIE referrals include:
•	 The Commission charged a Detroit-based investment
advisory firm, Ambassador Capital Management (ACM),
and a portfolio manager for deceiving the trustees of one
of ACM’s money market funds and failing to comply with
rules that limit risk in a money market fund’s portfolio.
•	 Based on a referral from OCIE, the Commission charged
Liquidnet, Inc., the operator of an ATS, commonly
known as a “dark pool,” for failing to protect its clients’
confidential trading information.
•	 An OCIE examination resulted in the SEC charging the
operators of a South Florida-based boiler room scheme
with defrauding seniors and other investors, whom they
pressured into purchasing stock in a company that
purportedly developed ground-breaking technology for
the National Football League to use in the Super Bowl.
The SEC alleged that two business partners induced
investors into investing over $2.4 million in a Miami
Beach-based company, Thought Development Inc.
(TDI), by representing that their investments would be
used to develop TDI’s technology. In fact, 75 percent
of the offering proceeds were allegedly retained by the
respondents’ own company or paid to sales agents
through undisclosed commissions and fees.
•	 Based on facts discovered during an OCIE examination
of Manhattan-based private equity adviser Camelot
Acquisitions Secondary Opportunities Management
(Camelot), Enforcement obtained an emergency court
order to freeze the assets of Camelot, its principal,

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

another individual, and three entities involved in the
alleged theft of more than $9 million in investor funds.
•	 In a matter involving a transfer agent, Illinois Stock Transfer
Company, and its owner, OCIE examiners determined that
the firm and its owner were misusing funds belonging to
corporate clients and the clients’ shareholders to fund
payroll and business obligations. OCIE promptly referred
the matter to Enforcement, which resulted in a Commission
action to freeze assets and place control of the transfer
agent under a court-appointed third-party receiver.
•	 In a matter involving a broker-dealer, based on a referral
from OCIE, the SEC charged an employee of that brokerdealer, with misappropriating hundreds of thousands of
dollars from elderly clients.
•	 In a matter involving another broker-dealer, Crucible
Capital Group, Inc., OCIE examiners determined that
the broker-dealer submitted falsified financial records
to OCIE staff. Accordingly, OCIE referred the matter to
Enforcement, which ultimately resulted in charges against
the firm for failing to maintain minimum net capital and
failing to maintain accurate records.
•	 Based on examination referrals from OCIE, the SEC
charged several investment advisers for violating the
“custody rule” under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
The custody rule promotes the safety of investor assets
by requiring advisers to meet certain standards when
maintaining custody of their clients’ funds or securities.
The SEC alleged that New York-based Further Lane
Asset Management, Massachusetts-based GW & Wade,
and Minneapolis-based Knelman Asset Management
Group failed to maintain client assets with a qualified
custodian or engage an independent public accountant
to conduct surprise exams. The SEC also charged the
CEO of Further Lane and the CEO and Chief Compliance
Officer of Knelman for custody rule and other violations.
All agreed to settle the charges and pay monetary
sanctions in addition to other relief.
In order to be more effective in identifying and preventing
fraud in examinations, OCIE continues to broaden its expertise
and capacity. In addition to developments in technology and
analytics, OCIE has implemented specialized working groups
(SWGs) in nine key areas: Equity Market Structure and Trading
Practices; Fixed Income and Municipals; Marketing and Sales

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Practices; Microcap Fraud; New and Structured Products;
Valuation; Private Funds; Transfer Agents; and Investment
Companies. The SWGs are an invaluable resource to
examiners and managers, providing subject matter expertise
in their respective areas. OCIE has also established a Private
Funds Unit, which is led by OCIE’s hedge fund and private
equity senior specialized examiners. The Private Fund Unit
not only conducts risk-based examinations of private fund
advisers, but, through the participation of its leadership team,
provides experience and training for examiners to enable them
to become subject matter experts.

Continuing to Inform Policy
As the SEC’s “eyes and ears” in the field, OCIE uses its
perspective to provide structured support to the rule-making
process and other guidance issued by the SEC, and its
Divisions and Offices.
•	 OCIE provided substantial input into the Commission’s
Dodd-Frank rulemaking process participating in more than
15 working groups to interface with the policy divisions
on such rulemaking. OCIE’s Dodd-Frank rulemaking
involvement was most notable in the following areas:
■■
■■

■■

the final rules for municipal advisors;
the proposed rules related to Title VIII concerning
payment, clearing and settlement supervision; and
the proposed rules under Title VII concerning swap
data repositories and cross-border swap transactions.

•	 In addition to its valuable contributions to Dodd-Frank
rule-making, OCIE staff also participated in several other
rule-makings, which are in various stages, including the
crowdfunding JOBS Act-related rule-makings, Regulation
SCI, the money market reform rules, the transfer agent
concept release, and removal of references to credit
rating agencies.
•	 OCIE also provided useful information from examinations to
the rule-making divisions of the SEC for a number of other
purposes. For example, OCIE staff highlighted to rulemaking divisions instances in which, based on observations
in examinations registrants have misinterpreted the rules
and instances in which more guidance may be needed.
OCIE staff also provided valuable insight into certain risk
management practices and profiles.

  31

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Continuing to Identify New and Emerging Risks
OCIE continues to improve its ability to assess and monitor
risk. Because OCIE’s examination programs are risk-based,
these enhanced capabilities have enabled each program to
better allocate its limited resources to high-risk firms and
practices. In addition to the developments in technology and
analytics described above, the following are examples of OCIE
initiatives to monitor and examine for new and emerging risks:

•	 RAS has continued to devote significant resources to
help guide OCIE’s risk-based examination strategy across
the following program areas: broker-dealer, investment
adviser, investment company, and market oversight.
In addition to RAS’ development of its data gathering
and analytics described above, other examples of RAS’
efforts include:
■■

•	 OCIE has continued to expand the use of targeted
examinations as a technique to identify and address
higher risk activities such as, for example:
■■

■■

■■

■■

■■

■■

■■

the potential misuse by mutual funds of payments to
intermediaries as payment for distribution;

■■

the use of purported “alternative” investment strategies
by registered investment companies;

■■

the fulfillment of fiduciary and contractual obligations by
investment advisers when advising wrap fee programs;
compliance with exemptive orders and relevant
no-action letters in securities lending arrangements;
representations of investment advisers and brokerdealers and sales practices when recommending to
customers a movement of retirement plan assets into
rollover vehicles;
broker-dealers’ compliance with Exchange Act
Rule 15c3-5 when having direct market access to
exchanges or ATSs; and
cyber-security practices of broker-dealers and
investment advisers.

•	 OCIE continued its monitoring and examination efforts
with respect to some of the nation’s largest brokerdealers. Among other things, OCIE has coordinated
efforts within the Commission and with other regulators
to increase coverage in important areas affecting these
broker-dealers, such as operational risk, technology
governance, automated trading and controls, liquidity
risk management, and effectiveness of control functions,
including strategic initiatives to remediate control
deficiencies and meet future enhanced requirements.

PAGE

  32

close collaboration with the regions and others
throughout the Commission, including the Division
of Economic and Risk Analysis (DERA) and the rulemaking offices, to focus examinations on registrants
and practices that pose the greatest risk to capital
markets and investors;
ongoing surveillance of registrants and markets and
communicate risks to OCIE staff; and
enhancing information gathering and data analysis
techniques to use information submitted by private
fund advisers on Form PF, as well as information about
disciplinary and employment histories of bad actors
in the financial industry to utilize such intelligence to
identify risks to investors and the markets.

•	 OCIE’s QAU has continued to develop OCIE’s quantitative
system architecture through software projects. In addition
to the QAU-developed NEAT, the QAU has supported
individual exam teams in OCIE’s Investment Adviser/
Investment Company examination program nationwide,
the development of improved risk identification methods,
and collaboration with DERA and RAS.
•	 OCIE’s Technology Controls Program (TCP), the
successor to the Division of Trading and Markets’
(Trading and Markets) Automated Review Program,
continues to develop its technology controls examination
program. OCIE has leveraged TCP’s strong technology
knowledge base to support other examination programs
nationally, including by serving as technical risk experts
for exam teams. TCP has also regularly liaised with
other regulators to share identified technology risks and
communicate those to OCIE’s examination programs
as appropriate.
•	 OCIE’s Office of Market Oversight continued its successful
approach to monitoring and assessing risk at the
national securities exchanges and FINRA. Examinations
in this area included reviews of the regulatory service

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

agreements and equity order types at the exchanges,
and FINRA district offices, as well as FINRA home
office enforcement. The Market Oversight Office also
conducted examinations of many registrants to ensure
compliance with Section 31 of the Exchange Act, which
requires each SRO to pay certain fees to the Commission
based on the aggregate dollar amount of certain sales
of securities.
•	 OCIE improved collaboration efforts in other areas
with divisions and offices throughout the SEC to
help ensure that higher risk activities and issues are
addressed in the most effective manner. For example,
OCIE coordinates efforts and utilizes data produced
by the Risk and Examinations Office in the Division of
Investment Management (Investment Management) to
identify and address higher risk firms and activities. OCIE
also regularly shares examination trends, findings, and
industry observations with other offices in order to identify
mutual areas of interest and concern.
OCIE has expanded efforts to coordinate processes with
other regulators and agencies, including FINRA, the DOJ, the
Department of Labor, banking regulators and state regulators,
on a number of matters, as well as foreign regulators. Among
other things, this type of coordination and collaboration helps
ensure that all regulators are informed of ongoing risks and
issues related to broad market practices as well as specific
entities of mutual interest.

Promoting Effective Disclosure

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•	 Corporation Finance also published significant interpretive
guidance to assist companies in improving their
disclosures, such as updates to Corporation Finance’s
Financial Reporting Manual and the publication of
guidance reminding CFOs of the need to properly tag and
report their company financial information in eXtensible
Business Reporting Language (XBRL).
•	 Corporation Finance launched efforts to identify ways
to make disclosure rules more effective. The staff will
continue its comprehensive review of the disclosure
requirements and make recommendations on how
to update them to facilitate timely, material, and
more meaningful disclosure by companies to their
shareholders. As part of this review, staff members are
coordinating with the Financial Accounting Standards
Board to identify ways to improve the effectiveness
of disclosures in corporate financial statements, and
to minimize duplication with other existing disclosure
requirements.
•	 Investment Management continued to protect investors
and promote informed investment decisions through
review and comment on disclosures of mutual funds,
exchange-traded funds, variable annuities, and other
investment companies. In its review of investment
company disclosures, Investment Management focused
on a number of areas, including fees, investment
strategies, and industry trends such as the growth in
“alternative” mutual funds, the use of derivatives by
funds, and changes to existing variable annuity products.

•	 Through its review program, Corporation Finance
continued to improve the effectiveness of company
disclosures and enhance investor protection through
focused comments on periodic reports and offering
documents, including the registration statements for
several high-profile initial public offerings.

•	 Investment Management monitored fund industry
operations that could be affected by certain world events,
including fund exposures to Russia-related securities
and the potential impact on liquidity, valuation, and
the risk disclosures provided to investors. Investment
Management also focused on exchange-traded funds
(ETFs) creation and redemption activity, liquidity, spreads,
and risk planning in light of Office of Foreign Assets
Control (OFAC) sanctions. In addition, following the
downgrade of certain Puerto Rican municipal securities,
Investment Management monitored funds’ exposure to
that debt and related risk disclosures.

•	 Corporation Finance has continued to look at ways to
improve the quality and consistency of its comments as
well as the overall effectiveness of its filing review process.

•	 Investment Management published Guidance Updates
on several topics related to disclosures, including the use
of fund names that suggest safety or protection from loss.

Effective disclosure is crucial to informed investment decisionmaking. In FY 2014, the Divisions of Corporation Finance
(Corporation Finance) and Investment Management continued
to work to ensure that companies disclose material information
appropriately and effectively.

  33

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

An Ongoing Commitment to Robust
Economic Analysis
DERA has continued its use of sophisticated and transparent
economic analysis to support a broad range of Commission
activities. DERA’s data-driven economic analyses, which
inform rulemakings and other policy initiatives, garnered praise
broadly and in the context of specific rulemakings. The Division
also supports many data-driven initiatives and programs,
including risk assessment activities and the use of structured
data, and leads a significant effort to process data and develop
data analytics. The DERA staff includes a broad spectrum of
experts, including PhD financial economists, accountants,
statisticians, database administrators, operational research
analysts, attorneys, and program managers, and works with
nearly every division and office throughout the Agency.

Incorporating Economic Analysis in Rulemaking
DERA’s financial economists and other market experts are fully
integrated into the Commission’s rulemaking process. From
the earliest stages of policy development, economists provide
economic insights to inform Commission action.
•	 Economists were closely involved in the development of
the money market fund reform rulemaking adopted by
the Commission. The fully integrated economic analysis
reflected in that rulemaking contained sophisticated
qualitative and quantitative analyses of the potential
impact and economic effects of the Commission’s
policy choices.
•	 DERA staff continued its data-driven approach to
analyzing issues related to the application of the DoddFrank Act Title VII rules to cross-border security-based
swaps. Using data on the credit default swaps market,
DERA provided a number of novel data analyses of the
characteristics of the security-based-swaps market to
better understand the impacts of the Commission’s rules.
•	 DERA is also part of several cross-agency monitoring
efforts, including those related to private offerings,
money market funds, and credit default swaps. DERA
staff collaborates closely with colleagues in Corporation
Finance, Investment Management, and Trading and
Markets to ensure the ongoing availability of data related
to market activity in these, and other, areas.

PAGE

  34

Engaging in Cutting-edge Research
DERA staff produces papers and studies on significant
economic issues to help support the Commission’s mission.
These staff-authored white papers and memoranda are publicly
available on the DERA website and are often cross-referenced
in Commission rulemakings or other policy initiatives. These
papers showcase DERA’s expert staff’s academically rigorous,
research that informs policy as it is being developed. Notable
contributions include:
•	 Two significant papers on ATS and over-the-counter
(OTC) trading, which were cross-posted on the SEC’s
new market structure website. These papers provide
new and sophisticated data analyses of the off-exchange
market. The first white paper provided the first publicly
available measurement of ATS market share that did not
rely on self-reported data. It also documented that trade
sizes in dark pools appear surprisingly similar to trade
sizes on exchanges, despite assertions that these venues
are used to effect block transactions. The second white
paper focused on a little-studied area, examining the
off-exchange market other than ATSs. That paper found
that the non-ATS portion of the off-exchange market is a
larger share of the market than the ATS portion. Contrary
to the prevailing belief that this part of the market is largely
retail, the paper finds that while a few “retail” market
makers seem to capture a large portion of the nonATS off-exchange volume, other trading comprises the
majority of off-exchange, non-ATS trading. Additional
papers are planned as part of this series and will directly
inform the Commission’s ongoing study and regulation
of market structure.
•	 In a series of memoranda related to money market fund
reform, DERA staff analyzed a variety of issues relevant
to the Commission’s consideration of further reform of
money market funds. They addressed questions as to:
(1) the increase in average liquidity cost for trades made
during the financial crisis of 2008 relative to normal
times for securities equivalent to what money market
fund portfolios contain; (2) how much exposure municipal
money market funds have to parents of guarantors of
assets held by money market funds; (3) the usage of nongovernment securities by government funds; and (4) the
impact, given the evidence of the supply and demand of

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

global safe assets, of adopting more stringent portfolio
requirement for government money market funds on
that market. These memoranda were made available for
comment by interested parties and then directly informed
the final rulemaking.
•	 DERA’s former Chief Economist and two other
DERA economists authored a white paper on
interconnectedness in the credit default swap (“CDS”)
market. That paper studied the structure of the CDS
market using connections based on a variety of metrics,
and provided statistics that characterized the CDS
market, the degree of counterparty concentration, and
size of different contracts, and underlying contractual
features. The paper directly informs the ongoing and
important discussions regarding the structure and
resulting fragility or stability of the CDS market as well
as studying potential contagion among its participants.
•	 DERA staff issued a white paper on computing tools for
promoting sound investment decisions, which introduced
a computing tool that can assist individual retail investors
to better assess the risk and return characteristics of
their portfolios by displaying simulated portfolio returns.
DERA’s economists and accountants also publish original
research on topics germane to the SEC’s mission in a range of
economic, finance, and accounting journals. They frequently
participate in conferences by presenting this research, critically
discussing the work of others, and moderating research
sessions. Through these efforts, DERA staff maintains an
awareness and understanding of significant financial market
issues and potential solutions to potential failures or risks.
These articles and presentations showcase the staff’s
expertise, inform the public of new and interesting work,
and ensure an ongoing exchange of ideas with the academic
community. By producing cutting-edge research and
engaging the academic community of financial researchers,
DERA staff incorporates the most recent market insights into
their work at the Commission and receives valuable feedback
on that work from the academic community. This interplay
helps ensure that the SEC’s rulemaking, surveillance activity,
and examination work keep pace with industry innovations
and financial market risks.
•	 DERA hosted more than 19 academics from leading
universities around the country to present their research

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

at the SEC, covering topics that included securitization,
OTC derivatives, high frequency trading, dark pools,
executive compensation, fair value accounting, credit
ratings, and systemic risk, ensuring that these new
scholarly insights were accessible to staff from across
the SEC.
•	 On an ongoing basis, DERA also facilitates a variety of
programs to bring market experts to the SEC. Leading
academics frequently present their work through the
DERA Seminar Series and Brown Bag Series. In FY 2014,
DERA organized an Outside Perspective Series, which
features SEC-wide lectures from both academic and
industry experts. DERA has also recently established a
Visiting Scholar Series where prominent academics visit
the DERA for a week and present research and training
seminars to the staff.
•	 DERA staff has published numerous articles and
participated in each of the major conferences on
securities market issues.

Continuing the Commitment to Structured Data
DERA has continued to deploy its expertise to support the use
of structured data across the Commission. DERA staff works
closely with various divisions and offices to provide technical
input on the structuring of Commission forms, providing
expert input on the content and structure of the forms. These
efforts are central to ensuring that the information submitted
to the Commission is useable and accessible by investors
and other users.
Further, in its commitment to ensuring that the data submitted
to the Commission through forms and filings is useful to
investors, market participants, and the Commission, DERA
staff are monitoring the quality of the submitted XBRL
data. Throughout the year, DERA staff conducted a variety
of outreach efforts such as conferences, webcasts, and
frequently asked questions, or “FAQs,” to provide further
guidance to filers regarding XBRL related issues.
•	 The staff recently completed an initial assessment of
custom tag rate use in XBRL exhibits and posted the
results on the SEC XBRL website. Among the findings,
staff reported that some of the perceived quality issues
associated with XBRL data are related to third-party

  35

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

providers of XBRL software and services, but that overall,
there has been a steady decline in custom tag use by
larger filers, indicating improvements in the U.S. GAAP
taxonomy and companies’ selections of tags. The study
also highlighted that many of the reporting challenges
reside with smaller filers.
•	 The staff also completed an assessment of required
calculations in XBRL exhibits, observing that smaller filers
accounted for 98 percent of filers with problematically
low submissions of required calculations, with the vast
majority using the same three third-party providers.
Based on DERA staff’s assessment, Corporation Finance
published guidance to CFOs on the need to tag and
report financial information properly.

Supporting Sophisticated Data-Driven Analytics
In September 2013, DERA launched its Quantitative Research
Analytical Data Support (“QRADS”) Program. This program
focuses significant contractor support on a variety of
complicated data-driven initiatives, in particular, the generation
of standardized quantitative reports of financial markets and
registrant activity, and the refinement of large and sophisticated
datasets needed for Commission rulemaking and risk
assessment activities. As with many of DERA’s initiatives,
this program engages staff from across the agency in a
broad effort to proactively identify the types of data and data
analytics that are key to understanding the capital markets.
The program is flexible and is designed to meet the growing
and changing data needs of the Commission. Currently,
QRADS is processing and analyzing FINRA-produced financial
market data, OTC market transactions data involving securitybased swaps, and mutual fund flow data. The availability of this
kind of consolidated data will allow for proactive identification
of market issues, including the build-up of pockets of risk in
the financial market and a better understanding of asset flows.

Developing Tools to Identify Financial Market Risks
DERA staff continues to develop and use sophisticated tools
and data analytics to support the risk assessment activities of
various offices and divisions. For example, DERA works closely
with Enforcement’s Financial Reporting and Audit Task Force
and with Corporation Finance to assist in identifying financial
reporting irregularities that may indicate financial fraud and

PAGE

  36

help assess corporate issuer risk. In addition, DERA continues
its already-robust support of OCIE and Enforcement with the
deployment and ongoing refinement of data-driven tools
that assist with risk-targeting firms and issues for inquiries,
investigations, and examinations. Importantly, by developing
these models in close collaboration with staff in these other
divisions and offices, DERA staff is able to incorporate
feedback from SEC staff to help ensure that the models are
effective in assisting staff to identify potential risks.

Protecting Investors Through Education
Providing investors with the information they need to avoid
securities fraud and make informed investment decisions
remained a high priority for the Commission in FY 2014.
The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy (OIEA)
continued to support the Commission’s investor protection
mission by:
•	 posting educational content to Investor.gov, which was
recognized by a popular global business magazine on
its list of “5 Federal websites people use (and actually
work)” based on the website’s high customer satisfaction
scores, which significantly exceeded Federal government
benchmarks. Investor.gov attracted over one million
new visitors, an increase of 140 percent compared to
FY 2013, due in part to its growing digital and social
media presence, including over 40,000 followers
on Twitter;
•	 publishing a record number of 28 investor alerts and
bulletins warning investors of possible fraudulent
schemes, including affinity fraud and schemes involving
virtual currencies, and educating them on investmentrelated matters;
•	 conducting in-person outreach, in partnership with
FINRA, state securities regulators, law enforcement
agencies, and outside groups; and
•	 distributing educational publications through the General
Services Administration’s Federal Citizen Information
Center.
In addition, OIEA continued to handle investment-related
complaints and questions from tens of thousands of individual
investors, participated in the Elder Justice Coordinating Council

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

From left to right: Commissioner Kara M. Stein, Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar, Chair Mary Jo White, Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher,
and Commissioner Michael S. Piwowar

and supported IOSCO’s Committee on Retail Investors, whose
primary mandate is to conduct policy work on retail investor
education and financial literacy.

regulator expertise to bear in ongoing assessments and peer
reviews of financial regulatory reforms by IOSCO, the FSB and
other international bodies.

Continued International Collaboration

Enhanced Operational Efficiencies

In today’s global securities markets, internationally active
registrants and cross-border transactions are commonplace.
As part of the SEC’s effort to ensure rigorous oversight of the
U.S. market, it continues to focus on coordinated international
approaches in key regulatory areas. The work of the SEC staff
is mainly coordinated through OIA’s Regulatory Policy Group.
Through its work with IOSCO, the Financial Stability Board
(FSB) and the OTC Derivatives Regulators Group, among
others, the SEC continues to promote international regulatory
convergence toward high-quality standards and practices.

Strong operational performance, financial controls, and
information systems allow the SEC to maximize the impact
of its staff, resources and budget in pursuit of the agency’s
vital mission. The SEC’s Office of the Chief Operating Officer
(OCOO) continues to significantly improve performance in
each of these areas.

In FY 2014, the SEC worked tirelessly with its international
counterparts to address regulatory issues of common
interest. Such issues included considering the impact of
minimum haircuts for certain secured financing transactions on
financial stability, seeking understandings on key elements for
developing consistent approaches to regulating participants in
the OTC derivatives market, reducing reliance on credit ratings,
developing and refining toolkits for cross-border regulation of
internationally active entities, and bringing securities market

Improved Financial Management and Performance
•	 OCOO employed strategic sourcing initiatives to
produce cost savings in a number of ways, such as
negotiating better, longer-term and less costly contracts,
and broadening the search for diverse suppliers with
competitive prices. In FY 2014, 75 percent of contract
dollars were awarded competitively, and 57 percent of
eligible spending dollars went to small businesses.
•	 OCOO reorganized and restructured the agency’s
Library, realigned staff and purged outdated materials,
dramatically reducing the library’s footprint and operating
budget.

  37

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•	 In addition, OCOO continued to optimize the SEC’s space
utilization rate through consolidation and realignment
of office space, leveraging benefits from the agency’s
expanded telework program.

Investing in Talent
•	 The SEC’s Office of Human Resources (OHR) streamlined
the hiring process and reduced the hiring timeline by
10 percent between the first and fourth quarter of
FY 2014.
•	 OHR continued to build a comprehensive suite of
e-learning, training, and educational resources for
employees covering securities market structure and
trading issues, legal and accounting skills, management
strategies and other areas needed for effective operations,
investor protection, and regulatory oversight.

Technological Advancements
•	 The SEC continues to modernize its technology systems,
enhancing agency effectiveness, public responsiveness
and oversight of the financial markets.
•	 The Office of Information Technology made further
enhancements to the sec.gov website – the general
public’s primary portal to the SEC. The website now
offers 148,000 static web pages and 21 million company
filings and, with more than 1.2 billion hits per month, has
become the most visited government website.
•	 The agency upgraded its TCR Intake and Resolution
System to allow the public to submit tips and
documentation regarding suspicions or evidence of
wrongdoing in a more user-friendly manner, and to provide
SEC staff the ability to access real-time, centralized TCR
data and apply more robust analytics tools.
These technological capabilities further augment ongoing IT
upgrades, efficiencies and contract renegotiations, which are
yielding operations savings of millions of dollars a year.

PAGE

  38

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Looking Forward
In FY 2015, the SEC will continue to promote, policies and
programs to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly, and
efficient markets, and facilitate capital formation. The agency
will continue to build upon its robust enforcement and
examination programs using innovative data analysis and
cutting-edge technology. The SEC will also continue to make
progress on important rulemakings – both those mandated
by Congress and those that cover other mission-critical areas;
and will push forward on initiatives to strengthen the resiliency
and operational integrity of our securities markets. In FY 2015,
the SEC will also strive to enhance its operations, bolster its
investor outreach and use sophisticated data analytics to
improve its efficiency and effectiveness.

Rulemaking for a Dynamic Economy
In the coming fiscal year, the Commission will seek to complete
the remaining major rulemakings required by the Dodd-Frank
and JOBS Acts. As this rulemaking is completed, the SEC will
also continue to focus on discretionary rulemaking in areas of
critical importance for investors and other market participants,
including asset management, equity and fixed income market
structure, and financial infrastructure.

The Dodd-Frank Act
With over 90 percent of the required rules proposed or
adopted, the Commission is nearing the completion of its
Dodd-Frank rulemaking in many key areas. In FY 2015, the
SEC will strive to advance the final rules required to build a
more stable and transparent financial system by:
•	 continuing to implement the comprehensive regulatory
framework for over-the-counter derivatives market called
for by the Dodd-Frank Act, including the adoption of
rules for regulation of market participants, mandatory
clearing, and transaction reporting and execution, as well
as rules establishing the SEC’s approach to the crossborder aspects of that market;
•	 accelerating the implementation of the provisions of the
Dodd-Frank Act related to executive compensation,
including the disclosure requirements regarding the
ratio of CEO compensation to median employee pay,

pay for performance, employee and director hedging,
and compensation clawbacks;
•	 developing revised rules to require reporting issuers
engaged in the commercial development of oil, natural
gas, or minerals to disclose in an annual report certain
payments made to the United States or a foreign
government;
•	 targeting the removal of the final references to credit
ratings in SEC rules and forms;
•	 evaluating recommendations from a staff report to
consider a uniform fiduciary standard of conduct for
investment advisers and broker-dealers when providing
personalized investment advice to retail investors about
securities, as well as ways to better harmonize the
regulatory requirements of investment advisers and
broker-dealers when they are providing the same or
substantially similar services to retail investors; and
•	 advancing the remaining reviews, studies and reports
required by the Dodd-Frank Act, including a review of
the important definition of the term “accredited investor”
to determine whether there should be any adjustments
or modifications to it.

The JOBS Act
The SEC is also working to complete the remaining
rulemakings required by the JOBS Act, encouraging greater
capital formation for small businesses and emerging growth
companies while preserving strong investor protections by:
•	 seeking to adopt final rules to implement exemptions
under the Securities Act for securities-based
crowdfunding offerings and offerings conducted pursuant
to “Regulation A+”;
•	 considering final amendments to enhance the
Commission’s ability to evaluate the development of
market practices in Rule 506 offerings and to address
concerns that may arise in connection with permitting
issuers to engage in general solicitation and general
advertising in such offerings;

  39

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•	 continuing to work to implement the changes to the
thresholds for registration and deregistration under
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, which were effective
immediately upon enactment of the JOBS Act; and

•	 enhance content and usability of data reporting by
investment as well as mutual funds, ETFs and other
registered investment companies to facilitate data
analysis and risk monitoring;

•	 continuing to provide interpretive guidance to issuers
and their advisers on the implementation and application
of the JOBS Act, and review emerging practices in the
securities market following the implementation of JOBS
Act rules.

•	 assess potential new requirements for mitigating the
conflicts of interest at credit rating agencies that are
inherent in the “issuer pay” model; and

Other Major Regulatory Initiatives
Beyond these statutory mandates, the SEC will continue to
develop rules for a dynamic economy that seeks to facilitate
capital formation while protecting investors and maintaining
fair, orderly, and efficient markets. In particular, in the coming
fiscal year, the SEC will:
•	 advance a comprehensive set of rules for improving equity
market structure, including through enhanced oversight
of trading algorithms, dealer registration requirements
for active proprietary traders, membership requirements
for dealers that trade in off-exchange venues, enhanced
order routing disclosures by broker-dealers, expanded
public information concerning alternative trading system
(ATS) operations, and an anti-disruptive trading rule
applicable to active proprietary traders to address the
use of aggressive, destabilizing trading strategies in
vulnerable market conditions;
•	 develop potential rules for enhanced pre-trade
transparency in the fixed income markets, including in
the trading of municipal securities;
•	 continue to work toward a stronger financial responsibility
framework for broker-dealers, including through new
capital and liquidity requirements;
•	 advance improvements to the quality of reports and other
information provided to investors in mutual funds and
variable annuities;
•	 consider significant enhancements to the risk
management practices of investment funds and advisers,
including through new requirements addressing liquidity
risk management, stress testing, the use of derivatives,
and transition planning;

PAGE

  40

•	 review potential updates and improvements to core
agency programs, including the disclosure framework for
public companies, the regulatory framework for transfer
agents, and the regulatory treatment of exchange-traded
funds and target date funds.

Continuing Strong Enforcement
and Examination Efforts
Enforcement and OCIE will continue to build on their very strong
results from FY 2014 by focusing on current and emerging
high-priority areas, and on enhancing their use of cuttingedge technology and analytics. Enforcement’s priorities for
the coming year include a continued focus complex financial
products, gatekeepers, financial reporting, market structure,
insider trading, investment advisers and private funds, and
municipal securities. OCIE will continue to invest in and
use data analytics that enable preemptive detection of risk
throughout entire industries and more effective identification
of fraud in examinations.
•	 Enforcement filed a series of financial reporting cases in
the last fiscal year and will continue the momentum in
pursuing financial reporting and accounting fraud. These
efforts will include leveraging the work of Enforcement’s
Financial Reporting and Audit Task Force, which is
focused on identifying violations relating to the preparation
of financial statements, issuer reporting and disclosure,
and audit failures.
•	 Enforcement’s Broker-Dealer Task Force will remain
focused on bolstering efforts to address current issues
and practices within the broker-dealer community. This
includes developing and rolling out nationwide initiatives
to combat problematic practices in this area such as
churning and the failure to comply with anti-money
laundering requirements.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•	 Enforcement’s Microcap Fraud Task Force will continue
its proactive efforts to root out microcap fraud through
the use of strategies like trading suspensions and efforts
to target repeat players and gatekeepers in this area.
•	 Enforcement will continue its focus on halting pyramid
schemes, including taking steps to disrupt these schemes
through a coordinated effort of timely, aggressive
enforcement actions along with community outreach
and investor education.
•	 Enforcement will continue to use technology to better
process and understand large volumes of data. This
includes employing technology to identify and investigate
potential violations, including high-risk areas that could
harm investors, markets or regulated entities.
•	 OCIE will continue to focus on issues affecting investors’
retirement accounts, including sales and marketing
practices related to financial advisers’ recommendations
that retirement plan assets be placed in investment
vehicles offered by their firms.
•	 OCIE will make governance and supervision of
information technology systems a priority, including
operational capability, business continuity planning, and
cybersecurity.
•	 OCIE will track individuals that have prior disciplinary
histories and assess the compliance programs of firms
that hire or conduct business with such individuals.
•	 OCIE will examine certain areas of higher risk in brokerdealers’ trading activities, including execution of trades in
fixed income securities, equity order routing, and trades
in sub-accounts.
•	 OCIE will conduct reviews to assess implementation of
compliance frameworks at municipal advisors in light
of rules finalizing registration requirements adopted in
FY 2013.

Enhancing Market Stability
The SEC continues to advance a broad-based program
for improving the operational integrity and operation of our
securities markets, seeking improvements in critical market
infrastructure and enhancing data and analytical capabilities.

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

In FY 2015, the SEC will finalize rules to improve the design,
deployment, integrity and operation of automated systems
controlled by exchanges and other key market participants
to help ensure that they are prepared to respond quickly and
effectively to system errors and malfunctions. The SEC will
continue to work closely with the exchanges and FINRA on
the development of measures that will focus on certain market
infrastructure systems that can halt or severely disrupt trading
when a problem occurs.
The SEC will continue to support the development of a
consolidated audit trail by the exchanges and FINRA and
will also leverage existing data analytics in its evaluation of
additional market structure initiatives.

Continuing to Refine and Use Cutting-edge
Data Analytics
The SEC will continue to develop and enhance sophisticated
models and data analytics, and use them across the Agency
to assess risk and, more broadly, to further its mission.
•	 DERA recently created the Office of Risk Assessment
(ORA), which reflects the Commission’s ongoing focus
on deploying data-driven analytics to assist with the
identification of financial market risk.
•	 ORA will build on DERA’s successes by centralizing
many of the resources needed to develop, apply, and
support risk analysis methods and tools. ORA will provide
financial and risk modeling expertise and support to
Divisions and Offices with broker-dealer, corporate issuer,
and investment adviser risk assessment and oversight
responsibilities.
•	 ORA will also support OCIE and other Agency staff with
examination planning, including providing guidance on
the collection and analysis of data to help promote riskbased examination programs.
•	 DERA is working closely with Corporation Finance to
assist in identifying financial reporting irregularities that
may indicate financial fraud and help assess corporate
issuer risk.
•	 DERA and Corporation Finance will also use information
collected from Form D to track the use of general
solicitation and general advertising in Rule 506 offerings

  41

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

to assess the impact of its use on capital raising in
private markets, including the impact on the size of
offerings, number of participating investors, and the use
of placement agents and other intermediaries.
•	 Trading and Markets will continue to refine the
Commission’s equity market structure web site, updating
it with trading data and research papers concerning
various types of trading.
•	 Trading and Markets will also continue to expand its
analytical work in the equity options market, using
advanced technologies to analyze options trade and
quote data to inform on a wide variety of SRO rule
proposals.
•	 Investment Management will enhance its capability
to track and categorize disclosure filings, including
substantive disclosure and accounting comments
made to mutual funds and other registered investment
companies, which, in turn, will enhance its analysis
of emerging trends, frequency of issues, and related
patterns in fund disclosure and product development
activity.

•	 Investment Management also plans to conduct analysis
of money market fund monthly portfolio data, obtained
through the Form N-MFP, as part of its overall focus on
implementation of the money market mutual fund reforms
adopted by the Commission in FY 2014.
•	 OCIE will continue to develop advanced technology,
including text analytics, visualization, search and predictive
analysis, through its risk analysis and quantitative teams,
to review large volumes of trade data sets from a wide
range of financial firms, seeking to identify improper
trading activity and other serious risks to investors.

Promoting Investor Education
In FY 2015, the SEC will continue to look for new and
innovative ways to educate investors including:
•	 increasing investor education outreach to target
audiences, including seniors, millennials, affinity groups,
and the military to convey key investor education
messages, including, among others, understanding fees,
and identifying fraud;
•	 using research to inform and enhance investor education
initiatives, including feedback from Investor.gov’s
customer satisfaction survey; and
•	 educating individuals about the importance of checking
the registration status of an investment professional
before investing. OIEA will aim to increase online searches
of the SEC’s Investment Adviser Public Disclosure
database.

Continuing to Enhance Operations
The SEC considers continuous improvement in all aspects
of its finances and operations critical to its mission, and will
continue to enhance its ability to deliver effective and efficient
services in FY 2015.

Workforce
Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher

PAGE

  42

The SEC’s strongest asset is its staff. In FY 2015, the agency
will seek to continue hiring and retaining a diverse, dedicated
and talented workforce.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

The SEC will also work to identify additional training needs,
and procure or develop high-quality training that will continue
to allow SEC staff to perform at the highest levels.

Technology
Since FY 2013, the SEC has been working on a multi-year
technology transformation plan called “Working Smarter.”
Under the Working Smarter initiative, the agency has worked
to standardize enterprise-wide platforms, modernize SEC.gov
and the EDGAR filer system, develop advanced search and
discovery capabilities, and build complex, predictive analytical
capabilities. In FY 2015, the agency will continue to build on
this initiative in an effort to lower costs, deliver better services
to both employees and the public, and increase accountability,
transparency, and security.
In FY 2015, the SEC will also continue to enhance its electronic
discovery tools, and to improve its document storage,
organization, and analytic capabilities.
In addition, the agency plans to review its current disclosure
systems and processes and identify ways to use technology to
improve the submission and analysis of disclosure documents.

Finance
The SEC is committed to further improving its financial systems,
processes, and controls. The agency is building a financial
data mart, as part of a broader SEC-wide Electronic Data
Warehouse initiative. This data mart is designed to integrate
data from a variety of SEC systems, facilitating financial
decision-making by providing comprehensive management
and financial reporting on a regular basis.
The SEC also will continue to participate in the Federal
government-wide deployment of a new travel system, work
to replace the system supporting budget execution and
formulation, and focus on reforming the systems related to
filing fees and disgorgements and penalties.

Commissioner Kara M. Stein

Conclusion
In FY 2014, the SEC continued to achieve important results
by leveraging technology, employing sophisticated data
analytics and pursing focused rulemaking and policy initiatives,
aggressive enforcement and risk-based examinations.
Through the work of its talented and dedicated staff, the
SEC is committed to building on its successes in FY 2015.
The agency will continue to promote its strategic values of
integrity, accountability, effectiveness, teamwork, fairness and
a commitment to excellence through improving collaboration
and coordination among its divisions and offices, employing
new technology, and supporting the more than 4,000 talented
men and women who work tirelessly to fulfill the agency’s
important mission.

In addition, the agency will continue to search for cost
savings, such as through its efforts with the General Services
Administration to optimize the use of leased space across our
real estate portfolio.

  43

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Financial Highlights
This section provides an analysis of the financial position, results of operations, and the underlying causes for significant changes
in balances presented in the SEC’s FY 2014 financial statements.
As described further below, the SEC’s finances have several
main components:
•	 An annual appropriation from Congress;
•	 Securities transaction fees, charged in accordance with
Section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act, which offset
the agency’s annual appropriation;
•	 Securities registration, tender offer and merger fees (also
called filing fees), of which $50 million is deposited into the
Reserve Fund each year. The Reserve Fund may provide
resources up to $100 million to pay for SEC expenses,
and they are not subject to annual appropriation or
apportionment;
•	 Disgorgement and penalties ordered and collected from
violators of the securities laws, some of which are then
returned to harmed investors and the remainder of which
are transferred to the Investor Protection Fund or the
Treasury; and
•	 The SEC Investor Protection Fund, which is funded
through disgorgement and penalties not distributed to
harmed investors, and which is used to make payments
to whistleblowers who give tips to aid the SEC’s
enforcement efforts in certain circumstances, as well as
to cover the expenses of the SEC Office of Inspector
General’s (OIG) Employee Suggestion Program.

PAGE

  44

Sequestration Order for FY 2014
On March 1, 2013, the President issued the Sequestration
Order for FY 2013 which reduced FY 2013 budget authority.
As determined by the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB), for FY 2014, the sequestration order was applicable
to mandatory appropriations and spending authority from
offsetting collections, which included the Reserve Fund and
the Investor Protection Fund, of the SEC as follows:
Reserve Fund
The budget authority of $75 million was reduced by
7.2 percent or $5.4 million.
Investor Protection Fund
The budget authority of $90 million was reduced by
7.2 percent or $6 million.

Rescission for FY 2014
On January 17, 2014, Congress passed the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2014. Within the appropriation language, a
$25 million rescission was applied to the unobligated balance
of the Reserve Fund.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Overview of Financial Position
Assets. At September 30, 2014, the SEC’s total assets were
$10.6 billion, an increase of $638 million or six percent over
FY 2013.
Investments, Net increased $473 million, or 37 percent, due
to large Disgorgement and Penalty collections for cases that
were subsequently invested and remained invested at the end
of FY 2014. These investments include collections from the
following cases:
•	 J. P. Morgan Securities LLC
•	 British Petroleum PLC
•	 RBS Securities Inc
Accounts Receivable, Net increased $120 million due to the
remaining Disgorgement and Penalty receivables for Alcoa
Inc., Bank of America Corporation, and AIC, Inc.
In addition to the disgorgement related receivables, the
SEC experienced a $35 million increase in Section 31 Fees
receivable in FY 2014 due to the increased transaction volume
and the increased fee rate established in March of FY 2014,
which rose from $17.40 per million to $22.10 per million
transactions.
Property and Equipment, Net decreased by $14 million due, in
part, to the change in the capitalization threshold implemented
later in FY 2013.

TABLE 1.2ASSETS AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 AND 2013
FY 2014

FY 2013

$	8,211

$	8,155

1,360

848

Investments – Investor Protection Fund

395

434

Accounts Receivable, Net

507

387

Property and Equipment, Net

113

127

4

2

$	10,590

$	9,953

(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

Fund Balance with Treasury
Investments – Disgorgement and
Penalties Fund

Other Assets
Total Assets

  45

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Liabilities. The SEC’s total liabilities were $2.9 billion as of
September 30, 2014, an increase of $602 million or 26 percent
from FY 2013. The change was mainly related to the increase
in the liabilities for Disgorgement and Penalty cases recorded
during FY 2014, such as against:
•	 Morgan Stanley and Company
•	 RBS Securities Inc.
•	 AIC Inc.
•	 Amerindo Investment Advisors Inc.
The increase in liabilities was offset by distributions to harmed
investors totaling $195 million.
For the assets received resulting from judgments, the SEC
recognizes a corresponding liability, which is either custodial
if the collections are transferred to the U.S. Treasury General
Fund or the Investor Protection Fund, or governmental if the
collections are held pending distribution to harmed investors.
Unearned filing fees held in a SEC deposit account and earned
filing fees being returned to the U.S. Treasury General Fund
result in SEC recognizing a corresponding liability.
Ending Net Position. The SEC’s net position, comprised of
both unexpended appropriations and the cumulative results
of operations, increased approximately by $35 million, or less
than one percent, between September 30, 2014 and 2013.

PAGE

  46

TABLE 1.3
LIABILITIES AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 AND 2013
FY 2014

FY 2013

$	2,451

$	2,065

Custodial Liability

223

69

Accrued Payroll, Benefits and Leave

101

70

Accounts Payable

72

44

Registrant Deposits

35

33

(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

Liability for Disgorgement and Penalties

Other Liabilities
Total Liabilities

18

17

$	2,900

$	2,298

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Results of Operations
Earned Revenues. Total earned revenues for the year ended
September 30, 2014 increased by $142 million or eight
percent when compared to that of FY 2013. As a result of
higher transaction volume, and an increase in the transaction
fee rate effective in March 2014, revenue for Section 31
Transaction Fees increased by $69 million in FY 2014.
The majority of the SEC’s filing fees is no longer used to
partially fund the SEC’s operations and are now deposited to
the U.S. Treasury General Fund upon collection.

TABLE 1.4
EARNED REVENUES FOR THE YEARS ENDED
SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 AND 2013
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

Section 31 Securities Transaction Fees
Securities Registration, Tender Offer, and
Merger Fees (Filing Fees)
Total Earned Revenues

FY 2014

FY 2013

$	1,326

$	1,257

580

507

$	1,906

$	1,764

Reserve Fund. Section 991(e) of the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank
Act) authorized the creation of a Securities and Exchange
Commission Reserve Fund (Reserve Fund). Funded from filing
fee collections, the SEC can deposit up to $50 million per
fiscal year, and the fund cannot hold more than $100 million
in total. Excess filing fees are deposited to the U.S. Treasury
General Fund.
For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014, filing fee
revenues were $580 million. Fifty million dollars was deposited
into the Reserve Fund, of which $25 million was rescinded and
$5.4 million was sequestered. The excess of $530 million was
earned on behalf of the U.S. Treasury General Fund.
Filing fees deposited to the Reserve Fund can be used to
fund the SEC’s operations, create budgetary authority, and are
reported as a component of Appropriations (Discretionary and
Mandatory) on the SEC’s Statement of Budgetary Resources.
Filing fees deposited to the U.S. Treasury General Fund cannot
be used to fund the SEC’s operations. These amounts do not
create budgetary authority, and are reported as a component
of Other Financing Sources: Other on the SEC’s Statement of
Changes in Net Position.	
Reserve Fund resources totaling $66 million were obligated,
with $35 million in delivered orders paid, as of September 30,
2014, for both capitalized and non-capitalized information
technology related hardware, software, and contracting,
leaving a remaining amount of $327 thousand of available
resources.

  47

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Program Costs. Total Program Costs were $1.4 billion for the
year ended September 30, 2014, an increase of $110 million
or eight percent when compared to the prior year. Salary and
Benefit Expenses increased more than $91 million, because
the SEC had higher expenses in the areas of Pay and Benefits
as the result of increased staffing and compensation. Other
Expenses remained stable when comparing FY 2014 to
FY 2013, with the exception of accrued Whistleblower
payments from the SEC’s Investor Protection Fund, which
totaled more than $25 million.
The SEC had increased expenses in the areas of personnel
compensation and benefits which correlates to an increase
of 127 full-time equivalent employees; information technology
service contracts and licensing; capitalized and noncapitalized information systems software and hardware; and
whistleblower award payments.

Budgetary Resources
In FY 2014, the SEC’s total budgetary resources equaled
$1.551 billion, an 11 percent increase above the FY 2013
amount of $1.402 billion. Significant components of the SEC’s
Total Budgetary Resources are described below.
Unobligated Balance Brought Forward – Unfunded Lease
Obligations. The SEC’s unobligated balance, brought forward
was $441 million for FY 2014. The balance reflects the
funding actions and recoveries related to the unfunded lease
obligations plus the carry-over authority in the Salaries and
Expenses Fund and the Reserve Fund.
Unfunded lease obligations totaled $358 million as of
September 30, 2014. This represents a reduction relative to
the FY 2013 amount, because of funding actions of $83 million.
Percentages do not include the Unobligated Balance Brought Forward,
October 1 – Interpretation for Lease Obligations

PAGE

  48

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Spending Authority from Offsetting Collections. The Spending
Authority from Offsetting Collections increased $84 million
primarily for two reasons. Firstly, an increase in fees collected
of $18 million occurred in FY 2014.
Secondly, the $66 million sequestered during FY 2013 was
reverted to Unapportioned Authority during the first quarter of
FY 2014. Since then, this amount was reclassified during the
third quarter of FY 2014 to a temporary reduction/cancellation
returned by appropriation. This is in line with Treasury and
OMB guidance, as these funds are not available in FY 2014.

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

TABLE 1.5
TOTAL BUDGETARY RESOURCES FOR THE YEARS ENDED
SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 AND 2013
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

FY 2014

Unobligated Balance, Brought Forward, October 1:
Salaries and Expenses Fund – Without
Unfunded Lease Obligations
$	108
Salaries and Expenses Fund – Effect of
Change in Legal Interpretation for
Lease Obligations
	(441)
Reserve Fund
	44
Investor Protection Fund
Total Unobligated Balance, Brought
Forward, October 1
Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations
Downward Adjustments of Prior Year
Unfunded Lease Obligations
Appropriation (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Salaries and Expenses Fund
Reserve Fund
Investor Protection Fund
Spending Authority from Offsetting
Collections
Total Budgetary Resources

FY 2013

$	102

	(523)
	13

	434

	451

	145

	43

34

31

	–

2

59
22
(1)

48
72
(2)

1,292

1,208

$	1,551

$	1,402

Spending Authority from Offsetting Collections
and Appropriations
During the fiscal year, the SEC receives an appropriation to
fund its operations. This appropriation establishes the SEC’s
new budget authority in its Salaries and Expenses Fund for
the fiscal year. The SEC’s new budget authority of $1.35 billion
was for FY 2014.
The SEC’s Section 31 fee collections are used to offset the
appropriation, and the appropriated authority is returned to
the U.S. Treasury General Fund. On March 18, 2014, the
increase in the Section 31 fee rate from $17.40 to $22.10 per
million dollars transacted became effective. With an increase in
transaction volume during FY 2014, the Section 31 transaction
fee rate has led to increased earnings between the periods
ending September 30, 2014 and 2013.
The SEC’s Section 31 fee collections totaled $1,291 million for
FY 2014. Therefore, the SEC retained appropriated authority
equal to $59 million.

  49

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Investor Protection Fund
The SEC prepares stand alone financial statements for the
Investor Protection Fund as required by the Dodd-Frank Act.
The Investor Protection Fund was established in the fourth
quarter of FY 2010 to provide funding for a whistleblower
award program and to finance the operations of the SEC OIG’s
Employee Suggestion Program.
For FY 2014, the balance of the Investor Protection Fund
(Fund Balance with Treasury and Investments, net of Liabilities)
decreased by $24 million between October 1, 2013 and
September 30, 2014. The Investor Protection Fund recognized
non-exchange revenues totaling $579 thousand, from interest
earned on investments in U.S. Treasury Securities. In addition,
the Investor Protection Fund accrued expenses of $25 million
for whistleblower awards and $47 thousand for salary and
benefit cost in the OIG’s Employee Suggestion Program.
Additional information regarding the Investor Protection Fund
and the Office of the Whistleblower is available in the 2013
Annual Report on the Dodd-Frank Whistleblower Program.
This report may be found at www.sec.gov/whistleblower.

Limitations of the Financial Statements
The principal financial statements included in this report have
been prepared by SEC management to report the financial
position and results of operations of the SEC, pursuant to
the requirements of 31 U.S. Code Section 3515(b). While the
statements have been prepared from the books and records
of the SEC in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP) for Federal entities and the formats prescribed
by OMB, the statements are in addition to the financial reports
used to monitor and control budgetary resources, which are
prepared from the same books and records. The statements
should be read with the understanding that they are for a
component of the U.S. Government, a sovereign entity.

PAGE

  50

TABLE 1.6
INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND ACTIVITY
FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 AND 2013
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2014

Balance of Fund at beginning of fiscal year,
October 1
$	439,197
Amount of earnings on investments during
the fiscal year

FY 2013
$	453,429

579

651

Amount paid from the Fund during the
fiscal year to whistleblowers

	(25,069)

	(14,832)

Amount paid from the Fund during the
fiscal year for expenses incurred by
Employee Suggestion Program

(47)

(51)

$	414,660

$	439,197

Balance of the Fund at the end of the
reporting period

Note: Table 1.6 is presented as “Dollars in Thousands” in order to detail Investor
Protection Fund Activity.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Performance Highlights
The SEC’s performance data provides a foundation for both
programmatic and organizational decision-making and is critical
for gauging the agency’s success in meeting its objectives.
The SEC is committed to using performance management
best practices to promote greater accountability. This section
provides information on its key performance measures for
FY 2014. It outlines the SEC’s strategic and performance
planning framework, provides information on the costs incurred
by the agency’s four strategic goals and 10 national programs,
and highlights the agency’s progress toward reaching key
performance targets.

The SEC ensures that the performance data presented in this
report is complete, reliable and accurate by taking the following
steps:

The SEC’s FY 2014 Annual Performance Report (APR) will
be issued with the agency’s FY 2016 Congressional Budget
Justification, and will provide a complete discussion of all
of the agency’s strategic goals, including a description of
performance goals and objectives, data sources, performance
results and trends, and information about internal reviews and
evaluations. A summary of the SEC’s verification and validation
of all performance data also will be included in the APR. The
SEC’s APR is expected to be available in February 2015 at
www.sec.gov/about/secreports.shtml.

•	 documentation and explanation of the performance
goal calculations; and

Verification and Validation of
Performance Data
The SEC’s programs require accurate data to properly assess
program performance and to make good management
decisions. To ensure data is correct, a system of data verification
and validation is used. Data verification is a systematic process
for evaluating a set of data against a set of standards to
ascertain its completeness, correctness, and consistency,
using the methods and criteria defined in the project
documentation. Data validation follows the data verification
process and is an effort to ensure that performance data are
free of systematic error or bias and that what is intended to be
measured is actually measured. Together, these processes are
used to evaluate whether the information has been generated
according to specifications, satisfies acceptance criteria, and
is appropriate and consistent with its intended use.

(1)	 The agency develops performance goals through its
strategic planning process.
(2)	 The SEC’s divisions and offices provide:
•	 t	he procedures used to obtain assurance as
to the accuracy and reliability of the data;
•	 the data definitions for reference;

•	 the sources of the underlying data elements.
(3)	 The divisions and offices calculate and report the
performance goals to the Office of Financial Management,
and the performance goals are approved by the division
directors and office heads. This process ensures that
the data used in the calculation of performance goals
is accurate and reliable and that internal control is
maintained throughout the approval process.

Strategic and Performance Planning Framework
The SEC’s FY 2014 strategic and performance planning
framework is based on the FY 2014 – FY 2018 Strategic
Plan, available at www.sec.gov/about/sec-strategicplan-2014-2018.pdf. The Strategic Plan outlines the
agency’s mission, vision, values, strategic goals, and
strategic objectives. The SEC’s work is structured around four
strategic goals, and 12 strategic objectives the agency plans
to achieve in support of those four goals. The SEC’s goals
and priorities in the Strategic Plan are influenced by several
external environmental factors, including global, complex and
constantly evolving securities markets.
Table 1.7 displays the agency’s FY 2014 costs for its four
strategic goals, as well as how these costs are divided among
the SEC’s programs described in Table 1.1.

  51

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

TABLE 1.7

Strategic Goal

Strategic Objective

Contributing Programs ($ in millions)

The SEC establishes and maintains a regulatory environment that promotes highquality disclosure, financial reporting and governance, and that prevents abusive
practices by registrants, financial intermediaries and other market participants.

Establish and maintain
an effective regulatory
environment
Cost: $142.0 million

The SEC promotes capital markets that operate in a fair, efficient, transparent
and competitive manner, fostering capital formation and useful innovation.

The SEC adopts and administers regulations and rules that are informed
by robust economic analysis and public comment and that enable market
participants to understand clearly their obligations under the securities laws.

The SEC engages with a multitude of stakeholders to inform and enhance
regulatory activities domestically and internationally.

The SEC fosters compliance with the Federal securities laws.
Foster and enforce
compliance with the
Federal securities laws

The SEC promptly detects and deters violations of the Federal securities laws.

Cost: $852.8 million
The SEC prosecutes violations of Federal securities laws and holds violators
accountable through appropriate sanctions and remedies.

Facilitate access to the
information investors
need to make informed
investment decisions
Cost: $218.1 million

Enhance the
Commission’s
performance through
effective alignment
and management of
human, information,
and financial capital
Cost: $228.1 million

The SEC works to ensure that investors have access to high-quality disclosure
materials that facilitate informed investment decision-making.

The SEC works to understand investor needs and educate investors so they are
better prepared to make informed investment decisions.

The SEC promotes a results-oriented work environment that attracts, engages,
and retains a technically proficient and diverse workforce, including leaders who
provide motivation and strategic direction.
The SEC encourages a collaborative environment across divisions and offices
and leverages technology and data to fulfill its mission more effectively and
efficiently.

The SEC maximizes the use of agency resources by continually improving
agency operations and bolstering internal controls.

Agency Direction and Administrative Support 
Corporation Finance 
Investment Management 
Trading and Markets 
General Counsel 

PAGE

  52

Economic and Risk Analysis 
Enforcement 
Inspector General 
Other Program Offices 
Compliance Inspections and Examinations

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

The SEC expended about $1,441 million in FY 2014 to achieve its four strategic goals and 12 strategic objectives. Seventy four
percent of the total costs in FY 2014 were directed toward achieving Strategic Goal 2 Foster and enforce Federal securities laws
and Strategic Goal 3 Facilitate access to the information investors need to make informed investment decisions. The agency’s
APR will provide a complete explanation of how many planned performance goal targets were exceeded, met, and not met.
Where the agency met or exceeded its planned performance targets, the report will provide a discussion of the increased
efficiencies and improved processes employed by the agency. When a planned performance target was not met, the report
will provide a description of actions that will be taken to achieve the target in the future.

Performance Achievements
The SEC seeks to encourage a strong culture of compliance among organizations, to foster ethical behavior and decisionmaking. As part of its efforts to promote compliance within the industry, the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
(OCIE) exceeded its target by conducting 63 outreach and education programs during the year, including Compliance Outreach
seminars, targeted sessions with never before examined advisers, and various other outreach initiatives with registrants and
regulators (Performance Goal 2.1.1). Further, the National Examination Program issued two National Risk Alerts and participated
in a number of other outreach efforts, including speaking at more than 240 industry conferences and other related engagements
that are not reflected in the numbers below. The program will continue to expand and improve on these efforts during FY 2015
and FY 2016 as these are critical elements in fostering and promoting compliance with Federal securities laws.
TABLE 1.8
PERFORMANCE GOAL 2.1.1
Number of industry outreach and education programs targeted to areas identified as raising particular compliance risks
Description: Targeted communication with industry participants on topics shaping the examination program is intended to enhance compliance
practices and prevent violations before they occur. This metric identifies the number of major outreach efforts conducted including the SEC’s
national and regional compliance outreach events, published risk alerts, and other educational programs and initiatives.
Fiscal Year
Number of major outreach efforts

FY 2009

FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014
Plan

FY 2014
Actual

FY 2014
Results

N/A

6

5

12

15

16

63

Exceeded

Responsible Division/Office: Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Data Source: Internal tracking, although the events noted above are referenced on the SEC’S Website at www.sec.gov/ocie.

While the agency did not meet its targets for the percentage of investment companies examined during the year, the agency
did exceed its targets for percentage of investment advisors and broker dealers examined during the year (Performance
Goal 2.2.1). Staff continued to exert considerable time and effort in FY 2014 on enhancing risk assessment and surveillance
capabilities to ensure that resources were focused on those firms presenting the highest risk. Staff collected and analyzed data
about registrants to ensure that the agency focused on the highest risk entities and selected appropriate candidates for onsite
examination. Examinations of high-risk firms often take significant time to complete and are frequently of large and complex
entities. For example, the investment advisers examined in FY 2014 represented more than 30 percent of the overall assets
under management of currently registered advisers. In addition, examination resources in FY 2014 were allocated to other
efforts intended to improve the long-term performance, including industry outreach initiatives, rule-making efforts and other
program improvement efforts.

  53

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

TABLE 1.9
PERFORMANCE GOAL 2.2.1
Percentage of investment advisers, investment companies, and broker-dealers examined during the year
Description: This metric indicates the number of registrants examined by the SEC or an SRO as a percentage of the total number of registrants.
This metric includes all types of examinations: risk priority examinations, cause inspections to follow up on tips and complaints, limited-scope special
inspections to probe emerging risk areas, oversight examinations of broker-dealers to test compliance and the quality of examinations by FINRA.
FY 2009

FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014
Plan

FY 2014
Actual

FY 2014
Results

Investment advisers

10%

9%

8%

8%

9%

9%

10%

Exceeded

Investment companies

29%

10%

13%

12%

11%

12%

10%

Not Met

Broker-Dealers (exams by SEC and SROs)

54%

44%

58%

49%

46%

48%

49%

Exceeded

Fiscal Year

Responsible Division/Office: Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Data Source: Tracking and Reporting Exam National Documentation System (TRENDS), Commission Filings, and SRO Databases (BD SRO Data)
Plan for Improving Program Performance: During FY 2015, staff will continue to implement improved processes and procedures that have been
identified as part of OCIE’s ongoing improvement process. Significant improvement initiatives in the areas of strategy, people, processes, and
technology have been completed in the last few years or are currently underway. The agency expects that these improvements, which include
enhancements to the exam program’s risk assessment processes, will lead to more effective coverage of registered entities. Furthermore, certain
targeted initiatives aimed at high risk firms and activities have already been implemented and it is anticipated that these efforts will result in
improved coverage levels in FY 2015.

Filing enforcement actions in a timely manner is an important measure of the Division of Enforcement’s (Enforcement) effectiveness.
In FY 2014, the average months between opening a matter under inquiry (MUI) or investigation and commencing an enforcement
action was 21 months, which is the same as the prior fiscal years (Performance Goal 2.3.3). Timely actions have an increased
deterrent impact. However, many of Enforcement’s cases are complex and can take extended periods of time to develop
successfully, which will negatively impact the timeliness of actions. Indeed, many of the cases filed by Enforcement in FY 2014
involved complex financial products, market transactions, and other types of conduct that are difficult to investigate. Enforcement
continues to focus on complex areas of the marketplace, including emerging threats involving new trading technologies such as
high-frequency and algorithmic trading, large volume trading, systemic insider trading and manipulation schemes, and financial
disclosure, among other complex areas.
TABLE 1.10
PERFORMANCE GOAL 2.3.3
Average months between opening a matter under inquiry or an investigation and commencing an enforcement action
Description: This metric captures the average number of months between the opening of an investigation and the filing of the first enforcement
action arising out of that investigation. If the investigation was preceded by a matter under inquiry, the metric draws on the date of opening of
the matter inquiry. In conducting investigations, the enforcement program continually strives to balance the need for complete, effective, and
fair investigation with the need to file enforcement actions in as timely a manner as possible. While not all investigations result in the filing of
enforcement actions, this metric provides information concerning the pace of investigations that do lead to such actions and supplements the
previous goal, which measures the percentage of first enforcement actions filed within two years.
Fiscal Year
Months

FY 2009

FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014
Plan

FY 2014
Actual

FY 2014
Results

N/A

N/A

22

21

21

20

21

Not met

Responsible Division/Office: Division of Enforcement
Data Source: HUB case management and tracking system for the Division of Enforcement
Plan for Improving Program Performance: To achieve its goal of 20 months on this metric, Enforcement will continue to look for ways to manage
investigations effectively in order to promote speed and efficiency while maintaining an appropriate degree of thoroughness and completeness.
Enforcement will strive to improve through effective management of cases, as well as by leveraging various processes and initiatives designed to
promote efficiencies in investigations, such as technology, training, and regular case assessments. Enforcement leadership also will encourage
appropriate use of tools such as subpoena enforcement actions in order to ensure that investigations proceed on an appropriate timeframe.

PAGE

  54

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Providing investors with the information they need to avoid securities fraud and make informed investment decisions remained
a high priority for the agency in FY 2014. The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy (OIEA) continued to support
the agency’s investor protection mission through the Investor.gov website, which provides key information for citizens to
inform their investment decisions. Investor.gov attracted over one million new visitors due in part to its growing digital and
social media presence, and the website’s high customer satisfaction scores significantly exceeded the Federal Government
benchmark (Performance Goal 3.2.3). Moreover, OIEA published a record number of 28 investor alerts and bulletins warning
investors of possible fraudulent schemes, including affinity fraud and schemes involving virtual currencies, and educating them
on investment-related matters.
TABLE 1.11
PERFORMANCE GOAL 3.2.3
Customer satisfaction rating of OIEA’s online investor education resources
Description: This metric gauges the effectiveness, helpfulness, and usability of OIEA’s online investor education resources.
Fiscal Year
Satisfaction index

FY 2009

FY 2010

FY 2011

Prior-year data not available

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014
Plan

FY 2014
Actual

FY 2014
Results

81

73

83

Exceeded

Responsible Division/Office: Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
Data Source: ForeSee results online portal

  55

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Management Assurances
In FY 2014, the SEC demonstrated its continued commitment
to maintaining strong internal controls. Internal control is
an integral component of effective agency management,
providing reasonable assurance that the following objectives
are being achieved: effectiveness and efficiency of operations,
reliability of financial reporting, and compliance with laws and
regulations. The Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act
of 1982 (FMFIA) establishes management’s responsibility to
assess and report on internal accounting and administrative
controls. Such controls include program, operational, and
administrative areas, as well as accounting and financial
management. The FMFIA requires Federal agencies to
establish controls that reasonably ensure obligations and costs
are in compliance with applicable law; funds, property, and
other assets are safeguarded against waste, loss, unauthorized
use, or misappropriation; and revenues and expenditures are
properly recorded and accounted for to maintain accountability
over the assets. The FMFIA also requires agencies to annually
assess and report on the internal controls that protect the
integrity of Federal programs (FMFIA § 2) and whether financial
management systems conform to related requirements
(FMFIA § 4). Guidance for implementing the FMFIA is provided
through Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular

A-123, Management’s Responsibility for Internal Control.
In addition, it requires agencies to provide an assurance
statement on the effectiveness of programmatic internal
controls and financial system conformance, and internal
control over financial reporting.
Section 963 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) describes the
responsibility of SEC management to establish and maintain
adequate internal controls and procedures for financial
reporting. The Dodd-Frank Act requires an annual financial
controls audit, a Government Accountability Office (GAO)
audit of the SEC’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control, and attestation by the Chair and the Chief Financial
Officer. Section 922 of the Dodd-Frank requires the SEC to
submit audited financial statements of the Investor Protection
Fund to the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives.
The following Assurance Statement is issued in accordance
with the FMFIA, OMB Circular A-123 and Section 922 and
963 of the Dodd-Frank Act.

Annual Assurance Statement
Assurance Statement On Internal Control Over Operations:
The SEC management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining effective internal control and financial management
systems that meet the objectives of the Federal Managers’
Financial Integrity Act of 1982 (FMFIA). In accordance with OMB
Circular A-123, the SEC conducted its annual assessment of
the effectiveness of internal controls. Based on the results of
the assessment for the period ending September 30, 2014, the
SEC is able to provide an unqualified statement of assurance
that the internal controls and financial systems, both for the
agency as a whole and for the Investor Protection Fund, meet
the objectives of the FMFIA. No material weaknesses were
found in the design or operation of the internal controls for
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014.
Assurance Statement On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
(ICFR): In accordance with Appendix A of OMB Circular A-123,
the SEC conducted its assessment of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting, which includes
safeguarding of assets and compliance with applicable laws

PAGE

  56

and regulations. Based on the results of the assessment, the
SEC is able to provide reasonable assurance that internal
control over financial reporting, both for the agency as a whole
and for the Investor Protection Fund, met the objectives of
FMFIA and were operating effectively as of September 30,
2014. No material weaknesses were found in the design or
operation of controls.
SEC also conducted reviews of its financial management
systems in accordance with OMB Circular A-123 Appendix
D, Compliance with the Federal Financial Management
Improvement Act of 1996 (FFMIA). Based on the results of
these reviews, SEC can provide reasonable assurance that
its financial management systems substantially comply with
the requirements of the FFMIA as of September 30, 2014.

Mary Jo White
Chair
November 13, 2014

Kenneth A. Johnson
Chief Financial Officer
November 13, 2014

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Management’s Responsibility
for Internal Control
The FMFIA requires the head of the agency, based on the
agency’s internal evaluation, to provide an annual Statement
of Assurance on the effectiveness of their management,
administrative, and financial reporting controls. OMB Circular
A-123, Management’s Responsibility for Internal Control,
implements the FMFIA and defines management’s responsibility
for internal control in Federal agencies. The FY 2014 annual
assurance statements for FMFIA and ICFR are provided on
the preceding page.
FMFIA § 2 requires agencies to establish internal controls and
financial systems which provide reasonable assurance that the
following objectives are achieved:
•	 Effective and efficient operations,
•	 Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and
•	 Reliability of financial reporting.
The Chair’s FMFIA assurance statement is primarily based on
individual assurance statements from each division director
and office head. The individual statements assessed internal
controls related to the effectiveness of the controls over
programs and operations, financial reporting, and compliance
with laws and regulations. These statements were based on
self-assessments and internal reviews supported by enhanced
control testing, as well as recommendations for improvement
from audits, investigations, and reviews conducted by
the Office of Inspector General (OIG) and Government
Accountability Office (GAO).
The results of these statements were considered with other
sources of information when determining whether any
management control deficiencies or non-conformances
needed to be reported in the annual assurance statement.
Other information sources included, but were not limited to,
the following:
•	 An entity-level control assessment;
•	 Internal management reviews, self-assessments,
and tests of internal controls;
•	 Management’s personal knowledge gained from
daily operations;

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•	 Reviews of financial management systems under OMB
Circular A-123 Appendix D, Compliance with the Federal
Financial Management Improvement Act of 1996;
•	 Reports pursuant to the Federal Information Security
Management Act (FISMA) and OMB Circular A-130,
Management of Federal Information Resources;
•	 Annual reviews and reports pursuant to the Improper
Payments Elimination and Recovery Act;
•	 Reports and other information from Congress or agencies
such as OMB, the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM), or the General Services Administration (GSA)
reflecting the adequacy of internal controls; and
•	 Additional reviews relating to a division or office’s
operations, including those discussed in the Other
Reviews section below.
FMFIA § 4 requires that agencies annually evaluate and
report on whether financial management systems conform
to government-wide requirements. The SEC evaluated its
financial management systems for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2014, in accordance with the FFMIA and
OMB Circular A-123 Appendix D, Compliance with the
Federal Financial Management Improvement Act of 1996, as
applicable.
Appendix A of OMB Circular A-123 requires the agency
head to provide a separate statement of assurance on
the effectiveness of ICFR, in addition to the overall FMFIA
assurance statement. SEC management assessed internal
control at the entity-level, process, transaction, and application
level. This report also provides a Summary of Financial
Statement Audits and Management Assurances under the
section entitled Other Accompanying Information, as required
by OMB Circular A-136, Financial Reporting Requirements.
The effectiveness of process level controls was assessed
through detailed test procedures related to the agency’s
financial reporting objectives. As part of this effort, the agency
performed a comprehensive risk assessment in which SEC
management identified:
•	 Significant financial reports;
•	 Significant line items and accounts;
•	 Major classes of transactions;

•	 Reports from GAO and the OIG;

  57

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•	 Relevant assertions, risks of material misstatement
and control objectives;
•	 Reporting and regulatory requirements; and
•	 Existing deficiencies and corrective action plans.
From the results of the risk assessment, SEC management
selected processes fundamental to the agency’s financial
management. SEC management updated documentation
of the business processes and control activities designed to
mitigate significant financial reporting and compliance risks.
These control activities were tested for design and operating
effectiveness. The agency also tested the operating
effectiveness of control activities that were found to be
deficient in prior years. These test results served as a basis
for management’s assessment of the effectiveness of ICFR.
The results of testing completed prior to and as of September
30th formed the basis of the annual management assurance
statement. SEC management also analyzed the magnitude of
the internal control deficiencies and the level of assurance
provided under the FMFIA requirements. SEC management
analyzed the internal control deficiencies, both individually and
in the aggregate, to determine if a material weakness1 existed
in the financial reporting processes. ICFR testing conducted
during FY 2014 did not identify any deficiencies that rose to
the level of a material weakness.
Significant factors considered for assessing each deficiency
included the following:
•	 Nature of the control deficiency (e.g., design, operation);
•	 Internal control objectives and activities impacted;
•	 Potential impact on financial statement line items,
accounts, and disclosures;
•	 The interaction of control deficiencies with other
deficiencies; and
•	 The materiality of account balances impacted by
the deficiency.

1	

PAGE

Each year, the agency’s Financial Management Oversight
Committee (FMOC) advises the Chair as to whether the SEC
had any deficiencies in internal control or financial system
design significant enough to be reported as a material
weakness or non-conformance. This advice is based on the
assurance statements from directors and office heads and
other supplemental sources of information.

Other Reviews
The SEC’s financial statements were audited by GAO. The
objective of GAO’s audit was to express an opinion on the
financial statements and on internal control over financial
reporting, and to report on tests of compliance with selected
laws and regulations.
The OIG conducts, coordinates, and supervises independent
audits and evaluations of the SEC’s programs and operations.
As described in the OIG’s semiannual reports to Congress,
during FY 2014, the OIG issued five audit and evaluation
reports that contained numerous recommendations for
corrective action.

Improper Payments Information Act
Please refer to the Other Information Section, Improper
Payments Elimination and Recovery Act Reporting Details,
of this report on the SEC’s compliance with the Improper
Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act (IPERIA).

Financial Management System Conformance
The FFMIA requires that each agency implement and maintain
financial management systems that comply substantially
with Federal financial management systems requirements,
applicable Federal accounting standards, and the U.S.
Standard General Ledger at the transaction level. The purpose
of the FFMIA is to advance Federal financial management by
verifying that financial management systems provide accurate,
reliable, and timely financial management information in
order to manage daily operations, produce reliable financial
statements, maintain effective internal control, and comply with

A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that create a reasonable possibility that program
objectives are not met, or results in the risk of control failure not being mitigated.

  58

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

legal and regulatory requirements. Although the SEC is exempt
from the requirement to determine substantial compliance
with FFMIA, the agency assesses its financial management
systems annually for conformance with the requirements of
OMB Circular A-123, Appendix D and other Federal financial
system requirements.
The SEC used the methodology provided in OMB Circular
A-123 Appendix D. It is a risk and evidence based assessment
model that leverages existing audit tests, evaluations, and
reviews that auditors, agency management, and others
already performed. The SEC assessed each of its financial
systems and mixed systems to determine the risk category for
each financial management goal. The systems were reviewed
individually for compliance, and then collectively a risk rating
was determined for the agency’s system compliance. Based
on the results of the FY 2014 review, the SEC concluded
that its risk rating was low and its financial system and mixed
systems were in substantial compliance with Section 803(a)
of the FFMIA requirements. This was based in part on notable
progress made by SEC management and staff in implementing
remediation activities in response to a significant deficiency
noted by GAO in FY 2013 in information security.

Summary of Current Financial System
and Future Strategies
The FY 2014 ICFR assessment demonstrated that a low risk
rating would be appropriate and therefore, it can be concluded
that the agency substantially complied with the requirements
of Section 803(a) of the FFMIA. The SEC’s financial system,
Delphi, is a Financial Systems Integration Office (FSIO) certified
system and met all of the requirements of FFMIA.
FY 2014 marks our second full year of operations with the
Delphi financial system and contracted services provided by
a Federal Shared Service Provider (FSSP), the Department of
Transportation’s (DOT) Enterprise Services Center (ESC). This
year, we continued our progress in achieving more efficient
and effective financial operations under the FSSP model.
In FY 2014, the SEC also continued its efforts to strengthen
the agency’s internal controls program. For example, the
agency streamlined the key controls for all process cycles, and
fully implemented a quarterly internal controls self-assessment.
In FY 2015, the SEC will continue to build on this progress
by further strengthening its internal controls program and
remediating deficiencies identified by GAO.

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Federal Information Security Management Act
The Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA)
requires Federal agencies to “develop, document, and
implement an agency-wide information security program to
provide information security for the information and information
systems that support the operations and assets of the agency,
including those provided or managed by another agency,
contractor, or other source.” In addition, FISMA requires
Federal agencies to conduct annual assessments of their
information security and privacy programs, to develop and
implement remediation efforts for identified weaknesses and
vulnerabilities, and to report compliance to OMB. The SEC’s
OIG, Chief Information Security Officer, and Privacy Officer
annually perform a joint review of the Commission’s compliance
with FISMA requirements. The Commission will submit its 2014
report to OMB on or before November 14, 2014.

Oversight and Compliance
The SEC’s Office of Information Technology (OIT),
collaborating with business owners, completed assessment
and authorization activities for 17 reportable systems. As a
result, the SEC has now assessed and authorized a total
of 58 reportable systems in accordance with OMB policy
and guidance from the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST). OIT completed contingency testing on
the majority of the SEC’s authorized systems as part of
disaster recovery exercises, unscheduled events, and weather
occurrences. OIT Security’s assessment team visited one of
the 11 SEC regional offices (Fort Worth) as part of a threeyear review cycle and performed a technical assessment of
both the local network infrastructure and physical security.
Two additional regional offices were given remote technical
assessments (Denver and Philadelphia). The assessment
team also conducted a disaster recovery simulation exercise
at the Fort Worth Regional Office. The exercises included a
successful failover to alternate servers. OIT facilitated the
remediation of 308 self-identified deficiencies associated
with the SEC’s network infrastructure and major applications,
closed 20 OIG recommendations and submitted artifacts to
support resolution of 42 matters for consideration to GAO.
GAO accepted OIT’s work and concurred with closure of the
42 items.

  59

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OIT conducted 85 privacy reviews, which included the
approval and publishing of 12 privacy impact assessments
(PIAs). OIT also published six systems of record notices
(SORNs) in the Federal Register.

Training and Communications
OIT delivered on-line cyber security and privacy awareness
training to the SEC user community and achieved 99 percent
completion. The Privacy Office conducted two on-site regional
office assessments. In-person privacy training focused on the
safe handling of personally identifiable information (PII) and was
delivered to approximately 78 percent of users in those regional
offices. OIT published monthly newsletters providing guidance
and tips about data protection and cyber security tips.

PAGE

  60

Policy and Technology
OIT continues updating governance documentation to be
consistent with OMB policy and NIST guidance. The SEC
continues to safely explore cloud computing technologies
and solutions based on Federal information protection
requirements. SEC leveraged three cloud providers that have
been through the Federal Risk and Authorization Management
Program (FedRAMP) and is exploring additional cloud service
providers that are registered in FedRAMP but have not yet
received provisional authorization from either an agency or
the Joint Authorization Board (JAB).

Financial Section

T

his section of the Agency Financial Report contains

•	 Statements of Budgetary Resourcesi: Provides information

the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s

about how budgetary resources were made available as

(SEC) financial statements and other additional

well as their status at the end of the year.

information for FY 2014 and FY 2013. Information presented
here satisfies the financial reporting requirements of the
Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002 and Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank
Act). The SEC prepares these statements and accompanying
notes in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP) for the Federal Government and OMB
Circular A-136, Financial Reporting Requirements.

SEC Financial Statements:
•	 Balance Sheets: Presents, as of a specific time, amounts
of future economic benefits owned or managed by the
SEC (assets), amounts owed by the entity (liabilities), and
amounts which comprise the difference (net position).
•	 Statements of Net Cost: Presents the gross cost incurred
by the SEC less exchange revenue earned from its

•	 Statements of Custodial Activity: Reports the collection of
revenue for the Treasury General Fund. The SEC accounts
for sources and disposition of the collections as custodial activities on this statement. Custodial collections
of non-exchange revenue, such as amounts collected
from violators of securities laws as a result of enforcement proceedings, are reported only on the Statement
of Custodial Activity.
•	 Accompanying Notes to the Financial Statements: Provides
a description of significant accounting policies and
detailed information on select statement line items.
•	 Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited): Reports
the Statements of Budgetary Resources by fund account ii.

Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements:

activities, including registration and filing fees. The SEC

•	 Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements: Provides

presents net cost of operations by program to provide

stand alone, comparative financial statements (Balance

cost information at the program level. The SEC recog-

Sheets, Statements of Net Cost, Statements of Changes

nizes collections as exchange revenue on the Statement

in Net Position, and Statements of Budgetary Resources)

of Net Cost, even when the collections are transferred

as required by the Dodd-Frank Act.

to other entities.

•	 Accompanying Notes to the Investor Protection Fund

•	 Statements of Changes in Net Position: Reports the

Financial Statements: Provides a description of significant

change in net position during the reporting period. This

accounting policies and detailed information on select

statement presents changes to Cumulative Results of

statement line items as required by the Dodd-Frank Act.

Operations and Unexpended Appropriations.

i	

Budgetary information aggregated for purposes of the Statement of Budgetary Resources is disaggregated for each of the
SEC’s major budget accounts and is presented as Required Supplementary Information.

ii	

The SEC does not have stewardship over resources or responsibilities for which supplementary stewardship reporting would
be required.

 61

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Message from the Chief Financial Officer
I am delighted to join Chair
White in presenting the SEC’s
Agency Financial Report (AFR)
for fiscal year (FY) 2014. We
hope you find the AFR a useful
summary of the SEC’s use of
resources, operating performance, financial stewardship,
and internal controls.
Over the last few years, the
SEC had made significant
strides forward in its multi-year initiative to build and maintain a
strong, sustainable internal control posture. Between 2010 and
2013, the SEC’s audit results significantly improved, from two
material weaknesses in FY 2010 to one significant deficiency in
FY 2013, as the result of our efforts to remediate or downgrade
the severity of several internal control issues. During that time the
SEC also migrated to a Shared Service Provider model, both to
host our financial system and handle our financial transactions.
For FY 2014, our independent auditor, the U.S. Government
Accountability Office (GAO), has issued an unqualified opinion
on our financial statements and internal controls. In addition,
the SEC successfully downgraded the severity of the one
significant deficiency from FY 2013 related to internal controls
over information technology security. We achieved these results
through steps that included:
•	 Fully integrating the operation and support of the Electronic
Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system (EDGAR)
into Office of Information Technology (OIT) operations;
•	 Performing a comprehensive security assessment and
authorization (SA&A) of EDGAR; and

Therefore, the SEC enhanced the controls in this area late in
the fiscal year to address the timely recording of transactions.
The Office of Financial Management has begun working more
regularly with the agency’s case management specialists, who
have deep institutional knowledge with respect to individual
cases. We expect the ongoing communication to help ensure
proper recording of judgments and orders. This will continue to
be an area of focus for us in FY 2015.
In the coming year we also expect to concentrate on further
improving the systems that support financial processes and
controls. The SEC will participate in the Federal governmentwide deployment of a new travel system, work to replace the
system supporting budget execution and formulation, and focus
on reforming the systems related to filing fees and property
management. The SEC also is in the early stages of building
a financial data mart, which is expected to integrate data from
various systems for more comprehensive management and
financial reporting.
This section provides citizens with detailed information about the
SEC’s finances and its internal controls over financial reporting.
It contains the results of the FY 2014 audit conducted by GAO
and the agency’s response. The section also includes the SEC’s
financial statements and notes, both for the entity as a whole
and for the Investor Protection Fund, as required under Section
922 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
Thank you for taking the time to learn about the SEC’s activities
in FY 2014. We hope you will find these materials both useful
and informative.
	

Sincerely,

•	 Expanding OIT Security continuous monitoring efforts by
rolling out more sensors and improving reporting.
In FY 2014, the SEC will once again have one significant
deficiency in the area of accounting for disgorgements and
penalties. We found that judgments and orders were not always
getting recorded into the accounting records on a timely basis.

PAGE

  62

Kenneth A. Johnson
Chief Financial Officer
November 14, 2014

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Report of Independent Auditors

Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Chair of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission
In our audits of the 2014 and 2013 financial statements of the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Investor Protection Fund (IPF), we found




SEC’s and IPF’s financial statements as of and for the fiscal years ended September 30,
2014, and 2013, are presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles;
although internal controls could be improved, SEC maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting for SEC and IPF as of September 30, 2014;
and
no reportable noncompliance in fiscal year 2014 with provisions of applicable laws,
regulations, contracts, and grant agreements we tested.

The following sections discuss in more detail (1) our report on SEC’s and IPF’s financial
statements and on internal control over financial reporting, which includes required
supplementary information (RSI)1 and other information2 included with the financial statements;
(2) our report on compliance with laws, regulations, contracts, and grant agreements; and
(3) SEC’s comments.
Report on SEC’s and IPF’s Financial Statements and on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting
The Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002 requires that SEC annually prepare and submit
audited financial statements to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget.3 The
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended in 2010 by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), requires that SEC provide separate annual
audited financial statements for IPF to Congress.4 IPF’s financial transactions are also included
in SEC’s overall financial statements. We audited the financial statements of SEC and IPF
pursuant to our authority conferred by the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990, as amended by
the Government Management and Reform Act of 1994.5 Further, in accordance with the DoddFrank Act, we have assessed the effectiveness of the internal control structure and SEC’s
procedures for financial reporting, evaluated SEC’s assessment of such effectiveness, and are
1

The RSI consists of Management’s Discussion and Analysis and the Statements of Budgetary Resources by Fund,
which are included with the financial statements.

2
Other information consists of information included with the financial statements, other than the RSI and the auditor’s
report.
3

31 U.S.C. § 3515.

4

Section 21F(g)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. § 78u-6(g)(5).

5

See the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-576, 104 Stat. 2838 (Nov. 15, 1990), codified, in
relevant part, as amended, at 31 U.S.C. § 3521(g); see also the Government Management Reform Act of 1994, Pub.
L. No. 103-356, 108 Stat. 3410 (Oct. 13, 1994), codified, in relevant part, as amended, at 31 U.S.C. § 3515(c).

  63

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

attesting to SEC’s assessment of its internal control over financial reporting.6 SEC’s financial
statements comprise the balance sheets as of September 30, 2014, and 2013; the related
statements of net cost of operations, changes in net position, budgetary resources, and
custodial activity for the fiscal years then ended; and the related notes to the financial
statements. IPF’s financial statements comprise the balance sheets as of September 30, 2014,
and 2013; the related statements of net cost of operations, changes in net position, and
budgetary resources for the fiscal years then ended; and the related notes to the financial
statements. We also have audited SEC’s internal control over financial reporting for SEC and
IPF as of September 30, 2014, based on criteria established under 31 U.S.C. § 3512(c), (d),
commonly known as the Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA).
We conducted our audits in accordance with U.S. generally accepted government auditing
standards. We believe that the audit evidence we obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our audit opinions.
Management’s Responsibility
SEC management is responsible for (1) the preparation and fair presentation of its financial
statements and those of IPF in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;
(2) preparing, measuring, and presenting the RSI in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles; (3) preparing and presenting other information included in documents
containing the audited financial statements and auditor’s report, and ensuring the consistency of
that information with the audited financial statements and the RSI; (4) maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting, including the design, implementation, and maintenance
of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; (5) evaluating the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria established under
FMFIA; and (6) providing its assertion about the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting as of September 30, 2014, based on its evaluation, included in the Management
Assurance section of the annual financial report.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express opinions on SEC’s and IPF’s financial statements and opinions
on SEC’s internal control over financial reporting for SEC and for IPF based on our audits. U.S.
generally accepted government auditing standards require that we plan and perform the audits
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material
misstatement, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in
all material respects. We are also responsible for applying certain limited procedures to the RSI
and other information included with the financial statements.
An audit of financial statements involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on
the auditor’s judgment, including the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement
of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the
auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the
financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances. An audit of financial statements also involves evaluating the appropriateness of
the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made
6

Pub. L. No. 111-203, § 963(a), (b)(2), 124 Stat. 1376, 1910 (2010), codified at 15 U.S.C. § 78d-8(a), (b).

PAGE

  64

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. An
audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the
assessed risk, and testing relevant internal control over financial reporting.7 Our audit of internal
control also considered the entity’s process for evaluating and reporting on internal control over
financial reporting based on criteria established under FMFIA. Our audits also included
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We did not evaluate all internal controls relevant to operating objectives as broadly established
under FMFIA, such as those controls relevant to preparing performance information and
ensuring efficient operations. We limited our internal control testing to testing controls over
financial reporting. Our internal control testing was for the purpose of expressing an opinion on
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained, in all material
respects. Consequently, our audit may not identify all deficiencies in internal control over
financial reporting that are less severe than a material weakness.
Definitions and Inherent Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
An entity’s internal control over financial reporting is a process effected by those charged with
governance, management, and other personnel, the objectives of which are to provide
reasonable assurance that (1) transactions are properly recorded, processed, and summarized
to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles, and assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized acquisition,
use, or disposition, and (2) transactions are executed in accordance with laws governing the
use of budget authority and with other applicable laws, regulations, contracts, and grant
agreements that could have a direct and material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent, or
detect and correct, misstatements due to fraud or error. We also caution that projecting any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods is subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion on SEC’s Financial Statements
In our opinion, SEC’s financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, SEC’s financial
position as of September 30, 2014, and 2013, and its net cost of operations, changes in net
position, budgetary resources, and custodial activity for the fiscal years then ended in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

7

A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such
that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity’s financial statements will not be
prevented, or detected and corrected, on a timely basis. A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or
operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned
functions, to prevent, or detect and correct, misstatements on a timely basis.

  65

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Opinion on IPF’s Financial Statements
In our opinion, IPF’s financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, IPF’s financial
position as of September 30, 2014, and 2013, and its net cost of operations, changes in net
position, and budgetary resources for the fiscal years then ended in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Opinions on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Although certain internal controls could be improved, SEC maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting for SEC and IPF as of September 30, 2014,
based on criteria established under FMFIA. Our opinions on SEC’s internal control are
consistent with SEC’s assertion that its internal control over financial reporting, both for the
agency as a whole and for IPF, was operating effectively as of September 30, 2014, and that no
material weaknesses were found in the design or operation of the controls.8
However, during our fiscal year 2014 audit, we identified continuing and new deficiencies in
SEC’s internal control over disgorgement and penalty transactions9 that constituted a significant
deficiency in SEC’s internal control over financial reporting.10 This significant deficiency
pertained to SEC’s overall financial reporting but not that of IPF because IPF does not include
disgorgement and penalty transactions.
We have reported deficiencies in SEC’s controls over disgorgement and penalty transactions in
prior years. In fiscal year 2013, we concluded that these deficiencies did not individually or
collectively represent a material weakness or significant deficiency. Nonetheless, these
deficiencies warranted SEC management’s attention and were included in our report to SEC
management in May 2014.11 In fiscal year 2014, SEC took action to address some of these
deficiencies; however, our testing results this year identified new deficiencies in accounting for
disgorgement and penalty transactions, which, combined with the remaining control deficiencies
from our prior audits, are important enough to merit the attention of those charged with
governance of SEC. Therefore, while not considered a material weakness, we consider these
issues to collectively represent a significant deficiency in SEC’s internal control over financial
reporting as of September 30, 2014.

8

Dodd-Frank Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203, § 963, 124 Stat. 1376, 1910 (2010), codified at 15 U.S.C. § 78d-8, requires
that (1) SEC submit annual reports to Congress describing management’s responsibility for establishing and
maintaining an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and assessing the
effectiveness of such internal control during the fiscal year, (2) the SEC Chair and Chief Financial Officer attest to
SEC’s reports, and (3) GAO attest to and report on the assessment made by SEC. SEC conducted an evaluation of
its internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Office of Management and Budget’s Circular No. A123, Management’s Responsibility for Internal Control, based on criteria established under FMFIA.

9

A disgorgement is the repayment of illegally gained profits (or avoided losses) for distribution to harmed investors
whenever feasible. A penalty is a monetary payment from a violator of securities law that SEC obtains pursuant to
statutory authority. A penalty is fundamentally a punitive measure, although penalties occasionally can be used to
compensate harmed investors.

10

A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control that is less severe than a
material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.

11

GAO, Management Report: Improvements Needed in SEC’s Internal Controls and Accounting Procedures,
GAO-14-416R (Washington, D.C.: May 12, 2014).

PAGE

  66

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

For all significant errors and issues that were identified, SEC made necessary adjustments to
the financial statements, the notes accompanying the financial statements, and other required
supplementary information, as appropriate. Consequently, SEC was able to prepare financial
statements that were fairly presented in all material respects for fiscal years 2014 and 2013.
Although the significant deficiency in internal control did not materially affect SEC’s fiscal year
2014 financial statements, misstatements may occur in other financial information reported by
SEC and not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis because of this
significant deficiency. This significant deficiency is discussed in more detail below.
During fiscal year 2014, SEC made progress in addressing other internal control deficiencies we
reported in fiscal year 2013. Specifically, SEC sufficiently addressed the deficiencies in its
information security such that we no longer consider the remaining control deficiencies in this
area, individually or collectively, to represent a significant deficiency as of September 30, 2014.
During our 2014 audit, we also identified deficiencies in SEC’s internal control over financial
reporting that we do not consider to be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies.
Nonetheless, these deficiencies warrant SEC management’s attention. We have communicated
these matters to SEC management and, where appropriate, will report on them separately.
Significant Deficiency over Accounting for Disgorgement and Penalties
As part of its enforcement responsibilities, SEC issues orders and administers judgments
ordering, among other things, disgorgement, civil monetary penalties, and interest against
violators of federal securities laws. When SEC is designated in an order or a final judgment to
collect the assessed disgorgement, penalties, and interest on behalf of harmed investors or for
payment to the general fund of the U.S. Treasury (Treasury), SEC records an accounts
receivable for the amount the violator owes, accompanied by an equal and offsetting liability to
reflect the amount payable to the harmed investors or to the Treasury. SEC recognizes amounts
collected that are to be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as revenue on its
Statement of Custodial Activity. In fiscal year 2014, SEC recorded approximately $3.7 billion of
new disgorgement and penalty accounts receivables. As of September 30, 2014, SEC’s
disgorgement and penalties accounts receivable balance, net of an allowance for uncollectible
amounts, was $381 million. SEC’s custodial revenue collected from disgorgement and penalties
and transferred to the general fund of the Treasury during fiscal year 2014 was $825 million.
During this year’s audit, we noted continuing and new deficiencies in SEC’s accounting for
disgorgement and penalty transactions that increase the likelihood that the affected balance
sheet amounts and custodial balances could be misstated and not be detected and corrected in
a timely manner. Specifically, we found continuing deficiencies related to (1) insufficient
procedures for ensuring funds availability before transferring disgorgement and penalty-related
funds to the Treasury, (2) ineffective monitoring of disgorgement and penalty-related cases filed
in courts to ensure all cases that should be recorded as receivables are timely identified, and
(3) insufficient safeguarding controls at service providers that collect SEC cash receipts,
including payments from violators for disgorgement, penalties, and related interest on SEC’s
behalf. We reported these issues to SEC management in May 2014.12
During fiscal year 2014, we also found new deficiencies related to disgorgement and penalties.
Specifically, we found that SEC’s controls were not effective in ensuring that disgorgement and
penalty transactions were recorded timely and accurately in SEC’s general ledger, and were not
12

GAO-14-416R.

  67

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

effective in timely detecting and correcting any errors. For example, SEC’s routine monitoring
procedures did not consistently detect and correct errors in a timely manner. Instead, as
individual errors were found and brought to its attention, SEC would investigate further to
identify any similar issues, and it was these ad hoc reviews that would result in the identification
and correction of additional errors. The errors we found this year were largely caused by
(1) ineffective policies or procedures for tracking and recording accounts receivable
transactions, (2) a lack of consistent information sharing between the Office of Financial
Management (OFM) and the Division of Enforcement, and (3) ineffective implementation of
existing policies.
Specifically, we tested a statistical sample of 72 disgorgement and penalty accounts receivable
amounts and found that 4 of the sample items were not recorded in the general ledger in the
proper accounting period. These errors were caused by ineffective procedures for tracking,
analyzing, and recording civil court judgments and resulted in understatements to gross
accounts receivables of about $42 million. We also found that SEC recorded certain
disgorgement and penalty accounts receivable before the money was determined to be owed to
SEC, resulting in an overstatement to gross accounts receivable of about $10 million. According
to SEC policy,13 an accounts receivable amount and the related liability amount should be
recorded after issuance of a final civil court judgment or administrative order. However, we
found that 6 of the 72 accounts receivable amounts we tested in our statistical sample were
adjustments to correct amounts that SEC had originally recorded based on civil court judgments
that were not final. These errors were caused by a lack of systematic information sharing
between OFM, which is responsible for recording disgorgement and penalty transactions in the
general ledger, and the Division of Enforcement, which is responsible for conducting
investigations into possible violations of the federal securities laws and prosecuting SEC's civil
suits in the federal courts as well as in its administrative proceedings. We found that the OFM
staff did not always have sufficient information to properly record these transactions, and did not
have a process in place to consistently obtain such information from the Division of
Enforcement.
Further, we found that SEC had not established controls to ensure that all offsets of
disgorgement-related accounts receivables were recorded in the general ledger in a timely
manner.14 Specifically, we noted that SEC did not have a process in place to ensure that OFM
received all relevant documentation of offsets in a timely and consistent manner from the
Division of Enforcement. OFM must, at times, rely on the Division of Enforcement to provide
documentation related to offsets, such as when an offset depends on restitution in a criminal
court case. We also noted that final court judgments may include language that would
necessitate SEC recording both a new accounts receivable amount for amounts ordered
payable to SEC as well as an offset amount. However, limitations in SEC’s general ledger
system do not allow it to record both the accounts receivable amount and offset at the same
time, which has resulted in SEC relying on a manual process to enter the offset amount at a
later time.

13

United States Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of Financial Management, “Investments and
Disgorgement Management: Enforcement Accounts Receivable Procedures Guide,” ch. 46.07 in OFM Reference
Guide (April 2014), p.13.

14
SEC records an offset when a court orders that an SEC debt may be satisfied in part or fully by the amount of
criminal restitution or forfeiture imposed (or paid) in a parallel criminal action or when balances are reduced or
collections paid to other entities in which the debtor receives credit toward the SEC debt.

PAGE

  68

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Finally, we found that SEC recorded certain disgorgement and penalty transactions to incorrect
customer numbers in the general ledger.15 This was caused by ineffective implementation of
existing SEC policies. For example, we found that one of the 45 accounts receivable amounts
we tested as part of a statistical sample was recorded to an incorrect customer number. In
addition, SEC identified a disgorgement and penalty accounts receivable amount that was
recorded twice in the general ledger because it was initially recorded to an incorrect customer
number, resulting in an overstatement of SEC’s gross accounts receivable of $4.4 million, which
was subsequently corrected. SEC’s procedures require staff to determine whether an accounts
receivable has already been recorded before initiating the recording of a new receivable and
require review of new receivables as they are recorded. However, we noted that OFM staff did
not sufficiently review the customer number as part of their review.
Although the deficiencies we identified did not result in material misstatements to the financial
statement balances, without effective controls to help ensure that amounts are recorded timely
and accurately, SEC is at increased risk of misstatement in its financial statements related to
disgorgement and penalty accounts receivable. We consider these issues collectively to
represent a significant deficiency in internal control over disgorgement and penalty transactions
for fiscal year 2014.
Other Matters
Required Supplementary Information
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles issued by the Federal Accounting Standards
Advisory Board (FASAB) require that the RSI be presented to supplement the financial
statements.16 Although not a part of the financial statements, FASAB considers this information
to be an essential part of financial reporting for placing the financial statements in appropriate
operational, economic, or historical context. We have applied certain limited procedures to the
RSI in accordance with U.S. generally accepted government auditing standards, which
consisted of inquiries of management about the methods of preparing the RSI and comparing
the information for consistency with management’s responses to the auditor’s inquiries, the
financial statements, and other knowledge we obtained during the audit of the financial
statements, in order to report omissions or material departures from FASAB guidelines, if any,
identified by these limited procedures. We did not audit and we do not express an opinion or
provide any assurance on the RSI because the limited procedures we applied do not provide
sufficient evidence to express an opinion or provide any assurance.
Other Information
SEC’s other information contains a wide range of information, some of which is not directly
related to the financial statements. This information is presented for purposes of additional
analysis and is not a required part of the financial statements or RSI. We read the other
information included with the financial statements in order to identify material inconsistencies, if
any, with the audited financial statements. Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming

15

Customer number refers to the field in the general ledger that SEC uses to identify the specific securities law
violator.

16

The RSI is comprised of Management’s Discussion and Analysis and the Statements of Budgetary Resources by
Fund, which are included with the financial statements.

  69

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

an opinion on SEC’s and IPF’s financial statements. We did not audit and do not express an
opinion or provide any assurance on the other information.
Report on Compliance with Laws, Regulations, Contracts, and Grant Agreements
In connection with our audits of SEC’s and IPF’s financial statements, we tested compliance
with selected provisions of applicable laws, regulations, contracts, and grant agreements
consistent with our auditor’s responsibility discussed below. We caution that noncompliance
may occur and not be detected by these tests. We performed our tests of compliance in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted government auditing standards.
Management’s Responsibility
SEC management is responsible for complying with laws, regulations, contracts, and grant
agreements applicable to SEC and IPF.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to test compliance with selected provisions of laws, regulations, contracts,
and grant agreements applicable to SEC and IPF that have a direct effect on the determination
of material amounts and disclosures in the SEC and IPF financial statements, and perform
certain other limited procedures. Accordingly, we did not test compliance with all laws,
regulations, contracts, and grant agreements applicable to SEC and IPF.
Results of Our Tests for Compliance with Laws, Regulations, Contracts, and Grant Agreements
Our tests for compliance with selected provisions of applicable laws, regulations, contracts, and
grant agreements disclosed no instances of noncompliance for fiscal year 2014 that would be
reportable under U.S. generally accepted government auditing standards. However, the
objective of our tests was not to provide an opinion on compliance with laws, regulations,
contracts, and grant agreements applicable to SEC and IPF. Accordingly, we do not express
such an opinion.
Intended Purpose of Report on Compliance with Laws, Regulations, Contracts, and Grant
Agreements
The purpose of this report is solely to describe the scope of our testing of compliance with
selected provisions of applicable laws, regulations, contracts, and grant agreements, and the
results of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on compliance. This report is an integral
part of an audit performed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted government auditing
standards in considering compliance. Accordingly, this report on compliance with laws,
regulations, contracts, and grant agreements is not suitable for any other purpose.
Agency Comments
In commenting on a draft of this report, SEC’s Chair expressed her pleasure that GAO found
that SEC remediated the significant deficiency identified in 2013 related to information security,
and attributed this accomplishment to the hard work and dedication of staff in SEC’s Office of
Information Technology. The Chair stated that SEC will continue to strengthen controls over
information security, while focusing on the newly identified significant deficiency in the area of
accounting for disgorgements and penalties. The Chair added that SEC will undertake a
thorough assessment of the controls and organizational approach in that area, specifically by

PAGE

  70

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

taking corrective actions to consistently implement and evidence effective internal control over
the timely recording of judgments and orders. The Chair stated that OFM is working closely with
the Division of Enforcement to review orders in individual cases, and that SEC expects this
ongoing communication to help ensure proper recording of judgments and orders. The Chair
further commented that in the coming year, SEC expects to concentrate on further improving
the systems that support its financial processes and controls to further SEC’s endeavors to
maintain a strong, sustainable internal controls environment. The complete text of SEC’s
comments is reprinted in enclosure I.

James R. Dalkin
Director
Financial Management and Assurance
November 14, 2014

  71

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Enclosure I: Management’s Response to Audit Opinion

November 12, 2014
Mr. James R. Dalkin
Director
Financial Management and Assurance
United States Government Accountability Office
441 G Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20548
Dear Mr. Dalkin:
Thank you for the opportunity to review and comment on the audit report of the
Government Accountability Office (GAO). I am pleased that the GAO’s FY 2014 audit found
that the SEC’s financial statements and notes were presented fairly, in all material respects, and
in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Furthermore, I am pleased the GAO found that the SEC no longer has a significant
deficiency related to information security as was identified in 2013. This accomplishment was
the result of the hard work and dedication of staff in the SEC’s Office of Information
Technology. We will continue to strengthen our controls in this area, while focusing on the
newly identified significant deficiency in the area of accounting for disgorgements and penalties.
We will undertake a thorough assessment of our controls and organizational approach in this
area. The agency also will take specific corrective actions to consistently implement and
evidence effective internal control over the timely recording of judgments and orders. The
Office of Financial Management is working closely with the Division of Enforcement to review
orders in individual cases, and we expect this ongoing communication to help ensure proper
recording of judgments and orders.
In the coming year, we also expect to concentrate on further improving the systems that
support our financial processes and controls. The SEC will participate in the federal
government-wide deployment of a new travel system; work to replace the system supporting
budget execution and formulation; and focus on reforming the systems related to filing fees,
disgorgement and penalties, and property management. We expect these efforts to further our
endeavors to maintain a strong, sustainable internal controls environment.
As always, I very much appreciate the professional manner in which you and your team
conducted the audit. I look forward to continuing our productive dialogue in the coming months
on the SEC’s efforts to address the areas noted in your report. If you have any questions at any
time, please feel free to contact me.
Sincerely,
Mary Jo White
Chair

PAGE

  72

SEC Financial Statements
Financial Statements	

74

Notes to the Financial Statements	

80

Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited)	 109

 73

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Financial Statements
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Balance Sheets
As of September 30, 2014 and 2013
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2014

FY 2013

$	8,210,610

$	8,154,737

ASSETS (Note 2):
Intragovernmental:
Fund Balance with Treasury (Note 3)
Investments, Net (Note 5)
Accounts Receivable (Note 6)
Advances and Prepayments
Total Intragovernmental
Cash and Other Monetary Assets (Note 4)
Accounts Receivable, Net (Note 6)

1,755,689

1,282,642

19

	—

3,488

1,623

9,969,806

9,439,002

731

389

506,605

387,027

113,292

126,871

$	10,590,434

$	9,953,289

Accounts Payable

$	7,249

$	5,675

Employee Benefits

4,017

3,086

Unfunded FECA and Unemployment Liability

1,286

1,308

223,363

68,831

3,752

3,069

239,667

81,969

64,830

38,313

Property and Equipment, Net (Note 7)
Total Assets
LIABILITIES (Note 8):
Intragovernmental:

Custodial Liability
Liability for Non-Entity Assets
Total Intragovernmental
Accounts Payable
Actuarial FECA Liability

6,821

7,155

Accrued Payroll and Benefits

37,931

15,405

Accrued Leave

58,498

51,706

Registrant Deposits

34,766

32,857

2,451,397

2,065,202

Liability for Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Other Accrued Liabilities (Note 8)
Total Liabilities

5,830

5,509

2,899,740

2,298,116

Commitments and Contingencies (Note 10)
NET POSITION:
Unexpended Appropriations – All Other Funds
Cumulative Results of Operations – Funds from Dedicated Collections (Note 11)
Cumulative Results of Operations – All Other Funds
Total Net Position – Funds from Dedicated Collections
Total Net Position – All Other Funds
Total Net Position
Total Liabilities and Net Position
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

PAGE

  74

764

764

7,688,738

7,653,217

1,192

1,192

7,688,738

7,653,217

1,956

1,956

$	7,690,694

$	7,655,173

$	10,590,434

$	9,953,289

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Statements of Net Cost
For the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2014

FY 2013

PROGRAM COSTS (Note 12):
Enforcement

$	487,047

$	451,072

Compliance Inspections and Examinations

281,738

265,348

Corporation Finance

146,276

141,777

Trading and Markets

79,246

76,213

Investment Management

57,328

50,366

Economic and Risk Analysis

43,366

29,504

General Counsel

42,826

41,417

Other Program Offices

61,830

51,768

232,575

216,077

8,764

7,032

Total Program Costs

1,440,996

1,330,574

Less: Earned Revenue Not Attributed to Programs (Note 12)

1,906,258

1,764,267

$	(465,262)

$	(433,693)

Agency Direction and Administrative Support
Inspector General

Net (Income) Cost from Operations (Note 15)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

  75

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Statements of Changes in Net Position
For the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013
FY 2014
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Funds from
Dedicated Collections

All Other Funds

Consolidated Total

$	7,653,217

$	1,192

$	7,654,409

59,013

	—

59,013

579

	—

579

	—

	—

	—

CUMULATIVE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS:
Beginning Balances
Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Used
Non-Exchange Revenue
Other
Other Financing Sources:
Imputed Financing (Note 13)

39,556

	—

39,556

	—

(528,889)

(528,889)

Total Financing Sources

99,148

(528,889)

(429,741)

Net Income (Cost) from Operations

(63,627)

528,889

465,262

Other (Note 17)

Net Change
Cumulative Results of Operations (Note 11)

35,521

	—

35,521

7,688,738

1,192

7,689,930

	—

764

764

UNEXPENDED APPROPRIATIONS:
Beginning Balances
Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Received
Other Adjustments
Appropriations Used
Total Budgetary Financing Sources
Total Unexpended Appropriations
Net Position, End of Period

PAGE

  76

59,013

	—

59,013

	—

	—

	—

(59,013)

	—

(59,013)

	—

	—

	—

	—

764

764

$	7,688,738

$	1,956

$	7,690,694

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

FY 2013
Funds from
Dedicated Collections

All Other Funds

Consolidated Total

$	7,596,330

$	1,195

$	7,597,525

47,546

	—

47,546

655

	—

655

6

	—

6

32,958

	—

32,958

(10)

(457,964)

(457,974)

Total Financing Sources

81,155

(457,964)

(376,809)

Net Income (Cost) from Operations

(24,268)

457,961

433,693

Net Change

56,887

(3)

56,884

7,653,217

1,192

7,654,409

	—

764

764

47,641

	—

47,641

(95)

	—

(95)

(47,546)

	—

(47,546)

	—

	—

	—

	—

764

764

$	7,653,217

$	1,956

$	7,655,173

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

CUMULATIVE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS:
Beginning Balances
Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Used
Non-Exchange Revenue
Other
Other Financing Sources:
Imputed Financing (Note 13)
Other (Note 17)

Cumulative Results of Operations (Note 11)
UNEXPENDED APPROPRIATIONS:
Beginning Balances
Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Received
Other Adjustments
Appropriations Used
Total Budgetary Financing Sources
Total Unexpended Appropriations
Net Position, End of Period
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

  77

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Statements of Budgetary Resources
For the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013
FY 2014

FY 2013

$	144,766
33,554
	—
178,320
79,763
1,292,430

$	43,672
30,777
2,009
76,458
117,811
1,208,208

$	1,550,513

$	1,402,477

$	1,426,869

$	1,257,711

455,849
327
(332,532)
123,644

518,816
43,749
(417,799)
144,766

Total Budgetary Resources

$	1,550,513

$	1,402,477

CHANGE IN OBLIGATED BALANCE:
Unpaid Obligations:
Unpaid Obligations, Brought Forward, October 1 (Gross)
Obligations Incurred
Outlays (Gross)

$	854,647
1,426,869
(1,332,116)

$	954,598
1,257,711
(1,324,876)

(33,554)
	—
915,846

(30,777)
(2,009)
854,647

(252)
(183)
(435)
915,411

(189)
(63)
(252)
854,395

$	854,395

$	954,409

$	915,411

$	854,395

$	1,372,193
(1,292,247)

$	1,326,019
(1,274,195)

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Unobligated Balance, Brought Forward, October 1
Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations
Downward Adjustments of Prior Year Unfunded Lease Obligations (Note 14.C)
Unobligated Balance from Prior Year Budget Authority, Net
Appropriations (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Spending Authority from Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Total Budgetary Resources
STATUS OF BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Obligations Incurred (Note 14):
Unobligated Balance, End of Year:
Apportioned
Exempt from Apportionment
Unapportioned
Total Unobligated Balance, End of Year

Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations
Downward Adjustments of Prior Year Unfunded Lease Obligations (Note 14.C)
Unpaid Obligations, End of Year
Uncollected Payments:
Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources, Brought Forward, October 1
Change in Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources
Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources, End of Year
Obligated Balance, End of Year
Memorandum (non-add) entries:
Obligated Balance, Start of Year
Obligated Balance, End of Year
BUDGET AUTHORITY AND OUTLAYS, NET:
Budget Authority, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Actual Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Change in Uncollected Customer Payments from Federal Sources
(Discretionary and Mandatory)

(183)

(63)

Budget Authority, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)

$	79,763

$	51,761

Outlays, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Actual Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Distributed Offsetting Receipts
Agency Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)

$	1,332,116
(1,292,247)
39,869
(1,929)
$	37,940

$	1,324,876
(1,274,195)
50,681
(3,150)
$	47,531

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

PAGE

  78

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Statements of Custodial Activity
For the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2014

FY 2013

$	825,027

$	518,592

REVENUE ACTIVITY:
Sources of Cash Collections:
Disgorgement and Penalties

2,702

1,355

Total Cash Collections

Other

827,729

519,947

Accrual Adjustments

154,532

6,334

982,261

526,281

Department of the Treasury

827,729

519,947

Amounts Yet to be Transferred

154,532

6,334

982,261

526,281

$	—

$	—

Total Custodial Revenue
DISPOSITION OF COLLECTIONS:
Amounts Transferred to:

Total Disposition of Collections
NET CUSTODIAL ACTIVITY
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

  79

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Notes to the Financial Statements
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

As of September 30, 2014 and 2013

NOTE 1. Significant Accounting Policies
A. Reporting Entity
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is an
independent agency of the U.S. Government established
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange
Act), charged with regulating this country’s capital markets.
The SEC’s mission is to protect investors; maintain fair, orderly,
and efficient markets; and facilitate capital formation. The SEC
works with Congress, other executive branch agencies, SelfRegulatory Organizations (SROs) (e.g., stock exchanges and
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)), accounting
and auditing standards setters, state securities regulators, law
enforcement officials, and many other organizations in support
of the agency’s mission.
The agency’s programs protect investors and promote the
public interest by fostering and enforcing compliance with the
Federal securities laws; establishing an effective regulatory environment; facilitating access to the information investors need to
make informed investment decisions; and enhancing the SEC’s
performance through effective alignment and management of
human, information, and financial capital.
The SEC consists of five presidentially-appointed
Commissioners, with staggered five-year terms. The SEC
is organized into five divisions and multiple offices. The five
divisions are the Division of Enforcement, the Division of
Corporation Finance, the Division of Trading and Markets,
the Division of Investment Management, and the Division of
Economic and Risk Analysis. The offices include the Office
of Compliance Inspections and Examinations, the Office
of General Counsel, the Office of Investor Education and
Advocacy, the Office of the Chief Accountant, the Office
of International Affairs, the Office of Administrative Law
Judges, the Office of Credit Ratings, the Office of the Investor
Advocate, the Office of Municipal Securities, the Office of
Inspector General, eleven regional offices, and various
supporting services.

PAGE

  80

The SEC reporting entity includes the Investor Protection
Fund (See Note 1.T, Investor Protection Fund). In addition to
being included in the SEC’s financial statements, the Investor
Protection Fund’s financial activities and balances are also
presented separately as stand-alone financial statements, as
required by Exchange Act Section 21F(g)5.
As discussed in Note 10.A, Commitments: Securities Investor
Protection Act, the SEC reporting entity does not include the
Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC).
As discussed in Note 1.S, Disgorgement and Penalties,
disgorgement funds collected and held by the SEC on behalf of
harmed investors are part of the SEC reporting entity. However,
disgorgement funds held by the U.S. Courts and by non-Federal
receivers on behalf of harmed investors are not part of the SEC
reporting entity.

B. Basis of Presentation and Accounting
The accompanying financial statements present the financial
position, net cost of operations, changes in net position,
budgetary resources, and custodial activities of the SEC as
required by the Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002.
The statements may differ from other financial reports
submitted pursuant to Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) directives for the purpose of monitoring and controlling
the use of the SEC’s budgetary resources, due to differences in
accounting and reporting principles discussed in the following
paragraphs. The SEC’s books and records serve as the source
of the information presented in the accompanying financial
statements.
The agency classifies assets, liabilities, revenues, and costs
in these financial statements according to the type of entity
associated with the transactions. Intragovernmental assets
and liabilities are those due from or to other Federal entities.
Intragovernmental revenues are earned from other Federal

FINANCIAL SECTION

entities. Intragovernmental costs are payments or accruals due
to other Federal entities.
The SEC’s financial statements are prepared in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for
Federal reporting entities and presented in conformity with
OMB Circular A-136, Financial Reporting Requirements.
The Balance Sheet, Statement of Net Cost, and Statement of
Changes in Net Position are prepared using the accrual basis of
accounting. Accordingly, revenues are recognized when earned
and expenses are recognized when incurred without regard
to the receipt or payment of cash. These principles differ from
budgetary accounting and reporting principles on which the
Statement of Budgetary Resources is prepared. The differences
relate primarily to the capitalization and depreciation of property
and equipment, as well as the recognition of other assets and
liabilities. The Statement of Custodial Activity is presented on
the modified cash basis of accounting. Cash collections and
amounts transferred to Treasury or the Investor Protection Fund
are reported on a cash basis. The change in receivables and
related payables are reported on an accrual basis.
The SEC presents net cost of operations by program. OMB
Circular A-136 defines the term “major program” as describing
an agency’s mission, strategic goals, functions, activities,
services, projects, processes, or any other meaningful grouping.
The presentation by program is consistent with the presentation
used by the agency in submitting its budget requests.

C. Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
These estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited
to, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue
and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may
differ from these estimates. Estimates are also used when
computing the allowance for uncollectible accounts and in
the allocation of costs to the SEC programs presented in the
Statement of Net Cost.

D. Intra- and Inter-Agency Relationships
The SEC is comprised of a single Federal agency with limited
intra-entity transactions. The Investor Protection Fund can finance
the operations of the SEC Office of Inspector General’s Employee

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Suggestion Program and the Office of the Whistleblower on a
reimbursable basis. This has given rise to a small amount of
intra-entity eliminations of the related revenue and expense
transactions between the Investor Protection Fund and the
SEC’s General Salaries and Expenses Fund.

E. Fund Accounting Structure
The SEC, in common with other Federal agencies, utilizes various
Treasury Appropriation Fund Symbols (Funds), to recognize and
track appropriation authority provided by Congress, collections
from the public and other financial activity. These funds are
described below:
(1)		 Funds from Dedicated Collections:
•	 Salaries and Expenses: Earned revenues from
securities transaction fees from SROs are deposited
into Fund X0100, Salaries and Expenses, Securities
and Exchange Commission. These collections are
dedicated to carrying out the SEC’s mission, functions, and day to day operations and may be used
in accordance with spending limits established by
Congress. Collections in excess of Congressional
spending limits are unavailable by law and reported
as Non-Budgetary Fund Balance with Treasury (See
Note 3, Fund Balance with Treasury).
•	 Investor Protection Fund: The Investor Protection Fund
is a fund for dedicated collections that provides funding
for the payment of whistleblower awards as required by
the Dodd-Frank Act. The Investor Protection Fund is
financed by a portion of monetary sanctions collected
by the SEC in judicial or administrative actions brought
by the SEC. Persons may receive award payments from
the Fund if they voluntarily provide original information to
the SEC that results in a successful enforcement action
and other conditions are met. In addition, the Fund can
be used to finance the operations of the Office of the
Whistleblower and the SEC Office of Inspector General’s
Employee Suggestion Program for the receipt of suggestions for improvements in work efficiency and effectiveness, and allegations of misconduct or mismanagement
within the SEC. This activity is recognized in Fund X5567,
Monetary Sanctions and Interest, Investor Protection
Fund, Securities and Exchange Commission (Investor
Protection Fund). See Note 1.T, Investor Protection Fund.

  81

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

•	 Reserve Fund: A portion of SEC registration fee
collections up to $50 million in any one fiscal year
may be deposited in the Reserve Fund, the balance
of which cannot exceed $100 million. The Reserve
Fund is a fund for dedicated collections that may be
used by the SEC to obligate up to $100 million in one
fiscal year as the SEC determines necessary to carry
out its functions. Although amounts deposited in the
Reserve Fund are not subject to apportionment, the
SEC must notify Congress when funds are obligated.
Resources available in the Reserve Fund may be
limited or sequestered through Congressional action.
This activity is recognized in Fund X5566, Securities
and Exchange Commission Reserve Fund.
(2)		 Miscellaneous Receipt Accounts:
•	 The Miscellaneous Receipt Accounts hold non-entity
receipts and accounts receivable from custodial activities that the SEC cannot deposit into funds under its
control. These accounts include registration fee collections in excess of amounts deposited into the Reserve
Fund, receipts pursuant to certain SEC enforcement
actions and other small collections that will be sent to
the U.S. Treasury General Fund upon collection. This
activity is recognized in Fund 0850.150, Registration,
Filing, and Transaction Fees, Securities and Exchange
Commission; Fund 1060, Forfeitures of Unclaimed
Money and Property; Fund 1099, Fines, Penalties,
and Forfeitures, Not Otherwise Classified; Fund 1435,
General Fund Proprietary Interest, Not Otherwise
Classified; and Fund 3220, General Fund Proprietary
Receipts, Not Otherwise Classified. Miscellaneous
Receipt Accounts are reported as “All Other Funds”
on the Statement of Changes in Net Position.
(3)		 Deposit Funds:
•	 The Deposit Funds hold disgorgement, penalties, and
interest collected and held on behalf of harmed investors,
registrant monies held temporarily until earned by the
SEC, and collections awaiting disposition or reclassification. This activity is recognized in Fund X6561, Unearned
Fees, Securities and Exchange Commission and Fund
X6563, Disgorgement and Penalty Amounts Held for
Investors, Securities and Exchange Commission. Deposit
Funds do not impact the SEC’s Net Position and are not
reported on the Statement of Changes in Net Position.

PAGE

  82

The SEC’s lending and borrowing authority is limited to authority
to borrow funds from Treasury and loan funds to the Securities
Investor Protection Corporation, as discussed in Note 10,
Commitments and Contingencies. The SEC has custodial
responsibilities, as disclosed in Note 1.M, Liabilities.

F. Funds from Dedicated Collections
A fund from dedicated collections is financed by specifically
identified revenues, often supplemented by other financing
sources, which remain available over time. The SEC collects
specifically identified revenues and is required to use those
revenues for designated activities, benefits or purposes and
to account for them separately from the Government’s general
revenues. As described in Note 1.E, Fund Accounting Structure,
the SEC’s funds from dedicated collections are deposited into
Fund X0100, Salaries and Expenses; Fund X5567, Investor
Protection Fund; and Fund X5566, Reserve Fund.

G. Entity and Non-Entity Assets
Entity assets are assets that the SEC may use in its operations.
Non-entity assets are assets that the SEC holds on behalf of
another Federal agency or a third party and are not available
for the SEC’s use. The SEC’s non-entity assets include the
following: (a) disgorgement, penalties, and interest collected and
held or invested by the SEC; (b) disgorgement, penalties, and
interest receivable that will be collected by the SEC; (c) securities
registration, tender offer, merger, and other fees collected and
receivable from registrants, in excess of amounts deposited in
the SEC’s Reserve Fund; and (d) other miscellaneous receivables
and collections such as registrant deposit accounts that have
not been returned to registrants.

H. Fund Balance with Treasury
Fund Balance with Treasury (FBWT) reflects amounts the SEC
holds in the U.S. Treasury that have not been invested in Federal
securities. The components of the SEC’s FBWT are in the various
funds described in Note 1.E, Fund Accounting Structure.
The SEC conducts all of its banking activity in accordance
with directives issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s
Bureau of the Fiscal Service.

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

I. Investments

Non-Entity Accounts Receivable

The SEC has the authority to invest disgorgement funds in
Treasury securities including civil penalties collected under
the “Fair Fund” provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
As the funds are collected, the SEC holds them in a deposit
fund account and may invest them in overnight and short-term
market-based Treasury securities through the Bureau of the
Fiscal Service. The interest earned is subject to taxation under
Treasury Regulation Section 1.468B-2, Taxation of Qualified
Settlement Funds and Related Administrative Requirements.

Non-entity accounts receivable arise mainly from amounts
assessed against violators of securities laws, including
disgorgement of illegal gains, civil penalties, and related
assessed interest. The SEC is responsible for collection, and
recognizes a receivable, when an order of the Commission or a
Federal court directs payment to the SEC or the U.S. Treasury.

The SEC also has authority to invest amounts in the Investor
Protection Fund in overnight and short-term market-based
Treasury securities through the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
The interest earned on the investments is a component of the
balance of the Fund and available to be used for expenses of
the Investor Protection Fund.
Additional information regarding the SEC’s investments is
provided in Note 5, Investments.

J. Accounts Receivable and Allowance
for Uncollectible Accounts
SEC’s entity and non-entity accounts receivable consist primarily
of amounts due from the public. Entity accounts receivable are
amounts that the SEC may retain upon collection. Non-entity
accounts receivable are amounts that the SEC will forward
to another Federal agency or to the public after the funds are
collected.

Entity Accounts Receivable
The bulk of the SEC’s entity accounts receivable arise from securities transaction fees. In addition, the SEC has small amounts
of activity arising from the sale of services provided by the SEC
to other Federal agencies; reimbursement of employee travel
by outside organizations; and employee-related debt. Entity
accounts receivable balances are normally small at year-end
due to the timing and payment requirements relative to the
largest categories of accounts receivable activity. Specifically,
securities transaction fees are payable to the SEC twice a year:
in March for the period September through December, and in
September for the period January through August. Accordingly,
the year-end accounts receivable accrual generally represents
fees payable to the SEC for one month of securities transaction
fee activity (September).

Interest recognized by the SEC on non-entity accounts receivable includes prejudgment interest specified by the court or
administrative order as well as post-judgment interest on
collectible accounts. The SEC does not recognize interest
revenue on accounts considered to be uncollectible.
The SEC’s enforcement investigation and litigation activities
often result in court orders directing violators of Federal securities laws to pay amounts assessed to a Federal court or to
a non-Federal receiver acting on behalf of harmed investors.
These orders are not recognized as accounts receivable by
the SEC because the debts are payable to, and collected by,
another party.
Securities registration, tender offer, merger, and other fees from
registrants (filing fee) collections in excess of those deposited
into the SEC’s Reserve Fund are not available for the SEC’s
operations and are transferred to the U.S. Treasury General
Fund. Accounts receivable amounts arising from filing fees in
excess of those deposited into the Reserve Fund are non-entity
and are held on behalf of the U.S. Treasury.

Allowance for Uncollectible Amounts
The SEC uses a three-tiered methodology for calculating the
allowance for loss on its disgorgement and penalty accounts
receivable. The first tier involves making an individual collection assessment of cases that represent at least 65 percent of
the portfolio. The second and third tiers are composed of the
remaining cases that are equal to or less than 30 days old and
over 30 days old, respectively. For the second and third tiers,
the SEC applies an allowance rate based on historical collection
data analysis.
The SEC calculates the allowance for uncollectible amounts and
the related provision for estimated losses for filing fees and other
accounts receivable using an analysis of historical collection data.
No allowance for uncollectible amounts or related provision for

  83

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

estimated losses has been established for securities transaction
fees payable by SROs, as these amounts are fully collectible
based on historical experience.
The SEC writes off receivables aged two or more years by
removing the debt amounts from the gross accounts receivable
and any related allowance for uncollectible accounts.

K. Other Assets
Payments made in advance of the receipt of goods and services
are recorded as advances or prepayments and recognized as
expenses when the related goods and services are received.

L. Property and Equipment, Net
The SEC’s property and equipment consists of software, generalpurpose equipment used by the agency, capital improvements
made to buildings leased by the SEC for office space, and,
when applicable, internal-use software development costs
for projects in development. The SEC reports property and
equipment purchases and additions at historical cost. The
agency expenses property and equipment acquisitions that
do not meet the capitalization criteria as well as normal repairs
and maintenance.
The SEC depreciates property and equipment over the estimated
useful lives using the straight-line method of depreciation. The
agency removes property and equipment from its asset accounts
in the period of disposal, retirement, or removal from service.
The SEC recognizes the difference between the book value
and any proceeds as a gain or loss in the period that the asset
is removed.

M. Liabilities
The SEC recognizes liabilities for probable future outflows or
other sacrifices of resources as a result of events that have
occurred as of the Balance Sheet date. The SEC’s liabilities
consist of routine operating accounts payable, accrued payroll
and benefits, legal liabilities, liabilities to offset non-entity assets
such as registrant deposit accounts that have not been returned
to registrants, disgorgement and penalties collected and receivable, and amounts collected or receivable on behalf of the U.S.
Treasury. Refer to Note 1.G, Entity and Non-Entity Assets, for
additional information.

PAGE

  84

Enforcement Related Liabilities
A liability for disgorgement and penalties arises when an order
is issued for the SEC to collect disgorgement, penalties, and
interest from securities law violators. When the Commission or
court issues such an order, the SEC establishes an accounts
receivable due to the SEC offset by a liability. The presentation
of this liability on the Balance Sheet is dependent upon
several factors. If the court or Commission order indicates that
collections are to be retained by the Federal Government, either
by transfer to the U.S. Treasury General Fund or to the Investor
Protection Fund, the liabilities are classified as custodial (that is,
collected on behalf of the Government) and intragovernmental.
If the order indicates that the funds are eligible for distribution
to harmed investors, the SEC will recognize a Governmental
liability (that is, a liability of the Government to make a payment
to the public). This liability is not presented as a custodial liability.
The SEC does not record liabilities on its financial statements for
disgorgement and penalty amounts that another Government
entity such as a court, or a non-governmental entity, such as a
receiver, has collected or will collect.
In accordance with the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act,
collections not distributed to harmed investors may be
transferred to either the Investor Protection Fund or the U.S.
Treasury General Fund. Collections not distributed to harmed
investors are transferred to the Investor Protection Fund if the
Fund’s balance does not exceed $300 million at the time of
collection. Refer to Note 16, Disgorgement and Penalties for
additional information.

Liability Classification
The SEC recognizes liabilities that are covered by budgetary
resources, liabilities that are not covered by budgetary
resources, and liabilities that do not require the use of
budgetary resources.
Liabilities that are covered by budgetary resources are
liabilities incurred for which budgetary resources are available to the SEC during the reporting period without further
Congressional action.
The SEC also recognizes liabilities not covered by budgetary
resources. Budgetary and financial statement reporting
requirements sometimes differ on the timing for the required
recognition of an expense. For example, in the financial
statements, annual leave expense must be accrued in the

FINANCIAL SECTION

reporting period when the annual leave is earned. However,
in the budget, annual leave is required to be recognized and
funded in the fiscal year when the annual leave is either used
or paid out to a separating employee, not when it is earned. As
a result of this timing difference, accrued annual leave liability
is classified as a liability “not covered by budgetary resources”
as of the financial statement date.
Liabilities that do not require the use of budgetary resources
include registrant deposit accounts that have not been
returned to registrants and offsetting liabilities that correspond
to non-entity assets that the SEC holds, such as collections
and receivables from disgorgements and penalties. Liabilities
that do not require the use of budgetary resources are covered
by assets that do not represent budgetary resources to the
SEC. Refer to Note 8, Liabilities Covered and Not Covered by
Budgetary Resources, for more information.

N. Employee Retirement Systems and Benefits
The SEC’s employees may participate in either the Civil Service
Retirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employees Retirement
System (FERS), depending on when they started working for
the Federal Government. FERS and Social Security automatically cover most employees hired after December 31, 1983.
Employees who are rehired after a break in service of more than
one year and who had five years of Federal civilian service prior
to 1987 are eligible to participate in the CSRS offset retirement
system or may elect to join FERS.
All employees are eligible to contribute to a Thrift Savings Plan
(TSP). For those employees participating in FERS, the TSP
is automatically established, and the SEC makes a mandatory 1 percent contribution to this plan. In addition, the SEC
matches contributions ranging from 1 to 4 percent for FERSeligible employees who contribute to their TSP. Employees
participating in CSRS do not receive matching contributions
to their TSP. The SEC contributes the employer’s matching
amount to the Social Security Administration under the
Federal Insurance Contributions Act, which fully covers FERS
participating employees.
The SEC does not report CSRS, FERS, Federal Employees
Health Benefits Program, Federal Employees Group Life
Insurance Program assets, or accumulated plan benefits;
the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) reports
this information.

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

O. Injury and Post-employment Compensation
The Federal Employees’ Compensation Act (FECA), administered by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), provides
income and medical cost protection to covered Federal civilian
employees harmed on the job or who have contracted an
occupational disease, and dependents of employees whose
death is attributable to a job-related injury or occupational
disease. The DOL bills the SEC annually as claims are paid,
and the SEC in turn accrues a liability to recognize the future
payments. Payment on these bills is deferred for two years
to allow for funding through the budget process. Similarly,
employees that the SEC terminates without cause may receive
unemployment compensation benefits under the unemployment insurance program also administered by the DOL, which
bills each agency quarterly for paid claims.
In addition, the SEC records an estimate for the FECA actuarial
liability using the DOL’s FECA model. The model considers
the average amount of benefit payments incurred by the
SEC for the past three fiscal years, multiplied by the medical
and compensation liability to benefits paid ratio for the whole
FECA program.

P. Annual, Sick, and Other Leave
The SEC accrues annual leave and compensatory time as
earned and reduces the accrual when leave is taken. The
balances in the accrued leave accounts reflect current leave
balances and pay rates. No portion of this liability has been
obligated because budget execution rules do not permit current
or prior year funding to be used to pay for leave earned but
not yet either taken or paid as a lump sum upon termination
during the reporting period. Accordingly, such accrued leave
is reported as “not covered by budgetary resources.” Refer
to Note 8, Liabilities Covered and Not Covered by Budgetary
Resources. The SEC expenses sick leave and other types of
non-vested leave as used.

Q. Revenue and Other Financing Sources
The SEC’s revenue and financing sources include exchange
revenues, which are generated from transactions in which both
parties give and receive value, and non-exchange revenues,
which arise from the Federal Government’s ability to demand
payment.

  85

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Exchange Revenue

Non-exchange Revenue

The SEC’s exchange revenue consists primarily of collections
of securities transaction fees from SROs and of securities registration, tender offer, merger, and other fees from registrants
(filing fees). The fee rates are calculated by the SEC’s Division
of Economic and Risk Analysis and established by the SEC in
accordance with Federal law and are applied to volumes of
activity reported by SROs or to filings submitted by registrants.
Fees are recognized as exchange revenue on the effective date of
transaction or filing. These fee collections are the primary source
of the SEC’s funding and may be used up to limits established
by Congress. See Note 1.E, Fund Accounting Structure.

The SEC’s non-exchange revenue mainly consists of amounts
collected from violators of securities laws as a result of
enforcement proceedings. These amounts may take the form
of disgorgement of illegal gains, civil penalties, and related
interest. Amounts collected may be paid to injured investors,
transferred to the Investor Protection Fund, or transferred to
the U.S. Treasury General Fund, based on established policy
and regulation.

The SEC recognizes amounts remitted by registrants in advance
of the transaction or filing date as a liability until earned by the
SEC or returned to the registrant. Federal regulation requires the
return of registrant advance deposits when an account is dormant
for three years, except in certain cases where refunds are not
permitted. The Securities Act of 1933 and the Exchange Act do
not permit refunds to registrants for securities that remain unsold
after the completion, termination, or withdrawal of an offering.
However, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Title 17 Chapter II,
Part 230, Section 457(p) permits filers to offset a fee paid (filing
fee offset) for a subsequent registration statement (offering) filed
within five years of the initial filing date of the earlier registration
statement. The total aggregate dollar amount of the filing fee
associated with the unsold securities may be offset against the
total filing fee due on the subsequent offering. Unused filing fee
offsets are not a liability to the SEC because registrants cannot
obtain refunds of fees or additional services in relation to securities that remain unsold. However, filing fee offsets may reduce
revenue earned in future accounting periods.
These exchange revenues are a means to recover all or most
of the cost of the total cost of all SEC programs and to deposit
excess filing fee collections to the Treasury General Fund. As a
result, they are shown as offsetting the total costs of the organization in the Statement of Net Cost, rather than individual
SEC programs. This presentation is consistent with the financial
accounting concepts described in Statement of Federal Financial
Accounting Concepts 2, Entity and Display.

PAGE

  86

All non-exchange revenue expected to be forwarded to either
the U.S. Treasury General Fund or Investor Protection Fund is
recognized on the Statement of Custodial Activity. The Investor
Protection Fund recognizes non-exchange revenue on the
Statement of Changes in Net Position when funds are transferred
into the Investor Protection Fund. The result is that, in accordance with Federal accounting standards, the entire amount
of custodial activity is presented on the Statement of Custodial
Activity to document the movement of funds, and the portion
retained by the SEC is recognized as SEC activity.
The SEC does not recognize amounts collected and held by
another government entity, such as a court registry, or a nongovernment entity, such as a receiver.

R. Budgets and Budgetary Accounting
Salaries and Expenses
The SEC deposits securities transaction fee revenue in the
SEC’s Salaries and Expenses account. However, the SEC may
use funds from this account only as authorized by Congress
and made available by OMB apportionment, upon issuance of
a Treasury warrant. Revenue collected in excess of appropriated amounts is restricted from use by the SEC. Collections in
excess of Congressional spending limits are unavailable by law
and reported as Non-Budgetary Fund Balance with Treasury
(See Note 3, Fund Balance with Treasury). Each fiscal year,
OMB provides the SEC’s Salaries and Expenses account with
Category A apportionments, which are quarterly distributions of
budgetary resources for the fiscal year. These apportionments
include both new budget authority appropriated by Congress
and unused no-year funds (unobligated balances) from prior
years. The Salaries and Expenses account also receives a small

FINANCIAL SECTION

amount of Category B funds related to reimbursable activity,
which are exempt from quarterly apportionment. Refer to Note
1.E, Fund Accounting Structure.

Investor Protection Fund
The Investor Protection Fund is a special fund that has the
authority to retain revenues and other financing sources not
used in the current period for future use. The Dodd-Frank Act
provides that the Fund is available to the SEC without further
appropriation or fiscal year limitation for the purpose of funding
the activities of the Office of the Whistleblower and the Office of
Inspector General’s Employee Suggestion Program. However,
the SEC is required to request and obtain an annual apportionment from OMB to use these funds. All of the funds are Category
B, exempt from quarterly apportionment. Refer to Note 1.E,
Fund Accounting Structure.

Reserve Fund
The Reserve Fund is a special fund that has the authority to
retain certain revenues not used in the current period for future
use. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the Fund is available to
the SEC without further appropriation or fiscal year limitation
“to carry out the functions of the Commission.” Amounts in the
Reserve Fund are exempt from apportionment. Collection of fees
arising from securities registration, tender offer, merger, and other
fees from registrants, other than those that are deposited in the
Reserve Fund, are not available to be used in the operations of
the SEC. Refer to Note 1.E, Fund Accounting Structure.

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

entity such as a court, or a non-governmental entity, such as a
receiver, has collected or will collect. Additional details regarding
disgorgement and penalties are presented in Note 11, Funds
from Dedicated Collections and Note 16, Disgorgement and
Penalties.

T. Investor Protection Fund
The Investor Protection Fund was established through a permanent indefinite appropriation to provide financing for payments to
whistleblowers and can be used for the expenses of the Office
of the Whistleblower and the SEC Office of Inspector General’s
Employee Suggestion Program. The Investor Protection Fund
is financed by transferring a portion of monetary sanctions
collected by the SEC in judicial or administrative actions brought
by the SEC under the securities laws that are not added to a
disgorgement fund or other funds intended for harmed investors under Section 308 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(15 U.S.C. 7246). Sanctions collected by the Commission
payable either to the SEC or the U.S. Treasury General Fund
will be transferred to the Investor Protection Fund if the balance
in that fund is less than $300 million on the day of collection.
The SEC may request the Secretary of the Treasury to invest
Investor Protection Fund amounts in Treasury securities. Refer
to Note 1.I, Investments, for additional details.

S. Disgorgement and Penalties
The SEC maintains non-entity assets related to disgorgements
and penalties ordered pursuant to civil injunctive and administrative proceedings. The SEC also recognizes an equal and
offsetting liability for these assets as discussed in Note 1.M,
Liabilities. These non-entity assets consist of disgorgement,
penalties, and interest assessed against securities law violators where the Commission or a Federal court has determined
that the SEC should return such funds to harmed investors
or transfer such funds to the Investor Protection Fund or the
U.S. Treasury General Fund. The SEC does not record on its
financial statements any asset amounts that another government

  87

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 2. Entity and Non-Entity Assets
Entity assets are assets that the SEC may use in its operations.
Non-entity assets are assets that the SEC holds on behalf of another Federal agency or a third party and are not available for
the SEC’s use. The SEC’s non-entity assets include the following: (a) disgorgement, penalties, and interest collected and held or
invested by the SEC; (b) disgorgement, penalties, and interest receivable that will be collected by the SEC; (c) securities registration,
tender offer, merger, and other fees collected and receivable from registrants, in excess of amounts deposited in the SEC’s Reserve
Fund; and (d) other miscellaneous receivables and collections such as registrant deposit accounts that have not been returned
to registrants. Additional details are provided in Note 16, Disgorgement and Penalties.
At September 30, 2014, SEC entity and non-entity assets consisted of the following:
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Intragovernmental:
Fund Balance with Treasury:
SEC Funds
Registrant Deposits
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Investments, Net:
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Investor Protection Fund
Accounts Receivable
Advances and Prepayments
Total Intragovernmental Assets
Cash and Other Monetary Assets:
SEC Funds
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Accounts Receivable, Net:
SEC Funds
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Custodial and Other Non-Entity Assets
Property and Equipment, Net (Note 7)
Total Assets

PAGE

  88

Entity

Non-Entity

Total

$	7,242,397
	—
	—

$	—
34,766
933,447

$	7,242,397
34,766
933,447

	—
395,169
19
3,488

1,360,520
	—
	—
	—

1,360,520
395,169
19
3,488

7,641,073

2,328,733

9,969,806

21
	—

	—
710

21
710

122,137
	—
	—
113,292

	—
380,583
3,885
	—

122,137
380,583
3,885
113,292

$	7,876,523

$	2,713,911

$	10,590,434

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

At September 30, 2013, SEC entity and non-entity assets consisted of the following:
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Intragovernmental:
Fund Balance with Treasury:
SEC Funds
Registrant Deposits
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Investments, Net:
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Investor Protection Fund
Accounts Receivable
Advances and Prepayments
Total Intragovernmental Assets
Cash and Other Monetary Assets:
SEC Funds
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Accounts Receivable, Net:
SEC Funds
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Custodial and Other Non-Entity Assets
Property and Equipment, Net (Note 7)
Total Assets

Entity

Non-Entity

Total

$	7,133,643
	—
	—

$	—
32,857
988,237

$	7,133,643
32,857
988,237

	—
434,201
	—
1,623

848,441
	—
	—
	—

848,441
434,201
	—
1,623

7,569,467

1,869,535

9,439,002

	2
	—

	—
	387

	2
	387

86,628
	—
	—
126,871

	—
297,098
3,301
	—

86,628
297,098
3,301
126,871

$	7,782,968

$	2,170,321

$	9,953,289

  89

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 3. Fund Balance with Treasury
The Fund Balance with Treasury by type of fund and Status of Fund Balance with Treasury as of September 30, 2014 and 2013
consists of the following:
FY 2014

FY 2013

$	7,109,249
133,148
968,213

$	7,053,301
80,342
1,021,094

Total Fund Balance with Treasury

$	8,210,610

$	8,154,737

Status of Fund Balance with Treasury:
Unobligated Balance:
Available
Unavailable
Obligated Balance not Yet Disbursed
Non-Budgetary Fund Balance with Treasury

$	60,875
128,869
557,376
7,463,490

$	128,327
96,422
413,616
7,516,372

Total Status of Fund Balance with Treasury

$	8,210,610

$	8,154,737

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Fund Balances:
General Funds
Special Funds
Other Funds

Special Funds consist of the Investor Protection Fund and the Reserve Fund. Refer to Note 1.E, Fund Accounting Structure, for
additional information.
Other Funds consist of Fund Balance with Treasury held in deposit funds.
Obligated and unobligated balances reported for the status of Fund Balance with Treasury differ from the amounts reported in the
Statement of Budgetary Resources due to the fact that budgetary balances are supported by amounts other than Fund Balance
with Treasury. These amounts include Investor Protection Fund investments, uncollected payments from Federal sources, and
the impact of the change in legal interpretation for leases. Refer to Note 14.C, Other Budgetary Disclosures, Change in Legal
Interpretation for Lease Obligations.
Non-Budgetary Fund Balance with Treasury is comprised of amounts in deposit funds and offsetting collections temporarily
precluded from obligation in the SEC’s General Salaries and Expenses Fund (X0100). Amounts temporarily precluded from obligation represent offsetting collections in excess of appropriated amounts related to securities transactions fees, as well as securities
registration, tender offer, merger, and other fees from registrants (filing fees) collected in fiscal years 2011 and prior.
There were no significant differences between the Fund Balance reflected in the SEC’s financial statements and the balance in
the Treasury accounts.

NOTE 4. Cash and Other Monetary Assets
The SEC had a cash balance of $731 thousand as of September 30, 2014. The SEC receives disgorgement and penalties
collections throughout the year. Any collections received after the U.S. Treasury Department cut-off for deposit of checks are
treated as deposits in transit and recognized as Cash on the Balance Sheet. The SEC had a cash balance of $389 thousand
as of September 30, 2013.

PAGE

  90

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

NOTE 5. Investments
The SEC invests funds in overnight and short-term non-marketable market-based Treasury securities. The SEC records the value
of its investments in Treasury securities at cost and amortizes any premium or discount on a straight-line basis (S/L) through the
maturity date of these securities. Non-marketable market-based Treasury securities are issued by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service
to Federal agencies. They are not traded on any securities exchange but mirror the prices of similar Treasury securities trading
in the Government securities market.
At September 30, 2014, investments consisted of the following:

Cost

Amortization
Method

Non-Marketable Market-Based Securities
Disgorgement and Penalties
Investor Protection Fund – Entity

$	1,365,090
395,124

S/L
S/L

Total

$	1,760,214

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Amortized
(Premium)
Discount

Interest
Receivable

Investment,
Net

Market Value
Disclosure

$	(5,331)
(196)

$	761
241

$	1,360,520
395,169

$	1,360,071
394,978

$	(5,527)

$	1,002

$	1,755,689

$	1,755,049

Interest
Receivable

Investment,
Net

Market Value
Disclosure

$	(3,932)
56

$	3,005
136

$	848,441
434,201

$	845,551
434,211

$	(3,876)

$	3,141

$	1,282,642

$	1,279,762

At September 30, 2013, investments consisted of the following:

Cost

Amortization
Method

Non-Marketable Market-Based Securities
Disgorgement and Penalties
Investor Protection Fund – Entity

$	849,368
434,009

S/L
S/L

Total

$	1,283,377

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Amortized
(Premium)
Discount

Intragovernmental Investments in Treasury Securities
The Federal Government does not set aside assets to pay future benefits or other expenditures associated with the investment
by Federal agencies in non-marketable Federal securities. The balances underlying these investments are deposited in the U.S.
Treasury, which uses the cash for general Government purposes. Treasury securities are issued to the SEC as evidence of these
balances. Treasury securities are an asset of the SEC and a liability of the U.S. Treasury. Because the SEC and the U.S. Treasury
are both components of the Government, these assets and liabilities offset each other from the standpoint of the Government as
a whole. For this reason, the investments presented by the SEC do not represent an asset or a liability in the U.S. Governmentwide financial statements.
Treasury securities provide the SEC with authority to draw upon the U.S. Treasury to make future payments from these accounts.
When the SEC requires redemption of these securities to make expenditures, the Government finances those expenditures out
of accumulated cash balances, by raising taxes or other receipts, by borrowing from the public or repaying less debt, or by
curtailing other expenditures. This is the same manner in which the Government finances all expenditures.

  91

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 6. Accounts Receivable, Net
At September 30, 2014, accounts receivable consisted of the following:
Gross Receivables

Allowance

Net Receivables

$	19

$	—

$	19

$	121,731

$	—

$	121,731

406

	—

406

Non-Entity Accounts Receivable:
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Filing Fees
Other

2,327,142
6,013
2,181

1,946,559
2,261
2,048

380,583
3,752
133

Subtotal Non-Intragovernmental Accounts Receivable

2,457,473

1,950,868

506,605

$	2,457,492

$	1,950,868

$	506,624

Gross Receivables

Allowance

Net Receivables

$	—

$	—

$	—

$	86,295

$	—

$	86,295

333

	—

333

Non-Entity Accounts Receivable:
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Filing Fees
Other

1,660,940
4,477
1,222

1,363,842
1,411
987

297,098
3,066
235

Subtotal Non-Intragovernmental Accounts Receivable

1,753,267

1,366,240

387,027

$	1,753,267

$	1,366,240

$	387,027

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Intragovernmental Entity Accounts Receivable:
Reimbursable Activity
Entity Accounts Receivable:
Securities Transaction Fees
Other

Total Accounts Receivable

At September 30, 2013, accounts receivable consisted of the following:
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Intragovernmental Entity Accounts Receivable:
Reimbursable Activity
Entity Accounts Receivable:
Securities Transaction Fees
Other

Total Accounts Receivable

Refer to Note 1.J, Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts for methods used to estimate allowances. The SEC
estimates that accumulated interest on accounts receivable considered to be uncollectible is $2.0 million and $985 thousand,
respectively, as of September 30, 2014 and 2013. This estimate does not include interest accumulated on debts written off or
officially waived.
As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, the balances include disgorgement and penalty accounts receivable, net of allowance, of
$223.2 million and $68.6 million, respectively, designated as payable to the U.S. Treasury General Fund per court order. As discussed
in Note 1.M, Liabilities, these receivables, their offsetting liabilities, and the associated revenues, are classified as custodial.
As discussed in Note 1.J, Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts, pursuant to Section 991(e) of the
Dodd-Frank Act, accounts receivable for securities registration, tender offer, merger, and other fees from registrants in excess of the
amounts deposited into the Reserve Fund are held on behalf of the U.S. Treasury and are transferred to the U.S. Treasury General
Fund upon collection.

PAGE

  92

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

NOTE 7. Property and Equipment, Net
At September 30 2014, property and equipment consisted of the following:

Class of Property
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Furniture and Equipment
Software
Leasehold Improvements

Depreciation/
Amortization
Method

Capitalization
Threshold
for Individual
Purchases

Capitalization
Threshold
for Bulk
Purchases

S/L
S/L
S/L

$	50
300
300

$	50
300
	N/A

Service
Life
(Years)

Acquisition
Cost

Accumulated
Depreciation/
Amortization

Book
Value

3-5
3-5
10

$	135,035
157,583
100,362

$	92,965
113,155
73,568

$	42,070
44,428
26,794

$	392,980

$	279,688

$	113,292

Service
Life
(Years)

Acquisition
Cost

Accumulated
Depreciation/
Amortization

Book
Value

3-5
3-5
10

$	134,392
132,845
95,634

$	71,120
98,202
66,678

$	63,272
34,643
28,956

$	362,871

$	236,000

$	126,871

Total

At September 30, 2013, property and equipment consisted of the following:

Class of Property
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Furniture and Equipment
Software
Leasehold Improvements
Total

Depreciation/
Amortization
Method

Capitalization
Threshold
for Individual
Purchases

Capitalization
Threshold
for Bulk
Purchases

S/L
S/L
S/L

$	50
300
300

$	50
300
	N/A

  93

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 8. Liabilities Covered and Not Covered by Budgetary Resources
The SEC recognizes liabilities that are covered by budgetary resources, liabilities that are not covered by budgetary resources,
and liabilities that do not require the use of budgetary resources.
Liabilities that are covered by budgetary resources are liabilities incurred for which budgetary resources are available to the SEC
during the reporting period without further Congressional action.
The SEC also recognizes liabilities not covered by budgetary resources. Budgetary and financial statement reporting requirements
sometimes differ on the timing for the required recognition of an expense. For example, in the financial statements, annual leave
expense must be accrued in the reporting period when the annual leave is earned. However, in the budget, annual leave is required
to be recognized and funded in the fiscal year when the annual leave is either used or paid out to a separating employee, not when
it is earned. As a result of this timing difference, accrued annual leave liability is classified as a liability “not covered by budgetary
resources” as of the financial statement date.
Liabilities that do not require the use of budgetary resources include registrant deposit accounts that have not been returned to
registrants and offsetting liabilities that correspond to non-entity assets that the SEC holds, such as collections and receivables from
disgorgements and penalties, as discussed in Note 1.M, Liabilities. Liabilities that do not require the use of budgetary resources
are covered by assets that do not represent budgetary resources to the SEC.
At September 30, 2014, liabilities consisted of the following:

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Intragovernmental:
Accounts Payable
Other Intragovernmental Liabilities
Accrued Employee Benefits
Unfunded FECA and Unemployment Liability
Custodial Liability
Liability for Non-Entity Assets

Liabilities Not Covered by
Budgetary Resources

Liabilities Not Requiring
Budgetary Resources

Total

$	7,249

$	—

$	—

$	7,249

4,017
	—
	—
	—

	—
1,286
	—
	—

	—
	—
223,363
3,752

4,017
1,286
223,363
3,752

4,017

1,286

227,115

232,418

Total Intragovernmental

11,266

1,286

227,115

239,667

Accounts Payable

64,830

	—

	—

64,830

	—

6,821

	—

6,821

37,931
	—
	—
	—

	—
58,498
	—
	—

	—
	—
34,766
2,451,397

37,931
58,498
34,766
2,451,397

	—
21

5,176
	—

	—
633

5,176
654

Subtotal – Other Intragovernmental Liabilities

Actuarial FECA Liability
Other Liabilities
Accrued Payroll and Benefits
Accrued Leave
Registrant Deposits
Liability for Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Other Accrued Liabilities
Recognition of Lease Liability (Note 9)
Other
Subtotal – Other Liabilities
Total Liabilities

PAGE

Liabilities Covered by
Budgetary Resources

  94

37,952

63,674

2,486,796

2,588,422

$	114,048

$	71,781

$	2,713,911

$	2,899,740

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Other Liabilities (Intragovernmental and Governmental) totaled $2,821 million as of September 30, 2014, of which all but $64 million
is current. The non-current portion of Other Liabilities includes the appropriate portions of Accrued Employee Benefits, Unfunded
FECA and Unemployment Liability, Accrued Leave, Contingent Liabilities, and Lease Liability. Current liabilities not covered by
budgetary resources totaled $652 thousand as of September 30, 2014.
At September 30, 2013, liabilities consisted of the following:

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Intragovernmental:
Accounts Payable
Other Intragovernmental Liabilities
Accrued Employee Benefits
Unfunded FECA and Unemployment Liability
Custodial Liability

Liabilities Covered by
Budgetary Resources

Liabilities Not Covered by
Budgetary Resources

Liabilities Not Requiring
Budgetary Resources

Total

$	5,675

$	—

$	—

$	5,675

3,086
	—
	—

	—
1,308
	—

	—
	—
68,831

3,086
1,308
68,831

	—

	—

3,069

3,069

Subtotal – Other Intragovernmental Liabilities

3,086

1,308

71,900

76,294

Total Intragovernmental

8,761

1,308

71,900

81,969

Liability for Non-Entity Assets

Accounts Payable
Actuarial FECA Liability
Other Liabilities
Accrued Payroll and Benefits
Accrued Leave
Registrant Deposits
Liability for Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Other Accrued Liabilities
Recognition of Lease Liability (Note 9)
Other
Subtotal – Other Liabilities
Total Liabilities

38,313

	—

	—

38,313

	—

7,155

	—

7,155

15,405
	—
	—
	—

	—
51,706
	—
	—

	—
	—
32,857
2,065,202

15,405
51,706
32,857
2,065,202

	—
2

5,145
	—

	—
362

5,145
364

15,407

56,851

2,098,421

2,170,679

$	62,481

$	65,314

$	2,170,321

$	2,298,116

Other Liabilities (Intragovernmental and Governmental) totaled $2,247 million as of September 30, 2013, of which all but
$57 million was current. The non-current portion of Other Liabilities includes the appropriate portions of the Unfunded FECA
and Unemployment Liability, Accrued Leave, and Lease Liability. Current liabilities not covered by budgetary resources totaled
$1.3 million as of September 30, 2013.

  95

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 9. Leases
Operating Leases
At September 30, 2014, the SEC leased office space at 15 locations under operating lease agreements that expire between
FY 2015 and FY 2029. The SEC paid $95.3 million and $103 million
for rent for the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013,
respectively.
The following table details expected future lease payments for
(a) the full term of all non-cancelable leases with terms of more
than one year and (b) the non-cancelable portion of all cancelable commercial leases with terms of more than one year. This
listing excludes leases with the General Services Administration
(GSA). “Non-cancelable” leases are leases for which the lease
agreements do not provide an option for the lessee to cancel the
lease prior to the end of the lease term. The total expected future
lease payments reflect an estimate of base rent and contractually
required costs.
Under existing commitments, expected future lease payments
through FY 2020 and thereafter are as follows:
Fiscal Year
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Non-Cancelable Expected
Future Lease Payments

2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020 and thereafter

$	81,763
77,597
78,692
78,976
65,301
53,292

Total

$	435,621

As discussed in Note 14.C, Other Budgetary Disclosures, $358
million of the above $435.6 million are unfunded obligations.

Expense Recognition of “Rent Holiday”
In FY 2005, the SEC moved into temporary office space in New
York due to renovations in the new leased office space. This
temporary space was provided to the SEC for only the lessor’s
operating costs. As a result, the SEC accrued $8 million of rent
expense discount, which is being amortized on a straight-line
basis over the 15 year life of the new lease. Amortization of the
discount recognized for the year ended September 30, 2014 and
2013 totaled $533 thousand in each period, respectively. The
unamortized balance of this location’s discount totaled $3.5 million
and $4.0 million at September 30, 2014 and 2013 respectively.

PAGE

  96

In November 2011, the SEC occupied leased office space in
Atlanta, Georgia. The lease term is 15 years and includes a
one year rent payment holiday. The SEC expects to amortize
$1.4 million of rent expense discount over the non-cancelable
term of the lease which is 10 years. Amortization of the discount
as an adjustment of rent payments began in November 2012.
The unamortized balance of this location’s discount totaled
$1.0 million and $1.1 million at September 30, 2014 and 2013
respectively
In December 2013, the SEC executed an occupancy agreement with GSA to renew leased office space in Miami, Florida.
The occupancy agreement includes a five month rent payment
holiday. The SEC expects to amortize $835 thousand of rent
expense discount over the full term of the lease which is 5 years
and 5 months. The unamortized balance of this location’s
discount totaled $706 thousand at September 30, 2014.
The accrual and amortization of rent holiday discounts allow the
rent expense to be allocated equally to each period of the lease
term. When a rent holiday occurs at the beginning of the lease
term, a rent expense is accrued, even though no payment is
due. This accrued expense is recognized as an unfunded liability
because funding will not be provided until the future period in
which payment is due. Refer to Note 8, Liabilities Covered and
Not Covered by Budgetary Resources, for more information.
Recognition of Rent Holiday Discounts as of September 30,
2014 (amounts in thousands)
Location
New York, New York
Atlanta, Georgia
Miami, Florida
Total (See Note 8)

Total
discount

Amortized
discount

Accrued lease
liability

7,995
1,420
835

4,530
415
129

3,465
1,005
706

10,250

5,074

5,176

Recognition of Rent Holiday Discounts as of September 30,
2013 (amounts in thousands)
Total
discount

Amortized
discount

Accrued lease
liability

New York, New York
Atlanta, Georgia
Miami, Florida

7,995
1,420
0

3,997
273
0

3,998
1,147
0

Total (See Note 8)

9,415

4,270

5,145

Location

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

NOTE 10. Commitments and Contingencies
A. Commitments: Securities Investor
Protection Act

B. Commitments and Contingencies:
Investor Protection Fund

The Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (SIPA), as
amended, created the Securities Investor Protection Corporation
(SIPC) to restore funds and securities to investors and to protect
the securities markets from disruption following the failure of
broker-dealers. Generally, if a brokerage firm is not able to meet
its obligations to customers, then customers’ cash and securities held by the brokerage firm are returned to customers on
a pro rata basis. If sufficient funds are not available at the firm
to satisfy customer claims, the reserve funds of SIPC are used
to supplement the distribution, up to a ceiling of $500,000 per
customer, including a maximum of $250,000 for cash claims.

As mentioned in Note 1.E, Fund Accounting Structure, the
Investor Protection Fund is used to pay awards to whistleblowers if they voluntarily provide original information to the SEC
and meet other conditions. The legislation allows whistleblowers
to receive between 10 and 30 percent of the monetary sanctions
collected in the covered action or in a related action, with the
actual percentage being determined at the discretion of the SEC
using criteria provided in the legislation and the related rules to
implement the legislation adopted by the SEC.

SIPA authorizes SIPC to create a fund to maintain all monies
received and disbursed by SIPC. SIPA gives SIPC the authority
to borrow up to $2.5 billion from the SEC in the event that the
SIPC Fund is or may appear insufficient for purposes of SIPA.
To borrow the funds, SIPC must file with the SEC a statement
of the uses of such a loan and a repayment plan, and then the
SEC must certify to the Secretary of the Treasury that the loan
is necessary to protect broker-dealer customers and maintain
confidence in the securities markets and that the repayment
plan provides as reasonable assurance of prompt repayment as
may be feasible under the circumstances. The Treasury would
make these funds available to the SEC through the purchase of
notes or other obligating instruments issued by the SEC. Such
notes or other obligating instruments would bear interest at a rate
determined by the Secretary of the Treasury. As of September
30, 2014, the SEC had not loaned any funds to the SIPC, and
there are no outstanding notes or other obligating instruments
issued by the SEC.
Based on the estimated costs to complete ongoing customer
protection proceedings, the current size of the SIPC Fund
supplemented by SIPC’s ongoing assessments on brokers is
expected to provide sufficient funds to cover acknowledged
customer claims. There are several broker-dealers that are
being liquidated under SIPA or that have been referred to SIPC
for liquidation that may result in additional customer claims.
In the event that the SIPC Fund is or may reasonably appear
to be insufficient for the purposes of SIPA, SIPC may seek a
loan from the SEC.

A Preliminary Determination is a first assessment, made by the
Claims Review Staff appointed by the Director of the Division
of Enforcement, as to whether the claim should be allowed or
denied and, if allowed, what the proposed award percentage
amount should be. A contingent liability is recognized when
(a) a positive Preliminary Determination has been made by the
Claims Review Staff, (b) collection has been made, and (c) the
percentage to be paid can be reasonably estimated. A potential liability is disclosed but not recognized when a positive
Preliminary Determination is expected and a collection has been
received. A liability is recognized when a positive Proposed Final
Determination has been issued by the Claims Review Staff and
collection has been received. In all cases, the whistleblower
award is not paid until amounts have been collected, a final
order is issued by the Commission and the appeal rights of all
claimants on the matter have been exhausted.
The SEC did not recognize a contingent liability for potential
whistleblower awards for the period ended September 30,
2014 and September 30, 2013. As of September 30, 2014,
potential whistleblower payments for cases where positive
Preliminary Determinations have not been made, but are
reasonably possible, are estimated to range from $25.7 million
to $77.1 million given the amount of current collections on those
cases. Such claims do not meet the criteria for recognition as
contingent liabilities in FY 2014. In FY 2013, an estimated
$500,000 in potential additional whistleblower claims did not
meet the criteria for recognition as contingent liabilities.

  97

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

PAGE

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

C. Other Commitments

D. Other Contingencies

In addition to future lease commitments discussed in Note 9,
Leases, the SEC is obligated for the purchase of goods and
services that have been ordered, but not received. As of
September 30, 2014 net obligations for all of the SEC’s activities were $915.4 million, of which $114.0 million was delivered
and unpaid. As of September 30, 2013, net obligations for all
of SEC’s activities were $854.4 million, of which $62.5 million
was delivered and unpaid.

The SEC is party to various routine administrative proceedings,
legal actions, and claims brought against it, including threatened
or pending litigation involving labor relations claims, some of which
may ultimately result in settlements or decisions against the Federal
Government. The SEC recognizes contingent liabilities when a past
event or exchange transaction has occurred, a future outflow or
other sacrifice of resources is probable, and the future outflow or
sacrifice of resources is measurable. As of September 30, 2014
and September 30, 2013, no contingent liabilities were recognized.

  98

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

NOTE 11. Funds from Dedicated Collections
The SEC’s funds from dedicated collections consist of transactions and balances recorded in its Salaries and Expenses Fund,
Investor Protection Fund, and Reserve Fund. See Note 1.F, Funds from Dedicated Collections. Also see Note 5, Investments, for
additional information about intragovernmental investments in Treasury securities.
For FY 2014, the assets, liabilities, net position, and net income from operations relating to funds from dedicated collections
consisted of the following:
Salaries &
Expenses

Investor
Protection
Fund

Reserve
Fund

Eliminations

Total Funds
From Dedicated
Collections

ASSETS
Fund Balance with Treasury
Cash and Other Monetary Assets
Investments, Net
Accounts Receivable, Net
Property and Equipment, Net
Advances and Prepayments

$	7,108,486
21
	—
122,156
82,635
3,488

$	42,627
	—
395,169
	—
	—
	—

$	90,521
	—
	—
	—
29,465
	—

$	—
	—
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	7,241,634
21
395,169
122,156
112,100
3,488

Total Assets

$	7,316,786

$	437,796

$	119,986

$	—

$	7,874,568

LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable
FECA and Unemployment Liability
Accrued Payroll and Benefits
Accrued Leave
Other Accrued Liabilities

$	41,801
8,107
41,948
58,498
5,198

$	23,136
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	7,142
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	—
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	72,079
8,107
41,948
58,498
5,198

155,552

23,136

7,142

	—

185,830

NET POSITION
Cumulative Results of Operations
Total Net Position
Total Liabilities and Net Position

7,161,234
7,161,234
$	7,316,786

414,660
414,660
$	437,796

112,844
112,844
$	119,986

	—
	—
$	—

7,688,738
7,688,738
$	7,874,568

Statement of Net Cost for the year ended September 30, 2014
Gross Program Costs
Less Earned Revenues Not Attributable to Program Costs
Net (Income) Cost from Operations

$	1,391,435
1,326,566
$	64,869

$	25,116
	—
$	25,116

$	23,642
50,000
$	(26,358)

$	(47)
(47)
$	—

$	1,440,146
1,376,519
$	63,627

$	7,127,534

$	439,197

$	86,486

$	—

$	7,653,217

59,013
	—
	—

	—
579
	—

	—
	—
	—

	—
	—
	—

59,013
579
	—

39,556
	—
(64,869)

	—
	—
(25,116)

	—
	—
26,358

	—
	—
	—

39,556
	—
(63,627)

33,700
7,161,234

(24,537)
414,660

26,358
112,844

	—
	—

35,521
7,688,738

59,013
	—
(59,013)
	—
$	7,161,234

	—
	—
	—
	—
$	414,660

	—
	—
	—
	—
$	112,844

	—
	—
	—
	—
$	—

59,013
	—
(59,013)
	—
$	7,688,738

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2014

Total Liabilities

Statement of Changes in Net Position for the year ended September 30, 2014

Cumulative Results of Operations:
Net Position, Beginning of Period

Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Used
Non-Exchange Revenue
Other

Other Financing Sources:
Imputed Financing
Other
Net Income (Cost) from Operations
Net Change
Cumulative Results of Operations
Unexpended Appropriations:
Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Received
Other Adjustments (Recissions, etc.)
Appropriations Used
Total Unexpended Appropriations
Net Position, End of Period

  99

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

For FY 2013, the assets, liabilities, net position, and net income from operations relating to funds from dedicated collections
consisted of the following:
Salaries &
Expenses

Investor
Protection
Fund

Reserve
Fund

Eliminations

Total Funds
From Dedicated
Collections

ASSETS
Fund Balance with Treasury
Cash and Other Monetary Assets
Investments, Net
Accounts Receivable, Net
Property and Equipment, Net
Advances and Prepayments

$	7,052,538
2
	—
86,628
109,957
1,623

$	4,996
	—
434,201
	—
	—
	—

$	75,346
	—
	—
	—
15,721
	—

$	—
	—
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	7,132,880
2
434,201
86,628
125,678
1,623

Total Assets

$	7,250,748

$	439,197

$	91,067

$	—

$	7,781,012

LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable
FECA and Unemployment Liability
Accrued Payroll and Benefits
Accrued Leave
Other Accrued Liabilities

$	39,407
8,463
18,491
51,706
5,147

$	—
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	4,581
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	—
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	43,988
8,463
18,491
51,706
5,147

123,214

	—

4,581

	—

127,795

NET POSITION
Cumulative Results of Operations
Total Net Position
Total Liabilities and Net Position

7,127,534
7,127,534
$	7,250,748

439,197
439,197
$	439,197

86,486
86,486
$	91,067

	—
	—
$	—

7,653,217
7,653,217
$	7,781,012

Statement of Net Cost for the year ended September 30, 2013
Gross Program Costs
Less Earned Revenues Not Attributable to Program Costs
Net (Income) Cost from Operations

$	1,302,673
1,256,792
$	45,881

$	14,883
	—
$	14,883

$	13,504
50,000
$	(36,496)

$	(51)
(51)
$	—

$	1,331,009
1,306,741
$	24,268

$	7,092,911

$	453,429

$	49,990

$	—

$	7,596,330

47,546
	—
	—

	—
655
6

	—
	—
	—

	—
	—
	—

47,546
655
6

32,958
	—
(45,881)

	—
(10)
(14,883)

	—
	—
36,496

	—
	—
	—

32,958
(10)
(24,268)

34,623
7,127,534

(14,232)
439,197

36,496
86,486

	—
	—

56,887
7,653,217

47,641
(95)
(47,546)
	—
$	7,127,534

	—

	—

	—

	—
	—
$	439,197

	—
	—
$	86,486

	—
	—
$	—

47,641
(95)
(47,546)
	—
$	7,653,217

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2013

Total Liabilities

Statement of Changes in Net Position for the year ended September 30, 2013

Cumulative Results of Operations:
Net Position, Beginning of Period

Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Used
Non-Exchange Revenue
Other

Other Financing Sources:
Imputed Financing
Other
Net Income (Cost) from Operations
Net Change
Cumulative Results of Operations
Unexpended Appropriations:
Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Received
Other Adjustments (Recissions, etc.)
Appropriations Used
Total Unexpended Appropriations
Net Position, End of Period

  100

PAGE

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

NOTE 12. Intragovernmental Costs and Exchange Revenue
The Statement of Net Cost presents the SEC’s results of operations for its major programs. The SEC assigns all costs incurred to
ten programs, consistent with its budget submissions. The full cost of the SEC’s programs is the sum of (1) the costs of resources
directly or indirectly consumed by those programs, and (2) the costs of identifiable supporting services provided by other responsibility segments within the agency. Typical examples of indirect costs include costs of general administrative services, technical
support, security, rent, and operating and maintenance costs for buildings, equipment, and utilities. The SEC allocates support
costs to its programs using activity-based cost accounting.
Intragovernmental costs arise from purchases of goods and services from other components of the Federal Government. In contrast,
public costs are those which arise from the purchase of goods and services from non-Federal entities.
These exchange revenues are a means to recover all or most of the total cost of all SEC programs and to deposit excess collections from registrants to the Treasury General Fund. As a result, they offset the total costs of the organization in the Statement of
Net Cost, rather than individual SEC programs. This presentation is consistent with the financial accounting concepts described
in Statement of Federal Financial Accounting Concepts 2, Entity and Display.
The Statements of Net Cost, for the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, with a breakout of intragovernmental and public
costs is presented below.
FY 2014
Intragovernmental
Gross Cost

Gross Cost
with the Public

Total

SEC Programs:
Enforcement
Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Corporation Finance
Trading and Markets
Investment Management
Economic and Risk Analysis
General Counsel
Other Program Offices
Agency Direction and Administrative Support
Inspector General

$	81,429
47,103
24,456
13,249
9,585
7,250
7,160
10,337
38,884
1,465

$	405,618
234,635
121,820
65,997
47,743
36,116
35,666
51,493
193,691
7,299

$	487,047
281,738
146,276
79,246
57,328
43,366
42,826
61,830
232,575
8,764

Total Program Costs

$	240,918

$	1,200,078

1,440,996

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Less: Exchange Revenues
Securities Transaction Fees
Securities Registration, Tender Offer, and Merger Fees
Other
Total Exchange Revenues
Net (Income) Cost from Operations

1,326,423
579,708
127
1,906,258
$	(465,262)

  101

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

FY 2013
Intragovernmental
Gross Cost

Gross Cost
with the Public

Total

SEC Programs:
Enforcement
Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Corporation Finance
Trading and Markets
Investment Management
Economic and Risk Analysis
General Counsel
Other Program Offices
Agency Direction and Administrative Support
Inspector General

$	75,436
44,376
23,711
12,745
8,423
4,934
6,926
8,658
36,136
1,176

$	375,636
220,972
118,066
63,468
41,943
24,570
34,491
43,110
179,941
5,856

$	451,072
265,348
141,777
76,213
50,366
29,504
41,417
51,768
216,077
7,032

Total Program Costs

$	222,521

$	1,108,053

1,330,574

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Less: Exchange Revenues
Securities Transaction Fees
Securities Registration, Tender Offer, and Merger Fees
Other
Total Exchange Revenues
Net (Income) Cost from Operations

1,256,644
507,473
150
1,764,267
$	(433,693)

Intragovernmental exchange revenue was $96 thousand for the year ended September 30, 2014. Intragovernmental exchange
revenue was $97 thousand for the year ended September 30, 2013.

NOTE 13. Imputed Financing
A portion of the retirement, health, and life insurance benefits provided to SEC employees is funded by OPM. In accordance with
Federal accounting standards, the SEC recognizes identified costs paid by OPM on behalf of the SEC as an expense. The funding
for this expense is reflected as imputed financing on the Statement of Changes in Net Position. Costs paid by OPM on behalf of
the SEC were $39.6 million and $33 million in FY 2014 and FY 2013, respectively.

  102

PAGE

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

NOTE 14. Status of Budgetary Resources
A. Apportionment Categories of Obligations Incurred
Category A funds are those amounts that are subject to quarterly apportionment by OMB, meaning that a portion of the annual
appropriation is not available to the agency until apportioned each quarter. Category B funds represent budgetary resources
distributed by a specified time period, activity, project, object, or a combination of these categories. The SEC’s Category B funds
represent amounts apportioned at the beginning of the fiscal year for the SEC’s reimbursable and Investor Protection Fund activities.
The SEC’s Reserve Fund is exempt from apportionment. For additional information, see Note 1.E, Fund Accounting Structure, and
Note 1.R, Budgets and Budgetary Accounting. For the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, the SEC incurred obligations
against Category A, Category B, and Exempt funds as follows:
Obligations Incurred
FY 2014

FY 2013

$	1,335,969
25,116
65,605

$	1,201,369
14,883
41,343

Total Direct Obligations
Reimbursable Obligations
Category B

1,426,690

1,257,595

179

116

Total Obligations Incurred

$	1,426,869

$	1,257,711

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Direct Obligations
Category A
Category B — Investor Protection Fund
Exempt From Apportionment — Reserve Fund

In addition, the amounts of budgetary resources obligated for undelivered orders include $801.8 million and $792.2 million at
September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

B. Explanation of Differences between the Statement of Budgetary Resources
and the Budget of the U.S. Government
A comparison between the FY 2014 Statement of Budgetary Resources (SBR) and the actual FY 2014 data in the Budget of
the U.S. Government (Budget) cannot be presented, as the FY 2016 Budget, which will contain FY 2014 actual data is not yet
available. The comparison will be presented in next year’s financial statements. The comparison as of September 30, 2013 is
presented below:

(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

Combined Statement of Budgetary Resources
FY 2013 Ending Balance: Comptroller General Decision B 322160,
Recording of Obligation for Multiple Year Contract
OMB’s application of cumulative unobligated balances used to
liquidate deficiency

Budgetary
Resources

Obligations
Incurred

Distributed
Offsetting
Receipts

$	

$	

$	

Rounding
Budget of the U.S. Government for FY 2015

$	

1,402

1,258

(3)

Outlays,
Net
$	

(51)

441

	—

	—

	—

(108)
(1)

	—
	(1)

	—
	1

	—
	—

$	

$	

$	

1,734

1,257

(2)

(51)

The differences between the FY 2013 SBR and the prior year column of the FY 2015 Budget exist because certain data elements
are reported on the SBR differently than those same data elements are reported in the Budget.

  103

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

The data elements reported differently are those used to report the SEC’s recording of obligations in FY 2011 to reflect the impact
of Comptroller General Decision B 322160, Securities and Exchange Commission--Recording of Obligation for Multiple-Year
Contract and the subsequent adjustment and liquidation of those obligations. In consultation with OMB, in FY 2011 the SEC
recognized obligations for leases entered into in FY 2010 and prior. The recognition of these lease obligations resulted in an
unfunded obligation (deficiency) of $778 million.
In the Budget, the unfunded obligation is not included in the beginning of the year unobligated balance brought forward, but
instead is reported in a separate schedule of the Budget titled “Unfunded Deficiencies.”
A detailed reconciliation of the data elements follows:
•	 Based on an agreement with OMB, the SEC is funding the deficiency over time as the prior year unfunded lease obligation
amounts are recovered, and as new budget authority becomes available for current year lease operations. At the end of
FY 2013, the SEC’s SBR included $441 million in remaining unfunded obligations after the SEC funded $80 million for the
current year lease operations and recorded a downward adjustment of $2 million to previously unfunded obligations. The
SEC’s SBR presents the unfunded obligations as part of the beginning of the year unobligated balance brought forward.
•	 At the end of FY 2013, the “Unfunded Deficiencies” schedule in the SEC’s section of the Budget reported $333 million in
remaining unfunded obligations. The $108 million difference in remaining unfunded obligations reflects the difference in
presentation between the SEC’s SBR and the Budget: OMB applies year-end unobligated balances in Fund X0100, Salaries
and Expenses, against the unfunded deficiency reported in the Budget. As a result, the “Unfunded Deficiencies” schedule
in the Budget reflects the application of the FY 2011 year-end unobligated balance ($47 million) and the FY 2012 increase
in the unobligated balance ($55 million) in Fund X0100, Salaries and Expenses, as a reduction in the beginning of the year
unfunded deficiency. The FY 2013 increase of the year-end unobligated balance ($6 million) was also applied to the unfunded
deficiency as part of new budget authority used to liquidate deficiencies.
•	 A portion of the activity in the “Unfunded Deficiencies” schedule is also reflected in the Budgetary Resources section of the
SEC’s Salaries and Expense Account in the Budget. The $88 million in “New budget authority used to liquidate deficiencies”
in the “Unfunded Deficiencies” schedule is broken out in the SEC’s Salaries and Expense Account as follows: $86 million in
“Adjustments for new budget authority used to liquidate deficiencies” and $2 million in “Adjustment for unfunded deficiencies”
(downward adjustments). The $86 million is the sum of the $80 million that the SEC used to liquidate the lease obligations in
FY 2013 plus the $6 million unobligated balance at the end of FY 2013 considered to be applied to the unfunded obligations
in the “Unfunded Deficiencies” schedule.

  104

PAGE

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

C. Other Budgetary Disclosures
General Provisions of Appropriation
The SEC’s annual Appropriations Act contains general provisions that limit the amount that can be obligated for international
conferences, International Organization of Securities Commission (IOSCO) dues, and representation expenses. The act also
requires the SEC to fund its Office of Inspector General with a minimum of $7,092,000 and the Division of Economic and Risk
Analysis with a minimum of $44,353,000.
The SEC’s annual Appropriations Act for FY 2012 temporarily rescinded $25 million in appropriations recognized in the SEC’s
Reserve Fund in FY 2012. This rescission ended on September 30, 2012, leaving that $25 million available starting in FY 2013.
The SEC’s FY 2014 appropriation bill included a provision that rescinds $25 million in appropriations recognized in the SEC’s
Reserve Fund. Refer to Note 1.E, Fund Accounting Structure, “Reserve Fund,” for more information.

Change in Legal Interpretation for Lease Obligations
The SEC was granted independent leasing authority in 1990. Based on a legal review of its statutory authority at the time, the SEC
adopted a policy of obligating only the annual portion of lease payments due each year. On October 3, 2011, the Government
Accountability Office (GAO) issued a decision that this longstanding practice of recording lease obligations only on an annual
basis violated the recording statute, 31 U.S.C. sect. 1501(a)(1). Specifically, the GAO’s decision was that the SEC lacks statutory
authority to obligate an amount less than the Government’s total obligation. If the SEC lacks sufficient budget authority to cover
this obligation, the SEC should report a violation of the Antideficiency Act (ADA).
The SEC recorded obligations in the same manner for all its leasing actions between the time the agency was granted independent
leasing authority in 1990 and 2010. Further, the agency did not have sufficient remaining unobligated funds in the years in which the
various leases were entered to cover the full obligations associated with those leases. As a result, the agency recorded unfunded
obligations totaling $778 million for leases executed between 1990 and 2010 in FY 2011. The SEC appropriately obligated the
Government’s total financial responsibility for lease actions that were executed in FY 2011 and FY 2012.
Unfunded lease obligations totaled $358 million and $441 million as of September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The change in
unfunded obligations is due to the SEC funding previously unfunded obligations totaling $83 million. Accrual accounting requires
expenses to be recognized in the period in which the expenses are incurred. Because future lease expenses are not an expense
of the current fiscal year, they are not reported as expenses or liabilities in the current fiscal year. See Note 9, Leases, for additional
information.
See Note 10.A, Commitments: Securities Investor Protection Act, for information on the SEC’s borrowing authority.

  105

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 15. Reconciliation of Net Cost of Operations to Budget
For the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013:
FY 2014

FY 2013

$1,426,869

$	1,257,711

(1,325,984)
(50,000)

(1,307,044)
(50,000)

Net Obligations
Other Resources:
Imputed Financing from Cost Absorbed by Others (Note 13)

50,885

(99,333)

39,556

32,958

Total Resources Used to Finance Activities

90,441

(66,375)

RESOURCES USED TO FINANCE ITEMS NOT PART OF THE NET COST OF OPERATIONS:
Change in Budgetary Resources Obligated for Goods, Services, and Benefits Ordered But Not Yet Provided
Resources that Finance the Acquisition of Assets Capitalized on the Balance Sheet

(11,352)
(47,553)

104,435
(83,218)

Total Resources Used to Finance Items Not Part of the Net Cost of Operations

(58,905)

21,217

Total Resources Used to Finance the Net Cost of Operations

31,536

	(45,158)

COMPONENTS OF NET COST OF OPERATIONS THAT WILL NOT REQUIRE OR GENERATE RESOURCES IN THE CURRENT PERIOD:
Components Requiring or Generating Resources in Future Periods:
Change in Accrued Leave Liability
Change in Revenue Receivables Not Generating Resources Until Collected
Change in Lease Liability
Change in Unfunded Liability

6,792
(35,509)
31
(356)

3,175
16,684
(563)
(3,786)

Total Components of Net Cost of Operations that will Require or Generate Resources in Future Periods

(29,042)

15,510

Components not Requiring or Generating Resources:
Depreciation and Amortization
Revaluation of Assets or Liabilities
Non-Entity Filing Fee Revenue, Net
Other Costs that will not Require or Generate Resources

60,596
537
(528,858)
(31)

53,801
117
(457,915)
(48)

Total Components of Net Cost of Operations that will not Require or Generate Resources in Future Periods

(467,756)

(404,045)

Total Components of Net Cost of Operations that will not Require or Generate Resources in the Current Period

(496,798)

(388,535)

$	(465,262)

$	(433,693)

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

RESOURCES USED TO FINANCE ACTIVITIES:
Budgetary Resources Obligated:
Obligations Incurred (Note 14)
Less: Spending Authority from Offsetting Collections, Recoveries, and
Downward Adjustments to Prior Year Unfunded Lease Obligations
Less: Reserve Fund Appropriations

Net (Income) Cost from Operations

Components of net cost of operations that will not require or generate budgetary resources represent required timing differences
in the Statement of Net Cost and the Statement of Budgetary Resources.
For example, as noted in Note 1.M, Liabilities, annual leave that is earned but not either taken or paid out to separating employees
by the end of the fiscal year is required to be reported as an expense in the financial statements in the year when it is earned, but it
is required to be funded by budgetary resources in the future fiscal year when it is either used or paid out to separating employees.
In the reconciliation above, it is reported as a component of net cost that will not require resources in the current period. Another
example is depreciation expense. In budgetary reporting, the entire cost of a depreciable asset is recognized in the period when
the asset is purchased. However, in financial statement reporting, accrual accounting requires the cost of such assets to be
allocated among the reporting periods that represent the estimated useful life of the asset. In the reconciliation above, depreciation
is recognized as a “component not requiring or generating resources.” Another example is Non-Entity Filing Fee Revenue, Net.
“Non-entity” filing fee revenue is not available to the SEC for use in its operations; accordingly, this revenue does not generate
budgetary resources for the SEC.

  106

PAGE

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

NOTE 16. Disgorgement and Penalties
The SEC’s non-entity assets include disgorgement, penalties, and interest assessed against securities law violators by the
Commission or a Federal court. The SEC also recognizes an equal and offsetting liability for these non-entity assets, as discussed
in Note 1.M, Liabilities.
When the Commission or court issues an order for the SEC to collect disgorgement, penalties, and interest from securities law
violators, the SEC establishes an account receivable due to the SEC. Upon collection, the SEC may (a) hold receipts in the
Disgorgement and Penalty Deposit Fund as FBWT or Treasury investments pending distribution to harmed investors, (b) deposit
receipts in the U.S. Treasury General Fund or, (c) transfer amounts to the Investor Protection Fund. The situations where funds
would not be held for distribution to harmed investors arise when the SEC either determines it is not practical to return funds to
investors or when court orders expressly state that funds are to be remitted to the U.S. Treasury. The determination as to whether
funds not held for distribution to harmed investors will be deposited in the U.S. Treasury or transferred to the Investor Protection
Fund is made in accordance with the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, and is dependent on the balance in the Investor Protection
Fund on the day the amounts are collected. (See Note 1.T, Investor Protection Fund).
Disbursements related to disgorgements and penalties include distributions to harmed investors, payments to tax authorities,
and fees paid to plan administrators and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The SEC does not record accounts receivable on its
financial statements for any amounts ordered to another Government entity such as a court, or a non-governmental entity such
as a receiver. Additional details regarding disgorgement and penalties are presented in Note 1.S, Disgorgement and Penalties,
and Note 2, Entity and Non-Entity Assets.
At September 30, the net inflows and outflows for FBWT, Investments, and Accounts Receivable related to disgorgement and
penalties consisted of the following:
FY 2014

FY 2013

$	988,237
1,478,207
(510,901)
(197,069)
(825,027)

$	341,886
1,545,037
(326,159)
(53,935)
(518,592)

933,447

988,237

Cash and Other Monetary Assets:
Beginning Balance
Net Activity

387
323

1,058
(671)

Total Cash and Other Monetary Assets (Notes 2 and 4)

710

387

848,441
512,079

521,444
326,997

1,360,520

848,441

Accounts Receivable, Net:
Beginning Balance
Net Activity

297,098
83,485

130,616
166,482

Total Accounts Receivable, Net (Notes 2 and 6)

380,583

297,098

$	2,675,260

$	2,134,163

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Fund Balance with Treasury:
Beginning Balance
Collections
Purchases and Redemptions of Treasury Securities
Disbursements
Transfers and Deposits to the U.S. Treasury General Fund
Total Fund Balance with Treasury (Note 2)

Investments, Net:
Beginning Balance
Net Activity
Total Investments, Net (Notes 2 and 5)

Total Disgorgement and Penalties

  107

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 17. Statement of Changes in Net Position
In FY 2014, the negative $528,889 thousand in “Other” Financing Sources reported in the Statement of Changes in Net Position
consists of $528,858 thousand in securities registration, tender offer, merger, and other fees from registrants (“filing fees”) and
$31 thousand in Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) fees collected, or to be collected, for deposit into the U.S. Treasury General Fund.
In FY 2013, the negative $457,974 thousand consists of $457,915 thousand in filing fees and $49 thousand in FOIA revenues
collected, or to be collected, for deposit into the U.S. Treasury General Fund, and $10 thousand in losses on the sale of investments
in U.S. Treasury securities.

  108

PAGE

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited)
This section provides the Required Supplementary Information as prescribed by OMB Circular A-136, Financial Reporting
Requirements.
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Statements of Budgetary Resources by Fund
For the year ended September 30, 2014:

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Unobligated Balance, Brought Forward, October 1
Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations
Downward Adjustments of Prior Year Unfunded Lease Obligations (Note 14.C)
Unobligated Balance from Prior Year Budget Authority, Net
Appropriations (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Spending Authority from Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Total Budgetary Resources
STATUS OF BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Obligations Incurred (Note 14)
Unobligated Balance, End of Year:
Apportioned
Exempt from Apportionment
Unapportioned
Total Unobligated Balance, End of Year
Total Budgetary Resources
CHANGE IN OBLIGATED BALANCE:
Unpaid Obligations:
Unpaid Obligations, Brought Forward, October 1 (Gross)
Obligations Incurred
Outlays (Gross)
Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations
Downward Adjustments of Prior Year Unfunded Lease Obligations (Note 14.C)
Unpaid Obligations, End of Year
Uncollected Payments:
Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources, Brought Forward, October 1
Change in Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources
Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources, End of Year
Memorandum (non-add) entries:
Obligated Balance, Start of Year
Obligated Balance, End of Year
BUDGET AUTHORITY AND OUTLAYS, NET:
Budget Authority, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Actual Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Change in Uncollected Customer Payments from Federal Sources
(Discretionary and Mandatory)
Budget Authority, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Actual Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Distributed Offsetting Receipts
Agency Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)

Salaries and
Expenses and
Other Funds
X0100, 09/10 0100,
1435, 3220

Investor
Protection
Fund

Reserve
Fund

5567

5566

$	(333,375)
33,521
	—
(299,854)
59,012
1,292,430
$	1,051,588

$	434,392
	—
	—
434,392
(1,399)
	—
$	432,993

$	43,749
33
	—
43,782
22,150
	—
$	65,932

$	144,766
33,554
	—
178,320
79,763
1,292,430
$	1,550,513

$	1,336,148

$	25,116

$	65,605

$	1,426,869

47,972
	—
(332,532)
(284,560)
$	1,051,588

407,877
	—
	—
407,877
$	432,993

	—
327
	—
327
$	65,932

455,849
327
(332,532)
123,644
$	1,550,513

$	825,600
1,336,148
(1,295,311)
(33,521)
	—
832,916

$	—
25,116
(1,980)
	—
	—
23,136

$29,047
65,605
(34,825)
(33)
	—
59,794

$	854,647
1,426,869
(1,332,116)
(33,554)
	—
915,846

(252)
(183)
(435)

	—
	—
	—

	—
	—
	—

(252)
(183)
(435)

$	825,348

$	—

$	29,047

$	854,395

$	832,481

$	23,136

$	59,794

$	915,411

$	1,351,442
(1,292,247)

$	(1,399)
	—

$	22,150
	—

$	1,372,193
(1,292,247)

(183)
$	59,012

	—
$	(1,399)

	—
$	22,150

(183)
$	79,763

$	1,295,311
(1,292,247)
3,064
(1,439)
$	1,625

$	1,980
	—
1,980
(490)
$	1,490

$	34,825
	—
34,825
	—
$	34,825

$	1,332,116
(1,292,247)
39,869
(1,929)
$	37,940

Total

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

  109

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

For the year ended September 30, 2013:

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Unobligated Balance, Brought Forward, October 1
Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations
Downward Adjustments of Prior Year Unfunded Lease Obligations (Note 14.C)
Unobligated Balance from Prior Year Budget Authority, Net
Appropriations (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Spending Authority from Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Total Budgetary Resources
STATUS OF BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Obligations Incurred (Note 14)
Unobligated Balance, End of Year:
Apportioned
Exempt from Apportionment
Unapportioned
Total Unobligated Balance, End of Year
Total Budgetary Resources
CHANGE IN OBLIGATED BALANCE:
Unpaid Obligations:
Unpaid Obligations, Brought Forward, October 1 (Gross)
Obligations Incurred
Outlays (Gross)
Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations
Downward Adjustments of Prior Year Unfunded Lease Obligations (Note 14.C)
Unpaid Obligations, End of Year
Uncollected Payments:
Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources, Brought Forward, October 1
Change in Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources
Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources, End of Year
Memorandum (non-add) entries:
Obligated Balance, Start of Year
Obligated Balance, End of Year
BUDGET AUTHORITY AND OUTLAYS, NET:
Budget Authority, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Actual Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Change in Uncollected Customer Payments from Federal Sources
(Discretionary and Mandatory)
Budget Authority, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Actual Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Distributed Offsetting Receipts
Agency Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

  110

PAGE

Salaries and
Expenses and
Other Funds
X0100, 09/10 0100,
1435, 3220

Investor
Protection
Fund

Reserve
Fund

5567

5566

$	(420,430)
30,777
2,009
(387,644)
47,546
1,208,208
$	868,110

$	451,460
	—
	—
451,460
(2,185)
	—
$	449,275

$	12,642
	—
	—
12,642
72,450
	—
$	85,092

$	43,672
30,777
2,009
76,458
117,811
1,208,208
$	1,402,477

$	1,201,485

$	14,883

$	41,343

$	1,257,711

84,424
	—
(417,799)
(333,375)
$	868,110

434,392
	—
	—
434,392
$	449,275

	—
43,749
	—
43,749
$	85,092

518,816
43,749
(417,799)
144,766
$	1,402,477

$	942,240
1,201,485
(1,285,339)
(30,777)
(2,009)
825,600

$	—
14,883
(14,883)
	—
	—
	—

$	12,358
41,343
(24,654)
	—
	—
29,047

$	954,598
1,257,711
(1,324,876)
(30,777)
(2,009)
854,647

(189)
(63)
(252)

	—
	—
	—

	—
	—
	—

(189)
(63)
(252)

$	942,051

$	—

$	12,358

$	954,409

$	825,348

$	—

$	29,047

$	854,395

$	1,255,754
(1,274,195)

$	(2,185)
	—

$	72,450
	—

$	1,326,019
(1,274,195)

(63)
$	(18,504)

	—
$	(2,185)

	—
$	72,450

(63)
$	51,761

$	1,285,339
(1,274,195)
11,144
(745)
$	10,399

$	14,883
	—
14,883
(2,405)
$	12,478

$	24,654
	—
24,654
	—
$	24,654

$	1,324,876
(1,274,195)
50,681
(3,150)
$	47,531

Total

Investor Protection Fund
Financial Statements
Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements	

112

Notes to the Investor Protection
Fund Financial Statements	

114

 111

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND

Balance Sheets
As of September 30, 2014 and 2013
FY 2014

FY 2013

$	42,627
395,169

$	4,996
434,201

Total Assets

$	437,796

$	439,197

LIABILITIES:
Accounts Payable

$	23,136

$	—

23,136

	—

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

ASSETS:
Intragovernmental:
Fund Balance with Treasury (Note 2)
Investments, Net (Note 3)

Total Liabilities
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 4)
NET POSITION:
Cumulative Results of Operations – Funds from Dedicated Collections

414,660

439,197

Total Net Position – Funds from Dedicated Collections

414,660

439,197

Total Net Position

414,660

439,197

$	437,796

$	439,197

FY 2014

FY 2013

Total Liabilities and Net Position
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND

Statements of Net Cost
For the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

PROGRAM COSTS (Note 5):
Awards to Whistleblowers
Employee Suggestion Program
Total Program Costs
Net (Income) Cost from Operations
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

  112

PAGE

$	25,069

$	14,832

47

51

25,116

14,883

$	25,116

$	14,883

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND

Statements of Changes in Net Position
For the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013
FY 2014

FY 2013

$	439,197

$	453,429

Budgetary Financing Sources:
Non-Exchange Revenue
Other

579
	—

655
6

Other Financing Sources:
Other
Total Financing Sources

	—
579

(10)
651

Net Income (Cost) from Operations

(25,116)

(14,883)

Net Change

(24,537)

(14,232)

414,660

439,197

$	414,660

$	439,197

FY 2014

FY 2013

$	434,392
(1,399)

$	451,460
(2,185)

$	432,993

$	449,275

$	25,116

$	14,883

407,877

434,392

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

CUMULATIVE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – FUNDS FROM DEDICATED COLLECTIONS:
Beginning Balances

Cumulative Results of Operations
Net Position, End of Period
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND

Statements of Budgetary Resources
For the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Unobligated Balance, Brought Forward, October 1
Appropriations (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Total Budgetary Resources
STATUS OF BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Obligations Incurred – Category B (Note 6)
Unobligated Balance, End of Year:
Apportioned
Total Unobligated Balance, End of Year

407,877

434,392

Total Budgetary Resources

$	432,993

$	449,275

CHANGE IN OBLIGATED BALANCE:
Unpaid Obligations:
Obligations Incurred (Note 6)
Outlays (Gross)

$	25,116
(1,980)

$	14,883
(14,883)

$	23,136

$	—

$	(1,399)
$	(1,399)

$	(2,185)
$	(2,185)

$	1,980
1,980

$	14,883
14,883

(490)

(2,405)

$	1,490

$	12,478

Unpaid Obligations, End of Year
BUDGET AUTHORITY AND OUTLAYS, NET:
Budget Authority, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Budget Authority, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Distributed Offsetting Receipts
Agency Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

  113

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Notes to the Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

As of September 30, 2014 and 2013

NOTE 1. Significant Accounting Policies
A. Reporting Structure
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is an
independent agency of the U.S. Government established
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange
Act), charged with regulating this country’s capital markets.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) established the Securities and
Exchange Commission Investor Protection Fund. The Investor
Protection Fund provides funding for a Whistleblower Award
Program and finances the operations of the SEC Office of
Inspector General’s (OIG) Employee Suggestion Program.
The Investor Protection Fund is a fund within the SEC, and
these financial statements present a segment of the SEC’s
financial activity.

B. Basis of Presentation and Accounting
The accompanying financial statements present the financial
position, net cost of operations, changes in net position,
and budgetary resources of the Investor Protection Fund as
required by Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(5). The Act requires
a complete set of financial statements that includes a balance
sheet, income statement, and cash flow analysis. The Investor
Protection Fund is a Federal reporting entity. As such, its financial
statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP) for the Federal Government, and
are presented in conformity with OMB Circular A-136, Financial
Reporting Requirements. The legislative requirements to prepare
an income statement and cash flow analysis are addressed
by the Statement of Net Cost and Note 2, Fund Balance with
Treasury, respectively.
The SEC’s books and records serve as the source of the information presented in the accompanying financial statements.
The agency classifies assets, liabilities, revenues, and costs
in these financial statements according to the type of entity
associated with the transactions. Intragovernmental assets and
liabilities are those due from or to other Federal entities, including

  114

PAGE

other funds within the SEC. Intragovernmental revenues and
costs result from transactions with other Federal entities,
including other funds within the SEC.
The Balance Sheet, Statement of Net Cost and Statement of
Changes in Net Position are prepared using the accrual basis
of accounting. Accordingly, revenues are recognized when
earned and expenses are recognized when incurred without
regard to the receipt or payment of cash. These principles
differ from budgetary accounting and reporting principles on
which the Statement of Budgetary Resources is prepared.
A reconciliation of differences, if any, between the accrualbased Statement of Net Cost and the budgetary-based
Statement of Budgetary Resources is presented in Note 7,
Reconciliation of Net Cost of Operations to Budget.

C. Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
These estimates and assumptions include the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may
differ from these estimates.

D. Intra- and Inter-Agency Relationships
Transactions with Other SEC Funds
The Investor Protection Fund is comprised of a single Federal
Treasury Fund Symbol. The Investor Protection Fund is the
recipient of non-exchange revenues collected by the SEC.
Amounts transferred to the Investor Protection Fund are
classified as “retained by the SEC” because the Investor
Protection Fund is a fund within the SEC. The Investor
Protection Fund can finance the Office of the Whistleblower
and the operations of the SEC Office of Inspector General’s
Employee Suggestion Program.

FINANCIAL SECTION

Transactions with Other Federal Agencies
Whistleblower payments may be made from the Investor
Protection Fund as a result of monetary sanctions paid to other
Federal agencies in related actions, but only if there has been a
Commission enforcement action resulting in sanctions of a million
dollars or greater and the Commission has determined that the
whistleblower is eligible for an award and recommended the
percentage. In those instances, the SEC remains liable for paying
the whistleblower. However, in instances where a whistleblower
has already received an award from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (CFTC), the whistleblower is not entitled
to an award from the SEC.

E. Funds from Dedicated Collections
A fund from dedicated collections is financed by specifically
identified revenues, provided to the government by non-Federal
sources, often supplemented by other financing sources, which
remain available over time. These specifically identified revenues
and other financing sources are required by statute to be used
for designated activities, benefits or purposes, and must be
accounted for separately from the Government’s general
revenues. Investor Protection Fund resources are funds from
dedicated collections and may only be used for the purposes
specified by the Dodd-Frank Act.

F. Entity Assets
Assets that an agency is authorized to use in its operations
are entity assets. The SEC is authorized to use all funds in
the Investor Protection Fund for the purposes specified by
the Dodd-Frank Act. Accordingly, all assets are recognized as
entity assets.

G. Fund Balance with Treasury
Fund Balance with Treasury reflects amounts the Investor
Protection Fund holds in the U.S. Treasury that have not been
invested in Federal securities. The SEC conducts all of its
banking activity in accordance with directives issued by the
U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Bureau of the Fiscal Service.

H. Investments
The SEC has authority to invest amounts in the Investor
Protection Fund in overnight and short-term, market-based
Treasury securities. The interest earned on the investments

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

is a component of the Fund and is available to be used for
expenses of the Investor Protection Fund. Additional details
regarding Investor Protection Fund investments are provided
in Note 3, Investments.

I. Liabilities
The SEC records liabilities for probable future outflows or other
sacrifices of resources as a result of events that have occurred
as of the Balance Sheet date. The Investor Protection Fund’s
liabilities consist of amounts payable to whistleblowers and
reimbursable expenses that the Office of Inspector General
incurs to operate the Employee Suggestion Program.
The Dodd-Frank Act and the SEC implementing regulations
establish the eligibility criteria for whistleblower awards. Refer
to Note 4, Commitments and Contingencies for additional
information regarding the disclosure and recognition of actual
and contingent liabilities for whistleblower awards.

J. Program Costs
The Investor Protection Fund reimburses the SEC’s Salaries and
Expenses account (X0100) for expenses incurred by the Office
of Inspector General to administer the Employee Suggestion
Program. The Investor Protection Fund also finances payments
to whistleblowers under Section 21F of the Exchange Act.

K. Non-Exchange Revenue
Disgorgement and Penalty Transfers
Non-exchange revenue arises from the Government’s ability
to demand payment. The Investor Protection Fund is financed
through the receipt of monetary sanctions collected by the
SEC in judicial or administrative actions brought by the SEC
under the securities laws that are not either: (1) added to the
disgorgement fund or other fund under Section 308 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7246) or (2) otherwise distributed to victims of a violation of the securities laws.
The Investor Protection Fund recognizes non-exchange
revenue for disgorgement and penalty amounts transferred
into the fund from the SEC’s Disgorgement and Penalties Fund
(X6563). No sanction collected by the SEC can be deposited
into the Investor Protection Fund if the balance in the fund
exceeds $300 million on the day of collection.

  115

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Interest Earnings on Investments with Treasury
Interest earned from investments in U.S. Treasury securities is
classified in the same way as the predominant source of revenue
to the fund. The Investor Protection Fund is financed through
the receipt of non-exchange revenues and thus interest earnings
are also recognized as non-exchange revenues.

L. Budgets and Budgetary Accounting
The Investor Protection Fund (Fund X5567) is a special fund
established through a permanent indefinite appropriation that
has the authority to retain revenues and other financing sources
not used in the current period for future use. The Dodd-Frank

Act provides that the Fund is available to the SEC without
further appropriation or fiscal year limitation for the purpose of
paying awards to whistleblowers and funding the activities of
the OIG’s employee suggestion program. However, the SEC is
required to request and obtain an annual apportionment from
OMB to use these funds.
The resources of the Investor Protection Fund are apportioned
under Category B authority, which means that the funds represent budgetary resources distributed by a specified project and
are not subject to quarterly apportionment. Thus, all obligations
incurred as presented on the Statement of Budgetary Resources
are derived from Category B funds.

NOTE 2. Fund Balance with Treasury
The Fund Balance with Treasury by type of fund and Status of Fund Balance with Treasury as of September 30, 2014 and 2013
consisted of the following:
FY 2014

FY 2013

Fund Balances:
Special Fund

$	42,627

$	4,996

Total Fund Balance with Treasury

$	42,627

$	4,996

Status of Fund Balance with Treasury:
Unobligated Balance
	Available

$	13,011

$	406

6,480

4,590

23,136

	—

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

	Unavailable
Obligated Balance not Yet Disbursed
Subtotal
Total Status of Fund Balance with Treasury

Unobligated balances reported for the status of Fund Balance
with Treasury do not agree with the amounts reported in the
Statement of Budgetary Resources due to the fact that funds
for unobligated balances are held in investments as well as
in Fund Balance with Treasury.
There were no differences between the Fund Balance reflected
in the Investor Protection Fund financial statements and the
balance in the Treasury accounts.

Cash flow
The Investor Protection Fund cash flows are reflected in
investments and in the Statement of Budgetary Resources.
Such cash flows during FY 2014 consisted of net investment redemptions of $39.2 million, net interest received of

  116

PAGE

42,627

4,996

$	42,627

$	4,996

$412 thousand (which includes $648 thousand of interest
collections, less $258 thousand of premiums paid, and
$22 thousand in discounts received), expenses incurred for
whistleblower awards totaling $25 million of which $2 million
was paid during FY 2014, and the cost of operating the OIG
Employee Suggestion Program of $47 thousand.
Cash flows during FY 2013 consisted of net investment
redemptions of $16.4 million, net interest received of
$2.5 million (which includes $ 3.2 million of interest collections
and $765 thousand of premiums paid, and $89 thousand
in discounts received), payments to whistleblowers totaling
$14.8 million, and the cost of operating the OIG Employee
Suggestion Program of $51 thousand.

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

NOTE 3. Investments
The SEC invests funds in overnight and short-term nonmarketable market-based Treasury bills. The SEC records
the value of its investments in Treasury bills at cost and amortizes any premium or discount on a straight-line basis (S/L)
through the maturity date of these securities. Non-marketable

market-based Treasury securities are issued by the Bureau of
the Fiscal Service to Federal agencies. They are not traded
on any securities exchange but mirror the prices of similar
Treasury securities trading in the Government securities
market.

At September 30, 2014, investments consisted of the following:

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Non-Marketable Market-Based Securities
Investor Protection Fund – Entity

Cost

Amortization
Method

$	 395,124

S/L

Amortized
(Premium)
Discount

Interest
Receivable

Investment,
Net

Market Value
Disclosure

$	(196)

$	241

$	395,169

$	394,978

Amortized
(Premium)
Discount

Interest
Receivable

Investment,
Net

Market Value
Disclosure

$	56

$	136

$	 434,201

$	 434,211

At September 30, 2013, investments consisted of the following:

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Non-Marketable Market-Based Securities
Investor Protection Fund – Entity

Cost

Amortization
Method

$	 434,009

Intragovernmental Investments in Treasury Securities
Market-based Treasury securities are debt securities that the
U.S. Treasury issues to Federal entities without statutorily
determined interest rates. Although the securities are not
marketable, the terms (prices and interest rates) mirror the
terms of marketable Treasury securities.
The Federal Government does not set aside assets to pay
future benefits or other expenditures associated with the
investment by Federal agencies in non-marketable Federal
securities. The balances underlying these investments are
deposited in the U.S. Treasury, which uses the cash for general
Government purposes. Treasury securities are issued to the
SEC as evidence of these balances. Treasury securities are an
asset of the SEC and a liability of the U.S. Treasury. Because
the SEC and the U.S. Treasury are both components of the
Government, these assets and liabilities offset each other from
the standpoint of the Government as a whole. For this reason,
the investments presented by the SEC do not represent an
asset or a liability in the U.S. Government-wide financial
statements.

S/L

Treasury securities provide the SEC with authority to draw upon
the U.S. Treasury to make future payments from these accounts.
When the SEC requires redemption of these securities to make
expenditures, the Government finances those expenditures
out of accumulated cash balances, by raising taxes or other
receipts, by borrowing from the public or repaying less debt,
or by curtailing other expenditures. This is the same manner
in which the Government finances all expenditures.

NOTE 4. Commitments and Contingencies
Commitments and Contingencies: Whistleblower Program
As mentioned in Note 1.I, Liabilities, the Investor Protection
Fund is used to pay awards to whistleblowers if they voluntarily
provide original information to the SEC and meet other conditions. The legislation allows whistleblowers to receive between
10 and 30 percent of the monetary sanctions collected in the
covered action or in a related action, with the actual percentage
being determined at the discretion of the SEC using criteria
provided in the legislation and the related rules to implement
the legislation adopted by the SEC.

  117

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

A Preliminary Determination is a first assessment, made by the
Claims Review Staff appointed by the Director of the Division
of Enforcement, as to whether the claim should be allowed or
denied, and if allowed, what the proposed award percentage
amount should be. A contingent liability is recognized when
(a) a positive Preliminary Determination has been made by the
Claims Review Staff, (b) collection has been made, and (c) the
percentage to be paid can be reasonably estimated. A potential liability is disclosed but not recognized when a positive
Preliminary Determination is expected and a collection has been
received. A liability is recognized when a positive Proposed Final
Determination has been issued by the Claims Review Staff and
collection has been received. In all cases the whistleblower
award is not paid until amounts have been collected, a final
order is issued by the Commission and the appeal rights of all
claimants on the matter have been exhausted.
The SEC did not recognize a contingent liability for potential
whistleblower awards for the period ended September 30,
2014 and September 30, 2013. As of September 30, 2014,
potential whistleblower payments for cases where positive
Preliminary Determinations have not been made, but are reasonably possible, are estimated to range from $25.7 million to
$77.1 million given the amount of current collections on those
cases. Such claims do not meet the criteria for recognition as
contingent liabilities in FY 2014. In FY 2013, the SEC disclosed
an estimated $500,000 in additional whistleblower claims that
did not meet the criteria for recognition as contingent liabilities.

NOTE 5. Intragovernmental Costs
The Statement of Net Cost presents the Investor Protection
Fund’s results of operations for its two activities: the Employee
Suggestion Program and awards to whistleblowers under
the Dodd-Frank whistleblower program. Intragovernmental
costs arise from purchases of goods and services from other
components of the Federal Government (including other SEC
funds). In contrast, public costs are those which arise from
the purchase of goods and services from non-Federal entities.
Awards to whistleblowers are categorized as “costs with
the public.”

  118

PAGE

In FY 2014, the Employee Suggestion Program incurred
$47 thousand of intragovernmental costs. The Dodd-Frank
whistleblower program incurred $25.1 million of costs with the
public (awards to whistleblowers) in FY 2014.
In FY 2013, the Employee Suggestion Program incurred
$51 thousand of intragovernmental costs. The Dodd-Frank
whistleblower program incurred $14.8 million of costs with the
public (awards to whistleblowers) in FY 2013.

NOTE 6. Status of Budgetary Resources
A. Explanation of Differences between the
Statement of Budgetary Resources and the
Budget of the U.S. Government
A comparison between the FY 2014 Statement of Budgetary
Resources (SBR) and the actual FY 2014 data in the President’s
budget cannot be presented, as the FY 2016 President’s budget
which will contain FY 2014 actual data is not yet available; the
comparison will be presented in next year’s financial statements.
There are no differences between the FY 2013 SBR and the
FY 2013 data in the President’s budget.

B. Other Budgetary Disclosures
There were no budgetary resources obligated for undelivered
orders as of September 30, 2014 and 2013.
There are no legal arrangements affecting the use of unobligated
balances of budget authority, such as time limits, purpose, and
obligation limitations.

NOTE 7. Reconciliation of Net Cost
of Operations to Budget
For the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, Obligations
Incurred equaled the Net Cost of Operations and there were
no reconciling items.

Other Information

T

his

section

provides

additional

information

•	 Summary of Financial Statement Audit and Management

regarding the U.S. Securities and Exchange

Assurances: Summary tables are provided for each

Commission’s (SEC) financial and performance

material weakness and non-conformance found and/

management:
•	 Schedule of Spending (Unaudited): Provides an overview
of how the SEC spent its resources based on the amount
available to the SEC and to whom the money was spent.
•	 Inspector General’s Statement on Management and
Performance Challenges: Provides a summary of the
most serious management and performance challenges
facing the SEC as identified by management and the
Office of Inspector General (OIG) in accordance with

or resolved during the U.S. Government Accountability
Office’s (GAO) audit as well as found by management
during the evaluation of internal control and financial
systems required by the Federal Managers’ Financial
Integrity Act (FMFIA).
•	 Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act Reporting
Details: Provides information on the SEC’s commitment
and progress in reducing improper payments, including
efforts to recapture payments made improperly.

the Reports Consolidation Act of 2000. Also included
is a response from the SEC Chair outlining the agency’s
progress in addressing the challenges.

 119

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Schedule of Spending (Unaudited)
The Schedule of Spending presents a more detailed summary of the “Obligations Incurred” line presented on the Statement
of Budgetary Resources, and how these amounts agreed to be spent compare to the SEC’s total resources after factoring out
amounts available but not agreed to be spent, as well as amounts not available to be spent. The SEC’s obligations are categorized
by major program and object class.
In an additional effort to improve the quality of data reported on USASpending.gov for public transparency, the SEC has also
begun reconciliation efforts between obligations reported on the financial statements and spending reported on the website.
The majority of obligations included on the financial statements that are not included on USASpending.gov include the following:
personnel compensation and benefits, leases, interagency agreements, travel, and training. Differences may also exist due to
timing differences between obligations reported in SEC’s financial reporting system and data transmitted to USASpending.gov
through the central Federal Procurement Data System.
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Schedule of Spending
For the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

What Money is Available to Spend?
Total Resources
Less Amount Available but Not Agreed to be Spent
Less Amount Not Available to be Spent
Total Amounts Agreed to be Spent
How was the Money Spent/Issued?
Enforcement
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
Corporation Finance
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
Trading and Markets
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other

FY 2014

FY 2013

$	1,550,513
456,176
(332,532)

$	1,402,477
562,565
(417,799)

$	1,426,869

$	1,257,711

$	286,868
124,255
8,809
25,072

$	271,202
138,883
19,376
4,679

445,004

434,140

193,531
43,055
6,039
4

178,607
52,047
4,803
3,271

242,629

238,728

100,661
18,262
3,368
	—

95,607
26,398
6,850
1,712

122,291

130,567

54,514
9,832
1,758
	—

51,755
13,968
3,536
929

66,104

70,188
(continued on next page)

  120

PAGE

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Schedule of Spending (continued)
For the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Investment Management
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other

FY 2014

FY 2013

40,206
6,580
1,260
	—

35,029
8,828
2,101
596

48,046

46,554

22,028
19,487
1,281
	—

17,414
16,152
7,104
317

42,796

40,987

29,865
5,578
898
216

28,428
7,554
1,730
587

36,557

38,299

42,556
8,803
1,369
	—

35,209
10,222
2,164
646

52,728

48,241

127,648
179,520
56,418
49

109,668
81,829
9,371
2,765

363,635

203,633

5,507
1,374
198
	—

3,877
2,166
257
74

7,079

6,374

Total Amounts Agreed to be Spent

$	1,426,869

$	1,257,711

Who did the Money go to?
Non-Federal Individuals and Organizations
Federal Agencies1

$	1,372,177
54,692

$	1,199,233
58,478

Total Amounts Agreed to be Spent

$	1,426,869

$	1,257,711

Economic and Risk Analysis
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
General Counsel
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
Other Program Offices
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
Agency Direction and Administrative Support
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
Inspector General
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other

1	

“Federal Agencies” include Federal agencies, offices, and all other organizations that are components of the U.S. government.

  121

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Inspector General’s Statement on Management
and Performance Challenges
UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

OFFICE OF
INSPECTOR GENERAL

MEMORANDUM
September 30, 2014
To:

Mary Jo White, Chair

From:

Carl W. Hoecker, Inspector General, Office of Inspector General

Subject:

The Inspector General’s Statement on the SEC’s Management and Performance
Challenges

The Reports Consolidation Act of 2000 requires the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) Office of Inspector General (OIG) to identify and report annually on the
most serious management challenges that the SEC faces. To identify management
challenges, we review past and ongoing audit, investigation, and evaluation work. In deciding
whether to identify an issue as a challenge, we consider its significance in relation to the SEC’s
mission; its susceptibility to fraud, waste, and abuse; and the SEC’s progress in addressing the
challenge. We compiled this statement on the basis of the work we completed over the past
year; our knowledge of the SEC’s programs and operations; and feedback from SEC staff and
the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) auditors who conduct the SEC’s annual
financial statement audit.
MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE CHALLENGES
Regulatory Oversight
Over the past decade, the markets, products, and participants that the SEC oversees and
regulates—including investment advisers, mutual and exchange-traded funds, and brokerdealers—have grown in size and complexity, creating several challenges for the SEC as it
carries out its mission to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly, and efficient markets, and
facilitate capital formation. For example, following the 2007 – 2009 financial crisis and
enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection (Dodd-Frank) Act,
the SEC’s responsibilities for providing regulatory oversight expanded significantly. The DoddFrank Act mandated that the agency undertake the largest and most complex rulemaking
agenda in its history. Specifically, the Dodd-Frank Act includes some 90 provisions that
require SEC rulemaking and more than 20 other provisions that require studies or reports. In
addition, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act requires the SEC to write new rules
and issue studies on capital formation, disclosure, and registration requirements. In her
September 9, 2014, testimony before the United States Senate Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs, the SEC Chair stated that the Commission has proposed or
adopted rules with respect to approximately 90 percent of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act
that mandate Commission rulemaking. However, more remains to be done on both the Dodd-

  122

PAGE

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Frank and JOBS Act rulemakings, and the agency’s ability to effectively prioritize and manage
its resources will be key to the successful and timely completion of this work.
In addition to the resources needed for rulemaking, the SEC has identified an immediate and
pressing need for ensuring sufficient examination coverage of registered investment advisers.
According to the Chair’s recent Congressional testimony, during fiscal year (FY) 2013, due to
significant resource constraints, the SEC examined only about 9 percent of these advisers,
although the total amount of assets managed by SEC-registered advisers increased from
$43.8 trillion in April 2011 to $62.3 trillion in August 2014. The Chair further testified that the
number of examiners per trillion dollars in investment adviser assets under management
dropped from 19 in 2004 to 8 in 2014. In its first Report on Objectives, the SEC’s Office of
Investor Advocate, which was established by the Dodd-Frank Act, described the agency’s
ability to properly oversee registered investment advisers as a “substantial and continuing risk
to investors.” To ensure the SEC can adequately protect investors, the Office of Investor
Advocate recommended that Congress immediately appropriate funds to increase the number
of SEC staff who examine registered investment advisers, and authorize the SEC to collect
fees from investment advisers to create a more stable and scalable source of revenue for
investment adviser examinations in future years.
Finally, to keep pace with increasingly complex markets, the SEC is investing in its information
technology infrastructure, developing new analytic capabilities, and deploying tools and
platforms to store and process increasing volumes of data. Such improvements include
•

standardizing enterprise-wide platforms;

•

modernizing the agency’s SEC.gov website and the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis
and Retrieval (EDGAR) filer systems;

•

integrating structured and unstructured data sources;

•

improving internal search and electronic discovery capabilities and providing complex,
predictive analytical capabilities; and

•

assisting with automated triage and early detection of fraud or abuse at the earliest
possible stage.

We are planning audit work in these areas to assess the SEC’s approaches for addressing
newly expanded responsibilities, effectively targeting and monitoring market participants based
on risk and available resources, and establishing an effective approach to modernizing its
information technology infrastructure.
Information Security
The SEC generates and collects commercially valuable, market-sensitive, proprietary, and
other nonpublic information. To accomplish the SEC’s mission, the agency shares sensitive
information internally among its divisions and offices and externally with the regulated
community and financial regulators. During FY 2014, we completed several evaluations and
investigations of weaknesses in the agency’s controls over information security.

2

  123

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

For example, we completed our FY 2013 evaluation of the effectiveness of the SEC’s
information security programs and practices and whether the SEC’s Office of Information
Technology (OIT) has policies, procedures, and practices consistent with Federal Information
Security Management Act (FISMA) requirements (Federal Information Security Management
Act: Fiscal Year 2013 Evaluation, Report No. 522, issued March 31, 2014). Overall, we found
several areas in which the SEC has improved controls over its information security.
Specifically, OIT has made significant progress establishing (1) a risk management program;
(2) an incident response and reporting program; and (3) an enterprise-wide business continuity
and disaster recovery program, consistent with FISMA requirements and Office of
Management and Budget and National Institute of Standards and Technology guidelines.
However, as we previously reported in 2013, we found that OIT had not taken corrective action
on some issues identified during the prior FISMA evaluations. We also found that the agency
needs to enhance its efforts regarding contractor systems, multi-factor authentication, user
accounts, and configuration management. The agency is taking steps to address our
concerns.
In addition, in our Review of the SEC’s Practices for Sanitizing Digital Information System
Media, Report No. 521, issued May 30, 2014, we identified deficiencies in the agency’s digital
media sanitization and disposal practices, which increased the risk of unauthorized release of
information that is potentially damaging to the agency, its employees and contractors, and
entities that the SEC regulates. We recommended improvements in the SEC’s storage of
media awaiting sanitization; processes for ensuring all laptop computer hard drives are
encrypted; controls over inventorying and tracking hard drives during the sanitization process;
sanitizing failed disks that were part of the agency’s data center redundant storage arrays; and
controls over the third-party destruction of media. The agency concurred with the
recommendations and has developed a corrective action plan. During the course of the
review, we also found on the SEC’s enterprisewide network drives a large amount of sensitive,
nonpublic information that was available to all employees and contractors with access to the
network – a situation the agency took immediate action to correct.
In FY 2014, the OIG also investigated allegations that a departing SEC employee may have
stolen sensitive documents. Specifically, the OIG learned that the SEC’s Office of Records
Management Services had identified sensitive information in materials that were being shipped
from the SEC to the employee’s new employer, a private firm, and SEC management was
concerned about the potential release of nonpublic information. The OIG reviewed the
employee’s documents, identified nonpublic information, prevented information from leaving
the SEC, and recovered other nonpublic information from the employee’s residence. As a
result, the OIG recommended improvements to the agency’s exit procedures and policies. In
response, the SEC instituted a revised records clearance form, offered additional training, and
has regularly reminded employees via email about proper care of nonpublic information.
We opened another investigation into concerns about the unauthorized disclosure of nonpublic
information from an Executive Session of a “closed” (nonpublic) Commission meeting. The
OIG was notified that information about the Commission’s deliberations and voting during the
closed Commission meeting had been disclosed, without authorization, to a news reporter.
Subsequently, nonpublic information was included in a news article by several reporters that
was published before information about the closed Commission meeting was made public.
The OIG was unable to determine which specific individual or individuals had improperly
disclosed information from the closed Commission meeting. However, we determined that an
SEC employee may have confirmed to one of the news reporters certain nonpublic
3

  124

PAGE

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

information. The OIG also learned during its investigation that certain Commission-related
information was transmitted using personal, nonsecure email. The OIG provided the results of
its investigation to the agency for appropriate action. The SEC has taken a number of positive
steps to address control weaknesses we identified.
Further, the OIG investigated allegations that a former SEC employee, who was a candidate
for a position with an SEC regional office, possessed documents containing SEC nonpublic
information that the former employee had obtained through his prior employment with the SEC.
During the course of its investigation, the OIG interviewed the former employee, who admitted
possessing copies of SEC examination reports that he had worked on while employed with the
SEC. The former employee agreed to cooperate with the investigation, and we recovered
SEC documents containing nonpublic information from that former employee. We determined
that one of the documents that the former employee had copied and taken with him when he
left the SEC was marked “Privileged & Confidential.” The OIG provided a report of its findings
to SEC management for informational purposes.
Finally, as part of its audit of SEC’s FY 2013 and FY 2012 financial statements, GAO assessed
the effectiveness of the SEC’s information security controls for protecting the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of the SEC’s key financial systems and information. Although GAO
reported1 that the SEC had implemented and made progress in strengthening information
security controls, GAO found weaknesses in several controls over a key financial system’s
network, servers, applications, and databases. GAO reported that “[t]he information security
weaknesses existed, in part, because SEC did not effectively oversee and manage the
implementation of information security controls during the migration of this key financial system
to a new location.” GAO concluded that until the SEC mitigates control deficiencies and
strengthens the implementation of its security program, “its financial information and systems
may be exposed to unauthorized disclosure, modification, use, and disruption.”
We will continue to review the SEC’s controls over sensitive, nonpublic information, including
OIT’s security controls for the SEC’s information systems.
Acquisition Management
Although the SEC has made progress in improving its acquisitions policies and procedures,
the OIG continues to find the SEC’s monitoring of its contracts to be a challenge. For
example, during our Review of the SEC’s Practices for Sanitizing Digital Information System
Media, we observed that SEC policy and the contract with the agency’s media disposal vendor
required the vendor to provide certificates of destruction that included the name of the
individual(s) who witnessed the destruction and indicated the type and quantity of media
destroyed and the destruction method used. However, SEC employees did not always witness
the vendor’s destruction of the agency’s digital media (including computer hard drives,
compact discs, digital video discs, and data tapes used to process and store often sensitive
information), or ensure that the vendor provided accurate or complete certificates of
destruction. According to the Contracting Officer’s Representative for the media disposal
contract, the vendor provided certificates that included only an inventory of the media by
weight. Without recording hard drive serial numbers or other identifying information for
destroyed devices, there is no proof of which devices were destroyed. For example, one
1

GAO, Information Security: SEC Needs to Improve Controls over Financial Systems and Data, GAO-14-419
(April 17, 2014).
4

  125

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

certificate of destruction from a regional office indicated that 15 hard drives were destroyed
when, in fact, 15 boxes of hard drives were destroyed. In response to our draft report, SEC
management stated that the contract with the media disposal vendor is being transferred from
the Facilities Branch to OIT, and it will be the Contracting Officer’s Representative’s
responsibility to ensure the correctness of certificates of destruction.
In addition, we completed the Audit of the SEC’s Physical Security Program, Report No. 523,
issued on August 1, 2014, and reported that the SEC’s Office of Security Services outsourced
security systems responsibilities to a contractor but did not provide sufficient oversight to
monitor the contractor’s performance. Also, the competencies of contractor security specialists
did not always match their assigned roles and responsibilities.
We will perform additional work in FY 2015 to assess the SEC’s progress in improving its
acquisitions management and contract oversight.
Financial Management
GAO’s audit of the SEC’s FY 2013 financial statements2 found that the SEC’s financial
statements were fairly presented, in all material respects, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles.3 In addition, GAO reported that, during FY 2013, the SEC
made notable progress in addressing internal control deficiencies that GAO had reported in FY
2012. Specifically, in December 2013, GAO reported that the SEC “sufficiently addressed the
deficiencies in its financial reporting for budgetary resources and property and equipment such
that [GAO] no longer consider[s] the remaining control deficiencies in these areas, individually
or collectively, to represent significant deficiencies as of September 30, 2013.” However, as
previously discussed, GAO’s FY 2013 audit identified new deficiencies in the SEC’s internal
control over information security. GAO also reported that the SEC was not able to adequately
address certain control deficiencies in information security reported in FY 2012. GAO
considered the aggregate of these deficiencies in information security to represent a significant
deficiency in SEC’s internal control over financial reporting.4
In addition, in May 2014, GAO reported identifying several new deficiencies in the SEC’s
internal control over financial reporting that GAO did not consider to be material weaknesses
or significant deficiencies, either individually or collectively, but nonetheless warranted SEC
management’s attention.5 These deficiencies were related to
•

procedures for transferring disgorgement and penalty-related funds to the Department
of the Treasury;

•

monitoring of disgorgement and penalty related cases filed in courts;

2

GAO’s FY 2013 financial statement audit included the SEC’s general purpose and Investor Protection Fund
(IPF) financial statements.
3

GAO, Financial Audit: Securities and Exchange Commission’s Financial Statements for Fiscal Years 2013 and
2012, GAO-14-213R (December 16, 2013).

4

This significant deficiency pertained to SEC’s overall financial reporting, but not that of IPF because of the
nature of IPF’s financial transactions during FY 2013.

5

GAO, Management Report: Improvements Needed in SEC’s Internal Controls and Accounting Procedures,
GAO-14-416R (May 12, 2014).
5

  126

PAGE

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

segregation of duties for recording disgorgement and penalty-related financial data;

•

safeguarding of SEC cash receipts received at its service provider;

•

recording of property and equipment transactions; and

•

management’s review of legal contingencies and significant events.

GAO made 9 new recommendations to address these deficiencies in the SEC’s controls over
financial reporting and noted that, with these new recommendations, the SEC has
25 recommendations that need to be addressed. Corrective action is in progress for all
outstanding recommendations. We will continue to monitor the SEC’s financial management
and reporting controls and actions to address open recommendations.
Human Capital Management
In 2013, we reported that GAO had assessed the SEC’s organizational culture and its
personnel management challenges and efforts to address those challenges. In its July 2013
report,6 GAO concluded that the SEC “has not consistently or fully implemented effective
personnel management” and, although the agency had taken some steps, most of its efforts
were in the early stages and could be enhanced. GAO identified four key areas where
continued improvement was needed: (1) workforce planning; (2) performance management;
(3) communication and collaboration; and (4) personnel management assessment. GAO
made seven recommendations to improve the SEC’s personnel management, including
developing comprehensive workforce plans,7 implementing mechanisms to monitor how
supervisors use the performance management system, conducting periodic validations of the
system, exploring collaboration practices of leading organizations, and regularly assessing
these efforts. SEC management agreed with GAO’s recommendations and, on May 5, 2014,
the Office of Human Resources submitted a proposal to GAO to close the recommendations.
In June 2014, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) issued a report on its evaluation of
the SEC. OPM reported “commendable [human resources] process improvement initiatives
and a system of transparency and accountability which resulted in continuous improvement of
human resources programs.” OPM also reported improvements to the agency’s delegated
examining operations since a previous evaluation in 2010. However, OPM found issues that
were repeat findings from the 2010 review, including the “lack of evidence of an effective
quality review process, incorrect [job opportunity announcement] content, insufficient applicant
notifications, insufficient documentation of minimum qualifications, and problems with auditing
of certificates.” OPM also reported that the SEC still did not have a comprehensive workforce
plan, although the agency had a workforce planning process conducted by the senior
executive within each office. Finally, OPM identified a violation of merit promotion procedures
under 5 CFR 335.103(c)(1)(iv). In February 2013, the SEC discontinued the promotion
practice that caused the violation; however, OPM required the SEC to take corrective action
and recommended other actions to improve the SEC’s human capital management.

6

GAO, Securities and Exchange Commission Improving Personnel Management Is Critical for Agency’s
Effectiveness, GAO-13-621 (July 2013).

7

GAO first recommended that SEC develop such a plan in 2001. See GAO-01-947.
6

  127

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Lastly, as an employer, the SEC seeks to hire and retain a skilled and diverse workforce, and
to ensure that all decisions affecting employees and applicants are fair and ethical. Attracting,
engaging, and retaining a technically proficient and diverse workforce is one of the agency’s
stated strategic objectives.8 Section 342 of the Dodd-Frank Act required specific federal
financial agencies, including the SEC, to establish, by January 21, 2011, an Office of Minority
and Women Inclusion, responsible for matters relating to diversity in management,
employment, and business activities. In fiscal year 2014, we initiated an audit of the
representation of minorities and women in the SEC’s workforce to help identify factors that
may impact the SEC’s ability to increase the representation of minorities and women at the
SEC, in general, and in senior management positions, in particular. We anticipate completing
this work and issuing a report in FY 2015.
We will continue to monitor the SEC’s implementation of corrective actions from GAO’s and
OPM’s reviews and the steps taken to improve the agency’s human capital management,
including its efforts to hire and retain a skilled and diverse workforce.

cc:

8

Lona Nallengara, Chief of Staff, Office of the Chair
Erica Y. Williams, Deputy Chief of Staff, Office of the Chair
Luis A. Aguilar, Commissioner
Paul Gumagay, Counsel, Office of Commissioner Aguilar
Daniel M. Gallagher, Commissioner
Benjamin Brown, Counsel, Office of Commissioner Gallagher
Michael S. Piwowar, Commissioner
Jaime Klima, Counsel, Office of Commissioner Piwowar
Kara M. Stein, Commissioner
Robert Peak, Advisor to the Commissioner, Office of Commissioner Stein
Jeffery Heslop, Chief Operating Officer, Office of the Chief Operating Officer
Darlene L. Pryor, Management and Program Analyst, Office of the Chief
Operating Officer

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Strategic Plan, Fiscal Years 2014 – 2018.
7

  128

PAGE

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Management’s Response to Inspector General’s Statement

November
2014
November
10,10,
2014

Mr. Carl W. Hoecker
Inspector General
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, D.C. 20549
Dear Mr. Hoecker:
Thank you for your “Statement on the SEC’s Management and Performance Challenges,”
issued on September 30, 2014. We remain committed to enhancing the financial and operational
effectiveness of the SEC and appreciate the Office of Inspector General’s role in the effort.
Below is an overview of the actions—taken and planned to be taken—to address each of the
challenges identified in your statement.
Regulatory Oversight
During the past decade the SEC’s regulatory responsibilities have increased in size and
complexity. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection (Dodd-Frank) and
the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Acts gave the SEC significant new duties and
required the agency to undertake the largest rulemaking agenda of its history. While the SEC
has made significant progress, more remains to be done on both our Dodd-Frank Act and JOBS
Act rulemakings, and we continue to work with intensity focused on creating fundamental and
lasting reforms supported by robust economic analysis.
As I have indicated previously, our overall responsibilities cannot be handled
appropriately with the agency’s existing resource levels, particularly as we turn from rule writing
to implementation and enforcement of the Dodd-Frank and JOBS Act rules. While the SEC will
continue to do its utmost to maximize the use of its resources, current funding levels make it
increasingly difficult for the SEC to detect, pursue, and prosecute violations of our securities
laws; continue to improve transparency through our disclosure program; and enhance market
structure as the size, speed, and complexity of the markets grow around us.
The President’s Budget Request for the SEC in FY 2015 seeks additional staff and
technology investments to allow the SEC to accomplish several key and pressing priorities,
including bolstering examination coverage for investment advisers and other key areas;
continuing the agency’s investments in the technologies needed to keep pace with today’s hightech, high-speed markets; strengthening our enforcement program’s efforts to detect, investigate,
and prosecute wrongdoing; and enhancing the agency’s oversight of the rapidly changing
markets and ability to carry out its increased regulatory responsibilities.

  129

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Information Security
Our Office of Information Technology (OIT) continues to take corrective actions on
issues identified during prior Federal Information Security Management Act evaluations. This
year, OIT Security initiated a targeted review on select contractor systems to ensure they are
compliant with the government-mandated control baseline for cloud computing systems, and
began assisting OIT Operations in a manual account validation of all Unix system accounts to
ensure all accounts are necessary for the proper operation of our Unix environment. OIT
Operations undertook a project to centralize account validation to ensure timely response in the
future. In addition, OIT Operations is in the final stages of a project to enable the use of our
Personal Identity Verification cards for authentication to our network.
To address the proper sanitizing of digital information system media, OIT Security
assumed responsibility for the main media destruction contract. The staff coordinated a SECwide inventory of digital media awaiting disposal, updated formal policies and procedures, and
initiated backlog disposal pickups at both Headquarters and all Regional Offices. OIT Security
also began working with OIT Operations and Asset Management to ensure and verify all laptop
computer hard drives are encrypted.
In response to the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) audits of the financial
statements in FY 2012 and FY 2013, OIT completed numerous corrective actions to address all
but a small number of identified weaknesses. Those that remain are actively being addressed and
should be remediated in the coming months.
To strengthen controls over non-public information, the Office of Records Management
Services implemented procedures that require all departing SEC personnel, regardless of the type
or duration of their appointment, to provide formal acknowledgement on SEC Form 2888,
Record Clearance Form, that they have not removed documentary materials upon separation
unless they have obtained the proper approvals. This records clearance form includes a signature
from the departing employee’s supervisor or other approving official attesting that they have
conducted a review of documents that the employee plans to remove from the SEC.
Acquisition Management
We remain focused on implementing effective contract management. As noted above,
OIT Security assumed responsibility for the main media destruction contract to address the
proper sanitizing of digital information system media. With respect to the agency’s physical
security program, the Office of Security Services (OSS) is working to increase oversight and
performance monitoring of the agency’s security systems contractor by having the access control
notifications and intrusion detections replicated in the SEC’s Command Center.
In addition, we are planning to provide training opportunities for Physical Security
Specialists to ensure they meet or exceed the baseline knowledge and core competency skills
developed by OSS in accordance with Interagency Security Committee standards.

  130

PAGE

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Financial Management
Fiscal year 2014 marks our second full year of operations with the Delphi financial
system and contracted services provided by a Federal Shared Service Provider (FSSP), the
Department of Transportation’s (DOT) Enterprise Services Center (ESC). This year, we
continued our progress in achieving more efficient and effective financial operations under the
FSSP model.
For 2013, GAO identified one significant deficiency in internal controls over financial
reporting, in the area of information security. During 2014 the SEC focused on improving the
internal controls related to risk management and project oversight in its information systems
operations. The 2014 GAO audit report found that this significant deficiency has been
remediated.
GAO’s 2013 report also identified several control deficiencies in the SEC’s internal
controls over financial reporting that are not considered to be material weaknesses or significant
deficiencies. The SEC made significant improvements to remediate these control deficiencies, as
specified below.
•

Procedures for transferring disgorgement and penalty-related funds to the Department of
the Treasury. The SEC developed and implemented specific procedures for validating
funds availability prior to transferring disgorgement and penalty-related funds to
Treasury.

•

Monitoring of disgorgement and penalty related cases filed in courts. The SEC enhanced
the process for monitoring the daily automated feed of court case information, so we can
properly capture and record the accounting events that result from such cases.

•

Segregation of duties for recording disgorgement and penalty-related financial data. We
enhanced the access controls for ImageNow, a workflow system used to warehouse all of
our judgments and orders and to transmit all disgorgement and penalty-related
information to ESC, our shared-service provider. We increased the segregation of duties
for recording disgorgement and penalty data and instituted recurring monitoring of user
accounts.

•

Safeguarding SEC cash receipts received at its service provider. The SEC tested the
controls over cash receipts at its service provider for FY 2014. The service provider will
include an assessment of these controls in its SSAE-16 report for FY 2015.

•

Recording of property and equipment transactions. The agency worked to improve
processes for capturing and recording property and capitalized assets on a timely basis.

•

Management’s review of legal contingencies and significant events. The SEC
implemented control procedures for timely assessment and recording of significant events
with financial consequences.

  131

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

In FY 2014, the SEC also continued its efforts to strengthen the agency’s internal
controls program. We streamlined the key controls for all process cycles, and fully implemented
a quarterly internal controls self-assessment. In FY 2015, the SEC will continue to build on this
progress, by further strengthening its internal controls program and remediating deficiencies
identified by GAO.
Human Capital Management
The SEC made substantial progress with implementing GAO’s recommendation to
improve personnel management. Below are updates on the key areas referenced in your
Statement on Management and Performance Challenges.
Workforce planning. SEC is currently developing a comprehensive workforce plan,
including a plan to assist the agency in identifying future leaders. Although we have established
a robust succession plan, which has been approved by the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM), the succession plan is just the initial building block for the workforce plan. Additional
steps are being taken in FY 2015 to finalize SEC-wide strategic initiatives and we will work to
incorporate all elements of effective workforce planning into the overall plan, to be completed by
the end of FY 2015.
Performance management. The SEC recently agreed with its union, National Treasury
Employee Union (NTEU), to work collaboratively to create a new four-tier bargaining unit
performance management system that will differentiate pay based upon merit. Once the new
four-tier system is in place, the SEC and NTEU have agreed to implement a new performancebased raise and bonus program, which will further allow the SEC to reward outstanding
performance.
SEC non-bargaining unit employees are currently under a five-tier Evidence Based
Performance management system that assesses employees’ overall performance each year. Once
the bargaining unit system has been completed, the SEC will work to bring both systems into
alignment with GAO’s recommendations, which is anticipated to occur in FY 2016.
Communication and collaboration. Based on GAO’s recommendations, SEC made
significant efforts to improve communication and collaboration. In an effort to optimize
communications and collaboration, the SEC benchmarked and implemented a variety of best
practices used both within the public and private sector, including cross-agency working groups,
an agency-wide culture change initiative and a more robust internal communication strategy.
Work continues in this area to ensure that employees across the SEC are sharing critical
information.
OPM review. The purpose of OPM’s audit was to determine SEC's adherence to merit
system principles, laws, and regulations, and to assess the efficiency and effectiveness in
administering human resources programs under the Talent Management System of the Human
Capital Framework. OHR is currently in the process of addressing all of the required and
recommended actions identified in the OPM audit and anticipates that all recommendations will
be resolved by the end of FY 2015.

  132

PAGE

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

****
I hope that the actions outlined in this letter demonstrate our commitment to
strengthening internal control and improving the agency’s performance. We look forward to
working with you to further address these challenges.
Sincerely,

Mary Jo White
Chair

  133

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Summary of Financial Statement Audit
and Management Assurances
TABLE 3.1
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT AUDIT
Audit Opinion:

Unmodified

Restatement:

No
Beginning
Balance

New

Resolved

Consolidated

Ending
Balance

Internal Control over Financial Reporting

—

—

—

—

—

Total Material Weaknesses

—

—

—

—

—

Beginning
Balance

New

Resolved

Consolidated

Reassessed

Ending
Balance

Internal Control over Financial Reporting

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total Material Weaknesses

—

—

—

—

—

—

Beginning
Balance

New

Resolved

Consolidated

Reassessed

Ending
Balance

—

—

—

—

—

—

Beginning
Balance

New

Resolved

Consolidated

Reassessed

Ending
Balance

Federal Financial Management System Requirements

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total Non-Conformances

—

—

—

—

—

—

Material Weaknesses

TABLE 3.2
SUMMARY OF MANAGEMENT ASSURANCES
Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial Reporting (FMFIA § 2)
Statement of Assurance: Unqualified
Material Weaknesses

Effectiveness of Internal Control over Operations (FMFIA § 2)
Statement of Assurance: Unqualified
Material Weaknesses
Total Material Weaknesses

Conformance with Financial Management System Requirements (FMFIA § 4)
Statement of Assurance: Conformance
Material Weaknesses

  134

PAGE

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act Reporting Details
The Improper Payments Information Act (IPIA) of 2002, as
amended by the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery
Act (IPERA) of 2010 and Improper Payments Elimination
and Recovery Improvement Act (IPERIA) of 2012, requires
agencies to review all programs and activities they administer
and identify those which may be susceptible to significant
erroneous payments. For all programs and activities in which
the risk of erroneous payments is significant, agencies are to
estimate the annual amount of erroneous payments made
in those programs. The Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) guidance provided in Circular A-136 and Appendix C of
Circular A-123 require agencies to report detailed information
related to SEC’s Improper Payments Elimination Program,
which is outlined below.

Risk Assessment
In Fiscal Year (FY) 2014, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) reviewed the programs and activities it
administers to identify those which may be susceptible to
significant erroneous payments. The risk assessment included
1) consideration of certain risk factors that are likely to contribute
to a susceptibility to significant improper payments, and 2) transaction testing on a sample basis of payments made during the
first six months of FY 2014. The risk assessment was performed
for the following programs:
•	 Vendor payments (includes travel and credit card
payments);
•	 Disgorgement and penalty distributions (made by SEC
to fund and tax administrators and directly to harmed
investors);
•	 Returned deposits of registration filing fees under
Section 6b of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections
13 and 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
•	 Payroll and benefit payments (includes base pay, overtime
pay, and agency contributions to retirement plans, health
plans, and thrift savings plans).
Based on the results of transaction testing applied to a sample
of payments, consideration of risk factors, and reliance on
the internal controls in place over the payment, refund, and

distribution process, the SEC determined that none of its
programs and activities are susceptible to significant improper
payments at or above the threshold levels set by OMB. Significant
erroneous payments are defined as annual erroneous payments
in the program exceeding both $10 million and 1.5 percent of
total program outlays, or $100 million of improper payments if less
than 1.5 percent of total annual program outlays. In accordance
with Appendix C of Circular A-123, the SEC is not required to
determine a statistically valid estimate of erroneous payments or
develop a corrective action plan if the program is not susceptible
to significant improper payments.
In FYs 2007 and 2008, SEC’s testing of its largest programs
resulted in improper payment percentages that were well
below one-half percent and less than $30,000 for each
program. In FYs 2009 through 2013, the SEC performed a risk
assessment for all programs and determined that its programs
are not susceptible to significant erroneous payments.
If the level of risk in each program is determined to be low
and baseline estimates have been established, the SEC is
only required to conduct a formal risk assessment every three
years unless the program experiences a significant change in
legislation and/or a significant increase in funding level. The SEC
will conduct a follow on review in FY 2015 of its programs and
activities to determine whether the programs have experienced
any significant changes in legislation or funding levels. If so,
the SEC will re-assess the programs’ risk susceptibility and
make a statistically valid estimate of erroneous payments for
any programs determined to be susceptible to significant
erroneous payments.

Recapture of Improper Payments
In FY 2014, the SEC did not administer any grant, benefit or
loan programs. Implementation of recapture auditing, if determined to be cost-effective, would apply to vendor payments,
disgorgement and penalty distributions, refunds of registration
filing fee deposits, and payroll payments. Because the definition
of payment in the IPERA legislation means any payment or
transfer of Federal funds to any non-Federal person or entity,
the SEC is not required to review, and has not reviewed, intragovernmental transactions.

  135

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

The SEC has determined that implementing a payment recapture
audit program for vendor payments, disgorgement and penalty
distributions, refunds of registration filing fee deposits, and payroll
payments is not cost-effective. That is, the benefits or recaptured amounts associated with implementing and overseeing
the program do not exceed the costs, including staff time and
resources, or payments to a contractor for implementation, of
a payment recapture audit program. In making this determination, the SEC considered its low improper payment rate based
on testing conducted over the past seven years. The SEC
also considered whether sophisticated software and other
cost-efficient matching techniques could be used to identify
significant overpayments at a low cost per overpayment, or if
labor intensive manual reviews of paper documentation would
be required. In addition, the SEC considered the availability of
tools to efficiently perform the payment recapture audit and
minimize payment recapture audit costs.

The SEC will continue to monitor its improper payments across
all programs and activities it administers and assess whether
implementing payment recapture audits for each program is
cost-effective. If the SEC determines, through future risk assessments, that a program is susceptible to significant improper
payments and implementing a payment recapture program may
be cost-beneficial, the SEC will implement a pilot payment recapture audit to measure the likelihood of cost-effective payment
recapture audits on a larger scale.
Even though the SEC has determined that implementing a
payment recapture audit program for its programs is not costeffective, the agency strives to recover any overpayments
identified through other sources, such as payments identified
through statistical samples conducted under the IPIA. The
amounts identified and recovered, by program, are shown in
Table 3.3 below.

TABLE 3.3
OVERPAYMENTS RECAPTURED OUTSIDE OF PAYMENT RECAPTURE AUDITS (IN DOLLARS)
Amount
Identified
(CY)

Amount
Recovered
(CY)

Amount
Identified
(PYs)

Amount
Recovered
(PYs)

Cumulative
Amount
Identified
(CY+PYs)

Cumulative
Amount
Recovered
(CY+PYs)

Vendor Payments
Improper Payments Sampling

$	449

$	—

$	59,895

$	13,085

$	60,344

$	13,085

Disgorgement and Penalty Distributions
Improper Payments Sampling

$	—

$	—

$	—

$	—

$	—

$	—

Refunds of Registration Filing Fee Deposits
Improper Payments Sampling

$	—

$	—

$	321

$	321

$	321

$	321

Payroll Payments
Improper Payments Sampling

$	—

$	—

$	—

$	—

$	—

$	—

Source

  136

PAGE

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Do Not Pay
IPERIA mandates a review, as appropriate and before issuance,
of all payments and awards for all programs through the Do
Not Pay system. The SEC, in coordination with its Federal
Shared Service Provider and the Do Not Pay Business Center,
has incorporated the performance of pre-award, pre-payment,
and post-payment reviews into its existing business processes
and programs. During FY 2014, such processes identified
approximately 163 matches against these data sources which

the agency scrutinized in its efforts to help prevent improper
payments. Through further analysis, the SEC identified that
each matched recipient was eligible for the payment under a
Federal benefit program. The dollar amounts and the number
of payments reviewed for improper payments utilizing the Do
Not Pay system between October 1, 2013, and September 30,
2014, are shown in Table 3.4 below.

TABLE 3.4
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DO NOT PAY INITIATIVE TO PREVENT IMPROPER PAYMENTS (IN DOLLARS)

Reviews with the
Death Master File Only
(Required for FY 2014)
Reviews with Other Databases
(Optional for FY 2014)

Number (#) of
Payments Reviewed
for Improper
Payments

Dollars ($) of
Payments Reviewed
for Improper
Payments

Number (#)
of Payments
Stopped

Dollars ($)
of Payments
Stopped

Number (#) of
Improper Payments
Reviewed and
Not Stopped

Dollars ($) of
Improper Payments
Reviewed and
Not Stopped

15,341

$	494,657,871.79

0

$	—

0

$	—

15,350

$	316,728,312.94

0

$	—

0

$	—

  137

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

  138

PAGE

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Appendices
APPENDIX A: Chair and Commissioners
Provides biographies of the presidentially appointed Chair and Commissioners.
APPENDIX B: Major Enforcement Cases
Outlines the major enforcement cases of FY 2014.
APPENDIX C: SEC Divisions and Offices
Provides contact information for the SEC’s divisions and offices.
APPENDIX D: Glossary of Selected Terms
Definitions provided of technical terms used throughout the report.
APPENDIX E: Acronyms
Defines acronyms cited in the report. Acronyms are listed in alphabetical order.

 139

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Appendix A: Chair and Commissioners
Mary Jo White
CHAIR
Mary Jo White was sworn in as
the 31st Chair of the SEC on April
10, 2013. She was nominated
to be SEC Chair by President
Barack Obama on February 7,
2013, and confirmed by the U.S.
Senate on April 8, 2013.
Chair White arrived at the SEC
with decades of experience as
a federal prosecutor and securities lawyer. As the U.S. Attorney
for the Southern District of New
York from 1993 to 2002, she specialized in prosecuting complex
securities and financial institution frauds and international terrorism
cases. Under her leadership, the office earned convictions against
the terrorists responsible for the 1993 bombing of the World Trade
Center and the bombings of American embassies in Africa. She
is the only woman to hold the top position in the 200-year-plus
history of that office.
Prior to becoming the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New
York, Chair White served as the First Assistant U.S. Attorney and
later Acting U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York from
1990 to 1993. She previously served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney
for the Southern District of New York from 1978 to 1981 and became
Chief Appellate Attorney of the Criminal Division.

  140

PAGE

After leaving her U.S. Attorney post, Chair White became chair of the
litigation department at Debevoise & Plimpton in New York, where
she led a team of more than 200 lawyers. Chair White previously
was a litigation partner at the firm from 1983 to 1990 and worked
as an associate from 1976 to 1978.
Chair White earned her undergraduate degree, Phi Beta Kappa, from
William & Mary in 1970, and her master’s degree in psychology from
The New School for Social Research in 1971. She earned her law
degree in 1974 at Columbia Law School, where she was an officer
of the Law Review. She served as a law clerk to the Honorable
Marvin E. Frankel of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of New York.
Chair White has won numerous awards in recognition of her
outstanding work both as a prosecutor and a securities lawyer. The
2012 Chambers USA Women in Law Awards named her Regulatory
Lawyer of the Year. Among other honors she has received are the
Margaret Brent Women Lawyers of Achievement Award, the George
W. Bush Award for Excellence in Counterterrorism, the Sandra Day
O’Connor Award for Distinction in Public Service, and the “Women
of Power and Influence Award” given by the National Organization
for Women.
Chair White is a fellow in the American College of Trial Lawyers and
the International College of Trial Lawyers. She also has served as
a director of The NASDAQ Stock Exchange and on its executive,
audit, and policy committees. Chair White is a member of the Council
on Foreign Relations.

APPENDICES

Luis A. Aguilar

Daniel M. Gallagher

COMMISSIONER

COMMISSIONER
Luis A. Aguilar has been a
Commissioner at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange
Commission since July 31,
2008. He was appointed by
President George W. Bush and
was reappointed by President
Barack Obama.

Prior to his appointment, his
practice included matters
pertaining to general corporate
and business law, international transactions, investment
companies and investment advisers, securities law, and
corporate finance.
Commissioner Aguilar represents the Commission as its liaison
to both the North American Securities Administrators Association
and to the Council of Securities Regulators of the Americas.
Commissioner Aguilar has received various honors and awards,
including: recipient of Honorary Doctor of Public Service, awarded
by Georgia Southern University (2013); recipient of the Atlanta
Falcons “2012 NFL Hispanic Heritage Leadership Award” (2012);
named by Poder.Hispanic Magazine as one of the “100 Most
Influential Hispanics in the Nation” (2011); named by Latino
Leaders Magazine as one of the “Top 101 Most Influential
Latinos in the United States” (2009 through 2012); named to
the NACD Directorship 100, the Who’s Who of the Boardroom
(2009 through 2014); recipient of The Center for Accounting
Ethics, Governance, and the Public Interest “Accounting in the
Public Interest Award” (2010); and listed in Best Lawyers in
America (2005 through 2008).
He is a graduate of the University of Georgia School of Law,
and also received a master of laws degree in taxation from
Emory University.
Commissioner Aguilar serves as sponsor of the SEC’s Hispanic
and Latino Opportunity, Leadership, and Advocacy Committee,
the African American Council, and the Caribbean American
Heritage Committee.

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Commissioner Gallagher
was confirmed by the Senate
on October 21, 2011, and
returned to the Securities and
Exchange Commission, where
he had previously served, on
November 7, 2011.
Commissioner Gallagher was
on the staff of the SEC beginning in January 2006, when he
served as a counsel to SEC
Commissioner Paul S. Atkins and later as a counsel to SEC
Chairman Christopher Cox. He worked primarily on major matters
before the Commission involving the Division of Trading and
Markets and the Division of Enforcement.
He joined the Division of Trading and Markets as a Deputy Director
in 2008, where he played a key role in the SEC’s response
to the financial crisis and other significant issues before the
Commission, including those involving credit rating agencies
and credit default swaps. He served as an Acting Director of
the Trading and Markets Division from April 2009 to January
2010, after which he left the agency to become a partner in the
Washington, DC office of WilmerHale.
Prior to his initial SEC service, Commissioner Gallagher was the
General Counsel and Senior Vice President of Fiserv Securities,
Inc., where he was responsible for managing all of the firm’s
legal and regulatory matters. Commissioner Gallagher began
his career in private practice, advising clients on broker-dealer
regulatory issues and representing clients in SEC and SRO
enforcement proceedings.
Commissioner Gallagher earned his J.D. degree, magna cum
laude, from the Catholic University of America, where he was
a member of the law review. He graduated from Georgetown
University with a B.A. degree in English.

  141

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Kara M. Stein

Michael S. Piwowar

COMMISSIONER

COMMISSIONER
Kara M. Stein was appointed by
President Barack Obama to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and was sworn in
on August 9, 2013.

Ms. Stein joined the Commission
after serving as Legal Counsel
and Senior Policy Advisor for
securities and banking matters to
Senator Jack Reed. From 2009
to 2013, she was Staff Director
of the Securities, Insurance, and Investment Subcommittee of
the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
During that time, Ms. Stein played an integral role in drafting and
negotiating significant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
As Staff Director for the Senate Banking Subcommittee of primary
jurisdiction over the SEC, Ms. Stein also organized and participated in over twenty hearings on such issues as the:

•	 evolution of market microstructure,
•	 regulation of exchange traded products,
•	 state of the securitization markets,
•	 risks to investors in capital raising processes, including
through public offerings,
•	 role of the accounting profession in preventing another
financial crisis,
•	 establishment of swap execution facilities, and
•	 role of the tri-party repurchase markets in the financial
marketplace.
Ms. Stein was Legal Counsel and Senior Policy Advisor to Senator
Reed from 2007 to 2009 and served as both the Majority and
Minority Staff Director on the Banking Committee’s Subcommittee
on Housing and Transportation from 2001 to 2006. She served
as Legal Counsel to Senator Reed from 1999 to 2000, following
two years as a Legislative Assistant to Senator Chris Dodd.
Before working on Capitol Hill, Ms. Stein was an associate at the
law firm of Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, a Skadden Public Interest
Fellow, an Advocacy Fellow with the Georgetown University
Law Center, and an assistant professor with the University of
Dayton School of Law.
Ms. Stein received her B.A. from Yale College and J.D. from
Yale Law School.

  142

PAGE

Michael S. Piwowar was
appointed by President Barack
Obama to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and
was sworn in on August 15,
2013.
Most recently, Dr. Piwowar was
the Republican chief economist
for the U.S. Senate Committee
on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs under Senators
Mike Crapo and Richard Shelby. He was the lead Republican
economist on the four SEC-related titles of the Dodd-Frank Act
and the JOBS Act. Dr. Piwowar also worked on a number of
important SEC-related oversight issues under the jurisdiction
of the Committee.
During the financial crisis and its immediate aftermath, Dr.
Piwowar served in a one-year fixed-term position at the White
House as a senior economist at the President’s Council of
Economic Advisers (CEA) in both the George W. Bush and
Barack Obama Administrations. While at the CEA, he also served
as a staff economist for the Financial Regulatory Reform Working
Group of the President’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board
(PERAB). Before joining the White House, Dr. Piwowar worked
as a Principal at the Securities Litigation and Consulting Group
(SLCG).
Dr. Piwowar’s first tenure at the SEC was in the Office of Economic
Analysis (now called the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis)
as a visiting academic scholar on leave from Iowa State University
and as a senior financial economist. Dr. Piwowar was an assistant
professor of finance at Iowa State University where he focused
his research on market microstructure and taught undergraduate
and graduate courses in corporate finance and investments. He
published a number of articles in leading academic publications
and received several teaching and research awards.
Dr. Piwowar received a B.A. in Foreign Service and International
Politics from the Pennsylvania State University, an M.B.A.
from Georgetown University, and a Ph.D. in Finance from the
Pennsylvania State University.

APPENDICES

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Appendix B: Major Enforcement Cases
Introduction
Vigorous enforcement of the securities laws is central to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) mission
to protect investors and maintain fair, orderly, and efficient
markets. The Division of Enforcement (Enforcement), the
SEC’s largest division, investigates potential violations of
the Federal securities laws and files civil charges in Federal
district court and administrative proceedings. Each year, the
SEC brings hundreds of civil enforcement actions against
individuals and entities that violate the Federal securities laws.
Through these enforcement efforts, the SEC stops fraud;
obtains sanctions such as penalties, disgorgement of illgotten gains, and industry bars; and returns funds to harmed
investors. In fiscal year (FY) 2014, Enforcement continued to
leverage its increasing specialization and expertise while also
amplifying its focus on key areas of growing concern such
as financial reporting and accounting fraud, microcap fraud,
and issues and practices in the broker-dealer community.
The actions Enforcement filed in FY 2014 spanned the full
spectrum of the securities industry and included a number of
first-of-their-kind cases and actions involving record-setting
penalties that sent important messages to the market and
would-be violators. At the same time, Enforcement also maintained its focus on smaller, compliance-related violations and
demonstrated its commitment to using technology to efficiently
target and streamline cases to maximize the deterrent effect
of its actions. This section highlights some of the significant
enforcement cases filed in FY 2014. For further information on
selected enforcement cases, please see “Litigation Releases”
at www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases.shtml.

Actions Related to Market Structure,
Exchanges, and Broker-Dealers
In FY 2014, the SEC continued its commitment to bringing
actions for compliance failures and other violations involving
alternative trading platforms, stock exchanges, and other
market participants. These actions helped to ensure that our

markets continue to operate openly, fairly, and efficiently to
benefit investors and promote capital formation. FY 2014
was marked by a number of significant actions in the market
structure area that included the first actions brought under
the market access rule, the largest penalty imposed to date
against an alternative trading system, and the largest penalty
ever imposed for net capital rule violations.
In October 2013 and June 2014, the SEC filed its first series of
enforcement actions charging violations of the market access
rule. The rule, adopted in 2010 as Rule 15c3-5, requires firms to
have adequate risk controls in place before providing customers
with access to the market. In the first action, Knight Capital
Americas LLC agreed to pay $12 million and retain an independent compliance consultant to settle charges that it violated
the market access rule in connection with an August 1, 2012
trading incident that disrupted the markets.1 As a result of a
computer coding error, Knight Capital sent more than 4 million
orders into the market when attempting to fill just 212 customer
orders resulting in Knight Capital acquiring several billion dollars
in unwanted positions. The SEC’s investigation found that
Knight Capital violated the market access rule because it did
not have adequate safeguards in place to limit the risks posed
by its access to the markets, and as a result failed to prevent
the entry of millions of erroneous orders. The SEC also charged
Knight Capital with violations of provisions of Regulation SHO,
which require the proper marking of short sale orders and
locating of shares to borrow for short sales.
In the second action, the SEC charged Wedbush Securities,
one of the largest volume market access providers in the
United States, and two individuals, with violating the market
access rule and other regulatory requirements as a result
of trading by its market access customers.2 According to
the SEC’s order, Wedbush allowed thousands of essentially
anonymous foreign traders to send orders directly to U.S.
trading venues to trade billions of shares every month, but
failed to establish, document, and maintain a system of risk
management controls and procedures reasonably designed

1	

In the Matter of Knight Capital Americas LLC, Press Rel. 2013-222 (October 16, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370539879795

2	

In the Matter of Wedbush Securities Inc., et al., Press Rel. 2014-115 (June 6, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542011614

  143

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

to manage the risks associated with its business. The SEC’s
action in this matter is continuing.
In December 2013, the SEC charged three brokerage subsidiaries of ConvergEx Group, a global trading services provider,
and two former employees of certain subsidiaries with fraud
for deceiving customers about hidden fees to buy and sell
securities.3 In a separate action, the SEC also charged Anthony
G. Blumberg, the former Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of a
broker-dealer subsidiary of ConvergEx, for deceiving customers
in connection with the same scheme.4 The SEC alleged that
Blumberg concealed the fees and encouraged traders under
his management to do the same. The ConvergEx subsidiaries
agreed to pay more than $107 million and admit wrongdoing
to settle the SEC’s charges. The two former employees, who
are cooperating in the SEC’s investigation, settled the SEC’s
charges by agreeing to pay a combined total of more than
$1 million. The SEC seeks to return the money collected in
these settlements to harmed customers through a Fair Fund
distribution. The SEC’s action against Blumberg is ongoing.

In April, the SEC charged Joseph Dondero, the owner of a
brokerage firm, with a manipulative trading practice known
as “layering.”7 The alleged scheme involved Dondero tricking
others into buying or selling stocks at artificial prices driven by
orders that he later cancelled. The SEC also charged Dondero
and others for registration violations. The two firms and five
individuals charged by the SEC agreed to, among other things,
pay a combined total of nearly $3 million to settle the charges
and Dondero agreed to a bar from the securities industry.

The following month, the SEC filed charges against another
brokerage firm for providing flawed “blue sheet” trading data.5
Blue sheets contain the details of each equity or options trade
that is routed through clearing broker-dealers. The SEC’s order
found that Scottrade violated the recordkeeping provisions of
the Federal securities laws by failing to provide accurate and
complete blue sheet submissions on 1,231 occasions over
a six-year period. To settle the charges, Scottrade agreed to
admit wrongdoing, pay a $2.5 million penalty, and retain an
independent consultant to review its policies and procedures
related to blue sheet submissions.

The following month, the SEC charged the New York Stock
Exchange LLC, NYSE Arca, Inc., and NYSE MKT LLC for failing
to comply with exchange rules.8 The NYSE exchanges’ affiliated
routing broker was also charged for failures associated with
an error trading account and net capital violations. The SEC’s
order found that, among other things, the exchanges repeatedly
engaged in business practices that either violated exchange
rules or required a rule when the exchanges had none in effect.
The exchanges agreed to settle the charges by retaining an
independent consultant and together with the routing broker
paying a $4.5 million penalty.

The SEC also charged Credit Suisse Group AG for providing
cross-border brokerage and investment advisory services to

In June, the SEC charged Liquidnet Inc., a brokerage firm that
operates an alternative trading system (ATS) known as a “dark

3	

In the Matter of G-Trade Services LLC, et al.; In the Matter of Jonathan Samuel Daspin; and In the Matter of Thomas Lekargeren, Press Rel.
2013-266 (December 18, 2013) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540521484

4	

SEC v. Anthony G. Blumberg, Press Rel. 2014-160 (August 7, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542601370

5	

In the Matter of Scottrade, Inc., Press Rel. 2014-17 (January 29, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540696906

6	

In the Matter of Credit Suisse Group AG, Press Rel. 2014-39 (February 21, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540816517

7	

In the Matter of Visionary Trading LLC, et al., Press Rel. 2014-67 (April 4, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541406190

8	

In the Matter of New York Stock Exchange LLC, et al., Press Rel. 2014-87 (May 1, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541706507

  144

PAGE

thousands of U.S. clients without first registering with the SEC.6
According to the SEC’s order, Credit Suisse began providing
these services as early as 2002, amassing more than 8,000
client accounts that contained more than $5 billion in securities
assets. The SEC’s order found that although Credit Suisse was
aware of the registration requirements, it failed to effectively
implement or monitor initiatives designed to prevent such violations. Credit Suisse settled the SEC’s charges by agreeing to
pay more than $196 million, admitting wrongdoing, and retaining
an independent consultant.

APPENDICES

pool,” with improperly using subscribers’ confidential trading
information in marketing its services.9 SEC rules require ATS’s
to have safeguards to protect such information. The SEC’s
order found that Liquidnet violated its regulatory obligations
and its own promises to its ATS subscribers during a nearly
three-year period when it improperly allowed a business unit
outside the dark pool operation to access the confidential
trading data and use that information in marketing services.
The SEC’s order also found that Liquidnet used the information
in two sales tools. Liquidnet agreed to pay a $2 million penalty
to settle the charges.
The following month, the SEC charged LavaFlow Inc., a type
of ATS known as an electronic communications network
(ECN), with violating Regulation ATS for failing to protect its
subscribers’ confidential trading data.10 According to the SEC’s
order, LavaFlow allowed an affiliate operating a technology
application known as a smart order router to access and use
confidential information related to non-displayed orders of the
ECN’s subscribers. The SEC’s order found that LavaFlow failed
to disclose that it was allowing such access and because the
order router was located outside of the ECN’s operations,
LavaFlow did not have adequate safeguards and procedures
to protect the confidential customer information the order router
accessed. The SEC’s order also found that LavaFlow aided and
abetted violations of the broker-dealer registration provisions by
the same entity that operated the smart order router. LavaFlow
agreed to pay $5 million to settle the SEC’s charges, including
a $2.85 million penalty—the largest to date against an ATS.
In another action involving a record-setting penalty, the SEC
charged Latour Trading LLC, a high frequency trading firm that
at times accounted for as much as 9 percent of the trading
volume in equity securities for the entire U.S. market, and its
former Chief Operating Officer (COO) for the firm’s repeated
violations of the net capital rule and related recordkeeping
provisions and filing requirements.11 The SEC’s order found
that Latour routinely failed to maintain its required minimum
9	

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

net capital by millions of dollars. To settle the charges, Latour
agreed to pay a $16 million penalty – the largest penalty ever
for net capital rule violations – and the former COO agreed to
pay a $150,000 penalty.
In September, the SEC charged Wells Fargo Advisors LLC with
failing to maintain and enforce procedures reasonably designed
to prevent employees from misusing material nonpublic information obtained from retail customers and clients, unreasonably
delaying its production of documents during an SEC investigation, and providing an altered internal document related to a
compliance review of a broker’s trading.12 The SEC’s action
against Wells Fargo arose out of a prior insider trading case
against a Wells Fargo broker who learned confidentially from his
customer that Burger King was being acquired. The broker then
traded on that information ahead of the public announcement
and tipped others who also traded. Wells Fargo agreed to settle
the SEC’s charges by admitting wrongdoing, paying a $5 million
penalty, and agreeing to retain an independent consultant.

Actions Related to Financial Fraud, Issuer
Disclosure, and Gatekeepers
In FY 2014, the SEC continued to combat accounting and
financial fraud, issuer disclosure problems, and reporting violations at public companies. The SEC also maintained its focus
on holding “gatekeepers,” including attorneys, accountants,
and compliance professionals, accountable for the important
roles they play in the securities industry. Building upon the
momentum created by initiatives like “Operation Broken Gate,”
which seeks to identify auditors who fail to carry out their duties
and responsibilities consistent with professional standards, the
SEC brought a number of actions against gatekeepers.
In November, the SEC charged Sherb & Co., LLP, an audit
firm, and four auditors for their roles in the failed audits of
three China-based companies.13 An SEC investigation found
that Sherb & Co. and its auditors falsely represented in audit

In the Matter of Liquidnet, Inc., Press Rel. 2014-114 (June 6, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542011574

10	 In

the Matter of LavaFlow, Inc., Press Rel. 2014-147 (July 25, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542371114

11	 In

the Matter of Latour Trading LLC, et al., Press Rel. 2014-199 (September 17, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542972403

12	 In

the Matter of Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC, Press Rel. 2014-207 (September 22, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543012047

13	 In

the Matter of Sherb & Co., LLP, et al., Press Rel. 2013-238 (November 7, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540289271

  145

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

reports that their audits were done in accordance with U.S.
auditing standards. In reality, the audits were replete with
failures and improper professional conduct, and one of the
companies they audited was charged by the SEC with financial fraud. To settle the charges, Sherb & Co. and the four
individual auditors agreed to be barred from practicing as
accountants on behalf of any publicly traded company or
other entity regulated by the SEC, and the firm also agreed
to pay a $75,000 penalty.
A month later, the SEC charged Fifth Third Bancorp and its
former Chief Financial Officer (CFO) with improper accounting
of commercial real estate loans during the financial crisis.
According to the SEC’s order, Fifth Third experienced a substantial increase in non-performing assets as the real estate market
declined and borrowers failed to repay their loans as required.14
The order found that Fifth Third decided to sell large pools
of these troubled loans, but failed to classify or value them
correctly. The SEC’s order also found that the CFO was familiar
with the sale efforts, but failed to direct the bank to classify
and value the loans as required. Fifth Third agreed to settle
the SEC’s charges by paying $6.5 million, and its former CFO
agreed to pay a $100,000 penalty and be suspended from
practicing as an accountant for any publicly traded company
or other entity regulated by the SEC.
In January, the SEC charged Diamond Foods, Inc., a snack
foods company, and its former CFO in an accounting scheme to
falsify walnut costs in order to boost earnings and meet analyst
estimates.15 The former CEO was also charged for his role in
the company’s false financial statements filed with the SEC,
which included omitting facts from representations to Diamond’s
outside auditors. Diamond agreed to pay $5 million to settle the
SEC’s charges. The former CEO, who returned or forfeited more
than $4 million in bonuses and other benefits, also agreed to
pay a $125,000 penalty to settle the SEC’s charges. The SEC’s
litigation continues against the former CFO.

The SEC also charged five executives and finance professionals
in connection with a $150 million fraudulent bond offering by
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the international law firm where they
worked.16 The SEC alleged that the senior financial officers
inflated the firm’s profitability by millions of dollars to conceal
breaches of debt covenants in its loan agreements and that
this information was then incorporated into bond offering documents. In addition, the SEC alleged that the firm continued to
conceal its improper accounting by making fraudulent quarterly
certifications in connection with the offering. The SEC’s action
in this matter is ongoing.
Later the same month, the SEC charged AgFeed Industries,
Inc., an animal feed company, and eight of its executives with
conducting a massive accounting fraud in which they repeatedly
reported fake revenues from their China operations to meet
financial targets and prop up the company’s stock price.17
Among those charged was the company’s U.S.-based audit
committee chair who learned of the misconduct in 2011.
The SEC alleged that instead of taking meaningful action after
learning of the fraud, the audit committee chair, along with
the company’s CFO at the time, engaged in efforts to raise
capital for expansion and acquisitions. The SEC settled its
charges against the former interim CEO, who consented to an
officer and director bar and paid a $100,000 penalty. One of
the company’s former CFOs, who cooperated with the SEC’s
investigation, also settled the SEC’s charges by agreeing to
an order suspending him from practicing as an accountant for
at least five years. In September, AgFeed also agreed to pay
$18 million to settle the SEC’s charges.18 Under the proposed
settlement, which is subject to court approval, the $18 million
will be distributed to victims of the company’s fraud.
Also in March, the SEC charged Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.
with failing to fully and accurately disclose to investors a set of
extraordinary corporate transactions that put millions of newly
issued company shares in the hands of a management-friendly

14	 In

the Matter of Fifth Third Bancorp, et al., Press Rel. 2013-255 (December 4, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540445508

15	 SEC

v. Diamond Foods, Inc.; SEC v. Steven Neil; and In the Matter of Michael Mendes, Press Rel. 2014-4 (January 9, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540598296

16	 SEC

v. Steven H. Davis, et al., Press Rel. 2014-45 (March 6, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540889964

17	 SEC

v. AgFeed Industries, Inc., et al.; In the Matter of John A. Stadler; In the Matter of Clayton T. Marshall, Press Rel. 2014-47 (March 11, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541102314

18	 SEC

v. AgFeed Industries, Inc., et al., Press Rel. 2014-194 (September 15, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542938017

  146

PAGE

APPENDICES

director in order to thwart a hostile takeover bid.19 Lions Gate
agreed to pay $7.5 million and admit wrongdoing to settle the
SEC’s charges.
The following month, CVS Caremark Corp. paid $20 million
to settle SEC charges that it misled investors about significant
financial setbacks and using improper accounting that artificially boosted its financial performance.20 The SEC alleged
that in offering documents for a $1.5 billion bond offering,
CVS fraudulently omitted that it had recently lost significant
Medicare Part D and contract revenues in the pharmacy
benefits segment. In addition, the SEC alleged that CVS
further misled investors by manipulating how it calculated its
retention rate, a key metric for pharmacy benefits managers.
CVS also allegedly made improper accounting adjustments
that overstated the financial results for its retail pharmacy
line of business. The retail controller who was charged with
orchestrating these improper adjustments agreed to settle
the SEC’s charges by paying a $75,000 penalty and being
barred for at least one year from practicing as an accountant
on behalf of any publicly traded company or entity regulated
by the SEC.
In July, the SEC charged Ernst & Young LLP with violating
key auditor independence rules as a result of its subsidiary
lobbying congressional staff on behalf of two audit clients – the
first action charging violations of the independence rules in
this context.21 Such lobbying activities were impermissible
under the SEC’s auditor independence rules because they put
the firm in the position of being an advocate for those audit
clients. According to the SEC’s order, Ernst & Young repeatedly
represented that it was “independent” in audit reports issued
on the clients’ financial statements despite being involved in
these lobbying activities. Ernst & Young agreed to pay $4 million
to settle the SEC’s charges.

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

The SEC also filed several actions involving deficiencies in
internal accounting controls. In July, the SEC charged the
CEO and former CFO of QSGI Inc., a computer equipment
company, for misrepresenting to external auditors and the
investing public the state of its internal controls over financial reporting.22 Enforcement alleged that Marc Sherman,
the CEO, and Edward L. Cummings, the former CFO, each
certified that they had disclosed all significant deficiencies in
internal controls to the outside auditors when, in reality, they
misled the auditors. According to the SEC’s order, Sherman
and Cummings misled the company’s auditors by withholding
information about inadequate inventory controls and a series
of maneuvers to accelerate the recognition of certain inventory and accounts receivables in QSGI’s books and records.
To settle the SEC’s charges, Cummings agreed to pay a
$23,000 penalty, to be barred from serving as an officer or
director of a publicly traded company for five years, and agreed
to be suspended for at least five years from practicing as an
accountant on behalf of any publicly traded company or other
entity regulated by the SEC. The SEC’s action in this matter
against Sherman is ongoing.
In September, the SEC charged JDA Software Group Inc. for
having inadequate internal accounting controls over its financial
reporting, which resulted in misstated revenues in public filings.
An SEC investigation found that JDA failed to properly recognize
and report revenue from certain software license agreements
it sold to customers because its internal accounting controls
failed to consider information needed for determining a critical
component of revenue recognition for software companies.23
As a result of these internal control failures, some of JDA’s
financial statements for the period from 2008 through 2011 were
materially misstated. JDA restated those financial statements
in August 2012, reporting that it had overstated its revenue
for fiscal year 2010 by 4 percent and overstated earnings

19	 In

the Matter of Lions Gate Entertainment Corp., Press Rel. 2014-51 (March 13, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541123111

20	 SEC

v. CVS Caremark Corp. and In the Matter of Laird Daniels, CPA, Press Rel. 2014-69 (April 8, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541437806

21	 In

the Matter of Ernst & Young LLP, Press Rel. 2014-136 (July 14, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542298984

22	 In

the Matter of Marc Sherman and In the Matter of Edward L. Cummings, CPA, Press Rel. 2014-152 (July 30, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542561150

23	 In

the Matter of JDA Software Group, Inc., Press Rel. 2014-216 (September 25, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543042731

  147

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)
by approximately 18 percent. JDA agreed to settle the SEC’s
charges by paying a $750,000 penalty.
That same month, the SEC charged Bank of America Corporation
with violating internal controls and recordkeeping provisions of
the Federal securities laws after it assumed a large portfolio of
structured notes and other financial instruments as part of its
acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc.24 According to the SEC’s
order, Bank of America overstated its regulatory capital in its
regulatory filings, eventually by billions of dollars, because it
failed to deduct realized losses on the notes as they occurred.
Bank of America internally discovered the overstatements in
mid-April 2014, disclosed them in a Form 8-K filing, cooperated
with SEC staff during the investigation, and voluntarily took steps
to remediate the insufficiencies that led to the regulatory capital
overstatements. Bank of America agreed to pay a $7.65 million
penalty to settle the charges stemming from the overstatements
that it made due to its internal accounting control deficiencies
and books and records failures.
In another action filed in September, the SEC used its authority
under the “clawback” provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, to require the former CEO of Saba Software, Inc., Babak
“Bobby” Yazdani, to reimburse the company $2.5 million in
bonuses and stock profits he received while an accounting
fraud occurred at the company.25 At the same time, the SEC
charged Saba Software and two former executives, Patrick
Farrell and Sajeev Menon, for the accounting fraud scheme in
which U.S.-based managers directed consultants in India to
falsify timesheets so that the company could achieve quarterly
revenue and margin targets. Saba Software agreed to pay
$1.75 million to settle the SEC’s charges and the two former
executives agreed to settle the case as well. The clawback
provision does not require a finding that a CEO personally
engaged in misconduct to trigger a reimbursement obligation.

Actions Related to Insider Trading
The SEC built on its impressive record of pursuing insider
trading by filing a number of significant insider trading cases in
FY 2014. In November 2013, the SEC charged Mark Megalli,
a former hedge fund trader at Level Global Investors, L.P., with
insider trading in the securities of Carter’s Inc., an Atlantabased clothing marketer.26 The SEC alleged that Megalli used
nonpublic information about Carter’s to give Level Global a
$3.2 million trading edge. According to the SEC’s complaint,
Megalli obtained inside information in advance of market-moving
announcements through a consulting agreement with a former
Carter’s vice president of investor relations, who the SEC previously charged. Megalli’s trades enabled Level Global to avoid
losses of approximately $2.4 million and make over $850,000
in illicit profits. The SEC’s action in this matter is ongoing.
The following month, the SEC charged Brian D. Jorgenson,
a senior portfolio manager at Microsoft Corporation and his
friend, Sean T. Stokke, with insider trading in advance of
upcoming Microsoft announcements that Jorgenson learned
about through his work.27 The friends reaped over $390,000
in illicit profits through their scheme, which was intended to
generate enough profits to allow them to create their own
hedge fund. The SEC’s action in this matter is ongoing.
In February, the SEC charged Frank “Perk” Hixon Jr., a Wall
Street investment banker, with an insider trading scheme that
reaped nearly $1 million in illicit profits.28 The SEC alleged
that Hixon Jr. made the trades in accounts held by his former
girlfriend and his father, but when his firm confronted him about
the trading in these accounts he pretended not to recognize
the names of his father or former girlfriend. Text messages
revealed that Hixon Jr. was generating the illegal proceeds to
pay child support to his former girlfriend. The SEC’s action in
this matter is ongoing.

24	 In

the Matter of Bank of America Corporation, Press Rel. 2014-220 (September 29, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543065483

25	 In

the Matter of Saba Software, Inc., et al. and In the Matter of Babak (“Bobby”) Yazdani, Press Rel. 2014-214 (September 24, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543035992

26	 SEC

v. Mark Megalli, Press Rel. 2013-244 (November 14, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540374789

27	 SEC

v. Brian D. Jorgenson, et al., 2013-268 (December 19, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540525813

28	 SEC

v. Frank P. Hixon Jr., Press Rel. 2014-40 (February 21, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540831992

  148

PAGE

APPENDICES

In March, the SEC charged Vladimir Eydelman, a stockbroker,
and Steven Metro, a managing clerk at a major law firm, with
insider trading around more than a dozen mergers or other
corporate transactions for illicit profits of $5.6 million during
a four-year period.29 The SEC alleged that Metro obtained
information about corporate clients involved in pending deals
and tipped a middleman, who met Eydelman in Grand Central
Terminal. According to the SEC’s complaint, the middleman
would show Eydelman a piece of paper with the relevant ticker
symbol and then eat it to destroy the evidence. In September,
the SEC also charged Frank Tamayo, the middleman who
helped facilitate the scheme.30 The SEC’s action in this matter
is ongoing.
In April, the SEC charged Keith A. Seilhan, a former employee
of BP p.l.c. and experienced crisis manager, with insider trading
in BP securities during the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill
based on confidential information about the magnitude of
the disaster.31 The SEC alleged that Seilhan sold his family’s
securities after he received confidential information about the
severity of the spill that the public did not know. Seilhan agreed
to settle the charges by paying over $200,000 disgorgement,
interest, and penalties.
In May, the SEC charged three founders of Lawson Software
with insider trading ahead of the company’s sale by misusing
nonpublic information to take unfair advantage of incorrect
media speculation and analyst reports about the company’s
acquisition.32 The SEC alleged that Richard Lawson, the
co-chairman of the board, conveyed information about the true
state of merger talks to two former board members who were
able to profit by selling their shares at prices higher than the
eventual acquisition price. They agreed to pay nearly $5.8 million
to settle the charges.

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

The SEC also charged four individuals in a $12 million serial
insider trading scheme that lasted more than three years in
which they traded in Ross Stores stock options based on
nonpublic information about monthly sales results leaked by a
former Ross Stores’ employee.33 The SEC alleged that Saleem
Khan was routinely tipped by his friend Roshanlal Chaganlal,
who was a director in the finance department at Ross Stores.
According to the complaint, Khan used the confidential information to trade on more than 40 occasions and tipped two of
his work colleagues who also traded. The SEC’s action in this
matter is continuing.

Actions Related to Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (FCPA)
FCPA enforcement continues to be a high priority area for
the SEC’s enforcement program and FY 2014 included a
number of significant actions. In November, the SEC charged
Weatherford International LTD. with violating the FCPA by
authorizing bribes and improper travel and entertainment for
foreign officials in the Middle East and Africa to win business,
including kickbacks in Iraq to obtain United Nations Oil-forFood contracts.34 Weatherford agreed to pay the SEC more
than $65 million as part of a global settlement of more than
$250 million to resolve the SEC’s charges and parallel actions
by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and three other
agencies.
In December, the SEC charged global food processor ArcherDaniels-Midland (ADM) with violating the FCPA by failing to
prevent its foreign subsidiaries from paying bribes to Ukrainian
government officials.35 An SEC investigation found that
ADM’s subsidiaries in Germany and Ukraine paid $21 million
in bribes to secure the release of value-added tax refunds,
and disguised the illicit payments by falsifying the books and

29	 SEC

v. Vladimir Eydelman, et al., Press Rel. 2014-55 (March 19, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541172895

30	 SEC

v. Frank Tamayo, Press Rel. 2014-204 (September 19, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542993471

31	 SEC

v. Keith A. Seilhan, Press Rel. 2014-77 (April 17, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541517274

32	 SEC

v. Herbert Richard Lawson, et al., Press Rel. 2014-93 (May 12, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541795596

33	 SEC

v. Saleem Khan, et al., Press Rel. 2014-117 (June 13, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542082577

34	 SEC

v. Weatherford International LTD., Press Rel. 2013-252 (November 26, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540415694

35	 SEC

v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, Press Rel. 2013-271 (December 20, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540535139

  149

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

records and improperly recording the transactions as insurance
premiums and other business expenses. To settle the SEC’s
charges, ADM agreed to pay more than $36 million.
In January, the SEC charged global aluminum producer
Alcoa, Inc. with FCPA violations related to illicit payments by
subsidiaries to government officials in Bahrain to maintain
a key source of business with a government-operated
aluminum plant.36 The SEC’s investigation found that more
than $110 million in corrupt payments were made to Bahraini
officials with influence over contract negotiations between
Alcoa and a major government-operated aluminum plant.
Alcoa agreed to pay $175 million to settle the SEC’s charges
as part of a $384 million settlement that also resolved a parallel
criminal case announced by the DOJ.
The following month, the SEC concluded its case against
former Siemens executives who were charged in 2011 with
bribery in Argentina.37 The SEC obtained final judgments of
over $1.8 million against Uriel Sharef, a former officer and
Siemens board member, Andres Truppel, a former CFO of
Siemens Argentina, and Ulrich Bock and Stephan Signer,
both former senior Siemens managers based in Germany.
The final judgment against Bock and Signer, among other
things, ordered them to each pay a civil penalty of $524,000
– the highest penalties assessed against individuals in an
FCPA case.
The SEC also charged Hewlett-Packard Company with
violating the FCPA when its subsidiaries in Russia, Poland,
and Mexico made improper payments in excess of $3.5 million
to government officials to obtain or retain lucrative public
contracts.38 Hewlett-Packard agreed to pay more than
$31 million to settle the SEC’s charges as part of a $108 million
settlement with the SEC and DOJ.

36	 In

Actions Related to Market Manipulation
and Microcap Fraud
In FY 2014, Enforcement continued its crackdown on market
manipulation and microcap fraud and took proactive steps
to suspend trading in the securities of microcap issuers in
addition to targeting the gatekeepers and repeat players
who facilitate fraud and other misconduct in this area. In
February, the SEC suspended trading in 255 dormant shell
companies ripe for abuse in the over-the-counter market.39
This was the latest action in the initiative known as “Operation
Shell-Expel” through which Enforcement’s Office of Market
Intelligence has been cleaning up the microcap marketplace
by scrutinizing penny stocks nationwide and identifying clearly
inactive companies. This initiative has allowed the SEC to
proactively suspend trading in dormant shell companies before
fraudsters have the opportunity to manipulate them.
The following month, the SEC charged Worldwide Capital,
Inc. and its owner, Jeffrey W. Lynn, with violating Rule 105 in
connection with 60 public stock offerings from October 2007
to February 2012.40 Rule 105 is an anti-manipulative rule that
prohibits traders from improperly participating in public offerings soon after short-selling securities that are the subject of
the offerings. Worldwide Capital and Lynn settled the SEC’s
charges by agreeing to pay $7.2 million, the largest-ever
monetary sanction for Rule 105 short selling violations.
Enforcement also continued its successful initiative to target
violations of Rule 105 through a second sweep that resulted
in the SEC charging 19 firms and one individual trader with
Rule 105 violations.41 Each firm and the individual trader
agreed to settle the charges by paying a combined total of
more than $9 million in disgorgement, interest, and penalties.

the Matter of Alcoa Inc., Press Rel. 2014-3 (January 9, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540596936

37	 SEC

v. Uriel Sharef, et al., Litigation Rel. 22923 (February 10, 2014) www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2014/lr22923.htm

38	 In

the Matter of Hewlett-Packard Company, Press Rel. 2014-73 (April 9, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541453075

39	 SEC

Continues Microcap Fraud Crackdown, Proactively Suspends Trading in 255 Dormant Shell Companies, Press Rel. 2014-21 (February 3,
2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540714936

40	 In

the Matter of Worldwide Capital, Inc., et al., Press Rel. 2014-43 (March 5, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540883326

41	 SEC

Sanctions 19 Firms and Individual Trader for Short Selling Violations in Advance of Stock Offerings, Press Rel. 2014-195 (September 16, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542963767

  150

PAGE

APPENDICES

In March, the SEC charged penny stock promoter John
Babikian, who ran a pair of well-known websites that disseminated emails promoting penny stocks, with committing a type
of securities fraud known as “scalping.”42 The SEC alleged
that Babikian disseminated emails to approximately 700,000
people recommending a penny stock, but the emails failed to
disclose that Babikian held more than 1.4 million shares of the
stock that he intended to sell immediately. The SEC obtained
an emergency asset freeze to prevent Babikian from liquidating
$1.9 million in trading profits he made from exploiting the run up
in the price of the stock he touted in his emails. Babikian settled
the charges by consenting to a judgment that required him to
pay $3.73 million in sanctions, barred him from participating in
any penny stock offering, and enjoined him from recommending
stocks without making certain disclosures.43
In May, the SEC charged six penny stock promoters and the
CEO of a microcap company in the latest charges arising
out of a joint law enforcement effort focused on penny
stock fraud.44 The SEC alleged that five of the penny stock
promoters engaged in various manipulation schemes involving
undisclosed payments to induce purchases of microcap stock
to generate the false appearance of market interest. The same
day, the SEC announced charges against a microcap company
and its CEO for orchestrating a pair of illicit kickback schemes
and an insider trading scheme involving the company’s stock.
The SEC also charged a sixth penny stock promoter for his
role in the insider trading scheme. This joint effort in which
the SEC has worked closely with the U.S. Attorney’s Office
for the Southern District of Florida and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation has resulted in charges against 48 individuals
and 25 companies involved in the microcap world.
A few months later, the SEC charged four penny stock
promoters for manipulating the securities of six different
thinly traded penny stock companies in a $2.5 million scheme
involving pre-arranged, manipulative matched orders and wash
trades that created the illusion of an active trading market.45

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

The SEC alleged that despite the appearance of an active
trading market, the companies had little to no business operations at the time. These schemes were unearthed through the
work of Enforcement’s recently created Microcap Fraud Task
Force, which is focused on rooting out serial violators in the
microcap markets like the four promoters involved in this action.
In September, the SEC charged Heathrow Natural Food &
Beverage Inc., a penny stock company, and Heathrow’s CEO
with defrauding investors by issuing false and misleading
press releases touting large sales and revenue projections
while the company was actually failing.46 The SEC alleged
that Michael S. Pagnano, the company’s CEO, prompted
the illegal, unregistered distribution of billions of Heathrow
shares to several individuals and entities, including himself.
According to the SEC’s complaint, Pagnano reaped profits of
more than $150,000 by selling millions of his shares into the
market as the false press releases circulated. The SEC also
charged Registrar and Transfer Company (R&T), Heathrow’s
transfer agent, and R&T’s CEO, Thomas L. Montrone, with
registration violations and failing to supervise firm employees
who enabled Heathrow’s unregistered distribution of stock.
An SEC examination of R&T revealed that it repeatedly failed
to detect and address red flags in connection with more
than 54 share issuance requests from Pagnano. R&T and
Montrone agreed to settle the charges by paying a combined
total of more than $150,000 and Montrone also agreed to
be suspended for 12 months from serving in a supervisory
capacity with a transfer agent.

Actions Related to Municipal Securities
In FY 2014, the SEC remained focused on the municipal securities markets, bringing a number of important, first-of-their
kind enforcement actions. In November, the SEC charged
a municipal issuer in the state of Washington’s Wenatchee
Valley region with misleading investors in a bond offering that
financed the construction of a regional events center and ice

42	 SEC

v. John Babikian, Press Rel. 2014-52 (March 13, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541128311

43	 SEC

v. John Babikian, Litigation Rel. 23039 (July 8, 2014) www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2014/lr23039.htm

44	 SEC

v. Richard A. Altomare; SEC v. Jeffrey M. Berkowitz; SEC v. Eric S. Brown; and SEC v. Kevin McKnight, et al., SEC v. Billy V. Ray, Jr.,
et al., Press Rel. 2014-105 (May 22, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541881247

45	 SEC

v. Mikhail Galas, et al., Press Rel. 2014-159 (August 5, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542594818

46	 SEC

v. Michael S. Pagnano, et al. and In the Matter of Registrar and Transfer Company, et al., Press Rel. 2014 212 (September 23, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543021551

  151

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

hockey arena.47 An SEC investigation found inaccuracies in the
primary disclosure document accompanying the bond offering,
which contained misleading statements about whether there
had been an independent review of the financial projections for
the event center. The SEC’s order found that an independent
consultant had examined the projections and raised questions
about the center’s economic viability, which was not disclosed
to investors. The issuer agreed to settle the SEC’s charges by
paying a $20,000 penalty – the first-ever against a municipal
issuer – and undertaking remedial efforts. The SEC also settled
charges against the underwriter and outside developer of the
project and three individuals involved in the offering.
The SEC also charged a charter school operator with defrauding
investors in a $37.5 million bond offering for school construction
by making materially misleading statements about transactions
that presented a conflict of interest.48 The SEC alleged that
UNO Charter School Network Inc. and United Neighborhood
Organization of Chicago not only failed to disclose a multimillion-dollar related-party contract, but also failed to inform
investors about the potential financial impact the conflicted
transaction had on the ability to repay the bonds. UNO settled
the SEC’s charges by agreeing to undertakings to improve its
internal procedures and training, including the appointment of
an independent monitor.
In June, the SEC obtained an emergency court order against
the City of Harvey, Illinois and its comptroller to halt a fraudulent
municipal bond offering. This marked the first time that the SEC
has taken emergency action to stop such an offering.49 The
SEC alleged that the city was marketing new bonds without
disclosing that it had previously diverted at least $1.7 million
of bond proceeds from a prior bond offering to pay the city’s
operational costs. The SEC’s action in this case is ongoing.
In another novel action, the SEC announced its first action
under the Municipalities Continuing Disclosure Cooperation

(MCDC) initiative, a new cooperation initiative to encourage
issuers and underwriters of municipal securities to self-report
certain violations of the Federal securities laws relating to the
continuing disclosure obligations specified in Rule 15c2-12
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.50 Under the initiative, Enforcement agreed to recommend standardized, favorable
settlement terms to settle actions with municipal issuers and
underwriters who self-report violations. In its first settlement
under the initiative, the SEC charged Kings Canyon Joint Unified
School District with misleading bond investors about its failure to
provide contractually required financial information and notices
in the course of a 2010 bond offering. Kings Canyon consented
to an order to cease and desist from committing or causing any
future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
and agreed to, among other things, adopt written policies for
its continuing disclosure obligations.
In an enforcement action arising out of a nationwide review
of municipal bond disclosures, the SEC charged the state of
Kansas with fraud for failing to disclose its multi-billion-dollar
pension liability in bond offering documents, which created
a repayment risk for investors in those bonds.51 The SEC
previously brought actions against the states of New Jersey
and Illinois as a result of the same nationwide review. Kansas
settled the SEC’s charges by consenting to an order requiring
it to cease and desist from committing future violations and
adopted new policies and procedures to improve disclosures
about its pension liabilities.

Actions Related to Investment Advisers
and Investment Companies
The SEC brought a wide range of actions against investment
advisers and investment companies in FY 2014, including cases
involving fraud, actions stemming from the use of proactive risk
identification initiatives, actions to ensure the safety of client

47	 In

the Matter of the Greater Wenatchee Regional Events Center Public Facilities District, et al., Press Rel. 2013-235 (November 5, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540262235

48	 SEC

v. United Neighborhood Organization of Chicago, et al. Press Rel. 2014-110 (June 2, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541965772

49	 SEC

v. City of Harvey, Illinois, et al., Press Rel. 2014-122 (June 25, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542163027

50	 In

the Matter of Kings Canyon Joint Unified School District, Press Rel. 2014-133 (July 8, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542256676

51	 In

the Matter of the State of Kansas, Press Rel. 2014-164 (August 11, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542629913

  152

PAGE

APPENDICES

assets, and groundbreaking cases enforcing the investment
adviser pay-to-play rules and the SEC’s new whistleblower antiretaliation authority. In October, the SEC charged three investment
advisory firms for violating the “custody rule,” which requires
firms to meet certain standards when maintaining custody of
their clients’ funds or securities.52 This rule is central to investor
protection and goes to the foundation of the relationship between
investment advisers and their clients. The investigation of these
firms followed referrals by SEC examiners. The SEC orders found
that Further Lane Asset Management, GW & Wade, and Knelman
Asset Management Group failed to maintain client assets with a
qualified custodian or engage an independent public accountant
to conduct surprise exams as required by the custody rule. The
SEC also charged the CEO of Further Lane and the CEO and
chief compliance officer of Knelman for custody rule and other
violations. All agreed to settle the charges and pay monetary
sanctions in addition to other relief.
In November, the SEC announced a deferred prosecution
agreement with a hedge fund administrator – the first-ever with
an individual – who helped the SEC take quick action against a
hedge fund manager who stole investors assets.53 As a result
of voluntary and significant cooperation from Scott Herckis, the
hedge fund administrator, the SEC filed an emergency action
against Berton M. Hochfeld and Hochfeld Capital Management,
L.L.C. for misappropriating more than $1.5 million from a hedge
fund Hochfeld managed and overstating its performance to
investors.54 The SEC’s action halted the fraud and froze the
assets of the hedge fund and Hochfeld, which are now being
used to compensate defrauded investors.
That same month, the SEC charged Ambassador Capital
Management, an investment advisory firm, and Derek Oglesby,

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

its portfolio manager, for deceiving the trustees of a money
market fund and failing to comply with rules that limit risk in
a money market fund’s portfolio.55 The enforcement action
stemmed from an ongoing analysis of money market fund
data by the SEC’s Division of Investment Management, which
recognized that the performance of the money market fund was
consistently different from the rest of the market. In September,
Enforcement received a favorable initial decision in this matter,
which, among other things, permanently barred Ambassador
Capital from association with any investment company, censured
Oglesby, and ordered Ambassador Capital and Oglesby to pay
combined civil penalties of more than $800,000.56
In another case arising out of a proactive risk monitoring effort
known as the Aberrational Performance Inquiry that uses proprietary analytics to identify hedge funds with suspicious returns,
the SEC charged GLG Partners L.P., a hedge fund adviser and
its former holding company, with internal controls failures that
led to the overvaluation of the fund’s assets.57 The SEC’s order
found that as a result of the overvaluation, the firms charged
inflated fees and overstated assets under management in SEC
filings. GLG and its former holding company agreed to pay
nearly $9 million and hire an independent consultant to settle
the SEC’s charges. The SEC also established a Fair Fund to
distribute money to harmed fund investors.
In January, the SEC charged Western Asset Management
Company for concealing investor losses that resulted from a
coding error and engaging in cross trading that favored some
clients over others.58 The SEC’s order found that Western Asset
failed to disclose and promptly correct a coding error that caused
the improper allocation of a restricted private investment that
was impermissible for Employee Retirement Income Security

52	 In

the Matter of Further Lane Asset Management, LLC, et al.; In the Matter of GW & Wade, LLC; and In the Matter of Knelman Asset
Management Group, LLC, et al., Press Rel. 2013-230 (October 28, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540098359

53	 SEC

Announces First Deferred Prosecution Agreement with Individual, Press Rel. No. 2013-241 (November 12, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540345373

54	 SEC

v. Berton M. Hochfeld et al., Litigation Rel. 22545 (November 26, 2012) www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2012/lr22545.htm

55	 In

the Matter of Ambassador Capital Management, LLC, et al., Press Rel. 2013-251 (November 26, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540414950

56	 In

the Matter of Ambassador Capital Management, LLC, et al., Initial Decision (September 19, 2014) www.sec.gov/alj/aljdec/2014/id672ce.pdf

57	 In

the Matter of GLG Partners, Inc., et al., Press Rel. 2013-259 (December 12, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540491613

58	 In

the Matter of Western Asset Management Company, et al., Press Rel. 2014-13 (January 27, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540675955

  153

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Act (ERISA) plans to the accounts of nearly 100 ERISA clients.
The SEC order also found that after the investment plummeted
in value, Western Asset failed to reimburse clients for the losses,
and failed to notify its ERISA clients until nearly two years later.
In a second order, the SEC found that Western Asset engaged
in cross trading – the practice of moving a security from one
client account to another without exposing the transaction to the
market – which can pose substantial risks to clients. Western
Asset settled the SEC’s charges by agreeing to distribute more
than $17 million to harmed clients, to pay a $2 million penalty,
and to retain an independent compliance consultant.
The following month, the SEC charged Scott A. Brittenham, a
private equity fund manager and his investment advisory firm,
Clean Energy Capital, LLC, for fraud in the allocation of certain
expenses to funds Clean Energy sold and managed without
adequate disclosure to investors.59 This marked the first action
arising from a focus on fees and expenses charged by private
equity firms. According to the SEC’s order, the misallocated
expenses included the majority of Brittenham’s own compensation. The order also alleged a number of other violations by
Brittenham and Clean Energy, including, among other things,
unauthorized loans to the funds collateralized by the funds’
own assets, changes to distribution calculations to investors
without adequate disclosure, and misstatements to an investor
about how much Brittenham and a co-founder had invested
in one of the funds.
In March, the SEC charged two brokers, an investment advisory
firm, and several others involved in a variable annuities scheme
designed to profit from the deaths of terminally ill individuals.60
According to the SEC’s order, Michael A. Horowitz and Moshe
Marc Cohen, the brokers charged, obtained the names of the
terminally ill patients and then sold variable annuities contracts
with death benefit and bonus credit features to wealthy investors.
The order also alleged that Horowitz and Cohen successfully

deceived their respective brokerage firms to obtain approvals
needed to sell the annuities, generating more than $1 million in
sales commissions. Four brokers, an investment advisory firm,
and two other brokers also charged for their roles in the scheme
settled the SEC’s charges by paying a combined total of more
than $4.5 million. Horowitz, the architect of the scheme, also
subsequently agreed to settle the SEC’s charges by paying
more than $850,000, admitting wrongdoing, and being barred
from the securities industry.61
In the first case under the SEC’s new authority to bring antirelation enforcement actions, the SEC charged Paradigm
Capital Management, Inc., a hedge fund adviser, with engaging
in prohibited principal transactions and then retaliating against
the employee who reported the trading activity to the SEC.62
According to the SEC’s order, the firm’s former head trader
made a whistleblower submission to the SEC that revealed
the improper transactions and after learning of the report,
Paradigm immediately engaged in a series of retaliatory actions
against him. The firm’s owner was also charged with causing the
improper principal transactions. The firm and its owner agreed
to pay $2.2 million to settle the charges with $1.7 million of
that amount for distribution to investors.
In another first, the SEC charged TL Ventures Inc., a private
equity firm, with violating the investment adviser pay-to-play
rules, which prohibit investment advisers from providing
compensatory services for two years following a campaign
contribution to certain political candidates or officials. 63
The SEC’s order found that TL Ventures violated the rules by
providing such services within two years after an associate
made contributions to two political candidates. The SEC also
charged TL Ventures and an affiliated adviser with improperly
acting as unregistered investment advisers. TL Ventures agreed
to settle the SEC’s charges by paying nearly $300,000.

59	 In

the Matter of Clean Energy Capital, LLC, et al., Press Rel. 2014-41 (February 25, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540849548

60	 In

the Matter of Michael A. Horowitz, et al.; In the Matter of Harold Ten, et al.; In the Matter of Howard Feder, et al.; and In the Matter of Marc
Steven Firestone, et al., Press Rel. 2014-50 (March 13, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541121951

61	 In

the Matter of Michael A. Horowitz, et al., Press Rel. 2014-153 (July 31, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542573818

62	 In

the Matter of Paradigm Capital Management, Inc., et al., Press Rel. 2014-118 (June 16, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542096307

63	 In

the Matter of TL Ventures Inc. and In the Matter of Penn Mezzanine Partners Management, L.P., Press Rel. 2014-120 (June 20, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542119853

  154

PAGE

APPENDICES

In September, the SEC charged Barclays Capital Inc. with failing
to maintain an adequate internal compliance system to ensure
the firm did not violate any Federal securities laws after its wealth
management business in the U.S. acquired the advisory business
of Lehman Brothers in September 2008.64 Investment advisers
are required to adopt and implement written compliance policies
and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and its rules. An SEC examination and subsequent investigation found that Barclays failed to
enhance its compliance infrastructure to integrate and support
the acquisition and rapid growth of the advisory business from
Lehman. According to the SEC’s order, the deficiencies in its
compliance systems contributed to other securities law violations by Barclays. For instance, Barclays executed more than
1,500 principal transactions with its advisory client accounts
without making the required written disclosures or obtaining client
consent. To settle the SEC’s charges, Barclays agreed to pay a
$15 million penalty and undertake remedial measures, including
engaging an independent compliance consultant.

Actions Related to Complex Financial
Instruments
FY 2014 also included a number of actions involving complex
financial instruments, which built on the SEC’s already strong
record of pursuing financial crisis related cases. The SEC
charged RBS Securities Inc., a subsidiary of the Royal Bank
of Scotland plc, with misleading investors in a 2007 subprime
mortgage-backed security offering.65 The SEC alleged that RBS
represented that the loans backing the offering generally met the
lender’s underwriting guidelines even though nearly 30 percent
of the loans fell short and should have been excluded from the
offering. According to the SEC’s complaint, this gave investors
a misleading impression of the quality of the loans backing the
offering and the likelihood of their repayment. RBS agreed to
pay more than $150 million to settle the matter, which will be
used to compensate harmed investors.

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

The SEC also charged Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated for making faulty disclosures about collateral
selection for two collateralized debt obligations (CDO) that it
structured and marketed to investors, and maintaining inaccurate books and records for a third CDO.66 The SEC’s order
found that Merrill Lynch failed to inform investors that hedge
fund firm Magnetar Capital LLC exercised significant influence over the selection of collateral for the CDOs. Magnetar
then bought the equity in the CDOs, but its interests were
not necessarily aligned with those of other investors because
it hedged its equity positions by shorting against the CDOs.
Merrill Lynch agreed to pay more than $131 million to settle
the SEC’s charges.
In an action relating to mortgage-backed securities, the SEC
charged Jefferies LLC, a global investment bank and brokerage
firm, with failing to supervise employees on its mortgage-backed
securities desk.67 According to the SEC’s order, Jefferies representatives – including Jesse Litvak, who the SEC charged
with securities fraud last year – lied to customers about the
prices that the firm paid for certain mortgage-backed securities.
Although Jefferies’ policy required supervisors to review the
electronic communications of its representatives to detect any
misleading information provided to customers, Jefferies failed to
implement the policy effectively. Jefferies agreed to return more
than $11 million to customers and pay a $4.2 million penalty
to the SEC as part of a settlement with the SEC and the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the District of Connecticut.
The SEC also charged three Morgan Stanley entities with
misleading investors in two residential mortgage-backed
securities (RMBS) securitizations that the firms underwrote,
sponsored, and issued.68 The SEC’s order found that Morgan
Stanley misrepresented the current or historical delinquency
status of mortgage loans underlying the two securitizations.
Morgan Stanley agreed to settle the charges by paying
$275 million, which will be distributed to harmed investors.

64	 In

the Matter of Barclays Capital Inc., Press Rel. 2014-211 (September 23, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543020599

65	 SEC

v. RBS Securities Inc., Press Rel. 2013-239 (November 7, 2013) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540300002

66	 In

the Matter of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Press Rel. 2013-261 (December 12, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370540492377

67	 In

the Matter of Jefferies LLC, Press Rel. 2014-48 (March 12, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541108233

68	 In

the Matter of Morgan Stanley and Co. LLC, Press Rel. 2014-144 (July 24, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542355594

  155

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

In August, the SEC charged Bank of America Corporation with
failing to disclose known uncertainties about potential increased
costs related to mortgage loan repurchase claims stemming
from more than $2 trillion in residential mortgage sales.69 Bank
of America admitted this failure and agreed to settle these
charges in addition to securities fraud charges that the SEC
filed in 2013 relating to a RMBS offering. The bank agreed to
pay $245 million to resolve the SEC’s charges as part of a major
global settlement with the DOJ and other government agencies.

Actions Related to Offering Frauds and
Ponzi and Pyramid Schemes
Offering frauds are always an important area of focus for
Enforcement and FY 2014 involved a host of significant actions
targeting misconduct in this area, including several actions
that halted global pyramid schemes that preyed on vulnerable investors. In October, the SEC brought an action to halt
a worldwide pyramid scheme known as CKB and CKB168
that targeted members of the Asian-American community.70
The SEC alleged that the operators and promoters of the
scheme promised exponential, risk-free returns to investors
in a venture that purported to sell Internet-based children’s
educational courses. In reality, CKB had no apparent source
of revenue other than money received from new investors. The
SEC’s complaint alleged that the perpetrators of the scheme
raised more than $20 million from U.S. investors and millions
more from investors in other countries. The court granted the
SEC’s request for an asset freeze against the CKB entities
and operators and promoters charged. The SEC’s action in
this matter is ongoing.
In March, the SEC shut down an international pyramid scheme
targeting the Asian and Latino communities when it charged
World Capital Market Inc., WCM777 Inc., and their founder
“Phil” Ming Xu for directing the scheme.71 The SEC alleged
that Xu enlisted tens of thousands of investors to finance his
company, which purportedly sold third-party cloud computing

services and assisted high-tech companies with initial public
offerings. Xu’s promise of 100 percent returns in 100 days or
less allowed him to attract more than $65 million in investments. According to the SEC’s complaint, Xu’s company was a
sham that was merely engaged in the process of paying earlier
investors with money obtained from new investors. The SEC
alleged that instead of making high-tech investments, Xu used
investor money to purchase golf courses, a warehouse, vacant
land, and single family homes. In its ongoing litigation, the SEC
obtained an asset freeze and court-appointed receiver over the
entity defendants’ assets and other related entities named as
relief defendants for the purpose of recovering money from the
scheme held in their possession.
The following month, the SEC shut down another large pyramid
scheme when it filed charges against the scheme’s operators
and promoters who primarily targeted Dominican and Brazilian
immigrants in the U.S.72 The scheme involved a purported
multilevel marketing company known as TelexFree that claimed
to sell a telephone service based on “voice over Internet
protocol” (VoIP) technology and promised annual returns of
over 200 percent for those who promoted the business and
recruited new members. The SEC alleged that the revenues
from the VoIP sales accounted for barely one percent of the
more than $1.1 billion needed to cover TelexFree’s promises to
investors. As a result, the SEC alleged that TelexFree was paying
earlier investors with money received from newer investors
rather than revenue from selling its VoIP product. In its ongoing
litigation, the SEC obtained an asset freeze that secured millions
of dollars of funds and prevented the potential dissipation of
investor assets.
Also in April, the SEC charged Robert J. Vitale, a former stock
promoter, with defrauding investors in a real estate venture,
selling unregistered securities, and acting as an unregistered
broker-dealer.73 Vitale and his firm raised more than $8.7 million
from investors, including many senior citizens. The SEC alleged
that, among other things, Vitale claimed that the funds were

69	 In

the Matter of Bank of America Corporation, Press Rel. 2014-172 (August 21, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542719632

70	 SEC

v. CKB168 Holdings LTD., et al., Press Rel. 2013-223 (October 17, 2013)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370539880547

71	 SEC

v. World Capital Market Inc., et al., Press Rel. 2014-60 (March 28, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541324305

72	 SEC

v. TelexFree, Inc., et al., Press Rel. 2014-79 (April 17, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541520559

73	 SEC

v. Robert J. Vitale, et al., Press Rel. 2014-83 (April 23, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541624638

  156

PAGE

APPENDICES

100 percent protected when they were not and touted his
honesty and integrity while failing to disclose that he had been
previously charged by the SEC and barred from the brokerage
industry. Vitale currently is serving a two-year prison sentence
after being convicted of obstruction of justice and providing false
testimony in the SEC’s investigation that led to these charges.
In June, the SEC charged the Erik T. Voorhees, the co-owner
of two Bitcoin-related websites, for publicly offering shares in
the two ventures without registering them.74 An SEC investigation found that Voorhees published prospectuses on the
Internet and actively solicited investors to buy shares in the
two ventures, but failed to register the offerings as required
under the Federal securities laws. Voorhees agreed to settle
the SEC’s charges by paying full disgorgement of his profits
plus a $35,000 penalty and also agreed to not participate in
any issuance of any security in an unregistered transaction in
exchange for any virtual currency for a period of five years.
In another Bitcoin-related action, the SEC obtained a final
judgment against Trendon T. Shavers and Bitcoin Savings and
Trust (BTCST), an online entity Shavers created and used to
operate a Ponzi scheme in which he defrauded investors out
of more than 700,000 Bitcoins.75 The SEC charged Shavers
and BTCST for this fraudulent conduct in July 2013, which was
the first-ever enforcement action involving virtual currencies.
The final judgment requires Shavers and BTCST to pay more
than $40 million in disgorgement and prejudgment interest, and
orders each of them to also pay a civil penalty of $150,000.

Other Significant Matters
In September, the SEC charged 34 individuals and entities in
a novel Enforcement initiative designed to root out those who
repeatedly fail to comply with Federal securities laws requiring
them to promptly report information about their holdings and
transactions in company stock.76 Enforcement staff used
quantitative data analytics to identify individuals and companies
with especially high rates of filing deficiencies. This resulted in

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

charges against 28 officers, directors, or major shareholders
for violating reporting requirements and six publicly-traded
companies for contributing to filing failures by insiders or failing
to report their insiders’ filing delinquencies. Thirty three of the
34 individuals and companies named in the SEC’s orders
agreed to settle the charges and pay financial penalties totaling
$2.6 million.
FY 2014 also included a number of trial victories for
Enforcement. After a five-week trial that concluded in October
2013, a jury returned a verdict in favor of the SEC on fraud
claims against attorney Todd A. Duckson; a real estate lending
fund; and a company owned by Duckson that became the
real estate fund’s investor adviser.77 The SEC alleged that the
defendants engaged in securities fraud in connection with their
offer and sale of interests in the real estate fund. Duckson and
the other defendants raised over $21 million from investors
while making materially false and misleading statements that
effectively hid the real estate fund’s deteriorating financial
condition. In June 2014, the court issued an order imposing
permanent injunctions against all three defendants, barring
Duckson from serving as an officer or director of a publicly
traded company for a period of ten years, and imposing financial sanctions exceeding $14.5 million against the real estate
fund, $3.3 million against Duckson and the fund’s advisor, jointly
and severally, and $1.8 million against Duckson individually.
Also in October, the SEC obtained a jury verdict in its favor on
all counts against AIC, Inc., Community Bankers Securities,
LLC, and Nicholas D. Skaltsounis.78 The SEC alleged that
Skaltsounis devised and orchestrated an offering fraud in which
he sold millions of dollars of AIC promissory notes and stock.
The SEC further alleged that the defendants misrepresented
and omitted material information to investors, many of whom
were elderly, about a variety of things, including the safety
and risk, associated with the investments. In August 2014,
the court issued an opinion and final judgments against the
defendants imposing permanent injunctive relief, disgorgement
and prejudgment interest, and civil penalties. Altogether, the

74	 In

the Matter of Erik T. Voorhees, Press Rel. 2014-111 (June 3, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370541972520

75	 SEC

v. Trendon T. Shavers, et al., Litigation Rel. 23090 (September 22, 2014) www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2014/lr23090.htm

76	 SEC

Announces Charges Against Corporate Insiders for Violating Laws Requiring Prompt Reporting of Transactions and Holdings, Press Rel.
2014-190 (September 10, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542904678

77	 SEC

v. Todd A. Duckson, et al, Litigation Rel. 23036 (July 2, 2014) www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2014/lr23036.htm

78	 SEC

v. AIC, Inc., et al., Press Rel. 2014-157 (August 1, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542590856

  157

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

court imposed nearly $70 million in disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties against the defendants and
relief defendants.
In February, the SEC won its jury trial against hedge fund
manager Marlon M. Quan and his firms, which he used to
facilitate a multi-billion dollar Ponzi scheme operated by
Minnesota businessman Thomas Petters.79 The SEC alleged
that Quan funneled several hundred million dollars of investor
money into the scheme and falsely assured investors that their
money would be protected. In September 2014, the court
issued an opinion and order imposing permanent injunctions
and monetary sanctions of over $80 million against Quan
and his firms.
In May, a jury also returned a verdict in favor of the SEC on all
claims in its action against Samuel and Charles Wyly.80 The
SEC alleged that the Wylys engaged in a 13-year fraudulent
scheme involving off-shore trusts to hold and trade tens of
millions of securities of public companies while they were
members of the boards of directors of those companies,
without disclosing their ownership and their trading of those
securities. The SEC further alleged that as a result of the

scheme, the Wylys realized gains in excess of $550 million.
Prior to trial, Michael C. French, the Wylys’ former attorney,
who was also charged by the SEC, agreed to settle the SEC’s
charges by admitting certain facts, paying almost $795,000,
and consenting to an order suspending him from appearing
or practicing as an attorney before the SEC.81 In September,
the court issued an opinion and order requiring the Wylys to
pay disgorgement totaling more than $187 million in addition
to prejudgment interest for the entire period of the fraud.
A few months later, a jury returned a verdict against Sage
Advisory Group, LLC and its principal, Benjamin Lee Grant,
in a fraud case filed by the SEC.82 The SEC alleged that
Grant engaged in a scheme to induce his former brokerage
customers to transfer their assets to Sage, his new advisory
firm. The SEC contended that Grant made a number of materially false and misleading statements to his customers about
moving their accounts to his new firm and that Grant failed
to disclose that the switch would result in significant savings
that would flow to Grant and Sage rather than the advisory
clients. The court will later determine whether and what relief
to impose against the defendants.

79	 SEC

v. Marlon Quan, et al., Litigation Rel. 23093 (September 25, 2014)
www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2014/lr23093.htm

80	 Statement

on Jury’s Verdict in Case Against the Wylys (May 12, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PublicStmt/Detail/PublicStmt/1370541799330

81	 In

the Matter of Michael C. French, Esq., Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-15933 (June 17, 2014)
www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2014/33-9601.pdf

82	 SEC

v. Sage Advisory Group, LLC, et al., Litigation Rel. 23066 (August 13, 2014)
www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2014/lr23066.htm

  158

PAGE

APPENDICES

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Appendix C: SEC Divisions and Offices
Headquarters Offices
DIVISION OF CORPORATION FINANCE
Keith F. Higgins, Director
(202) 551-3110
DIVISION OF ENFORCEMENT
Andrew Ceresney, Director
(202) 551-4500
DIVISION OF INVESTMENT
MANAGEMENT
Norm Champ, Director
(202) 551-6720
DIVISION OF ECONOMIC AND
RISK ANALYSIS
Mark Flannery, Director
(202) 551-6600
DIVISION OF TRADING AND MARKETS
Stephen Luparello, Director
(202) 551-5500
OFFICE OF ACQUISITIONS
Vance Cathell, Director
(202) 551-7300
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE
LAW JUDGES
Brenda P. Murray,
Chief Administrative Law Judge
(202) 551-6030
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ACCOUNTANT
Paul A. Beswick, Chief Accountant
(202) 551-5300
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OPERATING
OFFICER
Jeffery Heslop, Chief Operating Officer
(202) 551-2200

OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE
INSPECTIONS AND EXAMINATIONS
Andrew Bowden, Director
(202) 551-6200
OFFICE OF CREDIT RATINGS
Thomas J. Butler, Director
(212) 336-9080
OFFICE OF EQUAL EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITY
Alta G. Rodriguez, Director
(202) 551-6040

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
Paul A. Leder, Director
(202) 551-6690
OFFICE OF THE INVESTOR ADVOCATE
Rick Fleming, Investor Advocate
(202) 551-3302
OFFICE OF INVESTOR EDUCATION
AND ADVOCACY
Lori Schock, Director
(202) 551-6500

OFFICE OF ETHICS COUNSEL
Shira Pavis Minton, Director
(202) 551-5170

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE AND
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
Tim Henseler, Director
(202) 551-2010

OFFICE OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Kenneth A. Johnson,
Chief Financial Officer
(202) 551-7840

OFFICE OF MINORITY AND
WOMEN INCLUSION
Pamela A. Gibbs, Director
(202) 551-6046

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Anne K. Small, General Counsel
(202) 551-5100

OFFICE OF MUNICIPAL SECURITIES
John Cross, Director
(202) 551-5680

OFFICE OF HUMAN RESOURCES
Lacey Dingman, Director
(202) 551-7500

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
John Nester, Director
(202) 551-4120

OFFICE OF INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
Thomas A. Bayer, Chief Information Officer
(202) 551-8800

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
Brent Fields, Secretary
(202) 551-5400

OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
Carl W. Hoecker, Inspector General
(202) 551-6061

OFFICE OF SUPPORT OPERATIONS
Barry Walters, Director/Chief FOIA Officer
(202) 551-8400

  159

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Regional Offices
ATLANTA REGIONAL OFFICE
Rhea Kemble Dignam, Regional Director
950 East Paces Ferry Road NE, Suite 900
Atlanta, GA 30326
(404) 842-7600
e-mail: atlanta@sec.gov
BOSTON REGIONAL OFFICE
Paul Levenson, Regional Director
33 Arch Street, Floor 23
Boston, MA 02110
(617) 573-8900
e-mail: boston@sec.gov
CHICAGO REGIONAL OFFICE
David Glockner, Regional Director
175 W. Jackson Boulevard, Suite 900
Chicago, IL 60604
(312) 353-7390
e-mail: chicago@sec.gov
DENVER REGIONAL OFFICE
Julie K. Lutz, Regional Director
1961 Stout Street, Suite 1700
Denver, CO 80294
(303) 844-1000
e-mail: denver@sec.gov

  160

PAGE

FORT WORTH REGIONAL OFFICE
David R. Woodcock, Jr., Regional Director
Burnett Plaza
801 Cherry Street
Suite 1900, Unit 18
Fort Worth, TX 76102
(817) 978-3821
e-mail: dfw@sec.gov

PHILADELPHIA REGIONAL OFFICE
Sharon Binger, Regional Director
One Penn Center
1617 John F. Kennedy Boulevard
Suite 520
Philadelphia, PA 19103
(215) 597-3100
e-mail: philadelphia@sec.gov

LOS ANGELES REGIONAL OFFICE
Michele Wein Layne, Regional Director
444 South Flower Street, Suite 900
Los Angeles, CA 90071
(323) 965-3850
e-mail: losangeles@sec.gov

SALT LAKE REGIONAL OFFICE
Karen L. Martinez, Regional Director
351 S. West Temple
Suite 6.100
Salt Lake City, UT 84101
(801) 524-5796
e-mail: saltlake@sec.gov

MIAMI REGIONAL OFFICE
Eric I. Bustillo, Regional Director
801 Brickell Avenue, Suite 1800
Miami, FL 33131
(305) 982-6300
e-mail: miami@sec.gov
NEW YORK REGIONAL OFFICE
Andrew M. Calamari, Regional Director
Brookfield Place
200 Vesey Street, Suite 400
New York, NY 10281
(212) 336-1100
e-mail: newyork@sec.gov

SAN FRANCISCO REGIONAL OFFICE
Jina L. Choi, Regional Director
44 Montgomery Street, Suite 2800
San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 705-2500
e-mail: sanfrancisco@sec.gov

APPENDICES

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Appendix D: Glossary of Selected Terms
Advisers Act

Collateralized Debt Obligation (CDO)

The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 is a U.S. Federal law that was
created to regulate the actions of investment advisers.

A type of structured asset-backed security (ABS) with multiple
“tranches” that are issued by special purpose entities and
collateralized by debt obligations including bonds and loans. Each
tranche offers a varying degree of risk and return so as to meet
investor demand.

Agency Financial Report (AFR)
An annual requirement that provides financial and high-level
performance results that enable the President, Congress, and the
public to assess an agency’s accomplishments each fiscal year
(October 1 through September 30). This report includes audited
financial statements and provides an overview of an agency’s
programs, accomplishments, challenges, and management’s
accountability for entrusted resources. The report is prepared in
accordance with the requirements of Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-136, Financial Reporting Requirements.
Under Circular A-136, agencies may prepare an Agency Financial
Report (AFR) and Annual Performance Report (APR), or may
combine these two reports into the Performance and Accountability
Report (PAR).

Custodial Activity
Revenue that is collected, and its disposition, by a Federal agency
on behalf of other entities is accounted for as a custodial activity
of the collecting entity. SEC custodial collections include amounts
collected from violators of securities laws as a result of enforcement
proceedings.
Crowdfunding
In the JOBS Act, a new means of raising capital enabling the raising
of small amounts of equity capital without having to register with
the SEC.

Alternative Trading System (ATS)

Dark Pool

A privately operated platform to trade securities outside of traditional
exchanges.

Alternative trading systems that display little or no information about
customer orders are known as dark pools.

Annual Performance Report (APR)

Deposit Fund

A report that outlines goals and intended outcomes of an agency’s
programs and initiatives. This report provides program performance
and financial information that enables the President, Congress, and
the public to assess an agency’s performance and accountability
over entrusted resources.

Consists of funds that do not belong to the Federal Government, such
as disgorgement, penalties, and interest collected and held on behalf
of harmed investors, registrant monies held temporarily until earned
by the SEC, and collections awaiting disposition or reclassification.
Derivative

Asset
An asset is a resource that embodies economic benefits or services
that the reporting entity controls.

A contract between two parties that specifies conditions (dates,
resulting values of the underlying variables, and notional amounts)
under which payments are to be made between the parties.

Statement of Cash Flows

Disgorgement

Reports a company’s inflows and outflows of cash over time by
classification.

A repayment of funds received or losses forgone, with interest, as a
result of illegal or unethical business transactions. Disgorged funds
are normally distributed to those affected by the action, but in certain
cases may be deposited in the U.S. Treasury General.

Clawback Policies
Under the Dodd-Frank Act, all listed companies will eventually be
required to institute a mechanism for reclaiming executive pay that
had been granted under misstated earnings.

  161

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act (Dodd-Frank Act)
A Federal law that regulates the U.S. financial industry. The legislation,
enacted in July 2010, created new financial regulatory processes
that enforce transparency and accountability while implementing
rules for consumer protection.

Fund Balance with Treasury (FBWT)
A Federal entity’s fund balance with the U.S. Treasury (FBWT) is the
amount of funds in the entity’s accounts with the U.S. Treasury for
which the entity is authorized to make expenditures and pay liabilities
and that have not been invested in Federal securities.
Funds from Dedicated Collections

Entity Assets
Assets that an agency is authorized to use in its operations. For
example, the SEC is authorized to use all funds in the Investor
Protection Fund (IPF) for its operations.
Entity Accounts Receivable
Monies owed to the SEC generated from securities transaction fees
and filing fees paid by registrants.

Accounts containing specifically identified revenues, often
supplemented by other financing sources, that are required by statute
to be used for designated activities, benefits or purposes, and must
be accounted for separately from the Government’s general revenues.
For example, Investor Protection Fund (IPF) resources are funds
from dedicated collections and may only be used for the purposes
specified by the Dodd-Frank Act.
General Funds – Salaries and Expenses

Exchange Revenue
Exchange revenues are inflows of earned resources to an entity.
Exchange revenues arise from exchange transactions, which occur
when each party to the transaction sacrifices value and receives
value in return. Examples include the sale of goods and services,
entrance fees and most interest revenue.
Fair Fund
A fund created by the SEC to return money to harmed investors.

Appropriations by Congress that are used to carry out the agency’s
mission and day to day operations that may be used in accordance
with spending limits established by Congress.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
Framework of accounting standards, rules, and procedures defined
by the professional accounting industry. The Federal Accounting
Standards Advisory Board (FASAB) is the body designated by the
American Institute of Certified Public Accounting (AICPA) as the
source of GAAP for Federal reporting entities.

Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB)
A U.S. Federal advisory committee sponsored by the Secretary of
the Treasury, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB), and the Comptroller General of the United States, whose
mission is to develop generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) for the Federal Government.
Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA)
A law that requires Federal agencies to conduct annual assessments
of their information security and privacy programs, develop and
implement remediation efforts for identified weaknesses and
vulnerabilities, and report on compliance to the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB).

Imputed Financing
Financing provided to the reporting entity by another Federal entity
covering certain costs incurred by the reporting entity. For example,
some Federal employee retirement benefits are paid by the Federal
Government’s central personnel office, the Office of Personnel
Management (OPM). The SEC recognizes a financing source and
corresponding expense to represent its share of the cost of providing
pension and post-retirement health and life insurance benefits to all
eligible SEC employees.
Insider Trading
The buying or selling of a security by someone who has access to
material, nonpublic information about the security.

Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA)
A private corporation that acts as a self-regulatory organization (SRO).
FINRA is the successor to the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc. (NASD) and is a non-governmental organization
that performs financial regulation of member brokerage firms and
exchange markets. The Government organization which acts as
the ultimate regulator of the securities industry, including FINRA,
is the SEC.

  162

PAGE

Intragovernmental Costs
Costs that arise from the purchase of goods and services from other
components of the Federal Government.

APPENDICES

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Investor Protection Fund (IPF)

Non-Entity Assets

A fund established by the Dodd-Frank Act to pay awards to whistleblowers. The program requires the Commission to pay an award,
under regulations prescribed by the Commission and subject to
certain limitations, to eligible whistleblowers who voluntarily provide
the Commission with original information about a violation of Federal
securities laws that leads to the successful enforcement of a covered
judicial or administrative action, or a related action.

Those assets that are held by an entity but are not available to the
entity. Examples of non-entity assets are disgorgement, penalties,
and interest collected and held on behalf of harmed investors.

Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act

Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-136

A Federal law enacted on April 5, 2012 intended to encourage
small businesses within the U.S. by easing securities regulations
for those businesses.

A liability is a present obligation of the reporting entity to provide
assets or services to another entity at a determinable date, when a
specified event occurs, or on demand.

Establishes a central point of reference for all Federal financial
reporting guidance for Executive Branch departments, agencies,
and entities required to submit audited financial statements, interim
financial statements, and Performance and Accountability Reports
(PAR), and Agency Financial Reports (AFR) under the Chief Financial
Officers Act of 1990 (CFO Act), the Accountability of Tax Dollars Act
of 2002, and Annual Management Reports under the Government
Corporations Control Act.

Market Based Treasury Securities

Performance and Accountability Reports (PAR)

Debt securities that the U.S Treasury issues to Federal entities without
statutorily determined interest rates.

An annual report that provides program performance and financial
information that enables Congress, the President, and the public to
assess an agency’s performance and accountability over entrusted
resources.

Liability

Microcap Securities

Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-123
Defines management’s responsibilities for internal financial controls
in Federal agencies.

Low priced stocks issued by the smallest of companies.
Performance Indicators Results Summary
Miscellaneous Receipt Account
A fund used to collect non-entity receipts from custodial activities
that the SEC cannot deposit into funds under its control or use in
its operations. These amounts are forwarded to the U.S. Treasury
General Fund and are considered to be non-entity assets of the SEC.

A summary of performance by outcome within each strategic goal.
Pay to Play Schemes
Payments or gifts made to influence awarding of lucrative contracts
for securities underwriting business.

NASDAQ

Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB)

The NASDAQ Stock Market, also known as simply NASDAQ, is an
American stock exchange. NASDAQ originally stood for National
Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations. It is the
second-largest stock exchange by market capitalization in the world,
after the New York Stock Exchange.

A nonprofit corporation established by Congress to oversee the audits
of public companies in order to protect the interests of investors and
further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate,
and independent audit reports. The PCAOB also oversees the audits
of broker-dealers, including compliance reports filed pursuant to
Federal securities laws, to promote investor protection.

Net Capital Rule Violations
Exchange Act Rule 15c3-1, known as the net capital rule, generally
requires that every broker-dealer maintain a specified minimum level
of liquid assets, or net capital.

Pump and Dump Schemes
A form of micro stock fraud involving artificially inflating the price of
an owned stock through false and misleading positive statements.

  163

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Reserve Fund

Strategic Plan

A fund established by the Dodd-Frank Act that may be used by the
SEC to obligate amounts up to a total of $100 million in one fiscal
year as the SEC determines it necessary to carry out its functions.

A report initially required by the Government Performance and
Results Act (GPRA) that defines the agency mission, long-term
goals, strategies planned, and the approaches it will use to monitor
its progress in addressing specific national problems, needs,
challenges, and opportunities related to its mission. The Plan also
presents general and long term goals the agency aims to achieve,
what actions the agency will take to realize those goals, and how the
agency will deal with challenges and risks that may hinder achieving
result. Requirements for the Strategic Plan are presented in OMB
Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission and Execution of the Budget.

Scalping
The illegal practice of recommending that others purchase a security
and secretly sell the same security contrary to the recommendation.
Section 31 Fees
Transaction fees paid to the SEC based on the volume of securities
that are sold on various markets. Under Section 31 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), self-regulatory organizations
(SROs) – such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)
and all of the national securities exchanges (including the New York
Stock Exchange) – must pay transaction fees to the SEC based on
the volume of securities that are sold on their markets. These fees
recover the costs incurred by the Government, including the SEC,
for supervising and regulating the securities markets and securities
professionals.

U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)
An independent agency of the U.S. Government that regulates
futures and option markets.
U.S. Exchanges
A place (physical or virtual) where stock traders come together to
decide on the price of securities.
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act)
A law governing the secondary trading of securities (stocks, bonds,
and debentures) in the United States. It was this piece of legislation
that established the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
Exchange Act and related statutes form the basis of regulation of
the financial markets and their participants in the United States.
Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO)
An organization that exercises some degree of regulatory authority
over an industry or profession. The regulatory authority could be
applied in addition to some form of Government regulation, or it
could fill the vacuum of an absence of Government oversight and
regulation. The ability of an SRO to exercise regulatory authority does
not necessarily derive from a grant of authority from the Government.

  164

PAGE

The SEC is an independent agency of the U.S. Government
established pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(Exchange Act), charged with regulating the country’s capital markets.
It is charged with protecting investors, maintaining fair, orderly and
efficient markets; and facilitating capital formation.

APPENDICES

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Appendix E: Acronyms

ADA	

Antideficiency Act

ERISA	

Employee Retirement Income Security Act

AFR	

Agency Financial Report

ESC	

Enterprise Service Center

AICPA	

American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants

ETF	

Exchange-Traded Funds

Exchange Act	

Securities Exchange Act of 1934

APR	

Annual Performance Report
FASAB	

Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board

ATS	

Alternative Trading Systems
FBWT	

Fund Balance with Treasury

FCPA	

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

FECA	

Federal Employees’ Compensation Act

FedRAMP	

Federal Risk and Authorization Management
Program

CBOE	

Chicago Board Options Exchange

CDO	

Collateralized Debt Obligation

CDS	

Credit Default Swap

CEO 	

Chief Executive Officer

CFO	

Chief Financial Officer

FERS	

Federal Employees Retirement System

CFR	

Code of Federal Regulations

FFMIA	

Federal Financial Management Improvement
Act

CFTC	

Commodities Futures Trading Commission
FINRA	

Financial Industry Regulatory Authority

CRQA	

Center for Risk and Quantitative Analysis
FISMA	

Federal Information Security Management Act

CSRS	

Civil Service Retirement System
FMFIA	

DERA	

Division of Economic and Risk Analysis

Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act of
1982

FMOC	

Financial Management Oversight Committee

FOIA	

Freedom of Information Act

FSB	

Financial Stability Board

FSIO	

Financial Systems Integration Office

FSSP	

Federal Shared Services Provider

FTC	

Federal Trade Commission

Dodd-Frank Act	 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act
DOL	

U.S. Department of Labor

DOJ	

U.S. Department of Justice

ECN	

Electronic Communications Network

EDGAR	

Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and
Retrieval

  165

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

APPENDICES

FTE	

Full-Time Equivalents

NASDAQ	

National Association of Securities Dealers
Automated Quotations

FY	

Fiscal Year

GAAP	

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

NEAT	

National Exam Analytics Tool

GAO	

Government Accountability Office

NEP	

National Examination Program

GPRA	

Government Performance and Results Act

NIST	

National Institute of Standards and Technology

GSA	

U.S. General Services Administration

NMS	

National Market System

GSS	

General Support System

NPA	

Non-Prosecution Agreement

IAC	

Investor Advisory Committee

NRSRO	

Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating
Organization

ICFR	

Internal Control over Financial Reporting

OA	

Office of Acquisitions

IOSCO	

International Organization of Securities
Commissions

OAR	

Office of Analytics and Research

OCIE	
IPERA	

Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery
Act of 2010

Office of Compliance Inspections and
Examinations

OCOO	

Office of the Chief Operating Officer

IPERIA	

Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery
Improvement Act of 2012

OFAC	

Office of Foreign Assets Control

IPIA	

Improper Payments Information Act of 2002

OFM	

Office of Financial Management

IPO	

Initial Public Offering

OGC	

Office of the General Counsel

IT	

Information Technology

OHR	

Office of Human Resources

JAB	

Joint Authorization Board

OIA	

Office of International Affairs

JOBS Act	

Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act

OIEA	

Office of Investor Education and Advocacy

MCDC	

Municipalities Continuing Disclosure
Cooperation (Enforcement Initiative)

OIG	

Office of Inspector General

OIP	

Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist
Proceedings

MD&A	

Management’s Discussion and Analysis

MIDAS	

Market Information Data and Analytics System

OIT	

Office of Information Technology

MMoU	

Multilateral memorandum of Understanding

OMB	

Office of Management and Budget

MSRB	

Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board

OPM	

Office of Personnel Management

  166

PAGE

•

APPENDICES

•

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

ORA	

Office of Risk Assessment

SEC	

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

OTC	

Over-the-Counter (trading)

SFFAS	

Statement of Federal Financial Accounting
Standards

PCAOB	

Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
SIP	

Securities Information Processor

PIA	

Privacy Impact Assessment
SIPA	

Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970

QAU	

Quantitative Analysis Unit
SIPC	

Securities Investor Protection Corporation

QRADS	

Quantitative Research Analytical Data Support
(program)

SPFI	

Summary of Performance and Financial
Information

SRO	

Self-Regulatory Organization

SWG	

Specialized Working Groups

RAE	

Risk Analysis Examination Group

RAS	

Office of Risk Analysis and Surveillance

REITS	

Real Estate Investment Trusts
TCP	

Technology Controls Program

Reserve Fund	

Securities and Exchange Commission
Reserve Fund

TCR	

Tips, Complaints and Referrals

RMBS	

Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities

TSP	

Thrift Savings Plan

SA&A	

Security Assessment and Authorization

UDO	

Undelivered Order

S/L	

Straight-Line

VOIP	

Voice Over internet Protocol

SBR	

Statement of Budgetary Resources

XBRL	

eXtensible Business Reporting Language

  167

PAGE

2014 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

  168

PAGE

•

APPENDICES

This Agency Financial Report was produced through the energies and talents of the SEC staff. To these
individuals we offer our sincerest thanks and acknowledgement. We would also like to acknowledge the
Government Accountability Office and the SEC ’s Office of Inspector General for the professional manner
in which they conducted the audit of the FY 2014 financial statements. Finally, we offer special thanks to
AOC Solutions and The DesignPond for their contributions in the design and production of this report.
To comment on this report, please send an e-mail to SECAFR@sec.gov.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549

